At one point in "Hotel Rwanda," our hero Paul Rusesabagina (Don Cheadle) asks an American TV reporter (Joaquin Phoenix) how the western world could not intervene after seeing scenes of women and children being hacked by machete-wielding Hutu militia.How could they not, indeed! As we all know, the west didn't intervene. Not surprising, really. After all, this was Africa and Rwanda had no oil reserves. The people being killed were innocent men, women and children, but they were poor and black.A few years ago, former President Bill Clinton apologized to Rwandans for not intervening during the 100-day massacre that saw about one million Tutsis and moderate Hutus slaughtered in the most barbaric manner. It was gracious of Clinton, but a fat lot of good his apology did to the people who were killed and their families.The Rwandan genocide - that's what it was, though western leaders split hairs over the meaning of genocide <U+0096> also was a black mark on western nations, which simply got their citizens out of Rwanda and then remained indifferent to the senseless killings.Terry George's film gives us one story about the Rwandan genocide, of one hero, Paul, a savvy, clever and cunning manager of a swank, four-star Belgian hotel in the capital, Kigali. When the massacres began, Paul, a Hutu, sheltered more than 1,200 Tutsis and moderate Hutus in the hotel and saved them from the wrath of the bloodthirsty mobs.Working from a smart script by Keir Pearson and George, "Hotel Rwanda" contains gutwrenching and emotionally trying moments not seen on the big screen since "Schindler's List" (1993). But whereas Spielberg's masterpiece was more arty and artistic - and I don't mean that pejoratively - George's film seems more immediate. Maybe it's because we now see a similar slaughter of poor, downtrodden people in the Darfur region of Sudan and, again, western nations aren't doing much other than threatening to rap the knuckles of the bad guys like angry teachers. This crisis gives "Hotel Rwanda" a sense of urgency.As visceral as this film is at times, George handles everything in muted fashion. We never see the horrors firsthand. There's brief news footage of people being killed and one particularly searing scene when Paul and his bellhop Gregoire (Tony Kgoroge) find themselves on a bumpy road. The moment's made more horrifying because George unveils it quite matter-of-factly.Making a PG-13 film about genocide requires numerous compromises. Putting most, if not all, of the violence off-camera is one such bargain George made. True, a closer look at the massacre would have rightly tortured us. But the film, nevertheless, works without gruesome moments. Pearson and George set out to make a story of heroism, survival, love and compassion amid the madness. And they succeeded.Cheadle carries the entire film. There isn't a false note in his performance. For years, he's turned in one superb performance after another. He's one of those actors who never hits it wrong and whose performances always stand out even if the films themselves aren't all that memorable. Here, he's in equal measure the smooth manager, man with a conscience and frightened husband and father. You can sense Paul's frustration, though Cheadle rarely displays any vulnerability.He gets great support from Sophie Okonedo as Paul's Tutsi wife, Tatiana, and Nick Nolte doing his best work in years as a Canadian United Nations officer, Colonel Oliver. Okonedo and Cheadle are utterly believable as a couple. They have one traumatic scene on the hotel roof, a quietly powerful moment that tugs at our heartstrings as we watch two people who love each other try to deal with what could happen. Okonedo conveys anger, fear and pain without ever turning the moment sentimental or needlessly overwrought. That's why the moment's shattering."Hotel Rwanda" isn't flawless. George doesn't harshly indict the west for its indifference. Also, some scenes, especially one near the film's end, seem staged for obvious dramatic effect, to play with our sense of sympathy and dread. But minor faults can easily be forgiven because the rest of the film works so well, never sensationalizing any moment. The film's straightforward approach gives it more power, makes it more trenchant and meaningful.I would like to believe that we learn from history and the more powerful western nations will always come to the aid of oppressed people everywhere. But we're doing little in Darfur and although President George W. Bush openly touts his vision to spread liberty and democracy to oppressed peoples everywhere, I doubt he actually means it. After all, this freedom doctrine was something he created only after his initial justification for waging an unjust war - Iraq's supposed stockpiles of WMD - proved to be wholly without merit or fact. I doubt he actually considers bringing liberty to places like Zimbabwe or Burma. He speaks of the need for people to be free, conveniently ignoring some dictatorial nations - Pakistan and Turkmenistan, for instance - because they happen to be our allies. And so the dumb foreign policy continues.I can only hope the success of "Hotel Rwanda" will prompt other gutsy screenwriters and filmmakers to tell us more stories about the horrors that took place and the complacency of industrialized nations that could have helped and chose not to.


                
1994 Rwanda,Kigali. Paul Rusesabagina(Don Cheadle)is a Hutu happily married(Sophie Okonedo) and with children.He's Hotel manager Millie Collines proprietary of Belgian Airlines:Sabena and its General Director(Jean Reno) placed in Belgium.Paul is respected for his generosity,charm,friendship and numerous contacts with important people.He's accidentally trapped in violent events when his family and neighbours are threaten to kill.He gets avoid it by means of bribes with the hope that United Nations(UN) and international forces arrive to preventing the civil war. However the happenings break out again.After assassination of President of Rwanda, all get worse.It begins the horrible genocide including rampage,ravishing and ravage in Rwanda which is spread for Burundi.Slaughter of Tusis by the Hutu is executed by soldiers and rebels. A journalist(Joaquin Phoenix)get into tumult and will shoot to show it at the world.Paul gets to protect his family and unfortunates refugees at the hotel but others hapless by the hundred are coming to ask help.Meanwhile the refugees Tutsis flee toward Congo to find shelter.The film has an acid critic to the indolence of United Nations(exception Colonel incarnated by Nick Nolte) and international community and specially, the abandon of foreign policy European.Thus, a personage says that origin conflict is for Belgians whom in colonization epoch differentiated the Tutsi as highest and complexion more white and co-governed united the country,now the Hutu are taking the vengeance. It's calculated that in the indiscriminate massacre were cruelly killed by militia Interhamwe approximately one million people and in only three month.Conflict finished in 1994 when the Tutsi throw out the Hutu army and militia through of the frontier Congo. Leader of Interhamwe was condemned to maxim penalty. Don Cheadle interpretation is magnificent ,he was nominated for Acadamy Award although wrongly didn't obtain it.The motion picture is well directed by Terry George. Rating : Awesome and above average .Indispensable watching


                
'Hotel Rwanda' tells the story of hotel manager Paul Rusesabagina (Don Cheadle) who used his skills to save over a thousand people during the terrible events that happened in Rwanda in the early nineties. Tutsis were slaughtered by Hutus simply because they were Tutsi, while the rest of the world was looking away. The way the United Nations acted here is portrayed by Colonel Oliver (Nick Nolte), the only fictional person in the movie.First we learn about the way Paul, a Hutu, handles things in the hotel; he is a good manager, keeping the important customers happy with little gifts. They may come in handy later in his life. We meet Paul's wife Tatiana (Sophie Okonedo), who is a Tutsi. Then the massacre starts and slowly more and more people try to hide in the hotel, protected by just a few UN soldiers who are not allowed to use their weapons.In more than one way I was reminded of 'Schindler's List'. Schindler started to save people only to make money, but ended up caring for all of them. Paul's reasons are less selfish than making money, although at first he only wants to save his own family with the power he has. Paul also ends up caring for every single soul he can save. Both men stood up against a greater power with the risk of being killed. 'Schindler's List' is the better movie, mostly because it was amazing how it told a story about one man but gave us a strong impression of the Holocaust surrounding him. 'Hotel Rwanda' has some scenes that have that effect as well, but overall it feels more of a movie that plays on a smaller scale. Of course Steven Spielberg is also a better director than Terry George.Still, the movie is very powerful and moving. Like I said, there are scenes that are close to unbelievable, showing once again what mankind is able to. Performances are helpful here, especially Cheadle does a superb job showing a smart man slowly losing hope. There is one complaint (one that also counts for 'Schindler's List') I have here. The people in Rwanda were not speaking English as their main language, but they were definitely not speaking English with accents. Maybe it makes it more realistic for an English speaking audience, it does not for most others. Just let them speak their original language or normal English. You didn't see the people from 'Gladiator' speak English with a Latin accent either and it worked just fine.


                
As one can probably imagine, a film with an 8,5 out of 10 (with 4.356 votes) ranking at number 130 of the IMDb's top 250 has few naysayers. There are some there however and I've taken the trouble to read them. What I think is sort of funny, is that many of the critique that is placed is utterly stupid. One person actually goes so far as to say that the film: "doesn't manage to escape the formulaic Hollywood feel-good story of the hero who wins out in the end. This typical treatment may be fine for other topics, but Rwanda was a real genocide, and this tragedy should not be treated as the playground of 'based on a true story' movies." This is I feel a very feeble critique. This is not a film about the Rwandan genocide as is was, but a film about the events Paul Rusesabagina witnessed. He cannot help the fact that he didn't get to see much of the genocide and that he and his family survived in the end. Or maybe flat6 (the writer) thinks they should have just killed Rusesabagina off in the film, which certainly would have been more dramatic, but much less true. Also, doesn't this criticism mean that Schindler's List is a bad film as well? Another writer, imdb-45 states that: "The film gives no treatment as to the reason for the hatred between the two sects of African black people and concentrates virtually on a man's heroic attempt to save people in a hotel, many of which are would-be victims of the genocide." If I'm not mistaken, the reason for the hatred is actually clearly outline in a conversation between Paul Rusesabagina (Don Cheadle), Jack (Joaquin Phoenix) and a local African journalist. I mean I am no expert on the subject, but it seemed pretty clear to me (if that was the whole of it). Basically it was just like WW 2, based on race, an African holocaust so to speak (although less organized and without the concentration camps as far as I know).The same author states that: "there is an awkward product plug for Volkswagon that ruins a genuinely amusing moment. There are product plugs for several different alcohol beverages that don't quite feel right." Well, sorry but in reality people use product and brand names on a daily basis. So why not in a film? Because than it is advertising? If you recommend a brand of beer to your friends it is also advertising in a way, although on a much smaller scale.Someone else, fooltank77, states that the film doesn't say what happened after the genocide. While that is true, it isn't a flaw. This is the story of Paul Rusesabagina and his family and what happened tot hem during the genocide. The rest is nothing of the films concern. Also, everybody who watches the news occasionally or reads the paper knows that it is far from peaceful down there even now. Do you need to have everything presented to you? Personally I felt that this was a very impressing and good film. The performances and the directing were great and despite the fact that the film didn't show much of the slaughter, it was emotionally unsettling enough. I was especially astounded by the fact that the UN did so little to help. I knew that there wasn't much interference, but the fact that there was virtually no help at all just goes to show that Africa is just too far away for the rich and distant countries to worry. I daresay that the events in the film made me almost ashamed to be living in one of those rich UN countries.I feel that if you actually go to see this film and expect it to be an individual tale within a massive cultural slaughter, you will come to accept that this film has it's boundaries and doesn't show everything that happened before , during or after the genocide. Demanding that and claiming the film is bad because it doesn't give you everything there is, would be like saying Schindler's list is bad, because it didn't show the political situation in Germany in the beginning of the 1930's, how Hitler gained his power, what happened in Stalingrad, what Dr.Mengele did during medical experiments on Jews or the killing of the moffen-hoeren (women who had sex with Germans during WW 2) in the Netherlands after the war. My point here is that a film like Schindler's list doesn't actually have as much background info as is demanded of this film by some viewers. It is just that we (in the western world) now much more about WW 2 than we do of a distant African genocide. Also there is so much suffering when something like this occurs and one film can not show it all. All it can do is show us parts of the tragedy and maybe inspire viewers to try and find out more about it. Giving a complete picture of such a tragedy is like completing a puzzle. Bear in mind that this is only the first piece<U+0085>hopefully.8 out of 10


                
I usually say my criteria for assessing a film are asking myself if it inspired, educated or entertained me. I somehow don't seem to have a category for 'it totally devastated me'.Nearly all the main characters are based on real life people <U+0096> very real. One of the problems we have in coming to terms with the ethnic destruction of a peoples we have no knowledge of, have little culturally in common with, have little to identify them as 'people' other than a biological acknowledgement is that, for us, they are not very 'real'. So is the point of a film about the Rwandan genocide that left a million dead that they become more real? Does that make any difference? One of the results of going to see this very powerful, very harrowing (and in terms of the personal integrity and bravery of some central characters, very beautiful) film is that part of the proceeds go towards helping the people who are left. Another, perhaps, is that by becoming more aware of suffering our desire to find a way to avoid or alleviate it increases. The film shows a divide between - on one hand - the Rwandan people who, rich or poor, had sensibilities much like you or I, - and on the other hand - the troglodytes that wanted to kill each other and (with a logic reminiscent of President Bush's "if you're not with us you're against us" simplistic attitude) anyone who didn't join them. The inclusiveness of the carnage and the inability (or unwillingness) of the West to help meant there was no get out along the lines of 'if they want to kill each other let them'.The performances are so spellbinding that it is hard to watch the film without feeling the suffering of those involved. Although it points the finger at a reluctance of the West to get involved, we also have to ask ourselves that, even if the powerful governments or the UN were willing to get involved, could the carnage have been prevented? The lack of any well-structured hint at a potential solution is perhaps one of the (very few) flaws of the film. Similarly, the swiftness of some of the events makes historic sense but there is not always enough detail to explain why things happened the way they did. But it seems clear that some intervention could have at least reduced a large amount of the carnage, so in a way Hotel Rwanda is a protest against international apathy.The official website of the movie provides much in the way of reference material, links and analysis. This helped to confirm my view while watching the film that those involved felt that there was something more at stake than being film stars. In doing so they have become true stars, irrespective of what awards were won or not.


                
"Hotel Rwanda" gives a first-hand account of the genocide that occurred between the two main tribes in Rwanda, the Hutus and the Tutsis. Paul Rusesabagina (Cheadle) is the manager of a luxury hotel in the area that caters to the wealthy and to government figures. Outside of the gates of the resort, Tutsis are being killed by the Hutu militia, and though Paul (a Hutu) is married to Tatiana (Okonedo) (a Tutsi) for the sake of his family, he turns a blind eye until his in-laws disappear and the militia literally come to his doorstep demanding his cooperation and the surrender of his wife, children and neighbors. With the diplomacy that he has learned in his job he is able to barter with them, basically paying a great deal of money for the lives of his family and neighbors. Meanwhile, Col. Oliver (Nolte), who is with the United Nations, is trying to help the refugees and keep some semblance of order, but is forced to evacuate only the Caucasian residents of the hotel, leaving all of the Rwandans (both Tutsi and Hutus that are Tutsi sympathizers) to fend for themselves, which leads Paul to open the hotel to over 1,000 Tutsi refugees. There they try desperately to get out of the country, and ultimately, survive since the Hutu militia is now targeting any sympathizers as well.From about fifteen minutes into "Hotel Rwanda", I was pretty upset, and that feeling didn't go away once. Don Cheadle is incredibly good as a conflicted hero. Many comparisons have been made between this film and "Schindler's List", but if there is a way to rate levels of heroship, Paul Rusesabagina as portrayed in the film is pretty high up there. He is repeatedly given the chance to escape unharmed, but never gives in, a big turnaround from the beginning of the film when he first turned a blind eye, then became a reluctant hero. Cheadle captures this complicated figure brilliantly. It's not just the superficial coups that he achieves (flawless accent, etc.) it is the subtle strength he gives the character. His character may not be a beloved singer or a good impersonation of someone, but the strength of his performance should have given him an Oscar, not just a nomination. (Though I am glad that he at least got that much.) This is the first film that I have seen Sophie Okonedo act in, and she also extremely good. She quickly shows that she is more than a pretty face, and her strength and mettle are admirable, while experiencing the worst atrocities first hand.As a film, "Hotel Rwanda" was not manipulative emotional. Under Terry George's direction, it felt at times like a documentary because it was truly an unblinking look at a terrible and shameful time in history. Though I had heard about the genocide, I was not fully aware of the "reasons" for the war, and as completely ridiculous as they were, the film is excellent at providing us a lesson in recent history without commentary. As far as I can tell, this is a pretty level look at the conflict and while it was incredibly emotional, it was not preachy. While I mention that it had an almost documentary feel to it, which is not to say that there were dramatic moments. One moment in particular where I literally felt like I was going to be sick was when Paul (in what was probably his defining moment) encounters literally hundreds of dead bodies on a road that he and one of his hotel employees are traveling. Having said that, however, even a moment like this one was managed with care and subtlety by George.I was telling some co-workers about the film and its emotional impact and a couple of them who hadn't seen it went, "Gee <U+0096> that sounds too depressing for me". "Hotel Rwanda" is certainly not a cheerful film, it is a film about a conflict that ended the lives of one million people in a matter of months while most of the world turned a blind eye. But it amazingly ends on a note that did not make me want to find the nearest closed garage and turn on the car, and left me with a newly found understanding of something I had only heard about and until Saturday night, knew nothing about. "Hotel Rwanda" is not an easy film to watch, but it is really and truly an excellent film that should be seen, both for its impactful storytelling and for its command performances. 8/10 --Shelly


                
This film is a documentary of man's inhumanity to man and is a very disturbing film. Don Cheadle is very good in his part and is certainly worthy of nomination for an Academy Award, although I do not think his performance is as good as Leonard DeCaprio in the Aviator or Jamie Foxx who was Ray in the movie of the same name. The rest of the cast was very good in their parts, but I was disappointed in the bit part that Nick Nolte had in this fine picture. It is a shame to see some one so talented have his career go down the tubes because of a drinking problem. You have to have a strong stomach to watch this film but if you do you will be richly rewarded. We need more of the fine writing that is done in this film Hotel Rwanda. Go see this one you will be richly rewarded.


                
*NOTE: I will point out all points where spoilers occur, so those of you who wish to avoid them can still get a critical opinion of the film from me, but I apparently must mark the review as containing spoilers, so I want to let everyone know that much of the review will still not contain spoilers*The most noticeably excellent part of "Hotel Rwanda" is the performance of Don Cheadle, who gives a wonderfully subtle and complete performance. Cheadle is able to let us know much about Paul Rusesabagina that would be easy to skip through brilliant small gestures. (*SPOILER* Notice the way he discerningly watches the military men in the hotel before the genocide begins--we see what a calculating, thoughtful man Rusesabagina is before we have much of anything that can tell us anything about him. *SPOILER OVER*) Sophie Okendo, Nick Nolte, and Joaquin Phoenix also give wonderful supporting performances (especially a surprising Nolte), but none is given a significant amount of time to breathe, because the film is about Paul and it is VERY focused.Many have said that the violence in this film is too little and thus distances us from the genocide, but there are reasons for this. First of all, the film is not really about the genocide--it's about Paul Rusesabagina, and it's focused on him nearly every second. Paul *SPOILER* only sees it when he and Gregoire are out running over bodies *SPOILER OVER*, and thus it cannot keep its focus on him without losing some violence. It also makes a point that the violence is too much for people--*SPOILER* Paul himself, Jack, and Roger are all rendered essentially mute when they see it: Paul has his emotional breakdown immediately after, Jack is silent while setting up his tape, and Roger is reduced to hiding scared silently, not even capable of telling his parents that it's not his blood *SPOILER OVER*. If the violence is too much for people to see, obviously we can't see much of it. It also makes the little pieces of violence we do see that much stronger that they are isolated.The dialog is very real and yet intelligent and the direction quiet, not trying to force too much on the viewer. The film is also quite heavily without score, lending even more weight and realism to the events depicted. The wonderfully focused script keeps us identifying with and watching Paul throughout the story, keeping him in constant, very real danger. The film even manages to get the story of how the Hutus and Tutsis emerged into it without seeming terribly forced, by bringing in a news team (including Joaquin Phoenix, who is rather quietly building up a very impressive body of work) to cover the events.All told, "Hotel Rwanda" is a great film depicting a truly remarkable story of a man doing wonderful things in an almost unbelievably terrible situation. The acting is top-notch, the writing is superb, the direction is as good as one can hope for, and the story has a powerful resonance to the point that it makes one think again about what nations' obligations to the people of another nation are. In an excellent year in film (three films that I would rank in probably the top 25 I've ever seen came out in 2004), "Hotel Rwanda" is one of the standouts and definitely the most powerful film to come out in a long time. Don't miss it.
Ten years ago in the country of Rwanda, one million people were brutally murdered in less than three months by opposing forces, and much of the world passed over the events giving them little notice. However one brave man (played in the film by Don Cheadle) granted over 1,000 refugees access to his hotel and helped save their lives.I had heard very mixed reviews on this film. On a UK talk show when it came out overseas one critic called it the next "Schindler's List," and another said it was too tame and "not scary enough" to be a great movie.Personally I felt that although the movie was very good, and extremely well acted by Don Cheadle, the PG-13 rating does indeed restrict some of the atrocities that were actually performed. It kind of seems redundant to make such a daring, un-Hollywood film and then rate it PG-13 so more people can go see it and it can bring in more money.At the time, I thought the critic who said it "wasn't scary enough" was off her nut, but now I can understand what she was getting at - "Schindler's List" really immersed you into the Jews' struggle through its brutal depictions of senseless violence. It hurt to watch."Hotel Rwanda" is tamer. It still deals with hundreds of thousands of lost lives, but PG-13 is still PG-13 and it does give the film a lighter edge - an R-rating would have allowed them more freedom to really examine the full extent of the atrocities in Rwanda.Nevertheless, for being restricted to a PG-13 rating it manages to translate its message rather well, and thanks to the lead performance by Don Cheadle it really does have moments of near-greatness. I wouldn't put it on the same level as "Schindler's List," but it's still a haunting reminder of what happened in Rwanda.


                
Read complete Review athttp://screenart.blogspot.com'Hotel Rwanda' is the story of Paul Rusesabagina, a good, simple and a decent man. What's extraordinary about him is that he remains a good man, a simple man and a decent man when somebody points a gun at him. That takes extraordinary courage. It's not the sort of courage where he plots and fights to kill the bad guys, but a Gandhian courage where his actions bear his goodness signature and are devoid of any violence. Paul is the manager of the Milles Collines Hotel, Kigali, Rwanda. He belongs to the Hutu tribe, which has just come to the power (in 1994, when the movie begins) and a radio broadcast addresses the other tribe, Tutsi, as cockroaches.Because Paul is the manager of a star hotel, he has contacts with many high level officials and because of his human nature, he is in their good books. When the Hutus took the government office, there was a mild trepidation among the Tutsis and when the Hutu president was killed by the Tutsi rebels, the trepidation transformed into a strong fear. Paul takes his family (his wife is a Tutsi) and his Tutsi neighbours to his hotel. Good hearted Red Cross workers save as many victims as possible and they bring them to Paul, because he is the only one they know who can't say 'no.' Paul keeps the wagon spinning by bribing the soldiers with wine and money, but that doesn't help him after a while. What unfolds is a chronicle of Paul's desperate measures to keep the soldiers at bay and save as many as possible.There is a scene about halfway into the movie. Paul gets rice, beans and milk powder from black market and returns to his hotel on a very foggy morning. Suddenly they seem to have hit a bumpy road and the van is stopped. Paul gets out to check whats up with the road. He stumbles, falls down and slowly, shiveringly gets back to his feet realizing that the whole street is full of fresh corpses. Along with Paul, I too lost my balance, and gained my hold on conscience slowly. They were all hacked to death with machetes and gardening instruments. And it was just one of many such streets all over the country.The above scene is an example of powerful film-making. The movie is rated PG-13. There is no explicit violence. But we are allowed to understand the immensity of the genocide through such scenes, where we only get a glimpse, because it's hazy and unclear because of the time of the day and still we realize the cruelty of the massacre. There is another scene where Paul is unsure whether his family is dead or alive and he runs across the hotel rooms looking for them. The character development is so complete that I too was running with Paul desperately looking for his family. And when he finds his wife and kids hiding in a bathroom tub, they all cry and laugh and then I slowly settled comfortably into my seat with a happy smile knowing that his family is safe.Don Cheadle as Paul delivers a stellar performance. The beauty of his act lies in his simplicity. There is not a scene where he overacts or underacts. Sophie Okenado as Paul's wife Tatiana is equally admirable. There are so many close up shots of these two artistes and there is not a single wrong twist on their faces... every emotion they express is accepted without a question. The supporting cast, which comprises of Nick Nolte, Joaquin Phoenix, Desmond Dube... are all top notch. Terry George is the director working on a script by himself and Keir Pearson. I was simply immersed into the story and that pretty much sums the quality of work by the writer/director. Music should have been good because it never drew attention to itself.Paul saved over twelve hundred lives during a three month hell where close a million people were killed. The UN didn't intervene because what happened in Rwanda couldn't be termed 'genocide' and if this isn't genocide, I don't know what it is. That reminds me of another recent sad story - Darfur, Sudan. Again, the first world countries and the UN turned a blind eye as trained militia went of a life-hungry rampage. I've read cover stories about the active role played by USA and UN in African countries - it's really uplifting. During the Rwandan genocide, a Pentagon bastard joked "Is it Hutu or Tutu?" I know that if something goes wrong in Nigeria, high level meetings will actively take place because it's the eighth largest exporter of oil. So much for world peace!! This cinema is about respecting another human being. This cinema is a showcase of the horror due to the unnecessarily deep-rooted distinctions based on caste, race, tribe, etc. This cinema is an attempt to shame the U.N and the first world countries for their callousness. This cinema is a reminder of the value of life. From an artistic viewpoint, this is a very good cinema. From a historic viewpoint, this is an important cinema. 'Hotel Rwanda' must be shown in the UN general assembly for a packed audience who call themselves diplomats. If this doesn't put them to shame, I don't know what will.
This movie deserves every accolade thrown its way. Don Cheadle probably has never been better. Based on an event that seemed to escape the eyes of the rest of the world. Some of the worst atrocities of the twentieth century was like a rancid belch in the central African nation of Rwanda. In spite of peace talks between the Hutus and Tutsis; the Hutus militia broke the pact and started killing Tutsis on sight. Almost one million people were brutally murdered in their homes, in the street at will. In the middle of the madness, an ordinary hotel manager Paul Rusesabagina(Cheadle)summoned the courage to actually save 1,268 refugees by hiding them in the four star hotel he managed. HOTEL RWANDA is a testament to Paul's devotion and love for his family and mankind. Also in this modern day classic: Mosa Kaiser, Joaquin Phoenix, Nick Nolte, Fana Mokoena, Mabutho 'Kid' Sithole, Kgomotso Seitshohlo, Simo Mogwaza and Hakeem Kae-Kazim. This is an outstanding motion picture and worth every minute of the the 2 hour 2 minutes running time. Kudos to writer and director Terry George.
Fairly accurately, I suspect, 1994 Rwanda is depicted as a nation where intimidation and bribes control everyday commerce. Don Cheadle in a superb performance is Paul Rusesabagina, the assistant manager at a Belgian hotel in Rwanda. Paul becomes manager after the president of Rwanda is killed by insurgents, and the white manager flees. Instead of trying to cover the whole conflict, with millions killed by rival tribes, this movie focuses on this person, Paul, and his efforts to save over 1200 by welcoming them into the hotel, while doing what he could to stall the insurgents who wanted to kill all the "cockroaches", their name for those being killed. They especially wanted to kill all the children, to prevent that generation from growing up.I suspect the movie is mostly accurate, as the real Paul Rusesabagina was a consultant for making the movie, and he is also featured on an interesting DVD extra, where he takes us back 10 years to the places and events depicted in the movie. Nick Nolte has a key role as Colonel Oliver of the UN peace keeping force. As was described, they could not do much to stop the genocide.Not a pleasant movie to watch, but an important one as it shows a dark side of the world we live in. But also a bright spot, how one person can make a difference. And, Don Cheadle gives a superb performance as Paul.
Although I visited Rwanda shortly before the war I do not remember 1000 colins hotel in Kigali. Certainly there was a tragedy in this tiny African country where brothers- I do not make any differentiation between tall Tutsi minority and somewhat small Hutu majority - were fighting each other. Probably all this hate started at the time of colonialism when the Tutsi were more favored by the Belgians, and once the country got the independence, a Tutsi kingdom was established with discrimation over Hutu population, which lasted not for long. The Hutu defeated the Tutsi and came to power with a Republic that continued the discrimination this time against Tutsi. In that country was compulsory for everyone to have the ethnic indication in the identity card. The film is only touching the final phase of the war between Tutsi guerrilla who was coming from the North of the country and the Hutu extremists, who were able to kill its own president, as it is shown in the film, just because he signed in Nairobi a peace agreement. In the film one can see how Hutus were killing innocent Tutsi population, and how international community was weakly reacting to this mass assassination. Unfortunately, it did not show how many Hutu families were coming from the North to Kigali. The film finished with the victory of Tutsi, but was it the end of this war? Not at all, Hutu escaped to Goma in the neighboring Congo, and many of them died again in war established between both groups, but no in their land. So if Hollywood makes several sequels of non sense films as "Terminator", "Die Hard" and others, it would be wise to prepare a sequel of "Rwanda Hotel" showing what happened after the Tutsi conquered Kigali, and how this confrontation finished, or perhaps to prepare a similar film of the tragedy in neighboring Burundi, where the same groups are still fighting. Don Cheadle acted very well but somewhat different to the role he played in the film "Rosewood". In "Hotel Rwanda" he was a Hutu but married to a Tutsi lady and with several children, always looking for peace and understanding.


                
I rented Hotel Rwanda, with great expectations for this film. Getting an 8.5 on IMDb and with 3 nominations, who who wouldn't want to see it? After I watched the film, I was pleased with what I saw. Don Cheadle played a wonderful performance as Paul Rusesabagina which earned Cheadle an Oscar nomination. The whole film actually reminded me of Schindler's List. The film is almost an identical twin of Schindler's List. Paul Rusesabagina is an Oskar Schindler type person. There the same people. The only thing different them is that there from different countries and are a different race. That's it. Overall, I liked Hotel Rwanda and I wasn't disappointed with the movie at all. There was a few slow parts to the film and some disturbing images that some viewers shouldn't see, but still an extremely powerful and great delivered performances that keeps this movie on it's heels. I recommend Hotel Rwanda.Hedeen's Outlook: 8/10 *** B


                
While America was transfixed by O.J. Simpson and his low-speed chase in a white Ford Bronco, the worst humanitarian tragedy since WWII was taking place in Rwanda.Don Cheadle excels as the Hutu manager of a Belgian luxury hotel who does whatever is necessary to save as many people as possible while a Hutu militia, largely incited by government radio, engage in an unrelenting slaughter of Rwanda's Tutsi minority. Cheadle and the people he is trying to protect hold out in the hotel protected only by a small contingent of UN troops led by Nick Nolte, whose number one order is to avoid a firefight with the locals. Cheadle effectively balances diplomacy and bribery to keep the Hutu warlords out of the hotel and to buy precious time for him and his people to ride out the massacre. The film accurately portrays the total failure of the "world community" to take action that could have prevented the massacre of hundreds of thousands. The UN and other organizations have detailed files and reports of this occurrence that can be read on line by anyone who is interested in this. In those files you will learn there was a similar incident there in 1970 that claimed 100,000 lives. They're real good at writing up reports after the fact, but they were useless in preventing or limiting this tragedy. That's essentially what this movie tells us as well.


                
In the face of true human evil, Paul Rusesabagina (Don Cheadle) stood up and said Not on my Watch. Cheadle plays the real-life role of hotel manager during the 1994 genocide of the Tutsi sect people by the Hutu sect majority. At the beginning of the film, before the killing starts, you learn that people were arbitrarily assigned to one of the two sects based on physical characteristics, which makes the killing even more unbelievable.Hotel Des Milles Collines is the one place of refuge in the middle of mayhem once the genocide starts. Cheadle uses guile, tactics, stalling, bargaining, bribing, begging, every tool in his toolkit to try to save as many as he can. Reminiscent of Schindler's List, Hotel Rwanda shows what one compassionate man can mean to so many others' lives when he's the only one that can do anything.Rusesabagina loves his family, and that is portrayed over and over again, especially in many heart-wrenching scenes with his wife when he tells her what she must do if death comes near them.Tension, plot, great acting, despair. Nick Nolte is terrific as the UN peacekeeper leader who has guns but no mandate or authority to use them. Excellent acting by the evil General and the evil supplier. The way the Director Terry George portrays the carnage, especially the river road scene, will stay with you for a long time. Genocide never makes sense, is never understandable to the sane person, but never has it been so palpably seen as in Hotel Rwanda. thankfully the Hollywood ending is actually true. If you have time, watch some of the special features where the real Paul Rusesabagina talks about the reality of that time. This movie will restore your faith in good people doing amazing things when faced with evil. Enjoy.


                
"There's always room" was the phrase uttered by Paul Rusesabagina at the end which captures the essence of this great film. Hotel Rwanda is a well directed and beautiful film. It captures a shocking and brutal period in human history. Despite a Rwandan genocide in 1994 carried out the Hutu militia as revenge for being oppressed by the Tutsi in previous years Paul's humanity and bravery still prevailed. His qualities and actions could sound like a fictional hero yet it is very real. In the most dire situations the bravest and most humane stand out. Despite different conditions and circumstances Paul Rusesabagina in the film shares similarities with Oscar Schindler in Schindler's list who used his factory to save so many Jewish people. Don Cheadle gives an Oscar worthy performance and more than carries this beautiful yet shocking film as the brave hotel manager who housed and saved so many refugees. A once charming hotel is transformed into a temporary refuge safe haven for many. Despite showing the harsh realities that once existed this film pointed out the sad truth about the rest of the world in this period. The west and the rest of the world refused to intervene even though there were so many pleas to be saved. A bright light was shone on human nature. Overall this eventful and tragic film was well directed and educational about a dark period in history. Often many forget how many innocent people are affected by civil war and unrest. It only takes a number of instigators to disturb the peace for millions of civilized people. Hollywood and society can benefit from well made and accurate films rather than looking for the nearest gravy train. One can only be thankful for not being stuck in those tough times and for their freedom.


                
Hotel Rwanda, directed by Terry George, is an American film that depicts the genocide in Rwanda. The Rwandan Genocide arose from conflicts between two ethnic groups, the Hutus and Tutsis. When the Belgians originally colonized Rwanda, they choose the officials to lead the country according to skin color and nose size that agreed with people in the Tutsis ethnic group. This caused a rift between the two groups thus leading to the genocide. Paul is a Hutu hotel manager for an upper class vacation hotel. His wife and most of his family are Tutsis which eventually leads to their endangerment. After the genocide starts, Paul is dumbfounded by the atrocities that are committed by the Hutus. With the safety of people in mind, Paul decides to help protect Tutsis people by letting them stay at the hotel after all the white vacationers fled from the violence. Paul continuously pays off the generals for protection and calls upon all his resources to help his family and all the refugees as well as stop the genocide. Paul eventually is able to help many of the refugees escape along with his family and two stranded cousins whose parents had been killed. This film is an amazing film that helped me learn and understand the Rwandan Genocide. I would recommend this movie to everyone in order to help educate people so that history does not repeat itself.
Before I watched this film I had heard of the Rwandan genocide a few times. It was explained as a really horrific thing which had mass killings of people, that's why going into this movie I was interested in what I would be shown. The way the movie started gave me the American movie type feel, having a successful man with a family running a hotel and of course the language of the film being in English. As soon as the killing started I couldn't quite see why it did, but it turns out the reason was that one ethnic group disliked the other, that's all. In my opinion, the most horrific scene in this movie was when Paul was driving down the "clear" road and it was really bumpy and foggy out. Then they discovered that the road was full of dead bodies. I like doing the way the movie ended with Paul's family making it out mostly safe, but I would've liked to see where the young went after they got onto the bus.
Hotel Rwanda was a very intense, sad, and inspirational film. Before watching this movie I knew a little about the Rwandan genocide. I knew that it was between two ethnic groups, the Hutus and the Tutsis, but I did not really comprehend the amount of deaths or the true atrocity of this genocide until I saw the film. I think that it did a really good job of portraying the horrors of the genocide to the viewers. On top of that, it showed that no country came to the aid of the Tutsis. The UN was there, but they did nothing which really shocked me. I thought that in a humanitarian crisis like the Rwandan genocide the UN would be very concerned and have a lot of involvement in helping the people, but they did not seem to be doing anything at all. I hope that in future crises, the UN would have much more of an impact to stop deaths from occurring. The movie was directed by a Jamaican director who was American trained; this was evident by some aspects of the film including the happy ending, the almost death scenes, and the depiction of some of the characters. I would give this movie <U+2158> stars overall.
What were you doing in 1994? I was probably rockin to Soundgarden's latest album on my portable CD player, waiting for Seinfeld to come on while pondering the OJ Simpson murder case, the "news of the century."Meanwhile, as many as one million people were being butchered with machetes, raped and tortured by their fellow humans, as an entire nation collectively lost its mind.Suddenly Seinfeld ain't so funny.This film is epic, if for the sole reason that it brings to light a horrific chapter of human history that many of us would otherwise know nothing of. Let me repeat: as many as 1 million people (the population of North Dakota and Wyoming combined) were slaughtered, and the politicians of the western world did nothing to stop it, and the media never gave it 1/1000th as much air time as OJ. Yes, it is a disturbing film, but it focuses on the brave struggle of one individual in his efforts to save as many lives as possible. So it is also a very inspiring film.To be honest I was too engrossed in the story to be able to review this movie on technical merits such as acting, cinematography, musical score, etc. I believe that is the way to watch this film; it is not a film, it is an experience. A lesson. A reminder that, while we live our comfortable lives in 1080p HD Blu-Ray comfort, we have no clue what is going on with "the other half".I will say that every performance was very convincing, and several scenes could be called poetic if they weren't so disturbing (I'm referring to the river road in the fog... but you'll see what I mean). I was instantly pulled in by Don Cheadle as the "everyman" hero of the story, and I was equally intent on supporting cast members such as Nick Nolte whose character was based on Canadian general Dallaire (even though the real Dallaire was never consulted about this film).It's crazy, but you'll have to keep reminding yourself that this story is real, even though its plot is as preposterous as the craziest Hollywood fiction you've seen.This is a film I highly recommend to people who like to get involved. Whether you're a political activist, whether you volunteer walking dogs at your local animal shelter, or whether you blog about life in general, this is a film for you. Yes, it will upset you. But I think in the end it will get you stoked to get out there and change this damaged world.


                
I put off seeing this film for the longest time because I knew it would strike a chord<U+0085>make me angry<U+0085>kick me right in the heart. And it delivered.As a Marine who served in Iraq, I'd have no problem being deployed to stop atrocities like this, even if there's "nothing in it" for the U.S., in terms of financial gain or resources. I'd like to think many Americans would feel the same way, as long as these policies were applied consistently.It makes me angry that these events happened. It saddens me that the West didn't do more earlier. Nick Nolte really nailed his monologue about how the West views Africans.I'm also impressed with Rusesabagina (as portrayed in this film, anyway<U+0085> I haven't researched how much of the story is true). I'd like to think that I could react with the courage and strategic intelligence that he displayed in such a crisis.Finally, no better actor could have been cast for this role than Cheadle. He brings such a fire to every one of his performances.For more reviews and a kickass podcast, check out: www.livemancave.com


                
Everything under the moon has been said about this movie. The real aspect this film should bring to the viewer is how lucky or blessed we are to live in a republic of the United States of America. If nothing else, this movie should bring some awareness into your life. Don Cheadle's performance is so excellent in this movie, just brilliantly acted all the way around by every actor from top to bottom. It's said that close to 3 million people were killed during all of this in Rwanda. And then 2,000 miles away Somalia was having their ordeal as well during the time that this movie takes place. The film Black Hawk Down shows the struggles 'in a day in the life in Somalia'. Almost a million were killed in Somalia when it was all said and done and overall in Rwanda and Somalia about close to 2 million people went unaccounted for, and I can only guess that probably half of those people were dead and were just not found. A truly great movie that Hotel Rwanda is, so very thought provoking that it will make you think twice about how 'bad' it is where we live(meaning the U.S.) The United States isn't perfect, believe me, but it's truly a blessing to live here, and we shouldn't forget that. And this movie reminds us of that. A must see!
I found this movie to be very thought provoking, informative and most of all moving. This movie highlights the events which took place in Rwanda, during 1994, from the point of view of those who experienced the tragedy firsthand. Thanks to superb performances by the cast we are given an insight as to how truly horrific it was for each person involved. We are shown that mankind is capable of acts of unimaginable horrors but also of incredible bravery and selflessness. The movie demonstrates how a hand-full of people can make a huge difference to so many lives, how racial hatred can drive the masses to extreme acts and how politics and procedure can hinder rather than help. My thanks to the cast and crew for producing such a great film.


                
What I expected and longed to see the most in this film, based on facts that should hit everyone's consciences, was a strong emotional impact. Well, the director has been successful in that, managing to tell a heartfelt tale. Don Cheadle's performance is simply outstanding, deep and convincing and I found strong also the peace keeper Nick Nolte and the American photographer Joaquin Phoenix. Hotel Rwanda is one of the best movies I've ever seen and its lesson should be carved in everybody's soul. It is obviously very disturbing for the quantity of violence and blood shown but its authenticity and emotional complexity make it a masterpiece.


                
