I was fortunate to see it at the Toronto International Film Festival.Hotel Rwanda starred Don Cheadle and was directed by Terry George. It's based on a true event, about Paul Rusesabagina, a Hutu who worked at four star hotel in Kigali. When the war broke out he thought of only saving his immediate family but as he saw what was happening he opened the hotel to Tutsi and Hutus seeking refuge from the killing. He used all the favours he had stored as manager of the hotel and basically saved over a thousand lives. This will be the next Schindler's list. When the film was over, there was a standing ovation. Don Cheadle was excellent as an ordinary man forced to do extra-ordinary things. Paul Rusesabagina and his family attended the screening and he received a five minute standing ovation. Even Michael Moore came to see this movie. I highly recommend it. 9/10.


                
''Hotel Rwanda'''is a very powerful and sad story showing the atrocities that happened in Rwanda in 1994,where almost 1 million people were killed in 100 days. The division of two groups, the tutsis and the hutus,made Rwanda's peace something to dream about. We see that all started when the Belgians gave power to the tustsis, because they had a fair skin and a complexion much more similar of the Europeans then the hutus. Even measuring the noses was a normal thing to do. Years after, the Hutus were the ones who stayed with the power and they wanted revenge by smashing the tutsis.This movie shows the history of a man called Paul Rusesabagina and his courage during the war in Rwanda, when he saved the lives of over a thousand helpless tutsi refugees from a big genocide. Paul is a hutu, but his family is tutsi, another reason to have experienced the terrible things the hutus were doing to the tutsis.Don Cheadle and Sophie Okonedo are both awesome in their roles, and Don should have won the best actor award/Nobel.Ps: Jean Reno's cameo here.
"Never have so many owed so much to so few" - Winston Churchill.I think this quote best describes the atmosphere highlighted in this magnificent film. What Paul Rusesebagina did to help the helpless Tutsis families by sheltering them in his hotel was proof that everyone of us can make a change for the better. The story is simply amazing and shocking at the same time - the feeling of regret and compassion was amplified by the fact that this movie was based on a true story. Don Cheadle delivers an outstanding performance.His acting is flawless - he manages to actually bring the viewer into the harsh Rwandian environment of the 1994 events. He skillfully points out the torment which Paul Rusesebagina faced! Sophie Okonedo also plays very well in this movie, masterfully playing the role of the determined and loving mother willing to do anything to save her children. Nick Nolte is superb in playing remorse haunted Colonel Oliver of the UN forces and Joaquin Phoenix does a great job on playing the character of Jack Daglish, the cameraman in charge to bring footage of the massacre. What strikes me at this movie is the remarkable resemblance between Paul Rusesebagina and Oskar Schindler, two men who risked their lives to save other people and who, against all odds, succeeded in achieving this.Through their actions, they saved the entire world, saved it from forgetting the fact that we are all humans and a right to live on this planet!All in all, this movie is superb and greatly deserves a spot in the Top 250! 9/10


                
Every time I hear someone say there is no real "good" or "evil" in the world I think of things like Schindler's List, The Killing Fields, The Power of One and similar movies. Hotel Rwanda is now added to my list.This movie stirs the soul with a true story that is engaging, interesting, unspeakably sad, funny at times, and ultimately (for the lead focal family) triumphant. ButI kept asking myself while watching: Am I not related to all these people? Could I ever treat my fellow humans as cockroaches and vermin? How can people think of other people that way? If such a condition can exist in others, can it exist in me? If I saw human depravity around me, how much would I tolerate and wink at before I did something about it? And what WOULD I do about such things? Would I throw my hands up in hopelessness or would I find a way to alleviate pain and suffering? This movie is difficult to watch, yet it is important to watch. After watching it I felt closer to my family, friends, neighbors and others. Excellently portrayed. Not overly dramatic, yet poignant.


                
Greetings again from the darkness. Don Cheadle's Academy Award nomination for Hotel Rwanda is a well deserved and a wonderful thing. Hopefully it will encourage even more to see director Terry George's incredibly moving tale of the 1994 Rwanda crisis between the Tutsis and the Hutu. As with Schindler's List, nothing is more powerful than a real life hero. Paul Rusesabagina is a real life hero. With the slaughter of nearly a million right outside his front gate, Paul R gave refuge to nearly 1000 who surely would have died. The tour de force by Cheadle is with his divergent performance from the elegant Hotel manager to the smooth negotiator to the passionate husband, parent and humanist. This man cares about people and what is right. Although, Nick Nolte's performance was slightly askew, the movie is well paced and heartfelt and should be seen by many. Very powerful.


                
Just over ten years ago, Rwanda, a former Belgian colony the size of Vermont, became a horrific killing field, the result of ethnic, social, and political hatred between the majority Hutus and the rival Tutsis, the former ruling elite who ran the country for the Belgians and treated the Hutu as second class citizens. The Washington Post reported "how the heads and limbs of victims were sorted and piled neatly, a bone-chilling order in the midst of chaos that harked back to the Holocaust." The massacre that claimed over one million lives was triggered by the still unsolved assassination of Hutu President Juvenal Habyarimana, whose plane was gunned down by missiles on his return from a conference in Dar-es Salam. Senior Hutu leaders used the downing of the plane as an excuse to exterminate Tutsis and moderate Hutus. While the UN maintained a peacekeeping presence they did not intervene, nor did the U.S., France, Belgium or other Western powers who had the power to stop it.In the Oscar-nominated film Hotel Rwanda, the atrocity is dramatized through the story of the determination of one man who sheltered over 1000 Tutsis including his wife (Sophie Okenado), a Tutsi woman, and his children. Don Cheadle portrays hotel manager Paul Rusesabagina in a towering performance that earned him an Academy Award nomination for Best Actor. Rusesabagina, who served as an adviser to the film, managed the Belgian-owned Hotel Mille Collines in the city of Kigali, a luxury hotel where UN dignitaries socialized with Western diplomats and media. As homes are invaded and bodies pile up, people are forced to leave their homes and seek shelter in churches, schools, and in this case the luxury hotel.As the sounds of fighting outside increase, the White guests are forced to leave and the remaining Africans are left to defend themselves with the token aid of the UN peacekeeping force, led by Colonel Oliver (Nick Nolte), who is faced with an insurmountable task. With supplies of food and water diminishing and the violence increasing, Paul pleads with his guests to telephone the outside world in a plea for help but with scant results. The comment by an American journalist about the value of airing a segment explicitly showing Hutus hacking Tutsi civilians puts it into perspective: "They will go <U+0085> 'O God, that's horrible!' and then go back to eating their dinner." Hotel Rwanda allows us to see the conflict in human rather than political terms and Paul's loving relationship with his family is believable and deeply affecting. Though scenes of gory violence are kept to a minimum earning the film a PG-13 rating, the scene showing Paul and his assistant Gregoire driving through fog and discovering hundreds of bodies of slaughtered innocents lying on the road, stands out for its understated horror. Though not justifying the massacre, more historical background would have been helpful such as knowing the role of the Belgian colonial authority in fomenting ethnic division in the country, and the 1990 invasion of Rwanda by the exiled Tutsi-led Rwandan Patriotic Front with the support of the Americans and the British. While Hotel Rwanda may fall short of greatness, it is nonetheless a moving and powerful film, an unflinching indictment of the political extremism that fed the turmoil, the indifference of self-satisfied Western nations, and the courage and tenacity of one man who made a difference.


                
What do you feel about riots and mass killing? What did you do when you saw these things on news channels? Did you do anything to stop them? All that most of us would do is feel bad about it. And then we would turn off the TV sets, take dinner and go to sleep. The movie shows the attitude of the world when mass killing is being done in Africa in the communal riots between Hutus and Tutsis. The protagonist, "Paul", who is a Hutu himself, is just like one of us for whom his family (which is Tutsi) is the most important. In the beginning he would do anything to save his family and would not even bother about his good neighbour. But slowly as he sees what is going around him he starts to realize. He takes up the responsibility of giving shelter to thousands of refugees in his hotel. He keeps giving bribes to the Tutsis leader. He even speaks to so many influential people around the world. And although he had a lot of difficulties convincing the world powers that they should interrupt, he ends up saving lives of about 1200 people. It is not a feel good movie or anything like that. It is a true story about Survival and Will Power. If you liked Schindler's List, the this may be a notch above but not less. Buy it! http://www.schoolofsymphony.com


                
For a while now, there have been uprisings in Africa, most of the time, it is quite violent. In Tears of the Sun starring Bruce Willis, the problem in Nigeria was put into perspective. It was shown through the eyes of the US military trying to rescue a couple of select people but end up bringing back refugees. Hotel Rwanda takes a different path, shown through the eyes of those under attack.Hotel Rwanda is based on a true story out of Rwanda, Africa. It is a country gripped by war and oppression. When a four-star hotel is now thrown right into the mix of things, manager Paul Rusesabagina (Don Cheadle) has to make a very important decision. He must decide whether or not to let Tutsi's live in his hotel to take refuge from the Hutu soldiers.The problem is that the Hutu's, a tribe of Africans in Rwanda, are taking control and want to exterminate the Tutsis, a rival tribe. This hostile take over is one that spreads all over Paul's town. One night over a radio broadcast, the Hutu militia's leader told all of his soldiers to find and eliminate the Tutsis. Now, Paul, his wife Tatiana (Sophie Okonedo), who is a Tutsi, and their children must stay in the hotel and watch over all of the "new guests". With Paul paying off the leader of the Hutu militia, General Bizimungu, he tries to keep his hotel out of harms way.When he runs out of ideas and aid from the General and from the United Nations, led by Colonel Oliver (Nick Nolte), and the media, he must defend his hotel by finding a way to get those refugees out of there and keep his family safe at the same time. Paul is faced with heart breaking decisions and must stay strong so he doesn't show weakness or give up the Tutsis.Cheadle's performance is breathtaking. When everything seems to be coming apart and he might lose it, he has to hold it together. Cheadle's character sees things that shouldn't be seen by anyone. So much death and destruction in one area can have an impact on a man. With scenes that are similar to Schindler's List, this movie is powerful and really shows how little people have known about the crisis in Rwanda.Hotel Rwanda was nominated for three Academy Awards for Best Actor (Cheadle), Best Supporting Actress (Okonedo), and Best Original Screenplay. Although it didn't win, the movies message was carried across and brought attention to the devastation in Africa.Hotel Rwanda is a masterpiece and is one of the most moving films of all time. It leaves nothing behind and shows you everything. It will be looked at for years to come. Hotel Rwanda opens will open your eyes.


                
I just finished watching Hotel Rwanda moments ago. It certainly didn't bore me. And I suppose I should say it was a good movie. But it's really just all part of that greater genre, the misery revolutions do to regular folks. It's something of a Doctor Zhivago in black skin. Still, it had it's contemporary twists. Like when the main character, an hotelier, informs the Hutu five-star general that although the Americans and Europeans may have left for now, they certainly have his name on their list as a war criminal for judgment later. "That's how these people operate," he says. True enough.You should probably give it a squint. But I don't get the premise that the whites are somehow responsible for not stopping the bloodshed. Didn't colonization end a long time ago? Aren't these people responsible for managing their own fate now? And if not, then are we obligated morally to renew occupation? These questions, of course, are not explored.But the end titles do tell us that the hotelier is now happilly living with his extended family in Brussells. When the colonizers leave the colonized want to go with them. And who could blame them. Sub-Saharan Africa, as ever it has, sucks.


                
Some films hold importance because they shed light on a world that most of us will never know or comprehend fully. "Hotel Rwanda," the true story of a hotel manager who saved the lives of 1,268 men, women and children in Kigali, Rwanda in April of 1994, is the most important film of 2004.A decade ago, the African nation of Rwanda became a place of mass genocide. The two dominant tribes, the darker skinned Hutus and lighter skinned Tutsis, began a civil war. After 100 days of fighting and over a million casualties, the U.N. finally interceded.We follow the story of Paul Rusesabagina, portrayed by the excellent Don Cheadle, who has never troubled himself with the affairs of the people. He is a businessman and manager of the Hotel des Mille Collines, the most luxurious hotel in Rwanda. Over the years, he has become friends with important people by providing cigars and expensive Scotch in meetings with them.However, Paul's world goes from heaven to hell when the civil war begins. The Hutu militia walks the streets killing any Tutsi they can find, including helpless children. The militia wants to kill every Tutsi to wipe the slate clean of their kind.Paul himself is a Hutu, but his wife is a Tutsi and his three children are mixed. The welfare of his family is his priority throughout the film. In addition, Paul helps other refugees by housing them in the hotel and bribing the Rwandan army (who has sided with the Hutu militia) with money, beer and other items to protect the hotel.Some have hailed the film as an African "Schindler's List." This is right in the aspect of a heroic businessman protecting innocent people from their death. However, "Schindler's List" is better-made film because of the unflinching portrayal of the Holocaust and Steven Spielberg's powerful direction."Hotel Rwanda's" only major flaw is toning down the violence to make this a family oriented piece. Director Terry George cleaned the image of war up so the film could receive a more commercial PG-13 rating.Still, even though the violence is not accurately portrayed, the film is simultaneously haunting and heartbreaking. In one scene, Paul and an associate drive down a foggy and unusually bumpy road, only to stop the car and realize they are actually running over hundreds of dead bodies. It's a scene that will stay with you for weeks.One key factor that makes the film work is Cheadle's performance. It has been nominated for an Academy Award because it is flawless and Cheadle has never been better. We really believe Paul's plight because of Cheadle's perfect Rwandan accent and ability to convey conflicted emotions.Also worth noting is Sophie Okenedo who plays Paul's wife Tatiana. Okenedo has been doing small television roles for most of her career, but after this film, it wouldn't be surprising to see her more often on the big screen.Although "Hotel Rwanda" sometimes has an overly sentimental feel to it, it still succeeds in commemorating Paul Rusesabagina and shaming the world for not helping stop man's inhumanity toward man.


                
Based on the 1994 genocide between the African "tribes" of the Hutu's and the Tutsi's, Hotel Rwanda has gotten decidedly mixed reviews. Before seeing the film, I was a little surprised since such subject matter alone is usually powerful enough to lead a film to critical acclaim. After seeing the film, though, I was incredibly surprised, as this is one of the most powerful and harrowing films I've seen in a year. It moved me in a way most films fail to do.Documenting a sadly little known event from just a mere decade ago, when nearly a million Rwandans were killed brutally with machetes and other weapons in the short time span of two months, everything within the film works. It never becomes manipulative or sentimental, always letting the emotions flow naturally. It also never becomes a blood fest, instead letting the majority of the violence be seen in small glimpses. It is an effective strategy that actually shocks more than any amount of hacked limbs and bloodied faces could.However, the film does become a wagging finger at those around the world that did not do enough, or anything. Yet, it does not blame without a purpose. This is a film that urges it's viewer not only to look back at history and have a reaction, but to look at today and forward into the future and to seek out the injustices that occur now so that perhaps those in need will not become abandoned again. For example, in Somalia the 'G' word has been brought up for atrocities occurring to this very day.Then there is Paul Rusesabagina, played by Don Cheadle. Simply put, Cheadle becomes his character, never going for the showy theatrical bits that will look good in a 30-second clip. Rather, he embodies the spirit of a true honest-to-God hero. The actual Rusesabagina helped on the set of Hotel Rwanda, and the touch of honesty that would have come from the real Paul is evident on screen and in Cheadle's presentation. Ultimately, Rusesabagina is a name as worthy as Oskar Schindler.Ignoring the built in power of the subject matter, though, Hotel Rwanda is a work of cinema and art on its own merits too. I first began to realize I was in for more than a Discovery channel special in an early scene before the genocide, as lightening brightens the sky at intermittent points. It is a brilliant way to foreshadow the coming storm Rwanda is about to face. Rusesabagina himself is a Hutu, but his wife and many of his friends are Tutsi, and as Rusesabagina and some friends are talking about the looming danger on the horizon as Tutsi members have become verbal targets thanks to a local radio station's spreading of propaganda, the brilliant touch of the lightening that is not overused but rather subtly inserted into the background helps create a sense of unease.Ultimately, this is a film that needs to be seen. The Oscar nominations come out tomorrow, January 25th, and I hope this film picks up several nods partly to help it gain more attention in a way the actual event never really did. The film is as powerful as Schindler's List but still unique in its own right, helping to illuminate a terrifying but little known event. Hotel Rwanda is testament that there is always a reason to stand up against humanity's greatest flaws, and that those who turn their backs can be just as dangerous as the ones who carry the bloody machetes down into their local neighborhoods.


                
It's amazing. This is one of the best movies I ever seen.Actually,I had some background about the genocide of the country before watching it so I thought it made me feel like I was really in the movie and it was so touchy.I wanna recommend any who wants to explore the movie to get some little info about this genocide beforehand. Then you will have clearer picture when you see the movie and with the fact you will understand how much terrible situation happened there. As a human being, you would never thought about this violence to be occur in our real world and it had just happened not more than 20 years ago. I cried and and due to unexpected scene I had my mouth opened many times.


                
I went into this film thinking oh gosh i don't want to see a boring film about death and poverty and small cute children dying. I came out of this film thinking wow, what a sick cruel world we live in. It really made me think. At first i thought it was going to be like The Constant Gardner and be a complete bore, but i was so surprised at how well made and gripping it was. Although The Constant Gardner may have mystery, Hotel Rwanda has tension, which ultimately wins the movie over for me. Hotel Rwanda tells the story of the Genocide in Rwanda, Africa and how it affects a hotel manager and his family. The cast are great, especially Don and Spohie who give fantastic emotion and love as the husband and wife who come from different tribes. Not only does Hotel Rwanda give you information about the real story of the Tootsies and the Hotu's, but it gives us a story to follow and characters to follow and feel for. Although it may not look brutal as in violence, the fact that something like over 8 million people died is quite sickening, and the fact that no one did anything is even more sickening. I loved this movie and although its not a oh lets all sit down and be happy movie, it still has comedy moments and tender moments. One of the best films this year!
OK i have no words to describe how i feel. I just got from the cinema now and i don't know what to say.I have never ever been touched by movie like i have been touched in Hotel Rwanda. I have never felt like this way while watching a movie. I don't drink alcohol but i think i know right now what people say when they speak about a really powerful drink.This movie is like a punch in the face.its so strong. Its a hard hard movie but its beautiful. I didn't feel like i am watching a movie while watching'it if you know what i mean.Million Dollar Baby Won the Oscar and i really don't know how, Hotel Rwanda should be one of those movies who wins the Oscar like Ronaldinho wins best player in the world. There shouldn't be even a discussion and i don't think any who watched this masterpiece would disagree.Years from now people are gonna look back and wonder how this movie didn't win the Oscar how this movie was so underrated and they are gonna ask themselves what were those people thinking.I am speechless and words wont let me describe how i felt during watching this movie,its immortal.


                
I remember viewing many powerful and great movies last year, but something about 'Hotel Rwanda' stuck with me more than a lot of the others. 'Hotel Rwanda' is about the unbelievably sad and horrible incident that shook Rwanda to it's very foundations eleven years ago. It was April 1994 and almost no one could predict how nasty things would turn in a matter of days, and how many lives would be shattered. 'Hotel Rwanda' is the incredibly haunting and mesmerizing true story about one man who saved the life's of many of his fellow men during this period of Genocide and conflict between the Hutu and Tutsi citizens in Rwanda.The story revolves around Paul Russesabegina (played expertly by Don Cheadle), a hotel manager of a four-star resort in Rwanda. Paul's an extremely generous and chivalrous person who gets caught up in a very unsettling situation. Tragedy strikes Rwanda when the Hutu leader of the nation is assassinated by a band of rebel Tutsi forces. The Hutu citizens and government go absolutely crazy and start trying to annihilate all of the Tutsi citizens. After this starts happening all the Americans get rushed out of Rwanda (especially all the non-African hotel managers) and Paul is left to fend for himself and his family and friends in Brutal Rwanda. Paul turns out to be like an African version of Oskar Schindler, and turns his hotel into a refugee camp for the prosecuted Tutsis, including his wife and children who are also Tutsi. Paul is able to accomplish this by his cunningness to trick the Hutu government by not only paying them off, but telling them the American government is watching them through satellites and will charge them as war criminals if they do anything to them. Paul also has the help of a peace officer (played by Nick Nolte), who helps him bribe the Hutu government and try to rush the Tutsi citizens out of Rwanda. Despite a few of the films shortcomings, it's a little overlong and drags during it's third act, it's still an excellent production and showcases some wonderful performances. Don Cheadle gives the best performance of his career as the title character. He gives a powerhouse character embodiment that's riveting all the way through the film. You can tell he really poured his heart into this very crucial role, and he should have won the Oscar over Jamie Foxx (in my opinion). Sophie Okonedo is very impressive as Paul's strong, independent and caring wife. She definitely deserved her Oscar nomination, and Nick Nolte gives us some of the finest work we've seen in fifteen years. Joaquin Phoenix does a nice job in the role of a photo journalist in Rwanda during this time, and Jean Reno is pretty good as the owner of the hotel Paul manages. The cinematography is interesting, and the screenplay is especially compelling. The directing has it's few flaws, but the musical score is always effective in stirring up emotion. All in all, 'Hotel Rwanda' is definitely worth renting and/or buying on DVD. You can count on me having it in my DVD collection in the not-so-distant future. I think all the U.N. members elected during this time should be forced to watch it and confront their decision not to help out these poor people, especially Bill Clinton. Grade: A- (screened at Harkins Camelview 5, Phoenix, Arizona, 1/26/05)MADE MY TOP 300 LIST AT #86: (The 6th Best Film of 2004)


                
This movie was outright fantastic. Having seen both this film and Ray I felt that Don Cheadle deserved the Academy Award for Best Picture over Jamie Foxx (and, mind you, I think Jamie Foxx did an EXCELLENT job himself). The fact that this film wasn't nominated for Best Picture is outright ridiculous. This important film is very emotional and will leave you wondering what you were doing while all of this was going on. Most of us were watching OJ Simpson's trial.Don Cheadle's emotional performance deserves high praise. The scene where he is arguing with the general in the office of the Hotel Diplomat is his best work overall. I couldn't believe the outright emotion this man put into his strong performance. The death scenes are tear-jerking while abstaining from graphic violence. Death is never glorified in this film. You'll also be amazed by the driving scene by the river.I especially liked the mise-en-scene (did I spell it correctly?) that showed issues of Time Magazine in the background with Bill Clinton's face featured prominently. I don't feel this film bashes Clinton or the United States specifically -- instead it makes us all feel guilty for being blissfully unaware the entire time. The media coverage here in the United States was centered around OJ and 2 deaths while 800,000 were dying elsewhere. While the film never states this, it becomes obvious when one finally realizes what they were watching on TV during this time.This film is a must-see for anyone who was an adult in 1994. While it is not a "feelgood" film it is powerful and emotional. Easily the best film I've seen in quite some time.


                
When referring to "genocide", the average American would automatically correlate the word to the Holocaust. However, it's amazing to think that the Western nations allowed another genocide to occur that could have been so easily prevented. I would find it hard to believe if 5% of the American population knew that a million Africans died in Rwanda. However, it's that fact that makes the desperation and isolation of the primary characters in this film seem so terrifying and heart-wrenching to the viewer. If for no other reason, but to awaken Westerners to the genocide in Africa this film would have served great purpose.However, the brave story within the story is what separates the film form simply a tragic historical piece into one of the best films of the year. Don Cheadle and Sophie Okonedo provide depth and believability to rich characters wrought with unconceivable choices and bravery. It is a great story of survival and you should leave the film feeling guilty why you didn't know why you know this was happening and why Western leaders didn't stop it.


                
British Co-writer, producer/director Terry George (The Promise '17) has certainly carved out a name for being a maker of films to give us cause to think. He's also capable of showing the un-show able without resorting to sensationalised cinema 'stylized' violence - in fact, his great control allows us to be horrified & moved to tears with a remarkable lack of explicitness. So effective is his approach, the viewer feels as though they were watching an unfolding documentary account. His performers give remarkably convincing portrayals, leaving no doubt that cast and crew all shared Mr George's passion for this tragic cause. Excellent production values ensure an involving experience without overdone visual CGI excesses - making all that we do see so convincingly real. Some have drawn comparisons to Schindler's List but, that was stylized Hollywood, where' Rwanda' is all raw soul - giving it a far more compelling believability. Much of the world apologised for its inaction --after the event-- but only following certain serving personnel and press witnesses having publicly shamed them into doing so. This brings into question the true effectiveness of the UN - and the responsibility of the politically 'economic' heart of the developed world.


                
It's films like this, whether one hundred percent historically accurate or not, that convince me that any suggestion of 'world peace' is merely a pipe dream. Here you have two warring tribes within the same country that can't get along with each other, resulting in death and bloodshed involving over a million people. And for what? When you come right down to it, what was the essential difference between Tutsi and Hutu? None that I could tell, and quite honestly, none that most of the evil Interhamwe could tell as well unless one admitted to being one or the other. It just makes me so angry.And as for the United Nations, what exactly is their purpose if they can't take a principled stand in the face of genocide and slaughter? Any minute I was expecting Nick Nolte's character, General Oliver, to take matters into his own hands as he witnessed the persecution and beatings, but no. He was handcuffed by a set of principles laid down by distant bureaucrats with the threat of losing his command if he didn't follow orders.It's hard not to wind up being cynical after seeing a treatment like this. I have a t-shirt that states 'Losing Faith in Humanity, One Person at a Time', and this film is the embodiment of that sentiment. The real life Paul Rusesabagina, portrayed by Don Cheadle, is a living saint in my book, having the courage and selflessness to look beyond his own family and personal circumstances, to put his life at risk to help both Tutsis and Hutus escape an impossible situation. His most powerful scene, in my estimation, was when Paul realized that the world community was not moving forward to help the Rwandans, challenging his hotel guests and the targeted Tutsis to reach out to anyone they personally knew who could possibly help their situation. It was such a travesty that he had to implore them all to 'shame the world into sending help'.
I had it seen it long ago on the big screen. Then about five minutes of the film on TV last night and it got me again. In the rain, the bus departing, the children singing. Don Cheadle is a man of many faces. This was one of his most remarkable. The quiet dignity in the face of the unspeakable in order to provide safety for others. It was very different from some of his other roles, yet he inhabits this one a hundred percent. The Academy still owes his an award.


                
Based on a true story, this is one of the hardest watching movies I've ever seen. Not even the Holocaust was portrayed in film as hard as we can see in this film, where the theme is Rwanda's genocide, by the eyes of a friendly hotel manager who just wants to protect himself and his family. They are caught in the midst of a series of political and social twists that escalate and turn into a genocidal civil war, and we can see how they suffer and fear for their lives. The way they quickly capture our sympathy turns their fears into our fears, in a powerful and very emotional way. Suddenly, those deaths also affect us and the initial sense of detachment fades. What more could a movie want? Despite this, the film isn't very graphic, we are spared the most painful scenes, although it has many shocking scenes. The film also criticizes the inability of UN to intervene there and save lives. Don Cheadle led the cast and made the biggest film of his career to date, shining in an inspired and profound performance. The environment, the scenery, the costumes... everything was meticulously thought out to reproduce the events and the realism paid of. Although unsuitable for the most suggestible, its one of the most intense films I know.


                
Overall I really enjoyed this movie. I thought that the actors, some who are famous did a really nice job by acting out exactly how the people in Rwanda were feeling during the Rwandan genocide. Although this is not a foreign film, it is very educational, because one who has never really heard about what exactly happened during the Rwandan genocide or know anything about it, can learn something new by watching this film. I particularly liked Paul the best in the movie as he was also one of the main characters. He took the risk, by taking in refugees that were going to get killed, and let them stay in his hotel, which I thought was a very audacious thing to do. I really liked the way that he cared for the other Rwandan people, since he was the one to step up to save them. There are many things that I enjoyed about this movie like, the way it was filmed, and the scenes and emotions that the people showed, but it would have been even better if this film showed the effect that the Genocide had on the Rwandan population and the younger children. This film stressed Paul as a heroic character, not only did he protect his family, but he protected others. I thought this was a great movie, and based on this reasoning I would give it a 5/5 .
Although dwarfed by the national scope of the actual events, 'Hotel Rwanda' did capture succinctly sometimes even in vivid detail the horrors that were inflicted by the Hutu and Tutsi tribal factions on each other. Some say the scale of Hutu slaughter of the minority Tutsis reached genocide proportions.And as we learned from the film the Hutus did just that. One major Hutu henchmen character, George, stated it this way.'"We're half way there."The screen play is a compelling story. Paul, (reprised masterfully by Don Cheadle) is a front-line manager at the 4 Star Des Milles Collines hotel in Kigali, Rwanda's capitol. His colonial employers, the Sabena Corporation, are headquartered in Europe, Belgium to be specific.No doubt the former colonial rulers of this land still take pride in their African possession. Their resort hotel is an oasis in the hot sun not only to tourists but to foreign diplomats, international press, and domestic government officials.One of the Rwandan Army's top generals (later convicted for his role in the genocide) in the region is a frequent visitor. Colonel Oliver (Nick Nolte) head of the U.N. Peacekeeping force (sparse) also is an honored guest. We learn soon that the U.N. Colonel Oliver and the good Hutu general share a common trait. The both enjoy the elixir that the staff serves: imported single malt Scotch whiskey.Paul made sure the bar was always well stocked with good spirits. For certain, life at the hotel was like that of any other African resort: relaxed and far from the maddening crowd and wild animals. Both locals and hotel guests alike enjoy their stays. Paul sees to it, sometimes personally. In his presence, people are treated royally. His and the hotel's reputation depend on it.And who wouldn't want to kick up their heels in the hotel's air conditioned bar after a hot day in the Central African sun? For about 30-40 minutes I too succumbed to the hotel's luxurious ambiance and decadent pleasures. Yes, even Cohibas, the finest Cuban cigars were offered to select guests.Then the dogs of war are let loose. Rumors abound that the Hutu President was assassinated. The head of state was bound for Tanzania to sign a peace agreement with the rebel Tutsi opposition group. Later we learn from the Hutu dominated press (radio) the earlier terrible reports indeed are true.The Hutu media is quick to add their bias: the traitor Tutsi rebels performed the dastardly deed. Paul disagreed. So did I.However, the confirmed news and later evacuation of all foreign nationals from Rwanda (only if you're white or the holder of a foreign passport) places Paul, in a serious bind. He and he alone must now fend for and protect those 'guests' forced to stay.Many of the refugees are Tutsis. Knowing that fact, the Hutu machete wielding militia await outside the gates. With the grounds left unguarded, the Hutus no doubt will invade. Then the feeding (killing) frenzy starts.Their mission: kill all the traitor 'cockroaches'. That meant the Tutsis were to be singled out. Even the U.N. blinked. They laid an egg but not before Col. Nick announced that the pretty blue helmeted U.N. Armed Force was ordered to pull out of the hotel guarding business, permanently. No surprise there...Now the their situation looks hopeless. Surrounded all around by bloodthirsty Hutu militia, their supplies cut off, even the water, Paul prepares for the inevitable. He asks each guest to call a friend.In his own words, Paul knows exactly what to do: play the guilt card. He also instructs his guests on how to say 'Goodbye'."Make them (friends) feel ashamed."Now knowing the true aftermath of the slaughter (almost 1 million), I couldn't find fault with his tack.


                
Hotel RwandaWhenever we see historical movies, we think of it as boring. But, This movie i saw it a 1000 times and it has moved me every time. It represents a conflict long forgotten and how we the West messed up Africa and ignored their pleas for help.Paul Rusasabangina a hotel manager, manages to protect innocent villagers from a hardcore militia in his hotel.The Pluses: Don Cheadles Acting, the scene with Cheadle, his wife and his bro at night, the violent scenes and the ending. Also, the nurse and Cheadles friend is a delight. Did I mention this is a true story.The Minuses: Nothing, except the violence and gore is not for the weak hearted.Overall, Hotel Rwanda is a great movie. Only those with patience can absorb this movie.
Hotel Rwanda is the true story of a real life hero, who risked everything he had, too save as many as he could; while the governments of the world that could have helped, stood by and did nothing. Obvious comparisons have been made between this and Schindler's list, and the harrowing truths in both films do stir the emotions and enlighten the blind to the real tragedies in the world, but the films and the stories within them are very different.Just over ten years ago some of the worst atrocities in the history of mankind took place in the country of Rwanda, and yet in the media driven world in which we live; these events went almost unnoticed by the general public and were ignored by the powers that may have helped.Even without the production quality of Schindler's list, this film still proves to be equally as powerful; so much so, that i felt ashamed that such things had really happened during my adult life, and i'm sure anyone who sees this movie will feel the same way.Don Cheadle excellently portrays the hero, a ordinary man named Paul Rusesabagina, who offered shelter to over a thousand people at great risk to himself and his own family. Over a period of just three months; one million people were brutally murdered, and if one man managed to save over one thousand others, imagine how many could and should have been spared their terrible fate.The story simply has to move you, even if the film itself may appear a little cheap looking, but to me it isn't, it's realistic and shocking.9/10 Well done


                
