I saw this film in its North American premiere in a packed theater at the Toronto Int'l Film Festival this past week and was pleased to be part of a standing ovation at the end for the director and star, who were both on hand."The Lives of Others," set in East Germany not long before the fall of the Berlin Wall, tells the moving story of a police investigator forced to confront himself and the work he does. In a society poisoned by secrecy, fear and the abuse of power, a number of the movie's characters -- artists, actors, writers -- must look deep inside and decide what they are made of; none more so than the investigator.This is a movie that took me to a place and time that felt very authentic, for a tale that was very satisfying.Ulrich Muhe, who plays the investigator, is mesmerizing, and the young director is to be applauded for this, his first full-length film. Some have compared "The Lives of Others" to Coppola's "The Conversation" but the two have completely different story arcs and are only superficially similar.Both my companion and I felt this was our favorite of the six films we had a chance to see at the festival.


                
Regular readers of my comments know I go on and on about noir and folding. When I see these narrative techniques used, I often remark that the technique is wasted, because the film has no heft once it has charmed us into investing in it.Not so here. The thing we get from this is simple, the value of passion in art. We get it viscerally and it matters. The basic device is as usual, commitment to art as a commitment to a lover. We also get the common technique of mapping personal challenge into political challenge because you can "show" it.The folding here is complex. Our watcher in the story is literally a watcher. We are getting a film written by the filmmaker that features a play and ultimately a book by the main character. The watcher and writer have other watchers, and indeed the woman has other attention concerning performance. We have writing or performing (in life, in sex, piano, play...) at every fold. Its very tight in its construction and effective at what it sets out to do. Quite apart from that, its timeliness in the US is apt. The subtitles I saw translated the spies as "National Security Agency," which as every American now knows performs very similar surveillance on its citizens, also without controls, and also for political purpose. So it chills.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
I grew up hearing about the horrors of living in an Eastern Block country. The blandness of life, the constant looking over one's shoulder. The Trabant! I was always fascinated by the irony that Soviet Russia reacted to the fall of the 3rd Reich with a socialist mask upon their fascist faces. This movie was a wonderfully intimate look at the grim reality of the Iron Curtain, and the humanity that simmered under the surface eventually leading to the wall collapse. Reagan didn't bring the wall down, the people did.... and Roger Waters. ha-ha This was a compelling movie. I can see why Depp and Jolie fell in love with the director. I can only hope his next film is better than The Tourist.


                
Edmund Burke wrote that all that is necessary for the triumph of evil is that good men do nothing. "The Lives of Others" shows the corollary: all that is necessary for the defeat of evil is that good men do something. Indeed, the musical leitmotiv for the film is called "Sonata for a Good Man".Imagine (if you will) that, in George Orwell's "1984", instead of spying on and betraying Winston Smith and Julia, Charrington the junk-shop dealer -- or perhaps O'Brien himself -- commits thoughtcrime, defies Big Brother and the principles of Ingsoc, and acts to protect the two rebels.You would then have the basic premise and scenario for "The Lives of Others", Germany's entry for Best Foreign Film of 2006, which significantly is set in 1984, not years in the future, but the here-and-now present."The Lives of Others" narrates how a servant of the state becomes increasingly aware of its intrinsic evil, and risks not only his career but indeed his freedom, to help subvert and overthrow the system.This film about East Germany's state police (the Stasi) explores the philosophical and ethical issues in far greater depth, and with far more emotional resonance, than "Breach", an American film of the same year that limits itself to mere spy-versus-spy intrigue.It is instructive and ironic that the film begins with an explanatory note about the atmosphere that prevailed in 1984, when Glasnost (openness) had not yet begun in the former Soviet Union and its satellite countries, and the Berlin Wall had not yet fallen. For those of my generation who remember that fateful event, no such explanation is necessary. For those who had not yet been born, no such explanation is adequate.
In 1984 I was a teenager in Sarajevo being entertained by the Winter Olympics of that year. I could never think that life in the East Germany was so not free. We were never told about this in the former Yugoslavia. Since we had a free travel possibility to the West, GDR considered Yugoslavia a capitalist state?!? Only after the Wall fell we understood the real horrors which East Germans who did not follow the Party line had to endure. At the same time it was very interesting how those who followed the Party line enjoyed good, almost an excellent life.At the same time it shows how the ones who were high, fall so low as the system changes. And the ones who were low climb high. (Who was high falls really low, and who was down climbs really high, wheel of fortune does not stop rotating!)All in all an excellent film, for all those interested in the GDR and Stasi it is a must see!


                
About half-an-hour into the movie I thought I was in for a bit of a rough ride, you know... that force-yourself-to-the-end type of film. Fortunately, the movie got better and more intriguing as it progressed, turning out to be a very rewarding piece of entertainment.Luckily, I managed to bypass my initial negative preconceptions, such as the German language, having subtitles and no recognisable actors, deciding to give the film a go based on my very positive experiences of foreign language films this year, in the place of the usual insult to your intelligence, spoon-fed Hollywood fodder.It's a rewarding film that requires a certain amount of perseverance at the start. It's educational, thought provoking, visually intriguing but not beautiful, almost beleaguering your senses with the grimy weather, the drab clothes worn by practically all, the use of greys and browns for furnishings, the austere colour palette, the depressing standard of the cars and vans, and virtually nothing joyous or warm to look at. We're instead reliant on our involvement with the characters and their insights and motives for doing what they do.A film that seems to adapt and improvise as it goes along, the characters feeling their way through events as well, entering uncharted waters and discovering the need to swim. Yet again, film that establishes the value of historical diversity that Germany has to offer from the 20th century. Only, the language/subtitle thing may put a few people off from the start, which is a shame if you're young and looking for action-satisfaction.


                
German screenwriter and director Florian Henckel Von Donnersmarck's feature film debut which he wrote and co-produced, premiered in Berlin, was screened in the Special Presentations section at the 31st Toronto International Film Festival in 2006, was shot on locations in Berlin, Germany and is a German production which was produced by producers Max Wiedeman, Dirk Hamm and Quirin Berg. It tells the story about an officer of the secret East German police who in November 1984 is assigned by a general secretary named Anton Gribitz to surveil a writer named Georg Dreyman who lives in an apartment block with a theater actress named Christa-Marie Sieland.Distinctly and precisely directed by German filmmaker Florian Henckel Von Donnersmarck, this finely tuned fictional tale which is narrated from multiple viewpoints, draws a consistently involving and nuanced portrayal of an author who is looking for ways to reach readers in West Germany, his popular actress girlfriend and a man who spends most of his time following his life. While notable for it's distinct and mostly interior milieu depictions, sterling production design by production designer Silke Buhr, cinematography by German cinematographer Hagen Bogdanski and brilliant editing by film editor Patricia Rommel, this dialog-driven and narrative-driven neo-noir and dense chamber-piece depicts three engaging and empathic studies of character and contains a great score by composers Gabriel Yared and Stéphane Moucha.This political, romantic and modestly sensual thriller about surveillance and the ongoing conflicts between supporters and opponents of the dictatorship in DDR during the Cold War which is set in East Berlin and Berlin during the mid and late 1980s and the early 1990s, is impelled and reinforced by it's cogent narrative structure, substantial character development and the poignant acting performances by German actors Ulrich Mühe (1953-2007), Sebastian Koch, Ulrich Tukur and German actress Martina Gedeck. A tangible, atmospheric and extraordinary directorial debut from the early 21st century which gained, among numerous other awards, the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film at the 79th Academy Awards in 2006.


                
Quite possibly the best film released in the 2000s, Von Donnersmark masterpiece regarding the influence and the attraction of an individual towards another's creates an image which was very well interpreted to the masterclass cinematography and musical accompaniment of Hagen Bogdanski and Stéphane Moucha, respectively. Set in the fascist era of Germany, Das Leben Der Anderen depicts a surveyor's (Wieser) interaction with a seemingly loyal writer (Dreyman) through suspicions from the Minister. The wonderful acting from the leads namely: Ulrich Muhe and Sebastian Koch along with the supporting cast delivers this rather inspiring film contrary to the the film's opening environment. This is my first time seeing the film and though it is already 4 years since it was released, it still as fresh and original as any film released recently.


                
Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck's "The Lives of Others" is a searing portrait of East Germany in the early 1980's before the fall of the Berlin Wall. The era of paranoia, suppression of free speech, and total state control of everything and everyone is masterfully displayed here in the intertwining stories of the Stasi police officer, his morally questionable superiors, and the actress and playwright they are spying on. Once again, the German people's love affair with authoritarianism and meticulously detailed records is featured here as the most intimate details of these people's lives are examined and we see the quiet tragedies of their everyday life stemming from their bizarrely married desires for freedom and attempts to rationalize their place and survive in the State and the Socialist movement. Superb acting, an excellent music score, and no-frills direction keep the film taut, sparse, and utterly transfixing in its evolving melodrama.On an obvious surface level, "The Lives of Others" is the most psychologically astute look at voyeurism since Hitchcock's "Rear Window." What makes the film compelling in its slow build up of tension and suspense, is that it is working on so many other levels. It can also be viewed as an allegory for the art of film making (or stage directing and writing) and the craft of acting, as we see the fractured psyche of the Stasi police officer--much like the blacklisted director character who commits suicide-- who so desperately wants to intervene and direct the troubling lives of those he surveys (the writer and actress--both wrestling with their own internal demons as their lives soon become not their own). So while it serves well as a timeless psychological case study into such minds, desires, and paranoia, it also functions as a very timely discussion about how much interference a government has the right to run into the lives of ordinary citizens."The Lives of Others" suffers from one major flaw, which will not be discussed at length for fear of giving away some of its intricate plot twists and theatrical climaxes. In the end, the film misses the final beat as it runs about ten or fifteen minutes too long past what would've been two serviceable and profound endings to arrive at a series of closing scenes that are all too pat. The first two hours were so rife with dramatic irony and subtle tension, that it's a shame the film rolls on beyond what would've been a sublimely ironic and stark conclusion (that arrives at a most pivotal moment in world history). Still, there was so much multi-layered and engrossing minutiae in those first two hours that the film's ultimate brilliance can not be denied because of one false note.


                
Many people were startled by the fact that Pan's Labyrinth lost the Best Foreign Film Oscar to its fellow nominee The Lives of Others. Granted, many hadn't seen the German film yet, however, I think the push that the Spanish fantasy had, while also taking a few technical Oscars in the process, surprised a lot of people. The shock led to numerous movie folk on the internet describing the voting process for that award, how a select group, not the entire Academy, screens the foreign films. Therefore many thought that this more dramatic and adult story was chosen because that group was probably a very pretentious bunch and couldn't in their right mind vote a fantasy film as a winner above it. Whether this is true or not, Buffalo now has the opportunity to see the award winning film for itself, to decide if it was deserving or not. I must say, while I don't think it was better than Pan's I am totally fine with the fact that it won. The Lives of Others is an expertly told thriller, tense throughout, as we never quite know what our protagonist or antagonist will do, or even if they are on opposite sides of the movie's coin to begin with.We begin the movie with an introduction to Hauptmann Wiesler, (played perfectly by Ulrich Mühe, who you might know from Haneke's original Funny Games), a member of the Stasi who is teaching a class on the tactics of an interrogation, and how you must show no remorse when trying to find out enemies to the State. An old friend of his, who has since risen in the ranks of the government faction more for greed than actually wanting to do right by his superiors, tells him about a new surveillance job that has come up straight from the Minister himself. Wiesler, always a man willing to do what is necessary for the cause he believes in, takes the job and begins watching the accused man's every move. Soon, though, he realizes that this man, while having friends of those with Western loyalties, keeps clean himself when it comes to politics of that persuasion. Instead Wiesler finds that his subject's live-in girlfriend is having an affair, with the Minister no less. This is not a stakeout to find an enemy; his assignment is one to get rid of a man so that his superior may have a woman all to himself. Disillusionment sets in and Wiesler begins to put a series of events into place that only he knows what he wants the result to be. Does he want to punish the Minister for using his power for selfish gains? Or does he want to prove to everyone that he knows what his job is and will show everyone the power he himself wields.There are some really fantastic moments throughout the film showing the eventually demise of the GDR. Mühe is fantastic as Wiesler and shows his changing opinions and confusion in what it is he is does for the Stasi. What was once a job for the continuation of socialism in East Germany has become a tool of the leaders to use against their people. When Wiesler and his boss friend go to lunch and he sits at a table of lesser rank than his own, his friend says how the captains sit in the back. Wiesler's response of how socialism must start somewhere is so true and biting that his friend can only smirk. These leaders no longer work for the common good of all men, they have received power and they now intend to keep it. From this point on you never can tell which side Wiesler is truly working on.Mühe is not the only great performance of the film, although his calm stoicism and hidden emotion truly carry it. The subject of his mission, Georg Dreyman, a playwright, is wonderfully done by Sebastian Koch. This role is of a man who has seen his politically outspoken friends be punished for voicing their opinions, and has, as a result, decided to not follow suit. Only when his mentor commits suicide does Dreyman finally decide to do something about the stifling regime in power and help the West see the growing dissent in the East. His girlfriend, actress Christa-Maria Sieland, is also portrayed with raw emotion by Martina Gedeck. She is caught between love and survival and has gotten herself too deep in both to be able to leave one for the other. Her part is hard to watch because she tries so hard to keep both halves of her life living in harmony, but being too tired and broken to keep the charade going.I will again say that I really enjoyed this film. The story was intelligently told and professionally acted and directed. I was on the edge of my seat throughout, waiting to see what Wiesler's true intentions were. If the film would have ended at its logical finishing mark, I may have put it in my top ten of 2007. However, what was a fascinating tale of two men slowly realizing their beliefs were incorrect and because of which decide to take the dangerous challenge of doing something about it, becomes a history lesson about the fall of the Berlin Wall. It was the concentrated focus that enthralled me, and once a series of epilogues (2 years later, etc<U+0085>) were tacked on the end, I was totally taken out of the intimacy of the movie. The final shot ends up being so clichéd and safe that, while appropriate, it ends up subverting the rest of the movie's keep-you-guessing mentality. Some things are best left up to the audience's imagination, and a final crossing of paths between the watcher and the subject need not be spelled out.
It wasn't long ago, that this was a reality. DDR, a paranoid country, with Stalinist views, wanting to know everything about everybody for the safety of itself.Ulrich Mühe is absolutely brilliant here as the very strict Stasi captain, who changes bit for bit. He really starts to live the live of others. Not because he's in a claustrophobic state of mind. But he's the watcher who is conquered by what he watches.There are many clues in this movie, which you come to think about afterward. In a way just like the Stasi captain. This is another example of German film coming back on its previous high level.


                
I enjoyed this film quite a bit. The plot and script were superb and the acting impeccable. All characters did exactly what the director wanted - you hated some and loved others. Their feeling of helplessness was put on the screen very well and the bleached, stale cinematography was well noted. This is a film about human emotion during a time when the government wishes to extinguish it. To see how each character is moved and changed by their bleak surroundings was marvelous. I would recommend this film highly - just be warned that it is slow moving with not many exciting parts. There are several tense and gripping scenes however, and the ending is truly heart felt.
It's 1984 East Germany. The state's secret police Stasi is an ever knowing presence. Hauptmann Gerd Wiesler is an expert interrogator and teacher. Playwright Georg Dreyman and his actress girlfriend Christa-Maria Sieland are loyal artistic stars. Wiesler zeros in on Wiesler and fascinated by Christa. Wiesler bugs his apartment and spies on them from the cellar. Minister of Culture Bruno Hempf lusts after Christa and coerces her into having sex. Wiesler insinuates himself into their lives by pushing her back with Dreyman. Meanwhile, Dreyman is trying to defend his writer friend Jerska but he is helpless against Hempf. When Jerska commits suicide, Dreyman secretly writes a letter denouncing the state.This movie shows the police state as an everyday thing which is somehow more compelling and haunting. The movie is filled with greys and more greys. The character Wiesler is such a great interior person. For such a quiet character, he is able to build up so much emotion. The movie lays down a convincing foundation and constructs these human characters.


                
A masterpiece!European cinema when it is good worth every minute. The film excites from beginning to end. In addition to the intelligent operation and behavioral history, there is no dead time in the film, everything has a meaning, a bond and a good pace. It's very interesting the way this movie talks about the respect or not of a person's privacy and the confrontation between dictatorship and freedom of expression ...I have to take off my hat to Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck. He has done an excellent job. Yes, we all ought to take off our hats. He is an amazing director and writer.


                
Though it is a time piece, you can extract underlying passages from it, and mentally apply the into modern life, for instance the US government imposing of the "Patriot Act" and other kinds of political erratic behavior; not only from the current administration but also by past democrat presidencies as well, which threatens the widely known notion of "freedom, justice and the American way" the US preaches. But not only in USA but more currently in amazingly "1st" and "2nd" world countries also Even though the piece is conceived and viewed form a politically and morally individualistic point of view, there are several implications to the ramifications of the actions of governments (the people)oppress and suppress the its population. Personally I have ambivalent feelings with the opinion of "Stassiland" author Anna Funder for whom the point of view of the director is to optimistic and uplifting, "a superb movie but not very realistic"; the characters portrayed are the same as anyone any where everywhere and anytime; be it (apropiate here or not for some)Nazi German, Ruanda in the mid 90's or Turkey during the 1913; no matter how dark it may seem or different the circumstances, the perpetrators remain the same, they are red-blooded human beings with capacity for both good and for evil as well.


                
When you see a movie that has won the Best Foreign Language Film of the Year (2007) this is something that raise the interest of people and of me personally."Das Leben Der Anderen" it's a classic German movie that shows us how was Germany in the 80s and how was the relationships between people and of course how they change according of similar circumstances.Ulrich Mühe makes a very good performance as Hauptmann Gerd Wiesler and I also liked the performance of Sebastian Koch as Georg Dreyman. In some moments I got a little bored but this is something that does not change the overall picture of that beautiful movie.The last thing that I want to tell you about this movie is that I was amazed with the end of it and I did not even predict it. It was something that I really liked in this movie and I recommend it!


                
"No matter how often you say it in your plays, people do not change!" an East Germany minister declares to playwright Georg Dreyman (Sebastian Koch) in the movie. This is an ironic statement considering that East Germany in 1984 was part of Soviet Union at the time, and communism is predicated on the belief that human nature is malleable and that people can be improved, even if one has to break a few eggs in the process. It also encapsulates the protagonist's arc: the moral rebirth of Hauptmann Gerd Wiesler (Ulrich Mühe), a high officer in the secret police, the feared Stasi. Wiesler, entrusted by his social-climbing superior, Grubitz (Ulrich Tukur), to spy on Dreyman and his actress girlfriend, Christa (Martina Gedeck) in the hope of finding something that will destroy him so a minister can have Christa for himself.This is the plot, at turns far-fetched and sentimental, but mostly chilling and heart-wrenching, that filmmaker Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck found to depict the actions of the secret police in East Germany. It's a plot that has its strengths and weaknesses, the most evident being the unclear motivation of the methodical, emotionally detached Wiesler to risk his career in helping a trouble-making playwright. Wiesler is a cipher without a back-story; his political convictions, or lack of them, aren't properly addressed in the film: we can't tell whether he's a staunch supporter or just an everyman doing his job by conformity. The movie portrays him as a lonely, efficient, paranoid workaholic. So his about-face raises questions of motivation.This, incidentally, is a difficulty I often find in movies about protagonists who rebel against criminal organizations they previously worked for. An example from recent years can be found in Syriana. You'll remember George Clooney plays a CIA agent who, after a lifetime serving the agency, discovers it's doing bad things. The intelligent viewer will, of course, pause to wonder what rock he lived under when he wasn't in a mission, to consider that the CIA was a benign agency, when there's ample literature documenting its countless crimes, such as drugging its own agents with LSD to study the after-effects, paying a Canadian psychiatrist to perform illegal shock therapy on unwilling patients, and occasionally backing military coups in democracies. In the 21st century a CIA agent can't be that innocent. But Syriana needed a rogue CIA agent. And The Lives of Others needed a Stasi agent to learn to become human again, and that's a development that is always hard to portray convincingly. For how does a person learn to become good? We'll just invoke the acte gratuite here. Writer André Gide came up with this term, which translates roughly into gratuitous act, to name unmotivated actions needed to start the plot. The movie, of course, takes a shot at explaining Wiesler's metamorphosis, and that's another one of its weaknesses. Henckel, being a filmmaker, an artist, evidently believes art can improve people. The movie chalks up Wiesler's transformation to the art he comes into contact while surveilling the playwright's apartment. This reaches its climax when he cries listening to Beethoven's 'Appassionata'. "Can anyone who has heard this music," the playwright asks Christa while he plays it in the piano, Wiesler listening to them, "I mean truly heard it, really be a bad person?" History proves, yes, they can, Mr. Idealistic-Writer-Bordering-On-Parody. But this movie will prove that people who like Beethoven are all self-sacrificing and intrinsically good. They just need a string of well-articulated tunes to remember them of their humanity. We'll forgive Henckel for this since it's an artist's prerogative to be naive.The good far outweighs the bad in this movie, though. Its acting and writing are superb. The screenplay humanizes the Stasi agents in a way that is probably too unpleasant for some viewers, which makes it as courageous as another German movie, The Downfall, which boldly portrayed Adolf Hitler as a three-dimensional character several years ago. Although it's easier to hate monsters, the characters in this movie are all too familiar in their pettiness, ambitions, fear and subservience. Power is the most overt theme in the movie, after freedom of expression, and the movie does a good job of showing the hierarchy of power in East Germany, from the untouchable ministers down to the Stasi officers, the agents on the field, and finally the citizens at the bottom of the pyramid, spied on, interrogated, blackmailed and tortured arbitrarily.The dialogue is excellent too, focused on the story while developing the characters, and full of double-entendres: dialogue, like the characters, has two faces, a private and a public one, the word's meaning changing according to circumstances, which makes this movie perfect for repeated viewings. The actors must have realized how good their roles were because they brought their best talent to it. Although the acting is generally good, Ulrich Mühe is head and shoulder above his co-stars. He delivers a fantastic performance as an emotionally reserved secret agent who lays his soul bare without the usual overwrought shenanigans that characterize Oscar-baiting performances. His minimalist acting, which mirrors the effect of his work on his existence, triumphantly results in one of the best performances of the last decade.Although the acting and writing are top notch, Henckel could have done better with the directing. The camera work won't impress anyone. In this regard, the movie looks a lot like a play.Still, the acting and the writing are so powerful, and they complement each other so harmoniously, they survive the director's lack of talent. The messages of individual freedom, the arbitrariness of power and personal responsibility somehow escape from the camera's dull stare. Whether as a fictional portrayal of an era and place rarely seen in cinema, as a morality tale, or as a work of art, The Lives of Others is an achievement of the highest order in modern cinema.
A compelling story with some outstanding acting. It relates the atrocities and transgressions exercised by the Secret Police in Eastern Germany back in the 1980s. The thing about this movie is that it might seem dull, lacking the basic thriller elements. However, watching it will have all your senses alerted, story and plot wise. The Lives of Others has all the ingredients of a historical and political movie, a gripping thriller and a heart-piercing drama, cleverly combined all together. Ulrich Muhe was absolutely amazing as the Secret Police agent Hauptmann Gerd Wiesler. His seemingly poker-face and lifeless expressions spoke words and showed emotions a thousand scripts couldn't have possibly expressed. Martina Gedeck stood out as well.


                
Before I saw this movie I watched a discussion on TV between the director Donnersmarck and an Eastern German actor (Henry Hübchen). Hübchen had accused Donnersmarck of having directed an American tearjerker instead of doing an authentic film on how it was to live in a state where you were being watched 24/7. The discussion on TV was quite arduous and I recall Donnersmarck calling Hübchen a hypocrite. So, when I went to watch this movie I bore in mind the discussion I had seen on TV and I looked out for Hollywoodish elements in the film. My conclusion: Hübchen is not all together wrong. The way Donnersmarck arranged the film it at times seems overly dramatic to me and I have a hunch that Donnersmarck was trying to turn this film into some sort of Greek tragedy, where everything leads up to the final scene in which the Gedeck character is killed/ commits suicide. I imagine that being spied on in the GDR (German Democratic Republik) was devastating and terrifying (especially for an artist) but I don't think that the film itself was very realistic. Don't get me wrong, I loved the movie, it was beautifully conceived and acted out well, but all the time I thought I was watching a tragedy written by Racine or Corneille and turned into a movie by Donnersmarck. On the other hand, I disagree with Hübchen. I think a film as good as this deserves every appraisal it can get because if once you see a good German film you have to cut the filmmaker some slack for minor slips as long as the film is entertaining. And this film is entertaining. I enjoyed every scene of it and I was immediately seized by the suspense and thrill of it. So thank you, Mister Donnersmarck for a good German film and keep em coming.
I am born and have lived much of my life in communist Romania. There is a difference I think between the way I and other like me have received this film and the way it was received by folks who were born or lived most of their lives in countries where dictatorship is known only from news, books or films. The very existence of a repressive police machine that supervises every aspect of private lives, that suspects and follows its citizens with the purpose of detecting any act or tendency of political disobedience, up to intervening brutally in their lives may be news for the occidental viewer, but not for us.On this revelation for the unsuspecting viewer is based part of the impact of 'Das Leben der Anderen'. Another side of the secret is the human story, the story of good people in the bad 'democratic' republic of Germany. Geor Dreyman (acted by Sebastian Koch) is a successful writer who succeeds to become successful and to live a reasonable style of life by compromising in his play-writing of theater about factories and workers. Gerd Wiesler (Ulrich Muhe) is a Sasi captain who receives the mission to supervise Dreyman, not so much because of political reasons but more because a Communist minister wants to eliminate him as a rival to the favors of his beautiful actress girlfriend. Paradoxically, the two, although no strangers to the limitations of the regime are also the only true believers in the movie, trying to find its good parts, and to match them with their own personal ideals. However, the totalitarian brand of socialism practiced behind the Iron Curtain is nothing but a police system trying to keep in power the party dictatorship, and the only way to be true to the personal ideals is the the two characters to commit treason. Dreyman will write a 'subversive' article and send it to the West, Wieser will secretly cover him and will reveal to no one the dissident change in the writer's approach, at the risk of his own career.There are at least two memorable scenes in the film. Inone of them a young Sasi officer tells a political joke, and is being heard by one of his superior. The boss plays a cruel game with him, threatening him to destroy his career and then apparently joining him with the laughs. We do however see later that the forgiveness was apparent, when in a later scene we find the young officer sent to a lower grade of work by opening and reading private mail of the citizens, together with Wieser, punished for his lack of vigilance in the Dreyman case. It is however no usual day, it is the day the Berlin wall fell, and we see the Stasi officers whose role was suddenly canceled abandoning their place of work and exiting from the dark underground room to the outside world.I liked less the general conception of the movie, which tries to satisfy the needs of commercial cinema. It looks like made with the Oscar for the foreign film in mind, and it actually got it. The final scenes that happen years after the fall of the Communism, and try to provide some kind of forgiveness and especially the very last scene seemed very untrue to me. The suffering and scores of lives destroyed by the communist regimes in Eastern Europe scarcely deserve this kind of forgiveness.
I haven't seen any German films since "Der Untergang" (2004) about Hitler's last days which was fairly good, atmospheric and believable. "Das Leben der Anderen" is something else, a mixture of farce and the very cramped German approach to "serious" subjects. Actors make up for lack of performance by over-emphasizing their dialogue.English viewers may not properly "appreciate" the fine-turned original that made me feel like I was hearing a book reading - no living Teuton naturally talks or has ever talked like that, not even our venerated grandparents. The actors pronounce every chosen line as carefully as on stage, which adds to the painful artificiality of the whole. I abandoned this over-rated attempt after 30 minutes - there are better ways to waste time and learn about the STASI. Two stars are for performance, the third for the content - you can take it as a radio play. The fourth is for the subject.


                
I enjoyed a lot watching this film.However, the way some producers and directors feel they have to depict a totalitarian state puzzles me : They seem compelled to describe totalitarian horror through the tale of a good man. Resorting to that kind of narration certainly has a pedagogical virtue, and I do feel identified with the optimistic message of the film, but I am afraid that it fails to describe how totalitarian regimes achieve their systematic neutralization of moral judgment among individuals. Unfortunately, I am afraid that even today, few of us are immune to totalitarian brain washing."Das Leben der Anderen" seems to follow the path of the "Schindler's List", it has all the attributes of a good commercial success, but doesn't appear to be very ambitious.


                
Das Leben der Anderen (aka the Lives of Others) by Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck delves the audience in the atmosphere of East Germany at a time when the word Freedom was defined by the Communist Party. Mainly shot in the old Stasi Headquarter the film manages to provide as much for the protagonist as for the audience the coldness of both the feeling and decorum.Through "Das Leben der Anderen" Mr. von Donnersmarck represents a new generation of German filmmakers who try the "reconquista" of their own History, proposing a reflection on the long separation of the two Germanys. The story takes place in the early eighties in East Germany where the successful auteur George Dreyman and his lover, the actress Christa-Maria Sieland are considered to be part of the intellectual elite even though they don't share the communism ideal."Das Leben der Anderen" is a slow movie but never a boring one it builds up tension while developing multitude of thematic. Beside the obvious denunciation of a system which is indeed falling, the film talks about "love" and how the love of art can sometimes be stronger than the physical one or how individual are in essence individualistic.Serve with a terrific cast "Das Leben der Anderen" is a cinematic achievement. Ulrich Mühe knows how to express feeling with minimal words but an expressive visage, Sebastian Koch understands the term "character embodiment" and the very sexy Martina Gedeck makes herself desirable and so profoundly human.Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck manages to describe a dark period in a non Manichean way. He explores through an efficient scenario a troubled History with no complex, realism and humanity. Das Leben der Anderen is a sincere movie and true cinema is indeed about sincerity.


                
I watched this movie because it won the Oscar for Best Foreign Language film of 2006. This film won over the more high profile "Pan's Labyrinth" which recently topped a list of best foreign language films of this decade. Naturally I was very curious to check it out.The story is set in Communist East Germany in the 80s. It was about the notorious surveillance of the dreaded Stasi on suspected "enemies of the state." In this case, Agent Wiesler (Ulrich Muhe) was tasked by his superior Grubitz (chillingly portrayed Ulrich Tukur)to spy on the goings-on in the house of prominent playwright Georg Dreyman (Sebastian Koch)and his girlfriend and lead actress Christa-Maria Sieland (Martina Gedeck).However, despite the veteran that he was, Wiesler becomes sympathetically involved in the lives of the people he is supposed to observe. This is especially when it was revealed that the surveillance had been ordered by Cultural Minister Bruno Hempf (a very greasy Thomas Thieme), not for national security reasons, but only because he selfishly wanted to get rid of Dreyman in order to have Sieland for himself.The situation is very claustrophobic and may become boring, but it doesn't. This is a testament to the success of its solid direction by then newcomer Florian Henckel von Donnersmarck. It also holds the audience's interest because of the very effective acting of the lead actors. The main actor is not Koch nor Gedeck, instead the focus of the movie is on Wiesler, the character played by Muhe. We clearly see his character develop from a heartless government agent and inquisitor into a man who followed his heart rather than his head, and fully accepted the consequences of his actions.Overall, this movie is very good as a study of the political situation in East Germany back then, as well as an excellent character study of the people caught up in this situation. It is worth the time invested to watch it.Now whether it deserved to win the Oscar over "Pan's Labyrinth," that is a bigger question. Definitely the delivery of the message in "The Lives of Others" is simple and direct, while the approach in "Pan's Labyrinth" is allegorical and metaphorical. Comparing apples and oranges, It boils down to a matter of taste among the jurors who voted. Both films are excellent in their own ways.


                
SUPERB !!! 10 !!! FROM ROMANIA , WITH LOVE...pt multi e UN film bun...Dar nu-Mai Ce-i din Europa DE est..care Au trait Asa moments..pot integer Asa film...Oricum 10 pt tot... interpret are , decor , effect...exact ca in Anni 80 in reality.Aduce forte moult a realizer impeccably...ca Cele din moment-UL Holocaustului...Iar pt Ce-i A-sup-RI-ti...care Au av-u-t DE S-U-F-E-R-I-T...Quote: IMI SCOT PALARIA IN FATA DUMNEAVOASTRA !


                
