There are many differing schools of thought regarding Quentin Tarantino and his so-called "style". There are those who believe that the director who began his career as a humble video store clerk with a voracious appetite for movies of every conceivable style is talented and worth imitating. While Tarantino has made some movies worth discussing for their positive qualities (Reservoir Dogs is, by far, his best effort), this group of movies is rather small, especially considering that he has only directed five movies. There is another school of thought who regards his works as inane, self-indulgent, and bloated. Pulp Fiction, written and directed by Tarantino, and released in 1994, is his most divisive movie simply by virtue of being his most well-known. Upon its release, it was hailed as a warning shot to a complacent Hollywood- the maverick behind the indie hit Reservoir Dogs apparently had something else up his sleeve.Pulp Fiction is ostensibly a crime story featuring the interconnecting lives of several characters. However, upon repeat viewings, the viewer begins to wonder exactly what that something is. Personally, I found this movie ran too long in spots, likely because Tarantino is so ridiculously in love with the sound of his own voice as spoken by different actors that he is afraid to cut one speech or even a single line. Dialogue, though it doesn't necessarily need to serve the story to justify its inclusion, should not be so dense as to drive the viewer out of the experience. When John Travolta and Samuel L. Jackson, on the way to retrieving a briefcase for their employer, are talking about European hamburgers and foot massages, the scene plays like a witty outtake- as though the actors so understood the style of the movie that they were in that they felt comfortable riffing with the material. Not so- the rest of the movie is filled with conversations of a similar type, including (but not limited to) body piercing, blueberry pancakes, hamburgers (again), and coffee (this one performed by Quentin Tarantino himself, as though he couldn't wait to get a shot at delivering his own lines).The strangest thing is, while the characters are "in character", as Samuel L. Jackson says in an opening scene, the movie is quite enjoyable. When the characters are placed into real confrontations, the movie takes on an entirely different persona and becomes at least a decent crime movie. Ultimately, however, these scenes are few and far between and, unfortunately, the movie clocks in at 154 minutes. There's really only a decent short film in all of this.The movie also lacks what I would call a plot. The movie is described as three stories about one story, though that one story (ending, chronologically, with Bruce Willis and his irritating Euro girlfriend riding off into the sunset) doesn't connect the characters enough to be truly about one thing.Ultimately the movie is a prime example of what happens when a VCR and a wide selection of movies replace film school. The movie lacks a coherent center and seems more like something that was made for the sake of just committing something to film and resurrecting the flagging career of John Travolta. The movie is too large in scope to sustain itself, and, in the end, implodes because there is really no conviction behind the presentation- too concerned with being a hipster-cool riff on a crime story, rife with pop in-jokes and 70's music (perhaps the best part of the movie is the soundtrack), somebody must have neglected to mention that the movie went nowhere and lacked the momentum to even get there.While all of these qualities combine to form a truly deplorable viewing experience, I do have to mention Bruce Willis and Samuel L. Jackson as two performers in this movie who, I felt, got away clean. Bruce Willis probably gets away with it because he's alone for the majority of his segment and, therefore, doesn't have anybody with whom to trade despicably derisible dialogue. Samuel L. Jackson gets a mention because of the scene at the very end of the movie in which he confronts Tim Roth's character and makes him realize that there are far more fearsome powers at work in the world than robbing a diner. In fact, the scenes coming directly at the beginning and the end of the movie are the two best, and everything else is filler.As you no doubt have guessed, I fall squarely in the latter of the two groups I mentioned at the beginning of this review. Pulp Fiction is inane, self-indulgent, and bloated.
You want to do something really neat? Take the movie "Pulp Fiction" and re-cut it, so that, instead of being out of sequence, it is actually in proper sequence. It can be done. Why do this? Because if you do, you will see what a nothing movie this really is. There is no central plot, there is no real theme, or story or climax. It is just a bunch of tricks and overly snappy dialog, masquerading a piece of fluff that has as much depth as the kiddie pool. Hey, more power to Tarantino, the guy is a Houdini, full of slight of hand. But are we really so simple, that we are ranking this one of the ten greatest movies ever made? Come on! OK, I know that Travolta is cool and Jackson is funny. However, let's reserve the greatest films of all-time category for real masterpieces and real stories, and not some overly slick pulp geared towards video store geeks.


                
The hugely overrated trivial chatting, the grotesque violence, the moral vacuum, the deadly slowness, the length --- about an hour too long --- make it incomprehensible today how this picture ever made people rave the way they did on this board.The greatest film ever? Excuse me, this is a feature film that says nothing, depicts no authentic feelings or character development, is grossly self-indulgent and filled with idiotically implausible situations, such as people firing powerful handguns repeatedly, simultaneously and then hanging around chatting as if nobody would ever report the firing and summon the law.Perhaps the most implausible character of all is played by Mr Tarantino, who shouts at the two hoodlum killers as if they were playmates from school and complains that his wife will divorce him if she returns from work to find a car in the garage containing a man with his head blown off.Where is the moral compass of the people who revere this schoolboy nonsense? Nobody in the film is remotely principled, and nor is anyone (except possibly the pawnbroker) actually evil. The scene where he releases a leather-studded sadist from a cage is possibly the most unbelievable rubbish ever deployed in a Hollywood feature."It's only entertainment," I hear people protest. Well the difference between Mr Tarantino and film-makers of stature is that they are capable of entertaining while instructing, and of integrating the two.


                
Is it possible that something so loathsome and awful could actually be adored and lauded by millions of people?  Is it only a matter of chance that some movies are loved and others hated, regardless of their content?  I hope this is true, because I cannot believe that there is actually anything good about the movie Pulp Fiction to lead any sane, reasoned, drug-free person to write the glowing comments that surround mine, much less the oodles of people who actually handed over their money to see this thing.Why is this movie so bad, you ask?  Okay, I'll tell you, even though it's like pointing out why windows are transparent.  Starting with the script, I see no reason to be impressed by an assemblage of overly stylistic dialogue and flat, boring characters.  There is nothing amazing about two guys talking about French McDonald's restaurants, and then killing some guys. Every awful stretch of dialogue is dragged out as long as it will last, and then some.  It's as if Tarantino said to himself "I think I can cram one more line about milkshakes in here".  You have to give him credit for padding the film in ways that nobody's ever tried before.  The actors look as though they're doing their best to salvage this turkey (and they are talented), all the while knowing in the back of their minds how much of a cow pie the whole thing is.  As far as Tarantino's directorial style is concerned, he should just get himself a career in Nike commercials because that's where his talent level cuts off.
Wow, a lot of people have been fooled into believing that this was a great film. I've never seen anything like it, and I hope I never will again. This is one slop of a film, and I'm disgusted to know that it has so many high reviews. It was a confusing ball of goo that amounted to nothing. I didn't care for the characters and never will. What a hopeless bunch of freaks. I don't jump on the "freak bandwagon" unless they're natural ones, not arrogant embodiments of deranged entertainment. The glorification of smut is worse than the smut, and that is exactly what this movie is. The sad thing is, I don't believe that some of these actors were acting at all. They were just being themselves. Travolta and Jackson in wigs??? That was scary! The only interesting thing about the movie was the sequence of events. I like the way that it started at one point and ended in the same, but dislike everything in between. The problem with this film is that it tricks the audience into giving it great reviews. It uses the "peer pressure" method. You know, "this movie is for intelligent and cool people" CRAP!! Well, I'll gladly stand among those who know that this was nothing more than a "shock flick". It was produced to see if the letter could be pushed a little further. Unfortunately, it drags what little respect that Hollywood has with it. I'm afraid that this is one of the major stepping stones to a pathetic industry that only produces films for vulgar lust.There's my two pennies, don't spend them all in one place!


                
Sorry for the image, but if you take a bowl of crap, rearrange it, put some sugar and a little cherry on top, what to you get? ... a bowl of crap.This is the most overrated film of all time. I'm even feeling strange to call it a film. It has no story, no feelings, no plot, no music - just 4 different scenes of disgusting, violent, abusive, offending and racist content put together in a mixed sequence.How this crap scores a 9 on IMDb is beyond me. Sometimes when people see a 9 they automatically deceive themselves into believing this is a masterpiece and that maybe if they didn't like it, something is wrong with their opinion or taste. Nothing's wrong. It's a bad movie from beginning to end. The problem is that sometimes Hollywood movies are over-hyped for business reasons like what happened in Titanic and Avatar which by the way were "OK" movies but didn't deserve the huge credit they received.I gave this a 1 because Samuel L. Jackson was the only thing interesting in this disaster. I'm not going to tell those of you that haven't seen it not to, you have to go through the experience on your own and make your fare judgment. Don't listen to anyone's opinion - especially the ones that think if you love this one, then you're COOL!


                
I really find it difficult to believe this movie is rated highly by people. It's hands down the worst movie I've seen in my life (58 years). When my wife and I went to see it, soon after it came out, multiple people walked out of the theater saying either it was a terrible movie and/or it sickened them. Maybe all of us were just allergic to Tarantino's sick fascination with violence. The violence is just so gratuitous and casual as to make it seem like a bad video game. Outside of that, the overall movie has the feel of being viewed through the eyes of someone high on bad drugs. Please excuse my lack of specifics regarding the film, but I've fortunately blocked most of them from my memory. In any event, I worry about a society that thinks this is a good film, I really do.


                
Sometimes after seeing a lot of good movies people want to watch something undefined and different,but it does not necessarily mean that the movie is good.When the theme song is the best part of the movie you surely can understand the quality.Sometimes ranking and charts do not show the real picture,this movie does not have a good story,a good screenplay or good dialogues but still it is in the top 10.But believe me this movie can neither give you entertainment nor any sense of understanding.Yeah i agree the movie is not boring,but it is not enjoyable either.Movies like shawshank redemption,godfather or lord of the rings,all of them has a magic-feature.Sometimes it is screenplay(Shawshank redemption) sometimes its dialogue(Godfather) sometimes it is the story (The lord of the rings) .But all of them had the important feature called continuity.I think it is a very important quality of a movie to keep it's continuity.This movie is divided into four parts which actually made the movie look like a comedy-puppet dance just with humans(Because the parts do not define one-another). The most embarrassing thing about this movie is after watching it you will think who is the fool yourself or the writer and directer.Yes this movie is different but not always Difference make something great at least in motion pictures at least.Whatever this is a must see movie for all because you can differentiate the better movies after watching it.


                
Simply put Pulp Fiction is the silliest film I have every seen, it puts  Battlefield Earth and The Long Kiss Goodnight (spookily starring the  two leads from this film) firmly in the shadows, they look like rare  vintage wines next to this cheap plonk. The fact it is so highly  revered by so many, and even considered profound, makes me fear for the  very existence of modern society.  There are some fundamental reasons I dislike this film with a passion,  the first being the pacing and substance, the film really mirrors it's  director to perfection, yapping and a mumblin and a stumblin from start  to finish, enthusiastically about....Nothing! If Qentin was not such an  untalented, cretinous buffoon I would call him the new David Lynch. The  only substance in PF is of the white powdery verity, the film is just a  collection of sick images splashed on screen willy nilly strung loosely  together by some sharp but pointless dialogue. The film was too crude,  made purely for shock value. When violence, male rape, drug abuse,  accidental shootings and other such fun filled things are packaged as  cool and even as comedy in the hands of an immature director you get a  highly irresponsible film, and to sell it as some sort of 'smart art'  piece is doubly irresponsible.  Then there is the complete lack of character development and depth.  There are no characters, only 2 dimensional machines created solely to  perform acts of severe violence and drop in a few wise cracks, they  perform actions in one scene that seem to have no effect or relation to  what happens in their next scene. Not one of them is even slightly  likable or in possession of any redeemable characteristics apart from  perhaps Butch (Willis), did I mention he is a violent thug, murderer  and a thief? Then there is Mia who seems to have little purpose in the  film other than an excuse to include the very uncomfortable scene where  an over weight Travolta boogies on the dance floor. Yes she is in the  'famous' needle scene as well, but what else? The section featuring  Vince and Mia was just dropped and barely mentioned again like Mia  herself, so what was the point? A question I asked of the film  throughout. I quickly realised that nobody in the film was there to be  developed, any one of them could have been dropped (apart from Butch)  or their actions performed by a completely new character without making  a spot of difference to the film, their actions were not to be the  subject of scrutiny. That would be asking too much of the Tarantino who  is clearly only interested in attempting to make stuff look cool. He is  the most unoriginal man on the planet only capable of tacky 'homage'  (ie, he is a thief) action films. Don't believe me? Watch Kill Bill  where he even pays homage to his own film, this one! I do give credit  to him in one respect. He realised that if he re-jigged the order of  plot events he could not only look artistically swish but he could  disguise the fact that the story is not worth the toilet paper it was  written on, impressing upon many the fallacy that the hack job  narrative structure enhanced the story.  The direction is experimental but quite frankly tacky and laughable at  times. One scene featuring a near comatose Butch in particular comes to  mind, the camera is stuck dead still on him while Marsellus (Rhames)  uses the m-f word 100 times in about 5 minutes, totally amateurish. The  only memorable performance is from Jackson, who could make the  ingredients list of a packet of cookies sound fun, he is offset by a  flat performance from Travolta. That brings me to the 'witty' dialogue  which, apart from the violence, is the crux of the piece. It is  unfortunate then, that this dialogue basically consists of idiots  talking a load of nonsense about such deep things as cheeseburgers,  milkshake, foot massages, cleaning up skull and brain chunks and some  coffee that is described as gourmet s**t. Some dialogue was witty but  mostly it was just utterly pointless, the characters deliver it with  such perceived style and coolness despite the fact they were talking  about, frankly, a lot of BS. Add this to the fact there is (barring  brief moments in Butch's story) no plot, no emotion and especially no  substance and you have one worthless film. "Ah you don't get it" they  all scream, don't make me laugh, the circular narrative and the  ham-fisted attempt at redemption at the end does not equal substance.  The ending was hilariously cheap, obviously a desperate attempt to  justify a pointless 2 hour string of images in one strike. Is it meant  to be profound? Well after sitting through the whole film which  consisted of characters that were never developed adequately, where no  actions or events were properly tackled, challenged or explored with  any great thought or depth during which I was never required to care  even once, I was presented with one of the most cheesy, pointless  monologues in film history. Oh and a parody of QT's fans - the  briefcase is opened and they stare at the shiny thing and go "ooooh, it  beautiful". It is all a hollow gesture when you consider the character  that delivers the speech and his actions directly following it,  combined with the entire sequence of stupid events that precede it.  Many movies these days suffer similar problems at their conclusion  because of obvious limitations in plot structure and development, some  have endings that invalidate the rest of the film, others have endings  that are invalidated by the rest of the film, with Pulp Fiction QT has  somehow achieved both simultaneously. You'll figure out what I mean. As  a rule I don't usually let a film's director put me off the film itself  but, after Kill Bill and Pulp Fiction, Tarantino films are now the  exception.


                
Pulp Fiction is often considered the coolest and greatest film of all time. But, the people who usually say this are pretentious film snobs and people who think this is something extraordinary. Excuse me, it isn't.First of all the film has NO plot. If a film has no plot, then why should we care about the unlikeable characters? Second, the diagloue is so....BAD. Does the director think people actually talk like this, because, well they don't.Third, the grossly, glamorous violence, is disgusting. This isn't a horror film, so why do we need such violence popping in and out of the movie? So, I urge everyone to avoid the hype of this pretentious, terrible mess.


                
This is what I call a fad movie.  People say it is a great movie because other people said it is great.  People are afraid to express their true feelings because they don't want to be ridiculed by their friends, especially if one is a member of the so-called X-generation.  I would imagine that the number of people who rented the video or saw it on cable that stopped watching the movie because it was so bad is fairly high, especially for a movie that is considered a great movie.However, I concede that a number of people truly like it.  However, I find that there are just as many people who are repulsed by this movie.  They just don't express their feelings in this type of format because a bad movie isn't worth the effort of making a negative opinion.


                
This movie is definitely the most overrated piece of sh*t ever.No story, no plot, no message, just Tarantino so totally in love with his own "witty" dialogue.The movie is empty in every sense of the word. In addition, it's also horribly boring and therefore ridiculously hard to watch. I always try to sit through every movie I start, but damn, with this one it was a hard task not to simply get up and walk away.Pulp Fiction does not deserve to be on top of IMDb's list of best rated movies with actual masterpieces like "The Shawshank Revenge". The latter is a work of art, Pulp Fiction is merely a piece of sh*t dressed up as one and it's amazing how many people fall for it.


                
This is a great film? By what standards? Anyone can string together a bunch of violent, disjointed scenes, designed to shock and disturb the viewer. Violence, in and of itself, without context and pertinence to the story, is the tool of no-talent scoundrels masquerading as filmmakers. Such, unfortunately, is Tarantino. What a shame for Travolta that this was his 'comeback' film. For me, the only watchable part of this film was the sequence featuring Bruce Willis. Even that, though...how Willis was convinced to be in this film is a mystery to me. Cameos by Emil Sitka, Christopher Walken's brief part, and Harvey Keitel's appearance cannot save this self-indulgent and troubling example of a director gone wild, suffused with the sense of his own talent. This was a BOMB.


                
Yes, that's right. Crap. This film is just that. If you take a closer look at f.ex. Bruce Willis, who seems to make people scream their head off every time he's near the screen, you can clearly see that this person lacks personality. He has two expressions: One that says ON, (with a little wrinkle above his nose) the other is of course OFF, when he's asleep. a machine of a man, which perhaps cries a bit when he comes home, because he's in desperate need for a personality, some feelings, a higher IQ and an even bigger paycheck.Why this person has become so popular has to do with you mindless people out there. Voting, cheering and stamping your feet for talentless and retarded actors, musicians, artists etc. That is why this world goes straight down the toilette. Making your modern remarks that everything is so "Cool" all the time.Pulp Fiction is at best a bad joke from a below average director. There is no inventions, no good or natural acting, no deeper meaning with this movie at all. Just exploitation.The era of good movie-productions are long gone. Classic actor's like Chaplin, Bogart, Cooper, Peck, Holden and Quinn don't get born any more. Today it's just you gray and unpersonalized people out there (With some exceptions), watching to see if there's something that can kill your brain even more, with splatter and gore above your ears. Yeah, you're a really "cool" bunch, drowning on dry land.


                
Don't get me wrong i generally like gory mature movies. But, this movie was terrible; repulsive fast paste griddy storyline with no plot is not my idea of a good movie. It was simply a bunch of unpleasant scenes put together sporadically in a timeline sequence until the end of the movie came. And you come to realize the moral, doing bad things isn't good for you, also the most elementary concept one knows. The only one that makes it out unscathed is Samuel L. Jacksons part. And i believe this is wholly because he abandoned the path of immorality. Teaching us what is commonly known through a disgusting and unorganized movie.Nothing at all embracive, enthusing, funny, witty, or intelligible. I mean their were themes, but they were incredibly dull and boarish. I am blind to how people see this as a good movie. I found this movie as a waste of life.
I have to agree with those reviewers that find this film disjointed, overly and unnecessarily violent, and just plain difficult to understand. I, for one, fail to see how this movie resurrected the career of John Travolta as his performance was just totally unbelievable. Focusing on what appears to be several unrelated life experiences, Tarrantino once again utilizes his penchant for violence, drug addiction, rape, and other assorted seedy topics. The plot (if you want to call it that) is non-existent and the scene involving Ving Rhaimes is just flat-out disgusting. For Tarrantino fans, this may be the ultimate. But for me, it's just not a good film.


                
i watched the film 20 years later since it's making and attain 0% satisfaction of viewing pleasure considering it's 5h top position on IMDb. The movie is an experimental art house crap that chooses no destination and lack brilliant, appealing sketching of it's theme. The dialogues are the heartbeat of the film that lose it's rhythm every moment when stretching same words to make viewers understood the characters's stand, view in perplexing crime world and how they perceive.The one thing, the film depressingly is in desire of clapping is Bruce Willis part of a boxer, who is feared but not a coward. The rare male protagonist with conscience.Uma Thurman leaves a desire to see her complicated struggle with drug, lust and hunger to live free.Tarantino has tried to harvest a violent creativity, but the offspring emits extragalactic passion that fail to make any beauty.I have watched it and guarantee You waste of time
Absolutely no idea why this film is so popular. I was bored out of my mind from the first scene to the last waiting patiently for a twist of some sort to tie the multiple stories together, which never happened. Probably my least favorite movie i've ever watched. The acting wasn't bad and the film did tie in some aspects of popular culture and previous films, but if the viewer doesn't give a crap about any of the characters whatsoever, or the plot(if you could call it that), then whats the point. I gained nothing from watching this movie besides an intense feeling of emptiness that usually comes after wasting 150 or so minutes of your life watching a pathetic piece of crap film about nothing. Was I at the edge of my seat, yes, however It wasn't because of the suspense, I couldn't keep my head from falling forward or my eyes open. And the way that the scenes were arranged, terrible. The movie memento is hard to follow sometimes and slightly dull at some points but at least there was a freaking point in the way the scenes were arranged, considering the main character had memory problems. In this movie, there was no reason for the random mix up of the scenes, except to just do something different and make a movie so weird and disgusting the critics think its a masterpiece. I usually like movies that are critically acclaimed, like The Godfather, one of my favorite movies, but Pulp Fiction isn't even in the ball park. There isn't the dark complex characters like in the godfather, just a bunch of rambling idiots tripping over their stupidity.


                
After 4 years, I still consider this the worst movie I have ever seen.  I have yet to watch any thing else with QT's name attached to it. Everything about this film is annoying, (the presence of the ubiquitous Sam Jackson and Steve Buscemi, the weak attempts at shock value, the cameo by the director) but the one element that makes this number one on my all time worst list is the obnoxious dialogue that tries to be hip and funny.  THREE'S COMPANY reruns have better dialogue (and I hate that show). It's such a shame though, because QT and I do have a lot of the same obscure tastes in movies. My advice is to try a project that tries not to be shocking, funny or hip, because PULP FICTION fails in all three departments miserably.


                
This is one of those movies (like "Fargo") which expects the audience to laugh about the most cruel scenes of violence. That's not only disgusting but even dangerous, because in spite of "It's only a movie, you know" we all should know how influential screen behaviour might be, don't we?


                
I will never understand why Pulp Fiction is hailed by so many as one of the greatest films ever made. Quentin Tarintino's first film Reservoir Dogs was amazing. It had excellent performances, some good action scenes, an impressive structure and fantastic sound track. When Pulp Fiction came out in my country in October 1994, i could not wait to see it. Empire Magazine gave it 5 stars. I remember when i went up to Glasgow to see it with an anticipation i had not felt since i had went to see some thing like Star Wars or Indiana Jones.Oh boy, twenty minutes in and i was already sick to death of Samuel Jackson's character. He just talked and talked and talked and....talked. John Travolta's Vince Vega was a guy i wanted to decimate, oh Travolta you looked ridiculous with those hair extensions and then you talked and talked and talked with Uma Thurman in a silly black wig. There was so much talking in this film that it made me want to walk out. I have only ever done this once in my life and it was with that utter garbage Jack Nicholson flick Wolf. Tosh.So i kept hoping that something good would happen...Christopher Walken as an army bloke talking and talking about a gold watch up his ass...NOT GOOD...a male rape scene with talk...NOT GOOD...Quentin Tarintino turning up in a cameo that should have got him shot (in real life) talk talk about disposing of bodies...oh, this film was the pits, i must have been the only one in the audience that hated this film, because everyone was whooping and hollering like they were watching a Naked Gun comedy. Oh yes, they loved it.Quiet frankly my admiration of Tarintino was gone forever, he got his head together with the brilliant Jackie Brown then lost the plot again with the silly Kill Bill volumes. Pulp Fiction is one of the worst movies I've ever had to endure, its a long boring ride to a sore head.


                
As a 13 year old just getting into cinema, this was the best film ever. How could I not be blown away by all the clever dialog, great characters, fantastic storyline, and gripping violence. It was just pure heaven. I saw this movie three times in the course of one year, and I still have such fond memories of watching it. It was around the time I got serious about cinema (about two years later) that I felt I needed to give this another go. I'd discovered the works of Bergman, Tarkovsky, Godard,etc, and felt a connection with film in ways I hadn't before, and I wanted to see if the movies I loved before still held up. I had every intention of loving "Pulp Fiction" just as much as I did back then, but I didn't. There was nothing there, no core. All the things I'd loved about it were gone. That clever dialog? Referential nonsense that gave no insight into who I was watching or attempted to expand the narrative. The great characters? Indistinctive cardboard cutouts that act as mouthpieces for Tarintino. Fantastic storyline? A pseudo throwback to film noir that can't decide whether it wants to take itself seriously or be intentionally stupid for the sake of irony. Gripping violence? It's violence that's harsh enough to put the average viewer in awe, safe enough as to not offend.It's a dead film with no ideas. A common argument I hear in it's favor is that it's somehow objectively entertaining. Why? Because it has guys with guns and monologues about McDonalds? Sorry, but that's not entertainment in my mind. Entertainment is being engaged, having to think. A film like "Andrei Rublev" is entertaining because, while I watch it, it evokes thought and feeling, it has something I can sink my teeth into. I can still think about it, interpret it in different ways. "Pulp Fiction" is just shutting your brain off for two and half hours while a man with a God complex strokes his ego.Basically, I can understand to some extent why it is so popular. It's very good at pleasing the masses, something Tarkovsky could never do. It's so perfectly designed to hook the average viewer in. But it's paper thin. This is exactly what I don't want in cinema


                
I did - what many listed here - have done.  And rented it against my better judgement : since the previews had done little to entice me.As objective as an analysis goes : (here's my 0.02$)Positives : 1) The movie is original 2) the way the multiple stories intersect is probably the high-point 3) It contains seasoned actors that perform the role as well as can be expected. 4) I did smile during the door shooting scene with Travolta & Jackson, and few others humours one-liners/conversations.Negatives : I) There is *way* too much foul language ... is it possible to let the clock tick with hearing an f-word, I can even commend times it should be used to underline/emphasize ...etc ... but every 45 seconds !!!II) Individually, some stories might have become interesting - but by just skimming on the better ones (Bruce Willis) - and digging deeper in the blander ones (Travolta's)and the dude "bagged" in the car =  you come away with a : Yeah - so what ?  lingering in your mind.III) A few original lines and skewed timeline doesn't a movie make.  One has the sense of a hyped up boxing match where the Champ get cut in the 1st minute of the 1st round, thus ruled a "no-contest" ...I can see it appealing to some MTV-type crowd or some that desperately cr ave something original (which it is) , but gives me nothing to "digest" once over, VS something one can really connect (and sink his teeth into like : The Shawshank Redemption, Gattaca, American Beauty - that one is a rose, by any other name ...And it **Certainly** doesn't deserve to be in the Top100 of all times !
Enjoy the show, Folks !Jerome M.


                
Well, I finally saw 'Pulp Fiction'. Hadn't after all this time, but I've heard *so* much ta-doo over it, so I rented it.UGH.I guess I must not be film critic material, because I didn't appreciate the 'art' of this film, or its 'brilliance', or any 'statement' it might have made. It was unpleasant, filled with scumbag people I cared nothing about, doing godawful things to each other with horrendously graphic visuals and appalling dialogue. It jumped around in time, circling back to where it opened, but from another viewpoint, and while that may be some sort of artsy crafting in editing or storytelling, it doesn't save it from the fact that it was just plain revolting.When the characters could get away for a second from m-f-ing all over the place, there *was* some interesting verbal exchange... bright and witty and even vaguely profound, but Kafka it ain't. I have to say, I thought all the performances were incredible, esp Samuel Jackson, but can't Quentin Tarantino stay OUT of any of his own films?! Even playing a 'nicer' guy, he comes off as a borderline psycho. I thought it was *very* interesting, tho, to see Chicago Hope's Eric Stoltz in there as a drug dealer.I worry about people's minds, if this is what they think of as a great movie. EEK! A movie about redemption? Gee... I didn't see any of that. If perhaps a character got out of the violent melee alive, I'd hardly call that 'redemption', if they are hardly anyone worth caring about being redeemed in the first place. An earthquake fault could have opened up and swallowed the lot of 'em, and I would have applauded. People think it's really cool or trendy to give accolades to trash nowadays.Time to get some mouthwash for my eyes, and get the stench out of 'em.


                
This is for all the guys who voted to make this movie a masterpiece. I don't know on what everyone depended in evaluating this movie. Everyone agrees that the cast includes some of the best actors out there, but a good cast doesn't mean that the movie is a masterpiece. This movie was without a subject, no message, too much repeated sentences, nothing connected with each other. You will get tired of listening to duologue's about "foot massage", "hamburgers", "Butch's fathers watch" .<U+0085>etc, these things cover more than a half of the movies length without meaning anything to the movie.I was very disappointed when I saw this movie. This movie is way overrated and should be among "IMBD 100 Bottom". If you want to waste two and a half hours listening only to duologue's without a subject then this is the movie and if you really want to know how a masterpiece looks like then you should watch The Shawshank Redemption.
