One of the early scenes in "Pulp Fiction" features two hit-men discussing what a Big Mac is called in other countries. Their dialogue is witty and entertaining, and it's also disarming, because it makes these two thugs seem all too normal. If you didn't know better, you might assume these were regular guys having chit-chat on their way to work. Other than the comic payoff at the end of the scene, in which they use parts of this conversation to taunt their victims, their talk has no relevance to anything in the film, or to anything else, for that matter. Yet without such scenes, "Pulp Fiction" wouldn't be "Pulp Fiction." I get the sense that Tarantino put into the film whatever struck his fancy, and somehow the final product is not only coherent but wonderfully textured.It's no wonder that fans spend so much time debating what was in the suitcase, reading far more into the story than Tarantino probably intended. The film is so intricately structured, with so many astonishing details, many of which you won't pick up on the first viewing, that it seems to cry out for some deeper explanation. But there is no deeper explanation. "Pulp Fiction," is, as the title indicates, purely an exercise in technique and style, albeit a brilliant and layered one. Containing numerous references to other films, it is like a great work of abstract art, or "art about art." It has all the characteristics we associate with great movies: fine writing, first-rate acting, unforgettable characters, and one of the most well-constructed narratives I've ever seen in a film. But to what end? The self-contained story does not seem to have bearing on anything but itself.The movie becomes a bit easier to understand once you realize that it's essentially a black comedy dressed up as a crime drama. Each of the three main story threads begins with a situation that could easily form the subplot of any standard gangster movie. But something always goes wrong, some small unexpected accident that causes the whole situation to come tumbling down, leading the increasingly desperate characters to absurd measures. Tarantino's originality stems from his ability to focus on small details and follow them where they lead, even if they move the story away from conventional plot developments.Perhaps no screenplay has ever found a better use for digressions. Indeed, the whole film seems to consist of digressions. No character ever says anything in a simple, straightforward manner. Jules could have simply told Yolanda, "Be cool and no one's going to get hurt," which is just the type of line you'd find in a generic, run-of-the-mill action flick. Instead, he goes off on a tangent about what Fonzie is like. Tarantino savors every word of his characters, finding a potential wisecrack in every statement and infusing the dialogue with clever pop culture references. But the lines aren't just witty; they are full of intelligent observations about human behavior. Think of Mia's statement to Vincent, "That's when you know you've found somebody special: when you can just shut the f--- up for a minute and comfortably enjoy the silence."What is the movie's purpose exactly? I'm not sure, but it does deal a lot with the theme of power. Marsellus is the sort of character who looms over the entire film while being invisible most of the time. The whole point of the big date sequence, which happens to be my favorite section of the film, is the power that Marsellus has over his men without even being present. This power is what gets Vincent to act in ways you would not ordinarily expect from a dumb, stoned gangster faced with an attractive woman whose husband has gone away. The power theme also helps explain one of the more controversial aspects of the film, its liberal use of the N-word. In this film, the word isn't just used as an epithet to describe blacks: Jules, for instance, at one point applies the term to Vincent. It has more to do with power than with race. The powerful characters utter the word to express their dominance over weaker characters. Most of these gangsters are not racist in practice. Indeed, they are intermingled racially, and have achieved a level of equality that surpasses the habits of many law-abiding citizens in our society. They resort to racial epithets because it's a patter that establishes their separateness from the non-criminal world.There's a nice moral progression to the stories. We presume that Vincent hesitates to sleep with Mia out of fear rather than loyalty. Later, Butch's act of heroism could be motivated by honor, but we're never sure. The film ends, however, with Jules making a clear moral choice. Thus, the movie seems to be exploring whether violent outlaws can act other than for self-preservation.Still, it's hard to find much of a larger meaning tying together these eccentric set of stories. None of the stories are really "about" anything. They certainly are not about hit-men pontificating about burgers. Nor is the film really a satire or a farce, although it contains elements of both. At times, it feels like a tale that didn't need to be told, but for whatever reason this movie tells it and does a better job than most films of its kind, or of any other kind.


                
I can only speak for myself, but I had never seen anything as stylish, cleverly constructed, well written and electrifying as this milestone when I first saw it in 1994. What really pulled me in right from the start is what we've now come to know as a Tarantino trademark: the dialogue. When gangsters Jules and Vincent talk to each other (or all the other characters, for that matter) there is a natural flow, a sense of realism and yet something slightly over the top and very theatrical about their lines – it's a mixture that immediately grabs your attention (even if it's just two dudes talking about what kind of hamburger they prefer, or contemplating the value of a foot-massage). Then there's the music: the songs Tarantino chose for his masterpiece fit their respective scenes so perfectly that most of those pieces of music are now immediately associated with 'Pulp Fiction'. And the narrative: the different story lines that come together, the elegantly used flashbacks, the use of "chapters" – there is so much playful creativity at play here, it's just a pure joy to watch.If you're a bit of a film geek, you realize how much knowledge about film and love for the work of other greats – and inspiration from them - went into this (Leone, DePalma, Scorsese and, of course, dozens of hyper-stylized Asian gangster flicks), but to those accusing Tarantino of copying or even "stealing" from other film-makers I can only say: There has never been an artist who adored his kind of art that was NOT inspired or influenced by his favorite artists. And if you watch Tarantino's masterpiece today, it's impossible not to recognize just what a breath of fresh air it was (still is, actually). Somehow, movies - especially gangster films - never looked quite the same after 'Pulp Fiction'. Probably the most influential film of the last 20 years, it's got simply everything: amazing performances (especially Sam Jackson); it features some of the most sizzling, iconic dialogue ever written; it has arguably one of the best non-original soundtracks ever - it's such a crazy, cool, inspirational ride that you feel dizzy after watching it for the first time. It's – well: it's 'Pulp Fiction'. 10 stars out of 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
To put this in context, I am 34 years old and I have to say that this is the best film I have seen without doubt and I don't expect it will be beaten as far as I am concerned. Obviously times move on, and I acknowledge that due to its violence and one particularly uncomfortable scene this film is not for everyone, but I still remember watching it for the first time, and it blew me away. Anyone who watches it now has to remember that it actually changed the history of cinema. In context- it followed a decade or more of action films that always ended with a chase sequence where the hero saved the day - you could have written those films yourself. Pulp had you gripped and credited the audience with intelligence. There is not a line of wasted dialogue and the movie incorporates a number of complexities that are not immediately obvious. It also resurrected the career of Grease icon John Travolta and highlighted the acting talent of Samuel L Jackson. There are many films now that are edited out of sequence and have multiple plots etc but this is the one they all want to be, or all want to beat, but never will.


                
If you think "Pulp Fiction" is brilliant, you're wrong. It's more than that. It's a milestone in the history of film making. It's already a classic. But why? Because of the many "f" words, or maybe because of the brain and skull pieces on the rear window of a car? No, that's surely not the point (unfortunately some other users - fortunately the minority - don't get it). Tarantino has made a movie that's someway different from many other action, gangster or crime movies. What's so different? He knows the subject of the movie is "cool", he knows it's a product of mass culture, and he even likes it by himself. But he smiles at it and tells three great stories with a lot of irony. And this irony is the first point. The second point is that he gave souls to extremely schematic characters. They surely aren't another action heroes who you forget as fast as you can twinkle. They are human beings like we are, talking about Burger King and McDonalds, about TV series and a foot massage. They just earn their money with killing others or selling drugs. What else is so great about "Pulp Fiction"? It's the acting, the directing, the cinematography, the soundtrack, the sense of humour and the whole rest. In my opinion it's all worth nothing less than a 10 out of 10. A masterpiece.
Viewers are taken on a ride through three different stories that entertwine together around the world of Marcellus Wallace. Quentin Tarantino proves that he is the master of witty dialogue and a fast plot that doesn't allow the viewer a moment of boredom or rest. From the story of two hit-man on a job, to a fixed boxing match to a date between a hit-man and the wife of a mob boss. There was definitely a lot of care into the writing of the script, as everything no matter the order it is in, fits with the story. Many mysteries have been left such as what is inside of the briefcase and why Marcellus Wallace has a band-aid on the back of his neck, which may be connected. The movie redefined the action genre and reinvigorated the careers of both John Travolta and Bruce Willis. This movie is required viewing for any fan of film.


                
Pulp Fiction may be the single best film ever made, and quite appropriately it is by one of the most creative directors of all time, Quentin Tarantino. This movie is amazing from the beginning definition of pulp to the end credits and boasts one of the best casts ever assembled with the likes of Bruce Willis, Samuel L. Jackson, John Travolta, Uma Thurman, Harvey Keitel, Tim Roth and Christopher Walken. The dialog is surprisingly humorous for this type of film, and I think that's what has made it so successful. Wrongfully denied the many Oscars it was nominated for, Pulp Fiction is by far the best film of the 90s and no Tarantino film has surpassed the quality of this movie (although Kill Bill came close). As far as I'm concerned this is the top film of all-time and definitely deserves a watch if you haven't seen it.


                
Quentin Tarantino's Pulp Fiction is a terrific film. It also gets better with each viewing, especially if one of those happens to be on a big theatrical screen where all of the BIG compositions get bigger and more detailed. How much else is there to talk about it after all these years? It's filled with dynamite, sudden and always interesting action, great and naturally clever dialogue, and memorable characters. Also, the acting is always something to behold as by turns straightforward, over the top, subtle, and just downright menacing and spot-on. The directing is one of the strongest that we've seen from Tarantino, as he makes his choices in pacing with shots in unconventional ways but never in a way that would be distracting. And writing, already noted, has been copied by many, and only equaled by a select few. The dance sequence. Samuel L. Jackson's superlative monologuing. It has loyalty among low lifes, and many other odd characters that are all bad and not one is a villain or hero. And somehow even after years of parody and terrible rip-offs, it holds its own and- as one can say after seeing it at a midnight screening- holds its audience as much as it had the countless times before they saw it (or if they are, the first time). The first time you're surprised, the second time you look for the clues or other ambiguity, and then the third time you laugh you head off. The fourth time... I'll leave to you.


                
It kind of feels redundant trying to write a review for Pulp Fiction as it approaches its 20th birthday. As a film it needs no introduction, it won the Palme d'Or at Cannes, won a BAFTA and Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay (Tarantino), and garnered a whole host of other awards and nominations. Box office beef was meaty and its reputation even now shows no sign of waning (it currently sits at number 4 on the IMDb top 100 list), it is by definition one cool MOFO of a movie, a picture loved by a cross section of demographics. But why?Pulp Fiction oozes humour, romance, violence and stylish flourishes. It remains compulsive viewing throughout; even as it threatens to get submerged in its own complex structure. Film lover Tarantino takes a number of low life and unfortunate characters from Los Angeles, mainlines then with movie clichés, and then amazingly breathes new life into them. It knowingly winks at B movies from the past yet always remains fresh on its own terms. I myself having just revisited the film after a 5 year gap can attest to just how well it holds up, laughing at the dialogue, perched on the edge of the seat as violence starts to rumble, and yes, singing along with that most catchy of soundtracks.Yet for all its flashiness and hipster chattering, there's one thing that often gets overlooked when talk of Pulp Fiction's greatness arises. That of a basic human urge to survive or find salvation, Tarantino's main characters may be bottom feeders or scummy operatives of the underworld, but there's love and needing beating slowly in its dark heart before the drugs and violence take a hold. Neat trick that from Tarantino, brilliant in fact. 10/10


                
The hit-men Vincent Vega (John Travolta) and Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson) work for the powerful mobster Marsellus Wallace (Ving Rhames). Vincent has lived in Amsterdam for three years and is assigned with Jules to retrieve a suitcase that belongs to their boss. There is a shootout and Vincent and Jules do not die because the shots of one gangster fails the target. Jules believes that God's hand has interfered in the bullets and he decides to redeem himself from his life of gangster. Vincent is assigned by Marsellus to go out with his wife Mia (Uma Thurman)while he is traveling and he is scared when she has an OD. Marsellus pays the boxer Butch Coolidge (Bruce Willis) to lose his fight on the fifth round, but Butch wins the fight. He flees from Marsellus and his gangsters but his girlfriend Fabienne (Maria de Medeiros) forgets to bring his golden watch that belongs to his family for many generations. Butch returns to his apartment and he faces Vincent first and Marsellus later. But an incident with sadistic perverts brings Marsellus and Butch side by side. "Pulp Fiction" is one of my favorite movies ever. I had seen this movie for the last time on 11 January 2002 and today I have just watched it again. When we compare the nominations for Best Picture in the 1995 Oscar ("Pulp Fiction", "The Shawshank Redemption" and the winner and weakest "Forrest Gump") with the movies nominated this year we can see that the Oscar winners are not necessarily the best movies of the cinema history. "Pump Fiction" saved the career of John Travolta that was in the ostracism and put on the spot Quentin Tarantino after the cult "Reservoir Dogs". The complex screenplay with four entwined story has shown to the world the brilliance of Quentin Tarantino. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Pulp Fiction – Tempo de Violência" ("Pulp Fiction: Time of Violence")


                
It's no surprise that 'Pulp fiction' is a movie that made cinematic history and defined the pulp fiction genre. It features a series of conversations and events coherently, but not chronologically, told. Tarantino tells three different but intertwined stories. Each of the stories are clichéd and have a noir feel but Tarantino gives them a different and unique treatment and adds sharp witty dialogues full of truth and irony (and references to many classic movies and popular TV shows). He uses a lot of warm colours and the film is slightly sepia tinted. Also there's a lot of attention to intricate detail and it is a finely layered movie such that one discovers something new with every subsequent viewing. There's also a certain ambiguity about it. It's not certain in which time the film is set or what was it in the briefcase that stunned Ringo...lots of questions and the answers are open for discussion. The cinematography is slick and sharp and the soundtrack is a classic. Then there's the outstanding cast that includes, John Travolta, Samuel L. Jackson, Tim Roth, Bruce Willis, Uma Thurman, Rosanne Arquette, Eric Stoltz, Ving Rhames, Maria de Medeires and Amanda Plummer, all of whom have a magnificent presence and memorable dialogue delivery. There are so many classic scenes that people discuss, even today. My personal favourites are the date sequence (and the scenes that follow) with Travolta and Thurman and the series of conversations between Travolta and Jackson. I doubt there's anything to say about 'Pulp Fiction' that hasn't been said. Whether one likes it or not, this movie is here to stay and even today it is among the most talked about movies. I have already seen it at least four times and it still amuses and fascinates me just like it did during first viewing.


                
Grade: A +Is it a redemption story? If so, of human nature, or the characters themselves? A simple buddy film where action and comedy is spliced together? HELL NO!! This film has a left mark ever since I saw it. It was so different, so humorous, and yet so moving. All of this in one genre that is in itself truly hard to define.Tarantino has truly written a masterpiece. This film in reality tells three stories, which one such as myself, upon first viewing, found confusing. What can I say; it was my first Tarantino film! But after watching it several times, as I have also done, it really starts to hit you. Simply said, it really is a redemption story. Our characters are hit men, drug dealers and proud users and crime bosses. They make a living off killing and sin. So, in essence they are the "bad guys". And yet the audience is drawn to them due to the comedy they use. The dialogue is so rich and original we get to see two hit men talk freely about foot massages right before busting a mission, and yet it isn't regarded as silly. What other film can do that; none!In fact, it is these moments that give "Pulp Fiction" that flame. Perhaps the best example of this savior of the human soul theme is Samuel L. Jackson's character, Jules. His performance is probably the most vivid in the movie. Every line he utters is a testament to what Tarantino envisioned. The human soul is a vile corrupt thing, but it can be reformed. It can be saved. But one has to be willing to make that change. Many times it takes a miracle for us to realize that and to make a change. It can even be our destiny to save the souls of others, as the final scene depicts with Pumpkin (Tim Roth) and Honey Bunny (Amanda Plummer). There are cruel consequences that fate can play against those who refuse their destiny, as the tragic case with Vincent's death.The cast is spectacular. John Travolta and Uma Thurman (Mia) have a genius yet troubled 'love-story', twisted with temptation. Christopher Walken appears as Captain Koons and Ving Rhames as Marsellus Wallace. My favorite actor besides Samuel L. Jackson has got to be Harvey Keitel, who is known only as the Wolf. Every actor brings a different emotion to the film, really spicing it up and making it a varied film.One of my personal Top 15 films ever, "Pulp Fiction" is widely entertain and will invoke the curiosity of movie goers for years to come.
This is Tarantino's absolute best work and quite simply one of the best films ever! with brilliant storytelling and incredible performances. All the characters are wonderful and very memorable, and there are plenty of surprising and shocking moments throughout, plus Samuel L. Jackson,John Travolta,Bruce Willis and Uma Thurman are all simply amazing in this!. The dialog is extremely intelligent and witty, and I thought the whole foot massage story was really funny, plus The opening and ending are both especially awesome. I believe this film deserves to be #9 on the top 250! and my favorite segment has to be the watch with Butch Coolidge (Willis), plus Jackson and Travolta were so awesome together and had brilliant chemistry!. The music is fantastic, and Mia's (Thurman) OD'ing scene is both disturbing and somewhat funny at the same time, plus I thought the character development was outstanding. Ving Rhames is ultra cool in his role, and this is extremely well made and written as well! plus the scene where Mia and Vincent Vega are at the diner is just fascinating!.I remember watching this when I was about 13 or 14, and thinking it was so boring, god how could I have been so stupid!, this is truly what brilliant filmaking is all about, plus all the characters are extremely likable. I personally thought Quentin Tarantino was great in his scene and it is quite violent at times, plus one of my favorite scenes is when Vincent Vega's gun accidentally goes off in the car, as I found that to be a great bit of dark humor in my opinion. Harevy Keitel's scene is a memorable one was The Wolfe, and Uma's ketchup joke was funny, plus it all feels like a Dark comedy to me!. Travolta's joke about how they call the quarter pounder with cheese in Paris was very funny and Samuel L. Jackson had some brilliant lines as well! plus I loved Eric Stolt'z character as well. This is Tarantino's absolute best work, and quite simply one of the best films ever! with brilliant storytelling and incredible performances, and if you haven't seen it, what the hell are you waiting for? do so immediately you won't regret it trust me!.The Direction is masterful. Quentin Tarantino does a masterful job here, with fantastic camera work, awesome angles, and lots of other awesome shots as well, plus he kept the film at an extremely fast pace.The Acting is incredible!. Samuel L. Jackson is amazing here, he gives quite possibly his best performance, is hilarious, had brilliant chemistry with John Travolta, had some of the coolest lines of all time, really seemed to be enjoying himself, and just gave one of a kind performance, he was amazing (Jackson Rules!!!!). John Travolta is just as good, he rejuvenated his career, with his role here, and rightfully so. his scene with Uma Thurman in the diner, was especially awesome, he also looked damn cool. (Travolta Rules!!!!). Bruce Willis is amazing as always and is amazing here, he played one of his coolest characters, and it was basically an action role, but damn was it a good one!,Butch was my favorite character along with Jules!, he was just perfect for Butch (Willis Rules!!!!!!!). Uma Thurman also gives one of her best performances here, as the drug addicted Mia, she didn't have all that much screen time, but she made it memorable!(Thurman Rules!!!!!). Ving Rhames is excellent here as Marcellus, he was just a bad ass, and had a very cool scene with Willis!. Eric Stoltz cracked me up as Lance, he was one of the funniest characters in the film in my opinion. Christopher Walken had a cool cameo here and was great. Quentin Tarantino is actually really good as Jimmy and was quite funny. Harvey Keitel is awesome as the Wolfe as he cracked me up I loved him. Tim Roth and Amanda Plummer are both awesome as the robbers, and were just great. Rosanna Arquette(Jody) did what she had to do well. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall if you haven't seen it please do so immediately you won't regret it. ***** out of 5
Sorry to degrade from the structure of how things go, but this is a hybrid between a review and a defense of the film.As far the movie itself, I could be locked in a room for a few weeks with it. It's what movies where made for. It is entertainment- sure and simple. I'm not gonna dive really into what the movie tries to do, because I see that more as a viewer's perspective. I can say, however, that whatever it it tries to do it does well. The acting, the dialogue, and everything else about it is gripping. The most overarching thing about it to me, though, is the absurdity. The absurdity is concocted at just the right angle so as to create a strange world, but one we can dwell our minds in. Reality itself is absurd in itself, is it not? This is what particularly draws me into this movie, and makes me like it so much.This is also the reason I think a lot of people hate it. The main insults toward the film regard it's "lack of plot," "lack of core," and "lack of meaning, or anything at all." Did I miss some section of the Geneva Convention that mandated how a movie had to be made? Yeah, typically a more linear and mountain shaped plot/ story line give that feeling of satisfaction at the end, but leave that to other movies. There are plenty to spare.People accuse it of being hollow as far as spirituality and meaning go. I find this kind of funny and ironic because I think that is exactly how it emphasizes these two subjects. The interactions and experiences of the characters in this absurd reality are what make it so real. We really don't have lives much different from Vincent and Jules. We're all figuring it out as we go, , under pressure of constantly changing circumstances, making decisions for ourselves in a place where we don't have much direction.If you can't find in this movie what others do, I guess you just aren't catching with them. It's really a matter of choice. These are all things that make Kurt Vonnegut novels what they are. Lack of tangency with seemingly pointless digressions. But that is what makes them brilliant. They place a film on life to view it with a new perspective. It's up to you how much value and entertainment there is in something like that.


                
The first gangster film to make inane yet paralyzing dialog the star of the movie. Brilliant and engaging, endlessly quotable and visually alluring, PF made all the top lists, regenerated John Travolta, solidified Bruce Willis, centered Samuel L. Jackson as a leading man and cemented Christopher Walken among creepiest of cameos ever. The side characters are more accessible and reminiscent as friends of ours then they are as plot worthy points of interest. They discuss everyday trivial matters intensely while the viewer is wondering about the ramifications of the events just watched or know is around the corner.... and we actually see very little violence play out! Tarantino's use of the chopped up time line only added to the Pulp mystique as well as it's charm. Imbecile gangsters charming? Regressive American social interaction cinema worthy? When combined , it remains a perfect storm for Quintin & company.


                
It took me next to twenty years to review this film appropriately; i should say, it took me the best part of ten years to realise that not everyone might see it my way. Under close scrutiny, the world of cinema goes this way, more or less: Kurosawa, a Japanese, and two italians, Fellini and Antonioni, subvert just about every rule that Hitchcock laid down; then nothing else happens for thirty years, with Hollywood slowly draining the life out of world cinema (see Transformers 2), until a guy called Quentin Tarantino released this second film, after the poor (or great, if you are a traditionalist) Reservoir Dogs, called Pulp Fiction. And it obliterates every rule that every filmmaker across the civilised world ever tried to establish.John Travolta takes flight to a role so high across the sky that no reviewer is ever going to be able to demolish it, no matter the angle. This is the role that will inspire humans for the next two hundred years; this is the Shakespeare of the modern world. The first director to utilise black actors effectively. The first example of 100% quality production after the dust and sweat of traditional Hollywood arenas. Pulp Fiction is a film of such incredible intricacy that it's unfathomable to anyone but a big-brain film school student, and even than, who knows. Do not feel ashamed if you miss its finer points. But for history, this is the one, the only, the film that takes over from Yojimbo, from 8 1/2, from La Nave Va, from Shichinin no Samurai, and more ... and just moves on forward. There is more film in twenty minutes of PF than there is in the whole of a typical Hollywood production of the 70's. So there are those films above this one. Space Oddissey. The Godfather. These are just targeted products. You will never find someone who has a coherent film critique of Pulp Fiction. Mastery in work, spark of genius, there is no way that this film can be any less than 10/10 and the best film ever made.


                
After watching this movie, I knew it was going to be a masterpiece. I mean, it's classic Tarantino. And, it's got everyone who is anyone in it: John Travolta, Samuel L. Jackson, Uma Thurman, Bruce Willis, Ving Rhames, Tim Roth, Amanda Plummer and so many more. It was nominated for several Academy Awards. But, what really struck me, was the witty dialogue and hilarious scenes between Vega and Jules. And, what scene is more remembered than the dancing scene with Vega and Mia? The story is in 3 parts, all put together, flawlessly. The ending was clever and really made you "think". Oh, and the Big Mac scene in the beginning, genius!
"Pulp Fiction" is a brilliantly crafted film. The many separate vignettes all are quite compelling and fit together wonderfully. And, on top of that, the script and acting are exceptional. And, most importantly, the film is wildly original and very, very stylish. The only reservations I have are minor. First, while this is a very, very good film, I can't see why it is ranked #5 all-time on IMDb. This seems wildly overrated and too often more recent films seem to dominated IMDb's Top 250. Second, this film is certainly NOT for everyone, as in spots it is tremendously violent (like any Tarantino film) and should not be viewed by kids or the overly sensitive.Because there are so many reviews for the film already, I won't bother to try to give a synopsis of the film or do an in-depth analysis.


                
Every Terintino film I've ever seen has been awesome. This is no exception. The movie is so good and just interesting he has like four stories and ends up connecting every single one. The movie is super intense at parts and then really funny at others. The part where Sam L. Jackson takes that guys big kahuna burger and is questioning him is so tense since you know he isn't making it out alive. Also one my hands down favorite parts in a movie ever is when John Travolta's gun goes off in the car and he's just like ah man I just shot Marvin in the face like it was just a little slip up. The guys head exploded h=in his car! Anyway incredible movie definitely watch.Also if you didn't know there is a theory that was confirmed by Terintino That all his films are connected.


                
It's what you called showing in a culture or rather re emphasising a culture. It's an important film and no doubt one of the most important ones to have come in the last 20 years. Not many films, threatened to change the rules of the game, as this film did. In terms of writing, it's non-linear, now non-linear in the real sense, it does not have a proper line of scenes or proper interpretation either, but they are connected by characters. This film has some iconic scenes which you will never forget. Like that, adrenalin shot scene to Mia (Uma Thurman) or reciting Bible's Eziekel 25:17 by Jules (Samuel Jackson).Though, it's nearly 2 and hours, its not long and seems short as they are many questions unanswered. So, is Vincent dead or not? What is there in that briefcase to Marseilles? And these are left unanswered. With just 7 scenes, you make a 2 and half hour movie that redefines in it's own way the perspective of the audience. So, I am amazed more than anything even as I watch it for nearly 10th time and the surprise keeps coming each time I see this. There is something that always works in PULP FICTION. But, what makes this film work is it's writing. It's writing like madness, there is no proper thing called this is it. It can be referred to anything and you may be right. The righteous man and the evil man interpretation is just a tiny example that can be taken out for how we can interpret a character. If I want to write one favourite scene here, it's gonna be the whole movie coz I like everything in it. Technically, I like the cinematography, sound design and costumes. But above all, I liked performances and dialogues. Thanks to Quentin who has given us more memorable movies in the last 20 years that are far superior in writing than anyone else. But for me, this is is my favourite Quentin film and I will stick with this till he out performs himself by writing something much more weird than this.A sure 5/5 for one of my favourite films, no less ever.


                
This is a pure masterpiece folks.Actually a unique movie with its own style and feel unlike anything before it.You have to see it for yourself and find out what the film is all about because everybody has different interpretation of it.The essence of the 50s,60s and 70s captured and combined in one big hell of a movie.Highest admirations to all the actors who were involved in this movie.John Travolta is my number one character in the film fallowed closely by Sam Jackson,Bruce Willis and the hotter than ever Uma Thurman.The dialog is great and you feel like you're in the movie yourself connected with these people.Guns,blood,torture,rapes(and you'll never guess who got raped)and a briefcase full of whatever your imagination is.What Pulp Fiction right away-one of the definitive movies of the 90s and one of the best of all times.
I watched this movie once in my early 20's and totally didn't get it. I watched it again in my 30's and was blown away! This movie is freakin awesome. Quentin Tarantino found a way to wrap the 60's, 70's, 80's and 90's into this film seamlessly and beautifully. Just an awesome movie with a great script and unexpected humor throughout. The movie is cool and it makes you want to be cool too. One thing I have noticed about Tarantino is that his movies are very cool. They make you feel like you're back in the 70's when it was OK to smoke cool. They make you feel like wearing sunglasses in doors cool.The cast was awesome. Every cast member played their role beautifully. Samuel Jackson was awesome! It was so hilarious how he ate that guy's cheese burger then drank his entire drink in the beginning of the movie before shooting him. That scene was just epic. Every scene was epic.
Perhaps no other director places the entertainment value over essentially everything else than the quirky Quentin Tarantino. As long as people laugh, smile, and share in a cinematically glorious viewing experience of idiosyncratic dialogue, wacky story lines, who honestly can find it within themselves to give a hollerin' hoot about anything else? After his directorial debut of "Reservoir Dogs", Tarantino proved he possesses the talent to craft a screenplay and ultimately a film. Though a daring debut, "Reservoir Dogs" left out a majority of its action and subsequently more for the viewer to desire. With "Pulp Fiction", Tarantino delivers not only his best ever film, but a milestone in the delicate dexterity of original storytelling.In this film we see three interweaving stories involving hit men, a bank-robbing couple, a rogue boxer, and a near-fatal blind date. The two hit men, Jules Winnfield and Vincent Vega, played by Samuel L. Jackson and John Travolta respectively, provide the two most outstanding performances. Samuel L. Jackson dominates the screen with his thunderous voice and unwavering demeanor in his portrayal of a "cool- cat" gangster. His partner in crime, John Travolta, also provides an intriguing and convincing performance that most assuredly rescued his career from the D-list depths of the "Look Who's Talking" series. Like "Reservoir Dogs", dialogue stands as the driving force behind the plot and characters of "Pulp Fiction". And not one line in the script lacks Tarantino's stamp of wit and cleverness. Characters speak fluently in wise-crack and tough guy throughout the plot, much like the cold-hearted noir heroes of the 40s such as Sam Spade and Philip Marlowe (both played by the late Humphrey Bogart). In one particular scene of retribution, the big man Marsellus Wallace, played by Ving Rhames, having endured the sexually unthinkable, promises to "Go to work on the homes with a pair of pliers and a blow torch [<U+0085>] I'ma get medieval on you're a**." Goodness knows what "medieval" may imply, but safe to say the guy's got a bit of pain lying in his future.Bruce Willis, who plays the down and out boxer, fails to throw a fight and thus suffers the pursuit of Marsellus and his gangsters. Eventually Marsellus and Willis wind up in a truly bizarre scene of mouth gags and homosexual perversion. Somehow Willis manages to find a way to escape the dastardly situation and get Marsellus off his back all at once. Wacky and uncanny? Indeed, but like the rest of the film, Tarantino tells it with such fun and enthusiasm that one can feel the entertainment buzzing like a jet engine. Most of the dialogue stands in stark contrast to the majority of Hollywood writing which functions simply to further along the plot. Characters continually engage each other with conversations in which we might find ourselves conversing, making it all the more convincing. Tarantino's dialogue reveals character and dimension. It does not offer standard, thin lines that reveal only what the audience already knows. This works to provide the feeling that we eavesdrop on the characters as they chit chat about miscellaneous topics such as the nomenclature of hamburgers, the sexual implications of foot massages, piercings, etc. Though the dialogue may at first glance appear obscure and irrelevant, it obliquely implies events to come later in the unfolding of the plot. For instance, the talk of fast-food cheeseburgers does not stop in Vincent's car; rather we see the hamburgers return in the next scene as Jules and Vincent interrupt the uneasy Brett and gang as they dine on Big Kahuna burgers. We don't simply hear the dialogue, but we see a clever reprisal of the dialogue. It functions to the lay the comical and violence-tempering groundwork for future scenes. The unusual discussion between Jules and Vincent about what exactly a foot massage signifies between a man and a woman most notably lays the groundwork for the tension throughout the long sequence between Vincent and Mia Wallace, played by Uma Thurman. Before their blind date, we learn that Marsellus Wallace threw a man off a balcony for merely giving his wife a foot massage. So if Marsellus Wallace nearly kills a man for touching his wife's feet, imagine what he would do if someone happened to accidentally, oh I don't know, kill his wife. Thus the problem Vincent faces on his date-gone awry with Mia Wallace. Marsellus just might go "medieval" again. Vincent knows this but most importantly the audience knows this. Tarantino cleverly crafts his dialogue to heighten the tension and anxiety of the scene, keeping our attention like a light trap and a fly.By the end, which I shan't ruin for it serves better to hear and watch than read, the film comes back around in full circle, ending where it started. The events in "Pulp Fiction" arrive jumbled and for the most part out of order, which undoubtedly helped inspire the increased number of non-linear narratives that pervade throughout Hollywood today. The different plot lines of "Pulp Fiction" connect in some way, but each possesses a life of its own and can thrive individually. Because of this no better title could serve the film quite like "Pulp Fiction" does. The dictionary describes the phrase"Pulp Fiction" as "fiction dealing with lurid or sensational subjects." Tarantino delivers sensation and he does so with smart dialogue, exuberant direction, and an array of actors that perform with just the right mixture of tough-guy wit and comedy.
After being in the Sundance Film Festival with the violent and brutal film "Reservoir Dogs", Tarantino came back with one true awesome movie that had everything to be perfect. Pulp Fiction, considered to be one of the best movies ever made. In this violent movie there was very good acting, superb screenplay, great photography and of course, GREAT music. Everything a movie could ever need. Pulp Fiction won the Golden Palm at Cannes and the best original screenplay at the Academy Awards. For me, it has been the best movie ever made followed by Amores Perros. A film with very deep and strong content. Pulp Fiction is all about two hit men, their boss's pretty wife and a boxer. They get crossed while the movie advances, and the pieces of the puzzle begin to get together.


                
While I don't think its better than Reservoir Dogs, Pulp Fiction certainly comes close. PF is definitley one of the 5 best movies of the 1990s and established Tarantino as an accomplished filmmaker. Everyone knows the screenplay, acting, and direction are top notch, so I won't get into that. Bottom Line: Classic film that everyone should see. 10/10


                
OK, first of all we all know that "Pulp Fiction" barrows heavily from other films (check out IMDB's movie connections link), but what really is the legacy of great films ("The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly", "The Godfather", etc.) is the way it influences all of its movie descendents.  With movies ranging from "The Usual Suspects", to "The Matrix", to "Boogie Nights", to "Dogma" it is very evident that such an impact has occurred.  When it comes to people, we say they will "live forever", in my mind this movie will be the same.10/10


                
