This is, in my opinion, the most over-rated film of all time. Sure, there is some snappy dialogue here and there, and Tarantino has a good ear for music, but none of this warrants the gushing praise heaped upon this movie, nor the godlike status bestowed upon Tarantino himself.It's over-stylised, over-loud, over-acted, (sorry Samuel, Tim, John, Uma & Bruce) and the non-linear narrative so favoured by the director simply doesn't work.But it's fashionable, so it's popular.By the way, this is one of the few films where I've actually seen people get up and walk out of the cinema before the end, so I guess I'm not the only one who didn't like it.


                
Pulp Fiction is one of those movies you feel uncomfortable to talk about in negative terms since mainstream loves it. The real killer of this movie are the dialogs supposedly so cool but instead being silly and irritating, from the very first scene when endless minutes are waisted talking about a frivolous argument. The violence in this film, rather strong, is very often disturbing but never fun or entertaining. Tarantino takes himself a little too seriously making the movie lose most of its ironical aspect. Unless you are a fan that goes wild for the overweight Travolta, you will find his so-called cult scenes dull and of no interest. All the characters in this movie are exaggerated, and that wouldn't be a bad thing, but they also are not fun. There are some good action scenes, very few, which anyhow will not save from failure a movie that lasts 2hrs 40min!


                
What is the big deal with this movie?  The movie SO boring, uninteresting, and full of a bunch of moronic and trashy characters.  I just don't get why people like this film so much.  It truly saddens me that this film has, for some god-awful reason, made it into IMDB's top 250 (and currently top 20). This film is most definitely in my bottom 250.Here are some of the many problems I had with this film:The scene where Bruce Willis' character was first introduced is one of the most visually painful scenes I've ever seen, I was ready to turn the movie off right there.  The camera just sits there on Bruce Willis' face and doesn't move for what seems to be an eternity.  What on earth was Quentin thinking?The best way to describe this movie is "just a bunch of STUFF", there's no real plot here and the story doesn't go anywhere?  I found it really hard to give a SH*T about any of the characters, and I couldn't care less if any of them got shot or killed.What was with that scene where Uma Thurman's character says "Don't be a square" and she forms a little square with her hands (If you haven't seen the movie then you won't know what I mean)?  That was so STUPID!!!  I just don't get stuff like that.  Too weird for me. ...And people call this a comedy?  Where the f&*k is the comedy?  Is it supposed to be funny when they go over the speed bump and shoot the guy in the back seat?  That isn't funny, that's SICK!  The only part that I laughed at was when John Travolta and Sam Jackson were talking about eating pork/bacon.  I thought that was a pretty funny conversation, but other than that I didn't find the movie funny at all.I'll never say "don't waste you're time" while referring to a movie, cause everybody has different tastes. So if you feel so inclined, go ahead and watch it, but I HATED it.  I hope you enjoy it more than I ever will. Thanks for putting up with my ranting and raving,-Chris


                
Pulp Fiction in my opinion is the most overrated movie of all-time.  I really don't understand why many people claim it to be one of the greatest movies ever.  It's cruel, stupid, idiotic.  It's full of violence & f-words to the point that it's sickening.  It's like, let's get a couple of guns, a couple of f-words, a couple of murders and let's combine them to make a movie.  I hated everything about it.  EVERYTHING.  To me, all the positive comments on this site about this movie are written by only 1 fan under different usernames.  So the scenes were not in chronological order, big deal.  That doesn't make it a masterpiece.  This is hollywood garbage. There are some scenes that are sick.  The movie is SICK.  This is my review. I gave it a 2/10 just because the actors are respected.  Everything else is idiotic.


                
The overwhelming praise for this film is beyond my comprehension. While it has a handful of darkly funny moments, and a fair splash of style, it's episodic, tasteless, sometimes downright disgusting, and far too quirky to make a good film.It has so many elements critics decry at every opportunity as the things which prove "holywood" is completely out of touch with it's audience that it brands most as hypocritical. Seems to prove it's not the sex, drugs, violence, and vulgarity that critics actually object to, but simply the package they come in.This is basically dreadful sludge masquerading as hip!


                
OK, so I just finished watching this flick and I found it to be upsetting. I am 20 years old and I heard so many good comments about Pulp Fiction. I purchased it and thought I would love it because I like gangster and shoot-em-up movies, like Boondock Saints and Scarface. However, I do have a disliking of Quintin Tarantino, I hated the Kill Bills and I just don't like Quintin Tarantino as a person. I feel like the movie lacked motivation and moved slow until the last twenty minutes. There were several plot gaps that left me hanging and the twisting story line that was supposed to be theatrical was just stupid and unattached to any part of the movie. The only saving grace for this film was the fact that it had an all star cast. I'm sorry if you disagree and you all probably will but this movie JUST SUCKED!!!


                
I think that there is a herd mentality about this film. Because Tarantino cultists liked it, people say things like "the best film of the 90's". People seem to think that they are not cool unless they loved Pulp Fiction. Maybe I just don't get it, but what is so great about it? It's circular, big deal. The entire film is pointless, and I really don't care about any of the characters. The violence is gratuitous. I am not squeamish. I have watched, and, I have to admit, enjoyed Romero's "dead" films. It is supposedly funny when the kid gets shot in head and his brain is splattered all over the inside of the car. Yep, that is hilarious. The only good thing about the film is that John Travolta is in it.
It seems to me that much of the stylistic elements of the movie were taken from the 1955 film Kiss Me Deadly.  Kiss Me Deadly was full of quirky characters and had a mysterious chest which contained a glowing object.  The main difference in style was that the humor in Kiss Me Deadly is much more subtle, while Pulp Fiction is trying real hard to get a laugh or a reaction. Because of that, I feel that Kiss Me Deadly is the far superior of the two.


                
I never really like when a movie gets labeled a "defining chapter" of movie making or gets named a classic just cause it's different. Sometimes it is sometimes it's not. Clockwork orange is one of those which i felt was garbage as a movie. Pulp fiction is another. Sure, it has speed, weird characters and slick lines and stories all over the place. For me weird isn't always good as there is no red line, no real story to follow. I don't even find this movie very cool even though it might be worth a watch just cause it's like no other movie. But the story, the substance of the movie is very thin. Tarantino is for me not a very good director. Sure, some of his movies are OK, but mostly he overdo it on many occasions, which makes it hard to takes them seriously. It's no real drama, no action, no thriller, just something put in a blender it seems. If u want a true story, a movie with substance and an experience richer after wards, this is not a movie to get anywhere near.


                
*a few spoilers below* I remember seeing this movie at a theater when it was first released. I was very excited and eager to see it as I had heard a lot of positive "buzz" about it. I was very disappointed for many reasons including: 1. Glorification of violence - all the "cool characters are cold blooded murderers, drug abusers or sadists. I cannot identify or become emotionally involved with these type of characters. I didn't care if any of the main characters lived or died. In fact I would have preferred if they all died in the end because they were all terrible excuses for humans. 2. Attempting to mix realistic violence with humor. In the scene where the guy was accidentally shot in the back seat of the car, a few people around me laughed. Others gasped that someone would laugh. I will never forget the guy in the theater sitting behind me saying out loud "wait, that's funny right? Isn't that supposed to be funny" Many action films have cartoonish violence - it's understood that the violence is farcical. This movie seemed to be saying murder and rape are funny and cool. 3. The scene with the gimp was way over the top, not necessary, and sadistic. Again, is this supposed to be amusing and entertaining? 4. The dialog seemed to be random and unconnected and without purpose. People cite lines about McRoyal with cheese like it is profound. Is it me, am I missing something? 5. You have to completely suspend your disbelief at the coincidences that occur. A guy is driving on a random street and happens to pull right up next to the guy trying to kill him? I am at a loss as to why this movie is rater so high. It had some snappy editing, and a few genuinely humorous moments. But is was a film about nothing but a fictionalized underbelly of society.


                
Quentin Tarrantino is in general better known for the amount of violence in his films than any merits they have, and after seeing "Pulp Fiction," I can see why. The film had an extreme amount of violence, yes, but it had few merits. The stories were none too original or exciting and the final attempt to connect them was completely unsuccessful and really brought to the fore what a disconnected, nonsensical mess the entire film is.The characters are flat and dull, the dialogue is made up of about six total words, five of which cannot be used on network television, the stories aren't exciting, and those stories have an attempted connection that doesn't really connect them. Tarrantino seems to have been playing around with time and non-linear narrative, but the film barely, if at all, made any sense. There seems to be no reason for anything that happens and the unusual narrative, rather than drawing the viewer in, is beyond Tarrantino's (the writer) abilities. Further, Tarrantino draws no interesting characters--even with two skilled and charismatic leads in Samuel L. Jackson and John Travolta. The most interesting character is definitely that of Butch the boxer, and even he is little-defined.The performances of all involved were fine, since the characters required so little, highlighted by Bruce Willis (oddly enough) and Samuel L. Jackson and lowlighted by the ever-horrible Patricia Arquette, who can do more to ruin an easy character than any actor I have ever seen this side of Kevin Costner and Patricia Clarkson. The parade of stars seemed to be Tarrantino's attempt to distract from the film, but it wasn't successful, since most of the actors were people who have horrible taste in general (Mr. Travolta, that's your call) and this was like a concatenation of all their wrongdoings.Meanwhile, Tarrantino the director does not distinguish himself in one way or another. It's a fairly standard-looking film that doesn't jump out of the mainstream at all, which was actually rather effective since the violence then seemed much more commonplace, but I don't know that it was Tarrantino's intention. I think if he intended that sort of theme, he would have used a more close up-laden style, so I doubt that he intended to be dull.The film's few redeeming moments were packed near the end, with a hilarious scene of Bruce Willis choosing a weapon with which to kill some tormentors and a look on his face at the end of said scene that is absolutely priceless leading the pack, but a few other good comic moments come near the end and perhaps make up somewhat for the mess that came before them.Overall, I consider "Pulp Fiction" a terrible mess of a script with no characterization, bad dialogue, a wildly disconnected story, and no reasons for anything that was directed decently if not well and enacted as well as possible considering its horrendous flaws. The film is most certainly not the masterpiece it is made out to be; it is more the accident it least wants to be. I would suggest it if you don't mind violence and want a good nap, but that's it.


                
This movie is ass and doesn't deserve the critical acclaim that the other reviews is giving it. I thought Vin Diesel really sucked as that boxer sucked, and i thought they should have used The Rock instead. Also it was a huge stepdown from the other Travolta classics. This movie definitely should not be watched by anyone in the future.


                
In my opinion one of the most overrated movies of all time. This is the worst Tarantino movie out there, I dont understand the movies popularity. Its just so bad and it doesnt make any sence.


                
Pulp Fiction is one of the worst blights on American Cinema anyone could conceive of. Tarantino's enthusiasm for the awful films he loves to rehash is amusing, and his dialogue snappy and funny, but he is not a great filmmaker and his films are not great films. Him and his films get by on retro-mania, smugness, and arrogance, and will date as horribly as his source material has. Tarantino is symptomatic of everything that is wrong with indie filmmaking in the nineties, and nineties youth culture in general. Cinema, and the world, could have done without him.


                
Quentin Tarantino so obviously has no ability for creating a decent story in his movies (see my "Reservoir Dogs" review) that for this one he chose to give it a title that would excuse its ridiculousness. As I said in my "Reservoir Dogs" review, the man is hopelessly plot driven, which means that he can't create a story in which events naturally happen, so he has to MAKE them happen any way he can. For instance, it's bad enough that in "The Gold Watch" he creates a pathetic excuse for Bruce Willis to have to go back to his apartment, but then how could he make it so that Willis is able to outwit John Travolta, who is waiting there for him? Have Travolta idiotically leave his machine gun on the counter while he is using the bathroom! Come on! And then in "The Bonnie Situation," how could he make the accident in the car happen? Have Travolta completely unnaturally rest the gun on the car seat over his shoulder while he talks with Marvin! And Tarantino introduces the Wolf only for him to give Travolta and Samuel L. Jackson obvious advice for how to solve their problem while he mouths off humorous comments. Anyone wonder why Tarantino has disappeared now? Because he used up all the unoriginality he had.


                
First of all, I have seen this Film many, many times. I have watched it and re watched it, and I still can't understand the Praise this film gets. I am first of all A Big Tarantino fan, but NO, i do not like Pulp Fiction and nothing will ever convince me to like it. The Film has become a victim of its own popularity, every knows the quotes and scenes. But that's all it is, a collection of witty dialogue. I Could not care who doesn't agree with me. I'll go as far to say I like the soundtrack, but that's it.If you want a Tarantino Film that's far better than this Overrated Junk, Watch Jackie Brown.


                
The glamorization of evil people in this movie was appalling. I nearly switched it off in the middle. I barely made it through the movie. I had heard it was great and I kept waiting for the good part and it never came. I didn't find it funny. I found it a sad comment on mass culture.


                
I rated this show a 2.  Why?  To me, this show was a senseless glorification of drugs and violence.  When seeing it in the theatre, my wife and I walked out and demanded our money back.  I've never seen the full movie...I couldn't stand it.  I've even rented it again, thinking I must have missed something...but turned it off 3/4 of the way through, thoroughly disgusted.Why was this movie rated so highly?  I think it is a sign of our times. Drugs are everywhere, and violence sells.  Rather pathetic, but true.  Says something about the decadence of our society.  Are we at the end of another Roman Empire?  Is it all downhill from here?


                
I do not understand the hype. This movie was nothing but a waste of my time.Why? First, I believe a movie should have a clearly outlined plot so that you know what's going on. This movie doesn't feature that. It starts out of nowhere with no apparent background and has a pointless ending.There are indeed a couple of scenes that might be fun to watch if you are in the "right mind" (however most are violent and immature) and the actors do an excellent performance but that doesn't pump this movie up to anything good. It kind of shows you the happenings of a few drugdealers and criminals within a short timeframe, that's all.To sum it up... this movie has few redeeming qualities. Do something productive and more fun instead. Such as washing the dishes.Two stars out of ten.


                
Happy 20th Anniversary ......NOT!!!Did I watch the exact same movie which SO many people have referred to and think it's some holy pop-cultural iconic movie??? I just don't get it, and I'll never get it!To be honest, I feel like calling this film "Stupid People Going Around Doing Stupid Things" - I'm not joking! One thing after the other in this movie just CONFUSED me! The entire time I was like "HUH!?" Everything about the story lines, occurrences, the dialogue, and the pay off was just stupid! And the f-bomb is dropped in every other sentence, so much so, I felt like punching the screen in! It's said so much to the extent where it gets really annoying! I like Samuel L. Jackson, especially for his Stars Wars and MARVEL superhero work, but I don't care if he's mostly known for this! I hate him playing such over-the-top, nonsensical, controversial characters!And I hate films that just take advantage of even white-washing the names of Christians, and have the bad guy quote Bible verses. That's dangerous! It's brainwashing & manipulation! (Want my advice of a real Christian is?? Rachel Scott of Columbine who was killed for her faith, Dietrich Bonhoeffer who spoke out against Hitler and Nazi Germany, or even Dr. Kent Hovind who reveals a lot of amazing scientific evidence for the fact of special Creation and Biblical accuracy.) All much better and meaningful then this overrated pile of worthless celluloid NOTHING!Though to be fair, I think Quentin does have an decent taste in soundtrack variety. I admit, I've got those songs on my iPod as a result of watching this flick. And I do think the scene of Christopher Walken's "Watch" talk does for some reason relax me, simply because it's simply WALKEN - his delivery & his way of talking is somewhat kind of relaxing and amusing all at once. He's been interesting ever since I saw him in the comedy "Mousehunt". Though the scene STILL is stupid when the captain (or general, whatever) curses at a young boy about the "A$$" and how even a young boy would want such a filthy watch after being inside many men's anuses for a long time.I mean, Tarantino's just some director I don't like or care about - he claims he's against drugs and violence... THEN DON'T MAKE FILMS ABOUT THEM! You may be just condoning or giving ideas about drugs and violence! You're definitely part of the "Hollyweird" group aren't you??I'm all-round just THANK everything that is holy, sacred, and beneficial that I didn't see this film when I was younger! 1994 definitely was the big year for many good movies, but Pulp Fiction is certainly NOT one of them! It shouldn't have even been nominated for ANYTHING, not even Best Picture! IMO, "The Lion King" should've been nominated in it's place instead! A film that's all the more likable, fun, entertaining, relatable, family-friendly, and beautifully put together, it's ART! But guess not, since Hollyweird has got such a FETISH for pure violence, murder, sexual immorality, and biased anti-Christian propaganda.Pulp Fiction is just PAINFUL to sit through; Tarantino's a HACK! And I've never liked or will ever like any of his films!
What is it about this movie. Why do people hold it at such high regard. I simply don't get it... In my opinion the story is vague, the dialogue stupid and the performances, well, average.Certainly, Travolta made a bigger impression in the much underrated eighties suspense-drama "Blow Out". For great Sam Jackson performances, look no further than 96's "A Time To Kill".Besides, I didn't like the score either...


                
I had high expectations of this movie that is so well rated. The truth is that i couldn't deal with it, and i forced myself to watch it to the end expecting that it would improve, but it didn't... No story, no plot, just Tarantino so totally in love with his own "witty" dialogue.I loved watching Reservoir Dogs, but this is a joke. The only thing that i can save are the performances of great actors in roles that didn't make any sense and went anywhere, nor a conclusion a story, anything,I would never understand the love for this film, it is so overrated. 1/10


                
This film worries me.  Is it great as so many say?  It's riveting viewing that's for sure.  Movies need to satisfy 5 criteria to be truly great (in my humble opinion): totally committed believable acting, technical excellence, memorable scenes that recur in your mind, something fresh to say or way to say it, and a message at its heart that can change people's lives (hopefully for the better).  This film has the first four in abundance, but fails completely on the fifth.The film is a dazzling kaleidoscope of images, sounds and emotions.It is one of the most vital films of the 90s without a doubt.  Though there is quite a lot of violence, it's less painful to watch than in other movies (e.g. Goodfellas). Rather there's a constant sense of menace, because you know Mr Quentin always has some ultra-violence and jolts to the viewer, and also the non-linear structure means it's more difficult to figure out who's going to get hit.  You get this sense of foreboding right from the off, when the couple are discussing robbing the diner, and the gun goes down on the table with a much louder noise than it should to match the volume of the dialogue.
Best part of the film for me was the dancing sequence - couldn't help thinking so that's how the excellent dancer of Saturday Night Fever ended up!  I have to say that they didn't get proper medical advice for this movie - giving an injection into the heart as for the overdose can't be done through the sternum (breastbone), but it has to go underneath, angled upwards.  I'm pretty sure that giving a slug of adrenaline to someone who's overdosed on cocaine would kill the person instantly rather than wake them up.  And who decided to call the drug adrenaline (its British name) when it's called epinephrine in the US?  I'm left with the impression that this was just another scene that the film makers wanted to include to shock people, rather than trying to make it true to life.  Most worrying aspect is the very graphic depiction of heroin injection. It's made to seem glamorous and seductive.  Anybody trying to get off heroin who watches this movie will have a hard time resisting the impulse to follow the example shown on screen.  I think this particular scene should not have been included in the movie.  Again there's a medical inaccuracy - the blood shown being drawn back into the syringe before injecting is too bright red, that's arterial blood rather than blood from a vein.  Maybe they thought bright red makes it look more vivid (and shocking)?Overall I think this film is worth watching if you know what to expect and like that kind of thing.  However it has an empty heart which makes it fall way short of greatness.  My opinion is that tarantino is very talented in film making, but this takes a back seat compared to his desire to shock people at any cost.


                
Well made, competently directed, cleverly scripted: yes. But I've rarely seen such an unpleasant film. To me, Pulp Fiction summarises everything that's wrong with modern film-making. We are asked to laugh at someone being shot in the head, to find violence "cool" and to be entertained by murder and drug addiction. None of the characters are remotely sympathetic and I don't think I'm alone in needing some one to "root for" in order to enjoy a film.I hate to sound moralistic (I'm an atheist, but hopefully humanist). However, I have to side with the minority who found this film excessive in all the wrong ways. I find it genuinely disturbing that so many people enjoyed it.


                
I respect director Quintin Tarantino for his masterpieces such as Reserviour Dogs and Django Unchained. However I personally believe that Pulp Fiction is without a doubt the most over-rated film in history. The story line is confusing and the conversations between characters are meaningless. For example, the opening line between Samuel L Jackson and Brad Pitt is like a scene from a sour comedy;"You know what they call a quarter pounder with cheese in Paris...""They call it a royale with cheese."Attempting to be humorous but in realty is painfully unfunny.In conclusion, Pulp Fiction has a limited amount of significance to it's plot and the lack of a real back bone to the story is proven by the constant change to random scenes. Pulp Fiction. Liked by many, but it's just not for me.


                
