Try this experiment : Ask any tarhead or Pulp fiction fan one thing about this movie, and the first thing they will reply offhand is the incredible number of f words (271) found in this, and of that being the largest amount in any movie in history. So it may not seem unreasonable to conclude that this movie's incredible popularity stems from preteens and teenagers who think that the f word is cool and hip. Doesn't paint moviegoers in the best light does it? While I liked Reservoir dogs and Kill Bill 1 and 2, I simply cannot understand how this movie was voted into the top 10 or maintains such a huge fanbase? Dogs and Kill Bill were both groundbreaking and Tarantino flicks themselves may be a kind of acquired taste but there is enough offensive material in this movie, totally wanton, to put anyone off. Overall it is nothing special and outstanding.Now since some of his other movies were really good, Tarantino must have obviously done something right in Pulp fiction. So what could have possibly been that makes this movie so popular? Realism - Like all his other movies, this movie is very realistic. But there aren't enough outstanding scenes where realism adds an extra touch. There are only scenes of violence, extreme and explicit drug abuse, sodomy and boring conversation. The open use of racism can be considered realism but it is simply so easy to implement if one wants to.Dialog - Mostly long and highly trivial. French McDonalds, killing people, coffee...wtf? You can only make something great out of it only if you overanalyse the dialog and then put your self in a delusion of being a great analyst or philosopher. Too many f words, n words and racist lines. This is not cool, kids. Its garbage. Or I guess that a lot of people converse on trivial lines and it is uplifting for them to see the same type of boring talk in a big movie? Acting - Pretty good but once again, there are too often uttering long and trivial dialog. None of the characters are likable or even dispiseable to the extent that they have such depth. They were all pretty shallow.Plot - Mostly nonexistent. You could probably extract a story of redemption from it but too many people put all sorts of philosophical angles which were simply not intended. A bunch of different chapters intersect at one point. Harvey Kietel's character is pointless and is just thrown in as a deus ex machina. Tarantino's character and dialog are also pointless.Actions scenes, special effects, twists and all that - None. Most scenes are well done but they simply boring. A simple scene well done but nothing special happening in it.One teenager probably goes and tells another teenager how cool this movie is for nothing other than its explicit use of offensive elements (drugs, violence, sodomy, bad language) and he tells his friend and so on, the chain reaction makes less than mature minds fall for this movie. When someone speaks out against how bad this movie really is, they are labelled as idiots so are afraid to speak their mind. I'm glad that 225 reviews here were at least accurate. Screw the peer pressure and speak your mind, kids.Sorry, this anti-movie just leaves more of a negative impression than any positive. It also drags too much. Its quite revolting although some scenes are quite memorable.


                
This is worth seeing 1-2 times as it was fresh and innovative when it came out 10+ years ago. Tarantino certainly can write terrific dialogue. Walken, Roth and a couple of others are good. There are some beautiful scenes eg. the dance contest.By the time he got to Pulp Fiction, Tarantino had become self-conscious and, more important, had fooled himself into thinking that he had something deep to convey.Pulp Fiction is all hip and clever and fast and cool. It - any Tarantino movie really - laughs at movie conventions, characters, plots, story lines, scenes, and acting itself. In this he's following Burt Reynolds, who parodied his own roles and laughed at his own movies until he himself became a joke.When you watch Pulp Fiction you either buy into it or you don't. If you buy in, it's probably awesome (or at least better than the Kill Bill cr*p). But if you stand back a little bit it's just Hollywood behind an ultra-hip mask and like TV: slick & glossy but paper thin.After hearing much about this, we saw it not long after it came out. Easily the biggest disappointment ever in actual:hype ratio. This movie should rate 6/10 but is downgraded because of raised expectations.In complaining about it, a friend explained that to truly appreciate Pulp Fiction you had to understand that the briefcase contained Marsellus Wallace's soul, and that Jackson was an angel, and various other important insights.That's it then: as with any great movie, it just needed to be explained.
Nerd Quentin shot his load in making this film. Geeks who never saw real violence were given the pleasure and permission to laugh as caricature humans get blown away on screen. Quent tapped into an audience who would never have to go to war and were sheltered from the more brutal realities of the American underclass. And you know what? Those people getting killed on screen WERE the audience. A little film from a little man that excited little people. That about sums it up for me, but apparently IMDb values verbosity so i gotta write 5 more lines.1)It 2)really 3)IS 4)"Pulp5)Fiction"


                
I really don't know what the big deal is. This is obviously another one of those "highly intellectual" movies I am too stupid to understand. The critics compare it to "The Godfather"... I find that to be sacrilegious! I agree with one critic only when he states that the film "presents meaningless issues in an intensely-fascinating and almost lyrical fashion", and I would like to put a big emphasis on MEANINGLESS!!! How can something meaningless be good?Another famous critic, Roger Ebert, claims "Seeing this movie last May at the Cannes Film Festival, I knew it was either one of the year's best films, or one of the worst. Tarantino is too gifted a filmmaker to make a boring movie, but he could possibly make a bad one..." That is amazing! One of the world's most acclaimed film critics watches a 'masterpiece', and right after that cannot decide whether it is really a masterpiece or garbage? Then he goes on to say, 'oh, but it can't be garbage if such an in-director made it, so it must be a masterpiece'. So much for competent individual judgment... I suppose you would not be able to call yourself a critic if you wrote that Tarantino simply screwed up this time...In my opinion, the film has a ton of famous actors, an "in" director, and nothing else. The plot is practically non-existent, there is no message, no "higher" meaning, nothing but violence for the sake of violence..., and above all, it does not entertain either! If this is art nowadays, I want to go back to the past!


                
Some observations:1. Anytime your most admiring audience is comprised of 17-year-old males you know you're in trouble.2. Anytime the most common adjective used to describe your movie is "cool" you know you're in trouble.This is a silly, juvenile, vulgar movie. Tarantino should have had the courage to make a cheap, violent, trashy Hollywood-style movie and been proud of it. Instead, he made a cheap, violent, trashy, Hollywood-style movie and hid behind the "irony" façade. Works for 17-year-olds, doesn't work for the rest of us.


                
Im sorry, please don't believe anything most of these people are saying, if they like this movie they are not normal.  Any movie where a guy gets raped in the basement by a cop right before Bruce Willis runs in with a sword (a weapon he picked after going through quite a variety) and hacks him to death should never be called a smart film.  Blagh.


                
The world of movies did not begin and end with 'Pulp Fiction' and Quentin Tarentino is not a genius.  That aside, and taking this movie as what it is, a penny dreadful on the screen, it does become perversely enjoyable. 
There's the cafe where 50s idols serve dinner (Buddy Holly, Marilyn Monroe, Mamie Van Doren, Jayne Mansfield) and where Mia (Uma Thurman) and Vincent (John Travolta, undergoing a renaissance after years out in the cold) dance the twist to Chuck Berry's 'It was a teenage wedding ...'.  There's Vincent's hip black partner Jules (a sleek and cool Samuel L Jackson), and the town's big guy - and Mia's husband - Marcellus (Ving Rhames).  And then there's Butch, who gets the film in an interesting twist part way through, and he's Bruce Willis, who was everywhere the time this movie got made.And there's the inept hold-up duo - Tim Roth and Amanda Plummer - as 'Ringo' and 'Honey Bunny', the really chilled Mr Wolf (Harvey Keitel), and a cameo from Tarentino himself as Jimmie.  Does all this mean the movie is any good? Well, there's a body in a car without a head, and an o/d to Urge Overkill's 'Girl, You'll Be a Woman Soon', and Zed's dead, baby, Zed's dead.  It's a comic party with f words.  Salivating kids may boggle at this and call it the most influential film ever - it isn't, but it is one of the most referential.  'Reservoir Dogs' and 'Jackie Brown' didn't come close, and 'Pulp Fiction' is, for what it's worth. QT's best to date.


                
Pulp Fiction is a movie that is certainly original.. there is no movie like it.. However, there does not seem to be much of a plot or a message.It is like 3 totally unrelated stories about gangsters, crime, robbery etc with a lot of language and way too much detail.. I read in another review suggesting me to watch the movie twice to really pick up the detail and understand it, but the truth is that you cannot watch a hardcore 3 hr movie without a message again! None of the stories are really "about" anything. They certainly are not about hit-men pontificating about burgers. Nor is the film really a satire or a farce, although it contains elements of both. At times, it feels like a tale that didn't need to be told, but for whatever reason this movie tells it and does a better job than most films of its kind, or of any other kind.But one thing in Pulp Fiction's favor is the cast.. I thought that the 2 lead actors (Jackson and Travolta) were really good..In the end, I have failed to figure out why this movie was such a big hit, but I do not discourage you from watching it since you could have a totally different opinion about a unique movie like this.


                
I was very underwhelmed by this film. I thought thought that the performances, while excellent given the flimsy material, were so unfounded in depth of character which made me think "ok, why should i care whether he dies? or whether she dies? or whether he cant pay back the gangsters?" I found the interwoven stories to be a nice idea however the sheer length of each story for approximately 15-20 minute intervals made me lose any interest i had with the previous characters. To this end the film became this consistently unfunny, boring, benign experience to which there was no reason to care about the characters, the plot or the subtext, and the ending while clever was very longwinded with no beneficial or worthy climax.3 stars given for 1) John Travoltas performance 2) occasionally witty lines/conversations 3) the opening scene in the diner


                
Half the people I know liked the movie, the other didn't.  I'm in the latter group. I'm not sure what it was that I missed that the first group picked up on, but I was bored with it. I felt it had a lot of lengthy, boring, scenes & dialog. I was unimpressed with the acting, not that it was bad but it just didn't grab me. I won't say not see it, but rather make up your own mind.Many in this group liked it so check it out, you may be in the first half I talked about.


                
This film had it's moments, and contained interesting scenes, but I just can't get behind a movie when I couldn't care less which characters live or die. You really have to look hard to find redeeming qualities in any of them. Bruce Willis' character was really the only one I cared even a little about.


                
Quentin Tarantino should have his director's license revoked (or at least be banned from the editing room) for this awful piece of garbage. The movie as a whole was a hack job of mismatched scenes, purely designed to hide the flimsiness of the story and mask the crudity of his directing.The film has some masterful stand alone scenes and Tarantino should have stopped there. His calling is short films, not features. Even the superb acting (no, not you Quentin) can save this "film."


                
This is one of the most pointless movie's I've ever seen. Quentin Tarantino's worst. i sat through this movie about 5 years ago thinking to myself, what the f is going on? i sat through it again tonight and I'm still saying what the f was the point of this movie? There's no beginning, no end, no actual plot and it's pretty boring. Don't get me wrong it wasn't completely awful - the dialogue was interesting enough and it had some funny moments and Samuel L Jackson and Uma Thurman were awesome but the movie had no purpose. I've seen Jackie Brown and Kill Bill 1&2 and both movies were great - they had a point they had a plot and they had substance. Even From Dusk Till Dawn was way better than this flick. This movie lacked and may be the most overrated movie ever.


                
The conservations are interminable in this slow-moving gangster flick.  I almost screamed,"Quit talking and do something!"  Tarentino, to say the least, is not a master of pithy dialogue.  If you cut about an hour of the chatter Pulp Fiction might be a good movie.


                
I was instructed that I need to enter in at least four lines for my vote/comment to count.  So, I believe one word sums up Pulp Fiction: OVERRATED.  It's not that it's a bad movie, it's just that everyone needs to wake up and realize there are a ton of movies better than this one.


                
I wonder what cops or people living in *really* rough neighborhoods would say about this movie? In working on documentaries, I've been on police patrols and have seen my share of domestic stabbings, cop shootings and drug busts, and to me this movie is some smart-*ss white boy's comic-book imagination of "what it's like out there on the streets". So, I can understand why students at state universities thought this was the coolest movie around when it came out.Also, if you haven't seen a lot of esoteric and quality cinema, Tarentino may seem like some sort of movie-making genius. But if you've seen movies like *Kiss Me Deadly* or practically anything by Godard, you'll see that QT cuts and pastes a lot. When Pulp Fiction enthusiasts start to debate their theories about why there was an inner light in the briefcase at the diner, I just have to say that it's just an image ripped off from a movie made well before they were born, called *Kiss Me Deadly*.If you've seen the seedier and dangerous side of life, the movie is lame. If you're a classic movie devotee, this movie is a rip-off. But if you haven't been exposed to much, you may enjoy this film.


                
Pulp Fiction has be the most overrated and over hyped movie of all time. It is absolutely bewildering and mind bogging how such a film received such praise. Tarantino is a great director but this movie is by far his worst production. A number of people criticize the non- linear storytelling and some vigorously defend it. But I feel movies need to add value, you walk away enjoying the experience. Movies are not made well just for the heck of it. Pulp fiction in no way adds value. It is a disorganized mess with fruitless story lines. The only redeeming aspects of this circus of a film is the acting and soundtrack. People rave about this mediocre film, well they also sold a lot of tickets on the Titanic.


                
I was trying to get into a graduate film production program around the time PF was making the rounds and if you weren't a QT wannabe, you didn't get into the program. I didn't get into the program - does that tell you something?I know lots of people loved the film, but I'm afraid it just didn't do it for me. It was WAY too heavy on superfluous dialog. I kept on wanting to yell at the characters to DO something! This is a MOVIE (you know, MOVE-ee) that doesn't move nearly enough. Okay, there are great movies like "Key Largo" that are more dialog-heavy than PF, but that's like comparing The Last Supper to a velvet painting.Ultimately, it seems QT was a limited run item. His equally boring "Reservoir Dogs" and the laughable "Jackie Brown" are just about it. Okay, it's not a BAD movie, just not anywhere near the level of "Taxi Driver" or so many other truly great films that too many PF fans seem to be unaware of. It's competently done; has no glaring technical errors. It has the "novel" play around with the time elements thing.Overall, it's typical Hollywood: tell everyone over and over again it's great and they'll have to believe it (well, at least for a while). It made a profit, what else do you want?


                
so I've always had wanted to see this movie when I saw previews for it. Especially since it contains memes that even The Muppets did with this movie. This is one of those movies that I didn't find all that great. One must pay attention closely enough to the film to know what is going on because there is that back and forth time line situation going on. No Back to the Future stuff, various groups' stories are going on to where they all lead to one spot in the movie. So don't be playing video games that would distract you from watching the screen. The story lines are easy enough to follow through out the movie. There are some funny parts to it. Overall even though I personally don't care for this movie it is worth watching.


                
******SPOILER ALERT****** Two individuals Ringo (Tim Roth) and Yolanda AKA Honey Bunny are sitting in a diner discussing places to commit robbery. They discuss the bank, stores and even people. The one place they decide that keeps money at all times and won't have to put up a fight with employees is the restaurant that they are currently eating at. They proceed to rob the eatery. There is two mob men Vincent Vega (John Travolta) and Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson) who are out to retrieve a briefcase that was stolen from their mob boss Marcellus Wallace (Ving Rhames). As they begin their search they are talking about how their boss threw a man out of the window for rubbing Mrs. Wallace's (Uma Thurman) feet. Vincent speaks that it is more than that but Jules is convinced it is nothing. Marcellus ask Vincent to take his wife out on the town for a night since he will not be in town. Vincent obliged in the mist of retrieving the briefcase their lives are changed dramatically. Butch Coolidge (Bruce Willis) is in debt with Marcellus and is currently running from him because he was paid to lose the fight. Not only did he win the fight he killed the other boxer. An incident occurs and both are tied up in a pawn shop fighting to get away. Butch manages to set himself free but cannot find it in himself to let Marcellus suffer any more than he has already. He defeats the kidnappers sets Marcellus free, runs to save his own life and to never speak of what happens nor return back home. In the mist of all of these characters lives, in one way or another their lives mingle to have some kind of connection. There is plenty of laughter that is throughout the film that if one is not paying great attention one will miss the jokes. If anything the film will keep you laughing. The music that is used in the film will also keep one in suspense as to what will happen next. One would think that in one scene Butch was going to get himself killed because of the way he was running through the lots. One would think that the killer would come up behind him and kills him. However that was not the case. He ends up killing someone else and the sound effects presented as if one was in the middle of the action. The lighting throughout the film was of natural light. Almost every scene that was shot was by some type of window or even outside. Instead of the restaurant that Vincent and Mia went to and enjoyed a $5.00 milk shake. The lighting in the pawn shop was also bright but when they went to the back of course made it a little dim. In each scene there were the same motif pattern. All colors, even on the walls were bland and out dated even for the time this movie took placed. All colors used in the scenes were basic colors. The more natural colors. The film it is more like a time film where it bounces back and forth from present and the past. One would need to follow closely in order to get the full meaning of the film.
What the heck happened in this film? Yes, we have lovely violence and foul language and one-liners and all those entertaining vices, except where's the plot?! There is none! Whatsoever! Oh wait, let me get out my microscope...We have a few different stories all being played out, except they have next to nothing to do with the next. Basically it's a a few gangsters running around killing people, some couple holding up a restaurant, and a prize fighter having a weird day. While each is entertaining in its own respect, the movie as a whole could not possibly have been more disorganized and poorly thought out. If you finish this movie and are left asking "And your point is...?" then you are not alone.Why? Why would you make a movie like this? I think this is one of those hit or miss, love it or hate type of movies. This is not a movie that you just sit down and get entertained by. It's one of those pieces of "art," if you know what I mean.And no this is not a masterpiece of film or in anyway genius. It has a rock star cast which makes things kind of interesting, but this movie is not nearly as good as all of these film sheep shouting "10/10, amazing, redefined cinema," would lead you to believe.


                
...and that word is "overrated." As with the other Tarantino movies, Pulp Fiction is a douchey movie made for 20-something douche-bags. Like the rest of Tarantino's films this is pure Pop Culture garbage. The opening scene features two of the worst actors in the history of cinema: John Travolta and Samuel L. Jackson. Several of the cast members do a respectable job despite the drivel they were given to spout. The story is just ridiculous and seems like it was written by a twelve-year-old. There are many, many mistakes in the filming of this garbage excuse for a movie, just check the "mistakes" and "goofs" section of the movies main IMDb page.
If you've read my reservoir dogs review, you'll know that I hate that retarded down-syndrome, Quentin Tarantino. NO Talent!!.This is slightly better, with more 3d characters and better action, but still too structured and i don't get the significance of the rape scene...1 star for Tim Roth 1 star for Harvey Keitel 1 star for the way the time is shifted and 1 star g=cos i'm grateful it didn't get an Oscar :) (to be honest, forest gump is crap as well).The music was decent, but Tarantino's just lucky that he's whipped up a cult of brain-dead moron's who find his films amusing rather than just sick and perverse.Watch it if u want, but i think its crap.


                
It's definately overrated. Not something special, idiot dialogues, non sense situations, too much killing and bad language for nothing, i don't even understand why this movie was created. Quentin Tarantino must could have take drugs while he was writing the script. Also, no emotion, no action, too much blah blah blah blah for nothing... where is the plot? What critics loved by that? It's just stupid, annoying and performances are mediocre. Definately, overrated. Kill Bill is much better!


                
Pulp Fiction is, overall, a poorly written and poorly directed movie. What shines though is the acting, which carries the entire film.The plot is confused and riddled with continuity errors. Events do not occur in chronological order, but in 'chapters,' and the story is too far-fetched and too violent for the experience to be enjoyable. With the exception of Joules (Samuel L Jackson), every character is completely one-dimensional. Coupled with the fact that there is zero character development, this film gets very repetitive. Pulp Fiction starts off abysmally, an levels to at best mediocre by the end.The good in the movie is Samuel L Jackson and Bruce Willis in their roles (though Tarantino's cameo appearance is laughable as always). Luckily, unlike all other Tarantino movies, no one suddenly does something completely out of character. This allows the film to just about carry itself, but it certainly does not justify the 9 and 10-star reviews Pulp Fiction has received. As usual, Tarantino's 'visionary' work is nothing more than a crass, overly violent flop.


                
