Pulp Fiction is a good, well-acted movie that is way, way, way over hyped by its fans. The core of the movie, the blathering of Vincent and Jules is fun and enjoyable. Bruce Willis as a hot-headed boxer does an excellent job communicating his fear and desperation. In the end, the movie's quirks and twists are merely to make a rather run-of-the-mill arthouse film seem more edgy. There is no question that this is a well made and fun movie. However it is not the amazing Second Coming of Christ as many Tarantinophiles would have us all believing. Many of the components are merely there to make us, the audience, gasp in horror or gaze in amazement. Do we REALLY need to watch John Travolta stick a needle in Uma Thurmond?  Yeah, sure it was cool at the time but that coolness quickly wears off when you realize there is really nothing likeable about any of these people.


                
Quentin Tarantino is the Jerry Lee Lewis of cinema, a pounding performer who doesn't care if he tears up the piano, as long as everybody is rocking. His new movie "Pulp Fiction" is a comedy about blood, guts, violence, strange sex, drugs, fixed fights, dead body disposal, leather freaks, and a wristwatch that makes a dark journey down through the generations.
I watch it last night after reading millions of praising reviews for it and i was hoping i would see a spectacular classic movie but i was disappointed a lot..I agree Music was good..great cast..but something was lacking in it...movie ends and i was hoping it should have better end although climatic speech was good..... some 3 interrelated stories are combined by the Tarantino..dialogs are average entertaining with lots of f stuffs..you would hate scene of accidental shootout and cleaning brains stuffs after it so it's cruel, stupid, idiotic. It's full of violence & f-words to the point that it's sickening...it should be carefully viewed and analysis....you can have glimpse of dark humor..yeah i agree acting of Uma Thurman is good but why the hell Travolta nominated for Oscar.. but two and a half hours was too long in my view ...I will give it 7 out of 10 due to good casting and music and its average movie for me but it does not deserved in IMDb top 250 and it was not touching in any sense..


                
Following the success of 1992's Reservoir Dogs, Quentin Tarantino released his finest film to-date, the self-proclaimed masterpiece Pulp Fiction; a film which is arguably the most influential of the last few decades, and one which stands alone as a "to-be" classic. Pulp Fiction remains widely regarded as one of the essentials in modern cinema, which has established itself as a film for the lovers of cinema, as those are the people it gets its greatest amount of admiration from. Pulp Fiction marked the new-wave, avant-garde cinema, it became recognised for its vigorously exciting flavour and unfathomable cool. Revolving around a deconstructed narrative, composed of three stories, which are all insanely surreal, Pulp Fiction brings you inside a world Quentin Tarantino has successfully crafted through individuality. The film starts with a lavishly entertaining conversation of tension and wit between two robbers, one being Tim Roth and the other being Amanda Plummer, who kick-start the film with furious energy. This scene is then followed by the infamous conversation of Amsterdam and burgers between the justifiable "cool" of Jules (Samuel L. Jackson) and Vincent (John Travolta). From here on in you have entered a world fuelled by greed and missing-morality. Sure, Pulp Fiction is undoubtedly one of the "coolest" and "hippest" films around, nevertheless it holds much, much more than that. The film stands as a piece which depicts the psychology of normal people who have been thrown into extreme circumstances, meaning their personalities have changed along with their situation. It is a film which is much than amusingly clever on the surface, as in fact Pulp Fiction juggles allegory, such as the "freedom" of Amsterdam being a counterpart for the film's non-conformist, disobedient nature. The film has countless recurring themes, such as redemption, vengeance, spirituality, morality, individual morals, and a person's mannerisms. Even behind the film's humorous anecdotes there is still a lingering sense of haunting poignancy the film throws upon its viewer. The inviting environments are simply an innovative showcase for a study of one's ethics and the dealing of horrendously problematical situations. The characters are all vigorously layered, with multi-dimensional emotions and spontaneous behaviour. When I say that every actor performs with undeniable perfection, I mean it. From Christopher Walken's cameo as Captain Koons, to Bruce Willis' alpha-male, yet kind-hearted "boxer-thug" performance. Everyone in the film sets themselves a back-drop for their character, letting every character differentiate between one-an-other. Yet, as Harvey Keitel states in the film, "of course you're character, but it doesn't mean you have character".Dense script-writing, and what might seem like entirely irrelevant dialogue lets Pulp Fiction become its own piece. And rather than being driven by plot, the film is driven by its variety of surreal characters, who all talk in a way which seems so real. Yes, the conversations may not to be the same topic you talk about with another person, but the way in which a conversation branches off to an entirely different topic is something we all do in everyday life. Few films are able to portray dialogue through such a method, which is one of the countless reasons as to why Quentin Tarantino's script is the key instinctive foundation behind the film, since it lays the rules of what is to occur in a latter scene. The script crafts the comedy, as there are no comedic set-pieces in the film, nor is there a comedic narrative. However, the actors' delivery of nerve-biting, ego-driven lines, which brim with humour and emphasised body language, gives the film its distinguished tone of dark comedy. One of the reasons Pulp Fiction has become so iconic is due to its diversity in film-making, which is comprised of influences from French new-wave cinema, to Asian crime flicks, yet the film is still entirely original. Quentin Tarantino ultimately creates his own sense of "bravo-film-making". The use of tracking-shots, dolly-zooms, variation in lens focus, quick-cut editing, slow-motion sequences, lyrical camera positioning, steadicam tactics and close-up camera shots, the variety Pulp Fiction has is not just held within inside its narrative, but within its technical side too. Then you have the dynamic use of music, which has clearly been hand-picked by Quentin Tarantino himself and suits the film with a simplistic level of ease. The set-pieces are also crafted with scrutinising detail, such as the notorious lair, involving two hillbillies, a gimp and two of the film's protagonists.Pulp Fiction is, quite simply, a hard-boiled, noir-toned masterpiece of modern cinema, comprised of film-making which deserves to be dissected frame-by-frame. The sheer unadulterated consistency of greatness Pulp Fiction follows means it is a film which should be watched again and again. Yes, all the characters might be "sinners", yet there is no denying that you will be rooting for a certain character(s) by the end of the film, as surely, with characters as diverse as these there must be someone you share the same belief with, right? Devine-intervention is what Pulp Fiction is, a miracle and one which justifies vast acknowledgement. Take for example Jimmy's (Quentin Tarantino) brief conversation on the "gourmet" of coffee, it sums up the magnificence of Pulp Fiction perfectly, not forgetting the addition of "lots of cream, lots of sugar".


                
Pulp Fiction is a masterpiece! No it isn't. It's over-rated. It's good, don't get me wrong, but it's not as good as it's painted. And Tarantino's faults - which become more apparent with every (pretentiously) numbered subsequent movie - are all here on show.His dialogue is good - it's his main strength, and is correctly recognised as such. But a) it is over-reliant on the F-word (his CSI episodes and Inglourious Basterds show that he can write excellent dialogue without it), and b) it would greatly benefit from external editing: Tarantino badly needs a McCartney to sweeten his Lennon, a Lennon to apply an edge to his McCartney.His direction is good - he extracts brilliant performances from his ensemble, and his ability to present a truly eye-catching image on screen is beyond doubt. Action is good, effects are good, set design is good etc.But he comes in for undue praise for other things. Self-indulgence is one - again, he desperately needs someone to take him in hand and moderate some of what he does for the benefit of the film.Case in point - Pulp Fiction's non-linear storytelling. The zip-rewind halfway through is not some sudden work of genius. It may very well be experimental but, if so, it does not work as well as linear storytelling would have done (which, I suspect, would have involved more work in breaking the story threads into coherent sections which still worked together when interleaved, or else inserting flashbacks). Tarantino has taken an unconventional, but easy, road and, in so doing, has got away with it because of the "Emperor's New Clothes" factor. However, it doesn't make Pulp Fiction a work of genius, it actually makes it a worse film.Tarantino's lack of self-discipline means that, despite his abundance of talent, his output continues to be over-rated.
Have you ever gone from one extreme to the other on an issue? Our President excluded, many of us change our minds about things on a daily basis. When it comes to philosophies or preferences, we're not static creatures because we realize obstinance is not a virtue. We change, we evolve - that is to be human.Well, my opinion of Pulp Fiction has underwent several cataclysmic upheavals since I first saw the film in its year of release, 1994. I was 14 and, without exaggerating, Pulp Fiction shattered my concept of film. I'd never been so excited, intrigued and in love with a film. It forced me to reconsider what quality cinema was - it was no longer just the greats, the Best Picture winners, etc. Great cinema could be anything - old gangster movies, film noir, B-horror flicks, 1950s melodrama. The film also prompted me to explore film on a more academic basis, as I began reading film theory and film criticism regularly.I worshiped at the shrine of Tarantino and watched everything he put his hands on - be that Destiny Turns on the Radio or 4 Rooms.His other work (even Reservoir Dogs, which, I am convinced, is nothing more than a decent first film) disappointed me, but I never once second-guessed Pulp Fiction. Jackie Brown in 1997 re-affirmed my faith in the man, but then he disappeared and a funny thing happened, I second guessed Pulp Fiction.The dialogue, which I once thought brilliant, was not stilted and forced - a little too hip for its own good. The acting was all right, but seemed weaker than I remembered, and the once brilliant story became trite. The masterpiece became, in my eyes, pretentious, though still watchable fare. On my list of 100 favorite films, it fell from the top-10 to the upper 70s.Years went by, I continually found myself drawn to Jackie Brown (I think it's Tarantino's most mature wok and a wrongfully maligned masterpiece), but I avoided Pulp Fiction. A friend who had never seen the film asked one day if we could throw my copy on and it was like watching it for the first time.Everything that seemed forced or trite was brilliant. The dialogue that seemed overly stylized now seemed perfectly stylized and, really, perfectly at odds with the plot, which, though it contains recycled elements, became an energetic, hyper-kinetic, and amazing narrative again.Pulp Fiction quickly returned to the top of my favorites list. Why the swift rising and falling? I have no idea. It could be that QT created a film that is so tied to its audience's state of mind that their reaction to it is a complete crap shoot for him. That's doubtful. What I think truly happened is this: my adolescent mind reacted to its pop-culture references and its manic pace. It was hip and cool, really, and therefore perfect for your alterna teenagers. I matured, grew disdainful of things hip and cool (it was obviously cooler to dislike things that were cool right?), and so began disliking PF. I grew up a little more, became a little more perceptive, and therefore able to appreciate exactly what QT does with narrative and dialogue. Pulp Fiction, though this may seem odd, is a very subtle movie. Its brilliance at first seems superficial, but dig a little deeper and you'll find a film that is narratively amazing and that carries emotional weight. It's not all style; it's not just hip. It's an intelligent and wonderful movie and I don't think that I'll change my mind on it again.


                
Now that I think about it, I really should watch more Tarantino films. The only movies I've seen from him is Kill Bill: Volume One, Kill Bill: Volume Two, and the movie I'm going to review today, Pulp Fiction. This is the first movie I saw from Quentin Tarantino, because of all the praise it gets, and I'm not particularly a huge fan of Pulp Fiction. The first time watching it, I was thinking to myself, "What's the point?" One of my biggest issues with this movie is that there kinda isn't really a plot. The way I'd describe the "plot" of this movie is that there are a bunch of people with journeys of their own and they then are all connected by the end of the movie. That's the best way I could describe this movie, and that aspect of the movie I really didn't like. On a better note, I'll talk about the things I really liked about the movie. The dialogue is on point, it is really spectacular. The dialogue was so fluid, catchy, and really fun. There are some really popular quotes that came from this movie, like the "royale with cheese" talk, and the "I shot Marvin in the face" thing, and I guess those are pretty cool. The soundtrack and score is pretty catchy, I have to say. The acting is on fire, I think all the actors in this movie are great, they felt like real people, not characters. John Travolta and Samuel L. Jackson, I have to say, have top notch performances. I'm 100% sure that I am the minority saying I'm not a fan of this movie. I just feel like this movie is not for me I guess. The movie is pretty long, at almost 3 hours long, and it really shows cause this movie felt super long and at many times boring. Around the 2nd act especially, was pretty boring throughout. I could see why people like this movie, and I can see why people don't like it, and I'm part of the group of people that don't like this movie. If I could describe this movie in one word it would be "ambivalent". There are things in this movie that people would like, and there are things in this movie that people wouldn't like. There will be many people that would disagree with me saying that they thought the movie was amazing, and I can't blame them and everyone has their own opinion on something, we live in a world that has that concept. This movie is one big 'ol mixed bag for me, and I'd give it a 6/10.


                
...zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz!!! Oh man, I will NEVER understand the appeal of this. Pointing a gun at somebody, cussing for 5 minutes, pulling the trigger, walking up to somebody else and doing it again for an aeon-like 2 hours is not very entertaining to me! There was NOT ONE stunt in this movie, and the camera angle never changed! And just when you think it's about to end, nope, it HAS to keep dragging on....and on....and on. I feel like a noose was removed from around my neck when the credits FINALLY rolled. Why everybody has the poster, the soundtrack, and the bumper sticker on their car is beyond me. Then again, thank the maker it didn't win Best Picture!Rating: A much-deserved, exhaustive NEGATIVE 1 out of 10


                
The story is told of a crusty Midwestern newspaper editor who returned to work after a vacation and threw a fit. His prize headline type, enormous letters he'd been holding back for years for a truly big event, were used in his absence on a story detailing serious tornado damage. "You young fool," he snapped at the offending party, "I was saving that type for the Second Coming."From the moment it hit the screen at Cannes, even before it was awarded that festival's celebrated Palme d'Or, "Pulp Fiction" and its writer- director Quentin Tarantino have been given the big-type, Second Coming treatment, drenching them in the kind of media awe and appreciation reserved for paradigms of cinematic accomplishment.It's an overrated movie. Tarantino great director but acting is too boring.
Quentin Tarantino co-wrote, directed and co-stars in this flamboyant, literate, byzantine drama which is structured like a dime-store novel. John Travolta and Samuel L. Jackson are Los Angeles hit-men, Uma Thurman is a gangster's girl whom Travolta is asked to entertain, Bruce Willis plays a boxer on the run after one of his fights ended in death. Critically-acclaimed picture caught fire with audiences as well, resulting in more show-biz success stories than any other film of the 1990's. Is it really that good? Yes, the verbal interplay and canny, cheeky handling is quite often exhilarating, and the performances by Travolta, Jackson and Willis (and Harvey Keitel as a low-keyed Mob kingpin) are near-perfection; however, the film's mixture of queasy, bloody violence (undermined by the jokey tone) and the barrage of foul-mouthed, low-life characters can easily become wearing. It won't be to everyone's taste, surely, but it's a visceral, gripping cinematic experience nevertheless, one with a knockout soundtrack and an Oscar-winning screenplay. *** from ****


                
despite my initial dislike of this movie, i have changed my opinion regarding 'pulp fiction' for a very particular reason. two people, john travolta and uma thurman, better be kissing q. Tarantino's bootie in appreciation for what he was done for their careers. obviously uma thurman is worthy of her role as muse, but the work she did in this movie was so strong it made it impossible for people to dismiss her as just another ridiculously beautiful face. john travolta had all but resorted to used car lot opening's when his role in this movie thrust him back in the spotlight. OK, i'm not as thrilled about this, but still, we got uma.


                
I don't get as much out of Pulp Fiction as everybody else does. I don't like that it doesn't have a strong message, I think the dialogue goes on self-impressed tangents some times and the Mia Wallace story doesn't tie in with the rest of the film and it just isn't that interesting to me. However, that doesn't mean I don't appreciate its style. The entire film from the costume design, to the camera work, to the setting of LA are dripping with noir atmosphere. The writing, while it does jerk itself off at times, is still pretty memorable and enjoyable to listen to. The acting is fantastic all around, getting especially good performances from Samuel L Jackson, John Travolta and Bruce Willis.While I don't think its a masterpiece, it is something fun to watch if you're looking for something different and intriguing.


                
I thought this was a good movie, but I don't think that it deserves to be called one of the best movies ever made. It was good but it wasn't amazing. There are some amazing scenes in this movie, for example the beginning where Vincent and Jules are interrogating Brett, that whole scene is fantastic, also it's my favorite part of the movie. The reason why I say it's okay is because I only really was interested in the movie when Samuel L. Jackson was on scene. I'm not saying that because I'm a big Samuel L. Jackson fan, I'm saying that because he was the most interesting character in the movie and he was my favorite character. There are a few other really good scenes, but sadly I just didn't think that there were that many.
Tarantino does it again! From start to finish I was on the edge of my seat the whole time! The plot and dialog is so edgy and griping that I never wanted the movie to end. The only down side was all the story's in the movies where out of order which I know added to the suspense to the movie, but it also made it a little hard to follow and keep straight. Bruce Willies gives a great performance along side Samuel L Jackson, and John Travolta. A star studded cast that delivers as good as this one is bound to stand the test of time. I for one cannot wait to see what Tarantino comes out with next!


                
I did like pulp fiction to a degree - that is mainly because I love the casting in it: John Travolta, Samuel L. Jackson and Uma Thurman.The movie is a good crime thriller that all movie lovers should watch. And in some ways the movie does live up to it's hype because the story is well written and acted out good too.But, to me, the movie is overrated. It seems that *some* of the people that loves this movie will act/talk like it's the only movie worth watching - like it is the "King of Films". Yes Pulp Fiction is a very good movie but there are so many great movies to enjoy watching - not just this film.7/10


                
Have watched this movie quite a few times, Very watchable every time, Great acting, Great story line, Will become if not already a classic.


                
Pulp Fiction is a practical joke, because the characters are a bunch of losers.


                
This highly detailed, well acted, original and somewhat artistic movie with realistic dialogue suffers a bit because of lack of a real plot.


                
Different episodes are alike in some aspects and completely different in other aspects. Just like variations on a theme in music, the interesting point is their participation in the final geometry of the movie. This one is just great...


                
i cant see what's the big deal out of this movie,there are 3 different stories in the movie but really actually there is no plot!I think out of all the characters Samuel Jackson was the best,the dialogs were OK but i cant say i laughed or that i found the sarcasm clever.This is a multi-awarded movie for some reason but for me it is just mediocre movie,far from being one of the greatest movies of all time,i've seen tones of better movies.The movie ofcoure is pointless,violence,dirtiness is what the movie offers you,i don't know what the cinema critiques where thinking and praised the movie,i don't think an average viewer would care about this movie and in my opinion is way overrated.I have the movie on DVD so maybe i'll re-watch it in the future but i don't think my rating will change much and i'm pretty amazed that it's claimed to be one of the greatest


                
I just figured before a couple of days ago I have never seen a Tarantino movie. So on a whim I decided to watch this without really knowing too much about the way he makes movies. All I knew aside from it's critical reputation is that it wasn't linear and it's ultra-violent. The movie is 4 stories with connecting characters and the theme of crime all throughout. I'd say there are memorable scenes in each story (such as the introductory scene to one of them with Christopher Walken, that was the perfect blend of leaving an impact in mere minutes with a perfect blend of awkward writing with the most awkward mainstream actor ever) and they do have nods such as the violence is something I'd see out of a Hong Kong action movie around the same time, the structure is very... French New Wave and the writing is clever enough to write dialogue pointless to the plot (or... almost everything really) but establishes character. If anything I don't like the comedy, I know it's meant to be black comedy but I never really laughed, I also find the establishing character dialogue to just be done a little too much in this movie. While I enjoyed it, and I hope nobody goes nuts - I didn't really enjoy it as much as others have.


                
I casually watch movies, and have seen a lot of Tarantino, and this movie was definitely on par. Old but good, and Samuel Jackson and John Travolta are really very entertaining in this movie. In addition, the story is told in a very unorthodox style. The characters are developed, but not overly so. The dialogue is great to watch and the action is typical of this kind of move. The story is a good one, complex enough to keep interest but not too complicated like other films can be. From beginning to end, he has you interested. The themes of the movie are very different in nature from one and other but come together very nicely in the end. I know this might not be insightful, in anyway, but it is truthful, I personally really enjoyed this movie. But who am I to say.


                
A great amount of people believe that Pulp Fiction is the greatest of all time when it comes to films. Sad to say this but I do not agree. I finally watched this movie for the first time this year and I didn't care for it, it sort of felt like a let down. Maybe this is just because I didn't like the plot itself, though the use of flashbacks (if that word is even close) was pretty smart. I liked that we were brought to a certain time period but later on brought to somewhere different and soon after be brought right back to where it all started. I thought this technique was brilliant. The main characters were over the top in my opinion...while watching this film I wondered what was the point of it all. This film just wasn't my cup of tea and it's sad because I was really looking forward to watching it, some what of a disappointment. But this is me, I'm sure many will disagree.
It is an exhilaration from beginning to end. It's the movie equivalent of that rare sort of novel where you find yourself checking to see how many pages are left and hoping there are more, not fewer. The first masterwork of the post-modern pop culture generation...gets better with every viewing, and like good rock n' roll, needs to be played loud. I think Quentin Tarantino is genius; his writing and directing were extraordinary, outstanding performances from all cast members, all made Pulp Fiction a classic masterpiece. One of the zaniest, funniest, smartest and most entertaining movies I have ever seen. One of my all time favourites as well. John Travolta and Samuel L. Jackson give terrific performances.


                
Profanity, violence, and pop culture references abound in PULP FICTION, the new movie by Quentin Tarantino. Some may know Tarantino as the screenplay writer for TRUE ROMANCE or the writer-director of the critically acclaimed RESERVOIR DOGS, and just like those previous efforts the heart of PULP FICTION lies in Tarantino's brilliantly written conversations among the various characters. Dialogue fuels PULP FICTION to vividly show the contemptible lives of each character. Tarantino has the gift of propelling the movie along through the spoken word, whereas lesser creators might rely solely on action, violence or special effects. You should note that the movie is shown in a non-linear time structure reminiscent of the critically acclaimed independent film MYSTERY TRAIN, but this should not be an annoyance because the movie is basically a series of three related vignettes that individually add up to one great movie.


                
