Pulp Fiction is one of those movies that not everyone can enjoy. Many people say that it's boring and senseless. It is true that the plot isn't something special but it isn't the plot that makes this movie so unique but the awesome script and great cinematography.Probably one of the greatest things in this movie are the dialogues. The dialogues just like in all other Tarantino movies aren't directly connected with the plot. Take the first dialogue between Samuel Jackson and John Travolta. They are talking about how a certain burger is called in France. This and many others dialogues don't have a direct relation with the plot line but their function is to somehow build the characters' personalities.The other thing that makes this movie so unique is the unexpected turn of events. Like in all other Tarantino movies you don't know who they are going to kill next or what is going to happen. The scene where Vincent shoots Marvin in the face is a great example for such unexpected turn of events. This makes the viewer more intrigued and thus makes the whole experience form the movie way better.There isn't much more that can be said about Pulp Fiction. It's not a movie that everyone will enjoy but still deserves to be seen.
I picked this movie up from the video store and watched it last night. I mostly got it hearing that it was a great, one of the best movies of the nineties. I have to say I was let down. Yes, it was a very intriguing piece of fluff (considering it was about violence). I mostly found it very funny at times, the way these mean gangsters act like regular people. For example, Vincent and Jules are calmly discussing the level of intimacy a foot massage implies right before they go inside an apartment with guns to teach some twenty-somethings a lesson. However, when all is said and done I felt as if there should have some point to the movie. The only characters who evoked any sympathy were minor characters. I will confess I totally loved "The Bonnie Situation" sequence, but it was way too short in comparison with some of the rest of the movie. I wish the whole movie was that light-hearted or had expanded the story out for two hours. On the other hand, I was almost bored during the story about Vincent taking Mia to the restaurant. Overall, it was a good movie, but the quality changes throughout.


                
Pulp Fiction is not a good movie I think. It has some enjoyable moments, but it is actually too confusing, because of the time and place´( they ALWAYS change! ). That is not good for a movie, I think. I do not think that it is one of the best 25 films ever. I mean, what is the great thing about that movie? It is just another piece about drugs and killing each other. Come on?! I rated it a 4/10, because it is quite original and has some funny jokes. But it is definitely not that good.


                
Quentin Tarantino's "Pulp Fiction" is the quintessential example of great movie making, assorted using various constructive techniques that elevate the film to the highest possible level, stretching the boundaries and pushing upwards. Like all great directors, Q.T. lets the film and its subsidiaries stand on their own. A lesser director might employ cheap gimmicks and plot devices to move the story onwards at a brisk pace, but "Pulp Fiction" is a dark action, comedy, and/or drama that clocks in at two hours and thirty-four minutes. And not a single minute is wasted on material we think could have been shortened or cut. It's one of those rare motion pictures that leaves you wanting more, which only welcomes another immediate viewing to let everything sink in a second, third, or even fourth time.A lesser director than Tarantino might also force his characters into saying things they would not normally say, or into actions they would not normally act out in real life. Instead, Tarantino does something brilliant and seldom executed: He actually lets his characters evolve on-screen, and actually engage in every day conversations. Most critics interpret this as Quentin stopping to insert unnecessary (albeit entertaining) dialogue segments. They're wrong. The dialogue is strong, but it's there for a purpose. The difference is that dialogue in a movie such as "The Presidio" isn't real at all. The characters enter, move the plot forwards through speaking or acting, then proceed to repeat this in following instances, as if they're following the back of a mouth wash bottle ("rinse, spit, repeat"). Quentin does something else, by eavesdropping on his characters when their dialogue does mean something. No doubt Jules and Vincent have much to say about many things, but most of the time it is not relevant to the story. One must keep in mind that we actually hear little about Jules and Vincent, and even less talk between them. But when we do hear these things, it's strikingly true and purposeful. And this is what so many people miss when viewing "Pulp Fiction" -- the witty dialogue has become universally regarded as the strongest ever written, and while that may very well be correct, the idea that it is pointless is absurd. Quentin is subtle in the way he introduces his speeches; when Jules (Samuel L. Jackson) and Vincent (John Travolta) spend some two or three minutes discussing how the French translate the term "Quarter Pounder with Cheese" due to the metric system, it is amazingly deliberate: Quentin later uses this same reference for Jules before he and Vincent assassinate a group of young crooks who have stolen a briefcase from Marsellus Wallace (Ving Rhames), one of the town's major kingpins.
There are essentially three stories in "Pulp Fiction," intertwined between one another. It opens with Honey Bunny (Amanda Plummer) and her boyfriend (Tim Roth) hatching a plan to rob a restaurant. By their reasoning, no one ever bothers with restaurants, just banks, so why not take advantage of them "with their pants down"? The stick-up proceeds, which is when the famous titles roar forward and we find ourselves following Jules and Vincent, who work for Marsellus, who has paid championship boxer Butch (Bruce Willis) to fall in his upcoming match. But Butch has a better plan: Bet loads of money on himself, beat the other guy to a bloody pulp, and run away with his money. He almost gets away with it when he accidentally crosses paths with Marsellus once more, resulting in a rape scene to rival that in "Deliverance."Back to the dialogue. It is the driving force of the film, complementing the plot and allowing its characters to grow on us in ways we never imagined they would. It's the way in which the dialogue is deliberated that varies from most other examples of deliberation. For example, is it coincidence that we just so happen to overhear Jules and Vincent discussing the Big Mac and Quarter Pounder with Cheese? No. But our instincts tell us that it seems very real, as if Tarantino went around filming real people, then edited together scenes where the dialogue could bear some sort of importance to the plot. There are different levels of dialogue -- plot-driven, and realistic -- but all dialogue is in service of its plot, just as all of what we say to our friends or family has a deeper meaning and will no doubt relate to the matter at hand. All dialogue relates to a larger scheme, and so does the dialogue in "Pulp Fiction." It's just more casual and subtle than most movies. It's not pointless, but it's not deliberate, which is a fine line to try and balance on. Quentin does so successfully, crossing the finish line with enthusiasm, which is no doubt part of what elevates "Pulp Fiction" above so many other motion pictures of its genre.5/5.


                
Pulp Fiction follows a non-linear narrative structure, meaning it is told out of chronological order. It follows three interlaced stories of multiple characters. One follows the story of Vince Vega (John Travolta), as he and his friend Jules (Samuel L. Jackson) arrive at an apartment in order to retrieve a briefcase that belongs to their boss. They murder one of the guys that stole it and then Jules recites an Ezekiel passage from the bible before executing the other one, as they double-crossed their boss. This is where the iconic lines are said by Samuel L. Jackson - "I dare you mother*cker, I double dare you".Being a Tarantino classic, this film blew up back at the date of its release, because of how violent and real it seemed. The characters are very believable and the brilliance of the film is smug. Everyone's destiny in the film plays out, either coming to a halt or ending in a further story. The non-linear structure, divided into different stories, makes it seem like you are reading a book, which switches character perspectives in order to tell you more, but at the same time leave you wanting more information. The situations in the film are absurd, unique, inventive even, the same can be said for the dialogue, as the audience is left guessing, not knowing what anyone will say at any moment, seeing how wild and alive it is. The characters never sound the same.Showing the life of the 90's throughout its' characters, the film does not leave you bored, trying to entertain you with aforementioned situations, as Tarantinos' writing is meant to and knocking you off your feet, as the absurd takes its turn, another timeless classic shows us how films are supposed to be made.


                
Quentin Tarantino burst on the scene with Reservoir Dogs and with Pul Fiction he cemented his place among the most exciting directors to watch. Like every other film of his this one contains memorable scenes, memorable dialogues and characters and an execution which can easily be identified as "Tarantinoesque". The film plays non-chronologically and involves two hitmen, a boxer, a mobster's wife and a diner. Each and every actor is amazing, so much so that you cannot imagine anyone else in the role. Travolta is especially good- no wonder this was a resurrection of sorts for the famed actor who was previously known for his dancing numbers. Populated by the Tarantino stock of actors who are seen in his films Pulp Fiction is a very good film that deserves to be seen.


                
Well my first review just accidentally got deleted so here is for a second go of it.. Pulp Fiction has an excellent ability to interweave multiple dissimilar narratives into one cohesive story. It has a knack for balancing tense, dramatic moments with witty, comedic relief. Scenes such as the pawn shop basement with Zed, the hit men's clothing change after hiding a body with the Wolf, and Captain Koons' monologue showcase Tarantino's warped sense of humor.


                
I really liked this film, so yeah. it's good. .one of the first tarentino films i saw. good acting. good directing. okay score but that's compensated by the good soundtrack.


                
Pulp Fiction is one of those movies that I hear about all the time, but have never seen myself. After watching it, I'm confused about the hype surrounding this movie. I couldn't pinpoint the message the film was trying to tell. Nevertheless, the acting was outstanding (excellent cast!) and the charming style of Tarantino is unmistakable. I'd recommend a watch.


                
Do not, my fair reader, be put off by the countless jerks who already affiliated themselves to the PULP FICTION cult, and this not because there's yet some room for still more jerks to join the cult but because there is much more in PULP FICTION than what meets the mimetic jerks' eyes. On KANE there's a crust of _academism and bores' gossip, on PF there's a crust of nastiness and jerks' ineptitude. And for one thing, daddy Tarantino is a true director—the way a Lynch or the Coens are not. Now admit it, fair, lovable reader—what if PF were no more famous than Omar the Tentmaker, Old Ironsides, Tarzan and the Golden Lion, The Princess from Hoboken or The Ghost in the Invisible Bikini? Now wouldn't you cry masterpiece and claim that Tarantino is an ignored genius? I call this the GONE WITH THE WIND test—take a movie that you think is overrated and then pretend or imagine it's unknown—what would you feel? The false thesis is that it could serve as a substitute for the '70s trash classics; it will not. It's not an updating or upgrading of the '70s cult flicks.It's a treat, it's straight wonderful; the performances are gold, the script is indeed fine. It has zest, gusto, true storytelling, some awesome action and some nasty violence—and an enjoyable score.What if PULP FICTION were as famous as Isle of the Snake People or The Utah Kid? Liking this movie does not mean binding to the fashion—but acknowledging the obvious—and I do so joyfully—you can also see it as a Willis movie, that's what I did, consider PULP FICTION as primarily a Willis movie, one of Willis' most distinguished roles.
Pulp Fiction put non-linear out-of-order films on the map. With all of the films that follow a formula, it's good to see one that's essentially a puzzle you have to piece together. Each of the characters have some way of bumping into each other. As a departure from the grave tone of his first film, the indie hit Reservoir Dogs, this started Tarantino's signature style of excessively gory dark comedies with humorous observational dialogue. This film is bizarre, has some tense frantic moments, will make you laugh and is overall unlike any other film out there. It's biggest advantage, aside from Samuel Jackson and John Travolta having philosophical discussions about hamburgers, is the fact that it's volatile and it's completely impossible to predict what's next. This was a benchmark movie and, in some ways, a paradigm shift for the industry.


                
There isn't a single normal person in Pulp Fiction. Not a one. And that is what makes the film so memorable. There a ton of things going on, including a bizarre couple robbing a diner, a couple of hit men avenging a rip off of a mobster boss, a boxer who is supposed to take a dive but doesn't, and a mobster's wife being entertained by one of the hit men.I admit it. I saw Pulp Fiction for the first time a couple of nights ago. Why it took me 17 years to see this very special movie is known only to God. To think I could have spent all these years seeing this movie countless times, like I do The Godfather, Casino, GoodFellas, and Love Actually is a bit disappointing. But at least I've seen it now, and now I understand what all the fuss has been all these years.John Travolta made his comeback with his performance as one of the loopy hit men, and deservedly so. He is off kilter enough to be interesting but not so extreme as to be insane. He just kills in his worldly sort of way. Samuel L. Jackson, a killer who obsesses about sin and absolution, is his partner. Uma Thurman is the mobster's wife who Travolta's character is supposed to entertain. Take a look at Steve Buscemi as their waiter. Directed brilliantly by Quentin Tarantino, all of the performances are memorable. The list of stars who shine in this movie are as endless as the subplots that they play in; Ms. Thurman, Messers Travolta and Jackson, Bruce Willis, Christopher Walken, Ving Rhames, Eric Stoltz, and Harvey Keitel. Keitel's ability to play twisted in such a straight sort of way is astonishing.The dialog in this film is classic, as I was warned it would be. I was enthralled with the well crafted dialog that comes out of the actors so seemingly effortlessly, and with such entertaining effect.Everyone who sees this film will interpret its meaning differently, especially the ending. As for me, I will never use the bathroom when I am supposed to be knocking off a double crossing boxer.And remember, "Just because you are a character doesn't mean you have character."


                
Pulp fiction is certainly one of those films that will always be remembered for their emotional impact that they bring on while you watching them, Quentin Tarantino's master piece came to reveal and put on a high stage one of the world best film directors.What impressed me about Tarantino's gem was its plot, actually the plot provoked many critics, it intrigues everyone that watched the movie, but I would say the most important part in the plot was the characters as Samuel L.Jackson mentioned at the beginning of the film '' Come on, let's get in character'' all the characters involved in the movie were vivid and each one with his or her specific added values.The plot can be divided into three different stories, as long as the film is progressing they getting close to each other, as it is unveiled in the last coffee shop scene. Well it will take me more than that to describe the contribution of each character, but to sum it all up Characters were master key to put the film into a maverick joy.The music played an important role starting from the first scene with ''dick dale's pulp fiction Soundtrack'' illustrating a perfect start, and coming to one of the most entertaining scene when Vincent and Mia came on the stage to perform a dance that astonishingly matches with ''Chuck Burry's song- C'est la vie'', there are various of good music throughout the film.Pulp fiction was purely entertaining from the beginning to its last seconds, and it's a film that you have to watch multiple times, each time it will keep dazzling you. That's what an Entertaining movie should look like!! Highly recommended!!!
I don't deny that this film is 100% entertainment and the dialogue is solid gold; but that would be nothing without the terrific actors. To be honest, I think the screenplay is massively overrated (although it is commonly cited as one of the best of all-time). It generally mixes ideas from lesser known films and used irrationally to create an ambiance of cool. Though this film is wonderfully cinematic, it must've been tremendously exciting back when it first premiered. I think its exploitation of violence and drugs is a tragedy, and although these consequences do lead to something bad, it doesn't disencourage them. I can't help but resent the film for the fact it's usually the film that gets people into film (can't disagree that it was one of the films for myself, but it has been 7 viewings since) since it offers absolutely nothing new, it just doesn't have a point nor is it a realistic representation of anything - not that I'd like to know, to be honest. If it wasn't such a cult film none of the images would recur. It has a pretty flawless soundtrack though. However, I cannot discredit a film for being overrated and what this film does preach does not offend me. I completely understand the acclaim it gets.8/10


                
Quentin Tarantino presents his masterpiece: interwoven tales of a washed-up boxer, some bodyguards to powerful crime kingpin, and others who cross their path on this fateful day. Featuring an all-star cast: John Travolta in his best role (relaunching his dead career), Sam Jackson in his defining role (still trying to outdo himself fourteen years later), Christopher Walken, Uma Thurman, Bruce Willis, Ving Rhames, Steve Buscemi, Tim Roth and more. (Many of these being Tarantino regulars, who work well with his idiosyncratic style.) How do I review a film so many people have praised, including my hero Roger Ebert? I could be a detractor and say its a bad film, but I'd be lying. I love the story and how it all plays out. I still prefer Tarantino's "Reservoir Dogs", but this comes in a close second. (Sadly, I don't think he ever recovered after he became famous. Subsequent films -- "Jackie Brown", "Kill Bill" and "Death Proof" -- all have a certain charm to them, but are not close to being on the level of "Dogs" or "Pulp".) Although I've seen this movie, or at least bits of it, a dozen times, I think the most recent may be the most interesting. I watched it with a young woman who saw Bruce Willis and asked who he was. I said, "Bruce Willis." She asked who that was. I listed a few of his bigger films ("Die Hard", "Armageddon", etc.) but she said she had not seen them. How a woman in her 20s does not know Bruce Willis or any of his movies is beyond me, but it got me wondering: would "Pulp Fiction" be a different film if I didn't recognize the majority of the actors? Walken, for example, appeals to me because he's Walken. Would his monologue be as good if delivered by someone else or by Walken when I didn't know him by name? Curious thought.If you haven't seen "Pulp Fiction", see it. Tarantino is a better writer than a director, but this film offers probably his best directing to date and some superb writing. He is very dialogue-intensive, which I think alienates some viewers (particularly in "Death Proof"), but give him a fair shake. This film defined the 1990s and continues to be influential in film today. Pay attention and you'll be sure to see why.


                
When Pulp Fiction first came out, I thought it was the greatest movie ever made and was sure that it would become a classic. Earlier today though, I saw it again after not viewing it for several years and my opinion of it is now a bit lower.It's still a good movie and there are aspects of it that are certainly great. The plot is well constructed and the story lines are compelling. There are a variety of interesting characters and many humorous and dramatic scenes. Several actors (who were at their peak at the time) have juicy roles and give excellent performances: Uma Thurman, Eric Stoltz, Rosanna Arquette, Tim Roth, Amanda Plummer, and Christopher Walken. Overall, the movie is unbelievably entertaining.After seeing Pulp Fiction again though, with several more years of movie viewing experience now under my belt, parts of it look amateurish. The shots don't always work; composition is bad, stuff is out of focus, lighting is bad. Although the banal conversations are fantastic, the dialogue doesn't work all the time either, particularly for Samuel L. Jackson's character. When I listened to him, I couldn't help but think that this is how a white dude thinks a black gangster should talk. There are also a ton of obvious continuity and factual errors in the film that are distracting (check the "Goofs for Pulp Fiction" page here at IMDB for an incomplete listing of them). In most movies, I don't notice these kinds of errors because they're so subtle, but in Pulp Fiction they're glaring.Pulp Fiction is still cool and enjoyable, but it seems like I can look at it in a more critical light now. It's been almost ten years since it was made and the hype is finally starting to die down. It's a good (maybe great) film, but it's not a classic or a masterpiece.


                
This film, although really enjoyable, is confusing for two primary reasons. The first, the genre of the film seems to be an action film that would much rather be a comedy. Second, the story continuity makes little to no sense random throwing the viewer into different character perspectives with overlapping scenes and at one point what seems like an unexplained revival. The story would have to be spliced and refitted to make a consistant flow but was still a highly entertaining movie.
The humor, the cast. Everything is amazing!
Tarantino has created yet another great movie, the plot and the way it is told is just great.


                
You read the title of my review, you saw this movie, no need to write all the stuff critics and amateur reviewers like me have already wrote. OK, having said that, what is left to write? I will give it a try. I watched this movie in 1995, in Brazil movies used to get a little later. Some movies still come here 6 or 9 months after released in the US. And this movie was a total cult-to-be right away. The thing people talked over and over was how Tarantino was able to make the actors -- Travolta and Jackson -- really sound like two ordinary bad guys having a true bad guy conversation. A crude, hardcore type of conversation. It was like he had the power to put us there. No regular artificial type of dialogue. On top of it, the fact that the movie was not made to run a typical chronological order of facts. I think it is still good day but of course it would not make the same impact it did back in 1994.
In the type of cinema is criminal. The main feature of the film's reputation is the display of an exhilarating blend of violence and humor, nonlinear storyline, cinematic references, its references to popular culture and its dialogues.
The way they tell the Story of all characters are amazing,Everything thing in the movie is good<f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+008E>
Good entertaining film


                
This is an all time favourite. Love Bruce Willis. So many great characters and quirky scenes. 
A must see


                
1994 had good movies in it but this movie is nonetheless one of the best. it includes dirty businesses, racial slurs and drugs but in the bigger picture it holds a great heart touching message. the movie have weird timelines but in the end every thing clicks to a full circle which makes you wonder after watching it for awhile.
This is one of the best movies I've seen because of the way it's related. I liked the movie too much because of the non-linear plot, and then you see scenes from the past that explain why some things are happening. I liked that the frames were too close to the character. And the dialogues, which perhaps do not contribute much to the story, but which are undoubtedly part of it and add naturalness to the characters and the film.


                
Tarantino's filmography are typical of great stories and exceptional dialogues. And this one is a great story with the best dialogues. My favourite parts are starring Samuel L. Jackson and John Travolta, from their wonderful conversation in the car until they have to go to see The Wolf...


                
