"Pulp Fiction" is considered Quentin Tarantino' masterpiece; both as a writer and director. Although it's not a perfect film and has a couple flaws, "Pulp Fiction" has one of the greatest scripts that changed the way films were made. The film opens with a conversation between "Pumpkin" and "Honey Bunny" as they chat about their new plans to rob restaurants instead of banks and liquor stores. Eventually this scene will end the film as it doubles back on itself. Often times- and we're seeing the case more and more with Tarantino- he'll drive a film on dialogue instead of plot and substitute plot for senseless dialogue. That happens here, but it works most of the time. Lately it hasn't been working on the level of "Pulp Fiction." Uma Thurman plays Marcellus Wallace's (Ving Rhames) wife, Mia, and her only importance to film is to be entertained by Vincent Vega (John Travolta) on a date that's not quite a date. I feel as if these scenes are supposed to entertain us since it has nothing to do with the plot that is extremely thin compared to its run time (154 minutes). Travolta, for me, is the real stand out. When he's on screen his scenes, whether Jackson is next to him or not, are full of energy and pulp. He does a lot of listening, some dancing, a lot of arguing and/or debating, and offers up a lot of great comedic moments. His best scenes are with Uma Thurman when they go to Jackrabbit Slims. This little date, where they talk about nothing of much importance as far plot is concerned, is funny, engrossing and entertaining. I don't know why it never gets old, but it doesn't. The acting between the two is great and both were worthy of their Oscar nominations for Best Actor and Best Supporting Actress respectively. This section of the film is one of the strongest of the three along with "The Bonnie Situation." The writing and acting is superb in both sections. This date leads to an overdose as Mia takes a line of Vincent's heroine. The direction here is much in the mold of a graphic Hitchcock film. To add to the suspense the owner of the house counts to three (Something that happens quite a bit in the film). As he slowly counts to three we see all the nervously waiting faces in the entire room. We get a close-up shot on the needle that's cocked back and ready to strike. We get a close-up on the red dot where the needle needs to hit. It slowly builds the scene and the suspense. Tarantino handles this scene and all the others with a ton of precision and a lot of confidence. Tarantino makes huge strides as a director since his previous film, "Reservoir Dogs," and a lot has to do with his confidence as a director. The older Tarantino is too confident in his abilities. The majority of "Pulp Fiction" has a lot of energy and snap to it. If you watch closely to the opening scene in "Reservoir Dogs" you won't see that same kind of crisp, confident direction from Tarantino. There are a lot of pauses throughout that conversation and it doesn't quite flow like a Tarantino film that we've become used to. To his credit he was working with some B-list (Some C or D-list) actors. He's not working with much more here, but the majority of his major role players are all acted out terrifically with the exception of one: Bruce Willis- through not fault of Tarantino; Bruce is just a bad actor. The section of the film that really drags, and is noticeably behind compared to the other two sections, is "The Gold Watch" section. This section is incapable of greatness since Bruce Willis single handedly ruins it with his "Die Hard" facial expressions, especially when they're not needed. The writing here is also the worst and, at times, puts the actors in very difficult situations. This section becomes annoying as we hear Bruce Willis call his girlfriend- that we won't care at all about- Lemon Pie, Sugar Pie, and retard. When he calls her a retard it's pretty funny, but other than that this lacks the punch that Travolta and Thurman provided minutes earlier. This section is bloated with dialogue, bad acting, and uninteresting characters. "The Gold Watch" has its moments and definitely picks up when we meet the gimp and the crazy world that we fall into. It just takes too long getting there. Christopher Walken provides a very interesting and hilarious story of the watch that has been passed down anally from generation to generation of the Coolidge family. "The Bonnie Situation" may very well be the strongest section of the film. This is where we meet "The Wolf" (Harvey Keitel) as he cleans up a mess made by Vincent Vega in a hilarious scene where he accidentally "shot Marvin the face." "The Bonnie Situation" offers up quite a bit of laughs, some great acting, and a very strong ending. The film ends where it started with Jules (Jackson) talking about changing his life around as he "walks the earth." Thankfully Gods interventionist-like hand, that saved him hours earlier, doesn't make him walk too far as He has sent him a weak person for the transitional Jules to save. The film ends on Jules changing or turning against everything he has ever done or known. Instead of being a bad - and killing "Pumpkin" (Tim Roth), he gives him some money, out of his own wallet, for a chance to start fresh and redeem himself. This might actually be "Pumpkin" and "Honey Bunny's" last heist, and they have Jules to thank for the chance at redemption and changing their ways.


                
This movie is classic Tarantino with the use of his trademark camera angles, gore, and fowl language. This film is one of my favorite movies of all time because of how unique it is from other movies. The casting choice of Samuel L Jackson and John Trovolta were perfect and can't imagine anyone else playing these characters. The dialogue in this movie was perfect and is half of what made this movie so great. I also loved how the chapters in the movie were mixed up and really made you think when the movie was over. I recommend this film to anyone who loves fast paced movies with great dialogue.


                
I loved this madcap yarn about 2 hitmen for the mob, a mobster's nutty girlfriend, a punch drunk boxer, and 2 ineffective bandits. The story was told in flashback form, a technique that I have always found interesting. The lives of all the players criss-cross with each other forming a collection a mini-stories guaranteed to captivate the viewer. Unusually done film, very entertaining.


                
There are movies that open you up, and make you feel relaxed. Some of the movies can give you strength and make you feel hopeful. They are full of messages. But there are some movies, which are just the opposite. They cause a violent feeling within you. After watching those movies you may say to yourself 'shit! what did I see?' 'That is so vicious!' or something similar.It is obvious that I am referring to Pulp Fiction to the second type. I am sure everyone must be shocked by the way the film progressed. The executions, drug consumption, the lifestyles of thugs, conversations etc. are shown in such a raw way that it will make you think for days about the movie and make you say to yourself 'shit! what did I see?'. The movie gave no explicit messages and just had shown lifestyles of certain kind of people. But this no-message story, is shown in such raw and real way that it will make you see and think about this movie again and again. Hats off to direction.That's why the name :"Pulp Fiction"


                
Brilliant! Quinton Tarantino has out done himself with this film and its a must buy. His ability to place the audience in the middle of a crazy story and wrap it up at the end deserves recognition. This Film is full of amazing actors who make everything work beautifully. It is so hard to choose which character did the best job because their was so many. Uma Thurman, John Travolta, and Samuel L. Jackson in my opinion did the best. Watching this film for the first time requires a lot of attention as well as applause. The Cinematography was excellent and the ability for scenes to flow in such a way really is a work of art. Definitely a 9 out of 10 if not a perfect 10. Nothing can be changed to make this film better.


                
HOLY CRAP! In my whole life I have never seen a film this good. Two hours and thirty minutes just flew by and I didn't even notice it's been an hour when the first part was over. This film left me in awe and I feel like watching it again and again and again. People say this is overrated; well it sort of deserves it! So this is all opinion and the only fact is an event in the movie. -------------------SPOILER LINE---------------- So our main characters are Vincent Vega (John Travolta) and Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson). These characters are two of the best in the whole history of film and they deserved the Oscars they got. Our villain is umm... Since there's no exact villain, this film gets the bonus. Our supporting characters are Butch (BRUCE WILLIS!), Mia Wallace (Uma Thurman), Honey Bunny (Amanda Plummer), Pumpkin(Tim Roth), and Marcellus Wallace(Ving Rhames). All these characters play into the film perfectly. The genre of the film is crime, black comedy, and thriller. Well there was crime, at parts I was laughing my ass off, and some parts, my heart was beating so fast. There were no boring moments in this film. The story is told out of order. We start in a Diner and end in a Diner. So I'll summarize the story in its real order. Vincent and Jules get a case containing ....... and then they accidentally kill someone in their car so they have to clean it out. Jules thinks about retiring while the diner they're eating at is held up. Jules stops the robbery and go to a bar where Vincent gets his assignment from Marcellus Wallace. He takes Mia Wallace out. She gets overdosed in drugs. And the rest is spoiling the story. So, I give Pulp Fiction, one of THE GREATEST FILMS OF ALL TIME, 95% AWESOME! The highest rating so far!
PULP FICTION is a singular show. The best way to describe it is that it is as if you sit down in the living room with the television and are immediately transported to a roller coaster going full speed through a fun house of ghoulish images. This is complemented with one of the funniest, smartest, and filthiest dialogs I have heard in a long time. There is no other movie I can compare it to. It has the adrenaline flow of SPEED, the intelligent dialog of MY DINNER WITH ANDRE, the violence of the goriest part of the GODFATHER, and the comedy of AUSTIN POWERS. All that having been said, it is like none of the above other than the superficial aspects I just mentioned.If extreme violence (e.g., brains blown on car windows) is something you can not endure, if 700 uses of the F word is something you can not tolerate, if heavy drug use is something you care never to see (cocaine is passe we learn, all of the in-gangsters now do heroin), then do not pay your money to see PULP FICTION.On the other hand, all of the above really works in this show. This is a parody of criminal life and a really funny one. This is a show that takes one chance after another. John Travolta and Samuel L. Jackson are nothing short of terrific in it. Oscars are possible here. They play the hit men for a major bad guy (Marsellus Wallace). The bad guy is also paying a boxer (Bruce Willis) to take a dive. Harvey Keitel plays a fixer of problems for the bad guy. Tim Roth and Amanda Plummer play a couple of two-bit crooks who like robbing restaurants because nobody else does that. Eric Stoltz plays a low class drug dealer and Rosanna Arquette plays his girlfriend who has rings in every part of her anatomy (yes, there too). Christopher Walken shows up in a single long important scene. Uma Thurman plays the major bad guy's wife. Whew, and I probably missed a lot of other people who did some great acting.The major hero and the one who took the most risks in this movie was the scriptwriter. He was also the director - Quentin Tarantino. The script went from funny scenes like a restaurant where all the staff were 50s famous look-alikes to a scene where the two hit men were first discussing what a McDonald's quarter-pounder is called in France and why to a discussion of whether it was okay to kill someone for massaging your wife's feet.This is a movie that to describe it will only make you want NOT to go see it, yet it is mesmerizing and wonderful. The intensity level of the movie is off the scale. People were laughing like crazy in the theater and to intelligent dialog too. Other scenes had the audience gasping for breath and uttering out loud "oh, my god". Several scenes were worse than the finger cutting scene in The Piano.The camerawork was mainly standard stuff, but there are several scenes where it got pretty experimental. The best example is the long scene of Wills staring into the camera without moving while he listens to the major bad guy, whom we have not yet seen, delivering a long lecture. It then switches to a view of only the back of the bad guy's head with everything else out of focus while Willis listens for quite a while more.


                
I remember as a kid my Mom watched this movie when it came out (I was 10) and my brother and I were playing video games downstairs and we could hear my mom laughing upstairs and wanted to know what was so funny. But we knew it was a rate R movie and we couldn't go watch. Well I was so relieved and triumphant feeling when I was finally old enough to see it. It held up really well!! Tarantino may be a creep, and may have issues with acknowledging his whiteness and all but he does know hot to put together a decent movie. Perhaps one of the biggest accomplishments of this film in particular was reviving some Hollywood has-beens. John Travolta's career was 5 and a half feet under and Pulp Fiction basically revived him. He also threw in Eric Stoltz and Rosanna Arquette who were not really super relevant anymore. I think at least when I saw this movie for the first time I also saw Bruce Willis in a darker role than I had previously seen him. I appreciate that Tarantino uses actors in ways we are not always used to seeing them. This movie has great action, good cutting between storylines, entertaining dialogue and per usual a killer soundtrack and of course plenty of the shock value we know to expect from his movies at the time. This is probably his best film for sure.


                
Genius! Pure genius, is what this film is! Though INGLOURIOUS BASTERDS, DJANGO UNCHAINED and JACKIE BROWN are among my favourite QT movies, none of Tarantino's other work is quite as much fun, as inventive or as darn quotable as PULP FICTION! It's a true 'cult movie' of the highest order, and a true, movie, gem from the 90s!Never has Tarantino's dialogue been so juicy, his story so much fun or his characters so iconic (apart from Mr. Blonde or Hans Landa, of course!). There's just so much to enjoy from this movie as Tarantino pulls together one his best casts including Bruce Willis, Tim Roth, Uma Thurman and unforgettably, Samuel L. Jackson! Tarantino also crafts one of the best soudntracks in cinematic history; using some of the greats like Al Green, Dusty Springfield, and Chuck Berry's "You Never Can Tell" in the so-bad-that-it's-good dance sequence (which I intend to dance with my future wife at our wedding someday)!Every scene is laced with killer, totally quotable dialogue and who here, isn't aware by now, that a Quater Pounder with Cheese in France, is called "Royale With Cheese"? It's probably (save INGLOURIOUS and DJANGO) Tarantino's best script, with the dynamite dialogue and brilliant, yet baffling use of the non-linnear storyline. Never have Tarantino's storylines ever captured the imagination in such an explosive way as we follow two hit men, a mobster's wife, a boxer and a pair of diner-robbing, adrenaline junkies!I'm not saying it's perfect; there's stuff you'll hate, there's stuff that will shock you and there's stuff that will disgust you as the film deals with the illegal, criminal, underworld of Los Angeles. As iconic as it was, being a Christian, I was not entirely comfourtable with Tarantino's version of the Bible verse from Ezekiel but on a whole, I found myself moved by Jules Winnfield's (Samuel L. Jackson's) tale of redemption as the hitman who has a dramatic change of heart since it shows that even a hired killer, is not without soul or humanity.Like I said, this film is about crime but the real crime is that Samuel L. Jackson didn't get an Oscar for his role! He is frankly masterful as he lyrically waxes about burgers, pigs and moral codes. He's BY FAR, the best part of the film and is able to appear comical and terrifying at the same time.Every factor of this film fits together perfectly and to paraphrase from INGLOURIOUS: "I Think This Just Might Be Tarantino's Masterpiece!"


                
I saw this movie nine times in the theater when it came out; it resonated so deeply on a level I couldn't explain at the time. Possibly it was the non-linear timeline of the plot, maybe it was the less-than-desirable content of the plot told in such an approachable way, maybe it was the easily memorable phrases and script or maybe it was the meticulously selected soundtrack that sourced from a host of decades and genres.The second directorial effort from then fairly unknown Tarantino but it was a brilliant sophomore effort hitting the proper notes on all the main categories; directing, score, cinematography, acting / casting, plot, writing, etc. I cannot suggest this film to everyone; you need a certain sense of humor and a certain means of looking at a plot-line to truly enjoy it, but for those that have those prerequisites this is required viewing.This film in my top tier and one that can be watched at any time. An extremely well constructed piece of film-making that is worthy of a viewing.


                
Short and Simple Review by WubsTheFadgerPulp Fiction is a film that must be seen. The story is cleverly put together and elegantly flows from character to character. The story is funny, brutal, disturbing, and memorable. The story is told in a nonlinear fashion and requires the audience to pay attention. Tarantino has created some of the most complex characters in cinema. They all have personality and are relatable in various ways. The dialogue between the characters is amazing. The ending is stunning.The acting is very good. Tim Roth, Uma Thurman, Samuel L. Jackson, Harvey Keitel, John Travolta, Bruce Willis, Amanda Plummer, and Ving Rhames all perform extremely well. They all give their characters a certain flair and keep the story going with their individuality.The pacing is perfect and the runtime is justified because Tarantino builds his story and characters slowly.The amount of cursing in this film is, in my opinion, unneeded. I found the extent of the swearing excessive. The use of violence is perfect though.Pros: Elegantly told story full of memorable moments, a lot of funny moments, amazing characters, great dialogue, amazing acting, perfect pacing, and a good use of violenceCons: Excessive cursing and the runtime can be long for someOverall Rating: 9.1P.S. Pulp Fiction is a classic that should be experienced by all movie watchers. I would recommend being over the age of 18 because there are a lot of sexual situations and dialogue.


                
It was long ago that I've seen the movie but i remembered it was a unique movie! all the different stories that broke the old line of a movie make you thin outside of the box!


                
Love this film for it's storyline, acting and cinematography.


                
Exceptional. Pulp Fiction can not be classified in any category, it goes beyond anything that has been done before and creates something that no one else can reproduce except Tarantino himself. The scenario is very particular, disconnected and mended with relevance in order to present the film to us in a new light. We are transported in the past, the future and we return to the present.


                
This film is a masterpiece in filmmaking. The Idea of taking one event and watching it from three different perspective is a genius idea on it's own, but this movie takes it a step forward by adding amazing characters and incredible dialogue. This film is a masterpiece. Some people complain about the violence, but I think that's actually a huge strength. The film isn't scared to show some blood and it represents how horrifying some of the scenarios are. John Travolta and Samuel L. Jackson do amazing performances as the Hit-men. Tim Roth from Reservoir Dogs is back and performs a killer performance in this film too, and of course Bruce Willis is Fantastic as he is in most of his movies. Expect for Die Hard 5, but that's another story.All in all, This film really knows how to be original is not telling a three act structure story and instead telling a very clever idea and a very clever story. But what else do you expect from one of the greatest directors of all-time, Quentin Tarantino?9.75/10
Quentin Tarantino's movies are there own genre. 25 years ago however, he was a nobody. Then he directed THIS movie, and this is what put him on the map, as one of the directors to look out for.Pulp Fiction is about a number of different characters, whose stories all intertwine together during the course of this movie. You've got the two hit men Jules Winnfield, and Vincent Vega. You've got Butch Coolidge, a boxer, whose losing his game, so to speak. Pumpkin and Honey Bunny, two robbers, who appear at the start, and the end of the movie, although they technically only appear in one stage of the movie.That's one of the interesting things about this movie. It is not told in chronological order. One might think this would confuse the story, but it actually makes it more interesting.This adds to an already interesting story, but the driving force behind the movie is the dialogue. A lot of dialogue based movies can be boring, and this one is boring very occasionally. This certainly is one of the more interesting dialogue based, that keeps people interested for its 2.5 hour length. For this reason it is possibly one of the most quotable movies of all time.Considering that, and how well it is made, it is obvious, due to the content, that this movie isn't for everybody. Some people really won't like it. However anyone who likes great dialogue, will probably like it, cinema nerds (like myself) will probably like it, I certainly enjoyed most of it, and so I give it 8/10
It is a good movie, Action packed and interesting use of time. If you like Fight Club you will like Pulp fiction. I found the acting to be well done with an amazing performance from Samuel L. Jackson, and John Travolta. This movie can be comic and sad at the same time and contains very many different view points about how life works. I found that this movie is not at all rated for children and should be avoided by those who are easily offended or have weak stomachs. Drug use is prevalent in this movie. I am very pleased with the overall final result, great flick. I recently had to pick my top five movies of all time that I enjoyed and this made the list, following Fight Club and many great films to the same strength and fortitude.


                
Tarantino is one of the best directors of the world to himself. His Cinematographic was spectacular. Pulp Fiction was model for young filmmakers around the world with so many great scene.It's Brilliant.Tarantino borrowed amazing classic movie. combine them in best way then make his own masterpiece. soundtrack was great too. The Characterizations was awesome. It was nominated Oscar.Travolta dancing with Thurman was good.I really enjoyed to watch this movie. Summarizing, Pulp Fiction is a modern classic and a must-see for anyone who is at least aware of what a movie is. I give it a 9 out of 10.


                
As with most Tarantino movies, each time you watch it it seems a bit different. Now, I don't't think that it's the best movie ever and I don't think that everybody has to like it, because it can easily be disliked. What I don't understand is this- Why does this film have such a bad reputation. Just think this over, please, all of you people who wail and complain about how horribly violent it is.How on earth are you so isolated as to think that this is the most violent movie out there? Have you not seen any movies since 1994? Because believe me, this movie could practically slide by with a PG-13 today (well not really) But honestly, if you don't like the move, then sure, fine, you don't like it, but why would you attack it's content when there are so many other movies that are MUCH more violent?


                
Spoilers This movie says that life sometimes sends a message from God so we should listen. This plot moves in and out of several related stories and the time-line jumbles around so that the way it is presented, it enables us to see the hand of God. We see justice served and spirituality wins out and the evil gets killed, and/or embarrassed and/or other nasty things. We start the movie in a restaurant and watch a husband and wife robbery team begin a robbery. There are two hit men in that restaurant. We move in and out of a story of the two hit men who work for a mobster named Marcel. We watch the hit men pull off a hit and get the money that the victim (played by Frank Whaley) owed the mobster Marcel. I got a real kick out of Whaley repeating "What?". The hit-man points his gun and says: "Go ahead, say "What" again! I dare ya! I double dare ya! Then Whaley's character says "What?". BLAM! He is shot in the leg.We watch as one of the hit men Vincent Vega (played by John Travolta) takes Marcel's wife out on the town, per Marcel's orders. Vega fears his boss Marcel's jelousy. Additionally, Marcel's wife ODs. Then we watch a frantic rescue effort bring her back. We watch as a boxer (played Bruce Willis) is told and paid by Marcel to throw a fight. Instead this boxer pummels his opponent to death in the first round. Then he attempts to gettaway with the help of a lady cab driver, who was turned on by the killing.There are many more surprises in this movie and a reason why I called this "Evil Blood and Guts Meet Up With Spiritual Redemption; and WHAT?". Every minute of this movie should make you look at the screen with your eyes opening very wide and quote Frank Whaley's character "What?" This is easily one of the best movies ever and many have tried to repeat it, but never come close.


                
Three Stories told out of order with various characters appears before or after things do happen. This audacious, outrageous look at honor among lowlifes. This separate stories are told in a somewhat radical style.The films opens with Honey Bunny (Amanda Plummer) and Pumpkin (Tim Roth), who spontaneously decide to hold up a restaurant. Vicent Vega (John Travolta) and Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson) work as Hit-man for Crime Boss Marcellus Wallace (Ving Rhames), Vincent and Jules are on the hunt for a briefcase whose contents were stoles from their boss. Later that day... Vincent takes the Crime Boss Wife's (Uma Thruman) for a night in the town. Things goes well until one of them makes a huge mistake. Butch Coolidge (Bruce Willis) is a crooked boxer who's been asked by the Crime Boss to throw his latest fight. But Butch ended up accidentally killed the other boxer. Then the film's takes us back to Vicent and Jules as they run into a few unexpected detours among the way. Then they meet Honey Bunny Pumpkin at the restaurant. Which Vincent and Jules only wanted peaceful breakfast. Jules ended up talking some sense to Honey Bunny and Pumpkin about life and the bible.Directed by Quentin Tarantino (Kill Bill Vol.1 & Vol.2, Jackie Brown, Reservoir Dogs) made an sharp, funny, wildly entertaining film. This film has incredible memorable dialogue and an cast of familiar faces like Eric Stoltz, Rosanna Arquette, Christopher Walken, Frank Whaley, Harvey Keitel and Peter Greene. This film was one of the biggest hits of 1994 and the film has a terrific soundtrack.This was one of the most critically acclaimed film of 1994. Audiences loves this film also. The film received Oscar-Nominations for Best Actor:John Travolta, Best Supporting Actor:Samuel L. Jackson, Best Supporting Actress:Uma Thurman, Best Editing:Sally Menke, Best Picture:Lawrence Bender and Best Director:Quentin Tarantino. The film Won the Oscar for Best Original Screenplay by the director:Tarantino and Filmmaker:Roger Avary (Killing Zoe, Mr. Stitch, The Rules of Attraction). This is a extremely violent, pumped up film with dark humor isn't for everyone but it is one of the smartest films out-there. Watch for Steve Buscemi, Kathy Griffin and a funny bit role by the director in the third tale. One of the Executive Producers is Actor:Danny De Vito. Panavision. (**** ½/*****).


                
This film was a wild one. Definitely blew my earlier expectations of it out of the water. The way in which it is told is brilliant, with non-linear, seemingly random, disjointed plot lines, that all come together and manage to tell a story of their own. It's an extremely violent, drug filled, dirty, gritty, crazy film about crime, but it's also full of great, witty, and intelligent dialogue and it's full of minute things and details you may not pick up on at first. It was an entertaining and darkly humorous film, but it's also an intelligent and revolutionary one that broke new ground, that I'd definitely recommend watching it at least once.


                
Going into this for the first time, I knew this would be a good movie and I would enjoy it. However, I had no idea that it would be this good. It practically blew me away.This movie follows how 6 people's lives are all intertwined in an action packed tale of gun violence, drug-use, and murder.What this film is most famous for is its twisted timeline which is never too confusing but also very impressive. When I first saw the beginning, I didn't think much of it and as the film progressed, I forgot about it. But when it comes back at the ending, I knew I was in for a treat. The movie has several of these surprises which will knock you out cold and they are made brilliant by its twisting plot. I was in awe when the credits first started to roll.Also, this movie has an outstanding soundtrack which is actually pretty recognizable and iconic. It is also very well-done too. I honestly feel that it perfectly fits the movie. Like Jaws, when I think of this movie, the soundtrack which played during the end credits instantly plays in my head. It may not be as iconic as Jaws's music but it definitely is of equal quality.Also, the acting couldn't be much better. In my opinion, John Travolta, Samuel Jackson, and Bruce Willis all gave perfect performances. They are all able to convey so many moods at once with their facial expressions and they couldn't do any better.This movie also has very great repeat watchability to it. The first viewing of this masterpiece is unforgettable. But just like Fight Club, this movie gets better and better every time you watch it. Mainly because the fact that you know what's going to happen and that you know all of its surprises, makes several scenes even more engaging. Also, this movie has so many iconic lines and scenes. It's super rare for a film to have 2 iconic scenes but this movie has several of them which have been retold and parodied so many times in pop culture.So in conclusion, this movie is in fact a masterpiece because of many reasons. It has changed cinema so much and it has shown the test of time for over 20 years. I think that this film is going to be remembered for many more decades also. I think that this is Tarantino's best film and I also think that it is one of the best movies ever made. I recommend this to everyone who enjoys action and complex plot structures to movies.


                
Inspired by true events, a true story, masterful, twisted and bent Quentin Tarantino with a crowd of brilliant talent that destroys essential life to promote egotistic nepotism; in short stunning and sensational. Pulp Fiction has a timeless addiction that pervades the veins and makes the heartbeat faster... Why 9? Whine and wine again... there's something special about being inglorious... and years later Quentin is still pumping the fiction and mashing the pulp. This film has insights looking both backward and forward ... a reel show of American ideology that alludes to foreign infiltration of the system. How can one not love Pulp Fiction? From one of America's most controversial film directors who does not shy away or shudder in fear, a man who tackles complex thematic material head on, in overt gritty chains... and has managed to unchain the bleeding heart flicker by flicker.


                
Tarantino might not be the best actor in the world and a lot of people just don't like him and his movies full stop but I really do think he has created a master piece when it comes to pulp fiction and if you ever get the chance to watch it in a movie theater take that opportunity with both hands.I think the real reason Tarantino has been able to make such a classic movie is because he is a film fan and only a film fan could have ever put together the pulp fiction movie and made it work, I watched pulp fiction on my 50" plasma screen last weekend probably for the 20th time and it has everything, gangsters, hit men, drugs, comedy, extreme violence but most of all it has "COOL" this is the movie that makes you feel like smoking or giving up your day job and being someone more interesting...in reality cool is not very cool at all and you most likely end up dead but as far as movies go this is cool.


                
