Almost perfect series almost completely destroyed by the moronic usage of shakycam that was, for some unfathomable reason, the bees knees at the time.Whoever had the bright idea that shaking the camera like you've got seizures is in any way going to contribute to the "immediacy" of what is being shown? Jeez, when I take home videos with my phone it certainly doesn't look like that - this just looks like someone is deliberately flailing the camera about because it is "cool". It just distracting to the level that makes the show almost unwatchable. What a terrible terrible pity because otherwise this is a tremendous series on all levels... just made almost unwatchable because of some stupid fad.


                
Had no choice but to switch off - gutted. Had no choice but to switch off - gutted. Had no choice but to switch off - gutted.


                
I had heard many positive reviews about the this British series, especially about the cast and the inventive and frequent swearing, and to be honest I think that's mainly why I wanted to try it before seeing the spin-off film In the Loop, so I did, from writer Armando Iannucci (The Day Today, Alan Partridge). Basically it is a satirical look at the inner workings of modern British government, in the fictional Department of Social Affairs and Citizenship, with blundering minister Hugh Abbot (BAFTA and British Comedy Award winning Chris Langham) heading the department, who tries to do the right thing in situations, under the watch of aggressive Number 10's highly aggressive and domineering enforcer Malcolm Tucker (BAFTA and twice British Comedy Award winning, and three times BAFTA nominated Peter Capaldi), other characters include junior policy adviser Ollie Reeder (British Comedy Award nominated Chris Addison), senior special adviser Glenn Cullen (James Smith) and civil service press secretary Terri Coverley (Joanna Scanlan), the third series saw Abbot replaced by new head Nicola Murray (BAFTA and British Comedy Award winning Rebecca Front). Also starring Olivia Poulet as Emma Messinger, Vincent Franklin as Stewart Pearson, Will Smith as Phil Smith and Roger Allam as Peter Mannion. I can't really write a full review on what goes on, because all the politics stuff going on is to me is a bit mumbo jumbo and I can't always make much sense, I realise obviously it is conflicts between politicians, party spin doctors, advisers, civil servants and the media, and characters are cocking things up and that, but for me the best reason to watch the series is for the characters and swearing, Capaldi is fantastic always being in a huff and swearing every few minutes if not seconds, and Addison is a good bumbler, but also it is clever because although there is a script most of the dialogue is improvised by the cast, so it is a certainly a worthwhile political comedy. It won the BAFTAs for Best Situation Comedy (twice) (also twice nominated), and it was nominated for Best Writer, Best Writer: Comedy and Best Editing: Fiction, it won the British Comedy Awards for Best New TV Comedy, and it was nominated for Best TV Comedy and Best TV Sitcom (twice). Very good!
