Writer/show creator Aaron 'Copy-n-Paste' Sorkin certainly did his part to stereotype himself as just another Hollywood hack writer. For starters, he made sure there would be an ample amount of Jewish people (two would do) close to the president, so when we hear all of Sorkin's opinionated 'genius' in the script, there would be a tandem of Jewish guys to enlighten us with it. Sorkin also surrounded himself with other Jews to write the show.... gee, what a surprise.Martin Sheen's president is about as obnoxiously boring as he could be, always spouting useless trivia that nobody wants to hear. It appears that Sheen's character at times needs therapy. Once, when his long-time friend (an old woman who has lived a long and happy life) dies, Sheen's president is so angry with God (really his own father), he walks up the isle of a Catholic church and spews venomous insults at the 'Lord'.Then, to seal his contempt for Christianity, religious protocol, and anything else resembling civility, the president lights up a cigarette in the church, drops it on the floor, and crushes it with his shoe. The Jewish Sorkin would have never written this scene to take place in a Jewish temple, but it's OK with him if the Christian church gets desecrated. Of course, Sheen didn't object as actors are just bowing parrots who hope to be asked to act again.Brad 'Forehead' Whitford (also known as 'Bad Hair'), one of cocaine-addict Sorkin's handy cronies, has an over-abundance of screen time, and like most of the other characters in the show, he has way too much 'in-put' to the president. Allison Janney's character of C.J. also seems to have a little too much to say about what's going on (she's just the damned press secretary), but her often unlikely presence was never more weird than when she did 'The Jackal' (a karaoke-type dance) while the male idiots in the House observed as they smoked cigars and wondered what C.J. would look like naked.... eeeewww.John Spencer's character of Leo is just unlikable enough to be thrown out the nearest window. Leo seems to think he's always right, he never says 'please', and he seldom gives a quick "yes" or "no" when asked a direct question. When Leo isn't slamming office doors, he's yelling at constituents, including his secretary whose presence he screams for while other workers are on nearby phones trying to do business.... somebody call Security.Rob Lowe's Sam Seaborn is fine, though it's curious that he would be able to stand these moronic corridor-dwellers for more than a day or two before he would quit and open his own law practice on the other side of town where he could get through the day without having to talk to these bores, of course, whomever he talks with, he'll have to speak slower so they can understand what he's saying.Dule Hill with his baseball-sized head is the president's 'personal aide'. He is simply too young for the job - he looks like he's twelve years old - but he's only there because Sorkin wanted a black guy in the mix to prove to us that this president is 'not prejudiced' towards blacks (or Jews), like anyone was questioning that in the first place. Hill also has a bit too much 'say' in the Oval Office - go get me some more coffee, Personal Aide.Janel Moloney as a secretary is OK, though she seems to fall into the same boat as Lowe.... dump these losers and find a fun job filled with some folks who are actually worth talking to. Moira Kelly was on hand for awhile. She was cute, though a bit nutty with a hairstyle that made her look 15 years older. The talented Richard Schiff offered a unique acting style, consisting of his soft voice with delicate facial expressions and mannerisms, creating a delicious recipe which made him the finest actor on the entire show.It's a very old trick (and a seemingly unavoidable bad habit) for Hollywood writers to pen their scripts with a machine-gun style delivery. An over-written script, drunken with a constant stream of unrelated quiz-show type facts does not mean the script is any good - or even interesting. This was writer Sorkin's down-fall, though he tries to pitch it as his 'strength'. Obviously, there are some fools around who fell for it. That was expected. Sorkin left an indelible imprint of his hatred, contempt, and prejudice in every one of his scripts. And, as usual, with absolute predictably from Hollywood clones like him, he had the show's various characters spit his anti-societal viewpoints at the world while he sat safely behind the scenes typing out more meaninglessly critical literary tirades.It is possible a better series could have been made with a benevolent person handling the writing chores. It would have definitely made for a more diverse program concerning the people in the show. At least all the characters would not have the same personality as they do here.
I can understand that viewers would enjoy a well written, entertaining show. It's usually a bit suspenseful. A great cast. But what's galling is the preoccupation with abject jingoist sentiments and imperialist revisionist history in nearly every other scene. But then, that's also completely predictable for U.S. television, I suppose. With each military crisis or conflict, the entirety of U.S. history and complicity in anything ever is completely ignored. It might have been more M*A*S*H like in legacy if the writing had gone deeper, beyond refraining jingoist and imperialist lie after lie after myth after myth. For example in season three the Israel/ Palestine conflict is addressed with the same old tired b.s. as IF the IDF weren't regularly massacring Palestinians (to this day as well), as if the house demolitions weren't occurring (and ongoing to this day). When if any of the reality of the now 50+ years of illegal, brutal military occupation of the West Bank and Gaza, if any of the actually occurring apartheid and ethnic cleansing had been addressed, this series would have seemed more real. That's one example but you get the picture, same w/ crises on this show involving Mexico, Haiti, etc. anywhere the U.S. has undermined local economies to destroy the society and make other places mere colonies of U.S. empire....is painted in this series as "evil," etc.... quite shallow and very disappointing in this regard. In comparison (and I suppose I compare it to M*A*S*H because the cast is great and the writing is good, etc. and it has to do w/ U.S. government/ military in a kind of dramatic way)....in comparison M*A*S*H (t.v. show; not the movie) although more of a "comedy," allowed for more reality to enter in. For example, addressing the jingoism of "Colonel Flag" and "Major Frank Burns," and addressing the hardships suffered by the local population as a result of U.S. military actions, even giving the "enemy" soldiers a very human face, addressing McCarthyism, etc. The legacy of this series could have been more important. But now, it's on the historical shelves alongside pro-imperialist "rah-rah! USA!" type shows. Disappointing. For example season 3 episode 19 is so full of self-congratulatory jingoism that it strains credulity. In addition to reoccurring racist appropriation and anti-African sentiments within the script. In fact, this show is racist af in many instances including C.J. getting "upset" over Affirmative Action (which by the way benefits we white women moreso than anyone else) and literally says her father was "passed over" b/c "less qualified Black women" got the jobs he was hoping to get. Just wow. How did someone actually think that was appropriate? Other examples of thinly veiled racism and anti-African sentiment occur throughout the series, but such things are fairly ubiquitous in U.S. television for the most part, so this series is no exception. And I can't tell if the show about "crazy Zionists get upset that map from the 18th century didn't include the non-extant Israel" was satire or for real. Just amazing; literally an historical map is "banned" b/c it "doesn't recognize Israel" which didn't exist at that time. This show is really good at one thing: showing w/ accuracy how insidiously heinous liberals are, and how full of nonsense our notions about so- called "freedom" and "democracy" (i.e. killing innocents the globe over for centuries) are; and how this is sadly taught to each new generation.Season 5, episode 21, "Gaza." The unapologetic Zionism and anti- Palestinian sentiment; forever painting the oppressed Palestinians as "terrorists" while abjectly ignoring the never-ending aerial bombardments upon the imprisoned people of Gaza, the illegal occupation of Gaza and the West Bank by Israel, the home demolitions, destruction of infrastructure, hospitals, fuel stations, water supply inflicted upon the Palestinian population by Israel and IDF. One character says flippantly: "Displaced? Palestinians moved what~ 15, 20 miles?" wow, yeah; and some to the sea and their death; and not "moved;" forcibly displaced, just wow re: the Nakba. And the other character says: "You know after 50 years, one option might be to 'get over it." Just effing wow, what the hell? Just "get over" the forcible displacement of an entire people from their homes; and the ongoing terror launched against them by IDF w/ U.S. funding? It's still going on; that's why you don't "get over it." And this episode centers its plot around the a white whitehouse aid who is injured, possibly killed in a car bombing; but devotes not one second to the massive and indiscriminate, deadly violence unleashed upon Gaza and the West bank decade, after decade, after decade, continuing during the airing of this show and up to the present day. This is just one example of the gross jingoism and white nationalism woven into each episode of this show. Again, I know, not surprising but it might have aimed higher, ala M*A*S*H.


                
