"The West Wing" seems to be a "soap opera" that gives the questionable impression that all these very smart (at least in their own minds) people run around playing this game of politics by shooting questions at each other all day long. Unfortunately, it now seems better than a lot of other stuff on TV, however that is not a good thing.Since this is another one sided version of politics as glamorous, power brokering, with everything working itself out after a lot of twists and turns. The problem is that the view of the White House and Washington is pretty short sighted and there is no real view of the high level of blatant corruption that has existed in Congress since at least the 1960s with LBJ's friends and lobbyists having offices literally in Congressional members offices in the Capitol complex, and President being a puppet instead of a snappy decision maker.This is an attempt to feed the public a theatrical version of politics that matches their guess of how administrations run. If you believe that the President is allowed to make decisions based on his own whims, it is time to wake up and realize that shows like "The West Wing" and "K Street" are jokes, and next to nothing based on the realistic process. However, with the political TV news shows we have, it is understandable, if discouraging, that many people will buy into this farce as realistic, even some form of documentary.


                
Just because a show smothers the audience with layers of 'technical' dialogue doesn't mean it is particularly 'worthwhile'; it's only a form of 'shock tactics' where the political vernacular script-writing zooms over and past the viewer's heads as they sit there in dumb silence, the gullible ones thinking, "Gosh, this show is soooo good!".While many film-making errors abound, virtually none of the characters possess any semblance of charm. The president (boastfully played by Martin Sheen) is a bombastic know-it-all.... in other words, he's an annoying little sh*t. Flanking his constantly unprofessional demeanor is an ever-changing trio of arrogant blow-hards.This little TV item drips with Hollywood liberalism (what else is new?) while stocked to the high ceilings with an incessant stream of anti-Republican propaganda.... with no rebuttal, of course.View a couple of episodes, and when you decide it's for the democratic birds, you can tune out forever knowing that your interest shall not have died in vain.


                
Deluted staff members with a false sense of entitlement who behave in the white house like they did in their bedroom back in their parents home.Their always, talking, throwing their two cents worth on any topic to showing off their knowledge. It truly gets annoying. just be quite and work.The press conference is a kiss ass fest of flaterry from the press secretary directed to the room full of reporters.The Jewish characters are passionate speakers. As educated as they characterized to be they should know better that to think that passion has any weight in an argument. The character Toby is pompous and gets off when being in position of power. The character Josh is an younger immature version of Toby.Lowe appears to be the only character with manners and decency to work in the white house. Even the president's character is an arrogant know it all with a Napolean complex. He and his wife forget their public servants and behave as though they were royalty. Leo is an angry miserable old man. Just looking at him will turn your mood.The only realistic aspect of this show is the situation room. Its quick and brief although sometimes unnecessarily poetic. Everything else seems to be overly glorified, dramatized.I get annoyed hearing the characters constant talking and walking back and forth. It's as though they like the sound of their voice or have a delusion of grandeur and doing so when walking only adds to fuels that false belief. I can't watch more than 1 minute of this show sometimes. There constant talking annoys me. I think if America didn't have a class system everyone would agree on what needs to be done and no one would have a say in anything that needs to be done and that which needs to get done would get done without saying a word. It would certainly diffuse their discombobulated dynamic of walking and talking back and forth which feeds the characters narcissistic (with the exception of Lowe's character) personality and allows them to get their jollies.In short, the show is annoying because the characters are annoying.


                
