Irritatingly preachy, folksy and smug, but has some good stories.The series started very inauspiciously. Season 1 had some interesting stories and insights into US politics but overly idealistic, preachy, folksy and smug. Production values are not great either: colours are always drab and the people seem to be perpetually working in dim light.Things got better in Season 2. Much more pragmatic than S1, with better stories and better production values. Very powerful ending.Still weighed down by being idealistic, smug, folksy and preachy, but these are toned down a bit in this season. Get rid of those, and Toby, and the show would have been fantastic.Seasons 3 and 4 were the best of the first five seasons. The sanctimonious idealism was dialed down and the season was more about character-based and incident-based stories. Unfortunately, however, Toby was still there, and Sam Seaborn was replaced by the dingbat Will Bailey, second only to Toby in terms of irritation value. I only fully appreciated Sam once Will replaced him.Season 5 was the season when the writers jumped the shark. Started well enough but it gets quite silly and overly preachy (again) towards the end. Plus, they killed off one of the best and most likable characters in the series, Admiral Fitzwallace. If they had killed off Toby and Will Bailey instead, it would have been a great season. In some ways Series 6 and 7 are the most interesting series. They bring the presidency full circle, as we see the campaigning for who is going to be the next president. Less smugness, less folksiness, less Toby, less Will - these are all very good things. We also have Jimmy Smits and Alan Alda acting out of their skins. Alda is so convincing and likable that, even though he is supposed to be the bad guy, you want to vote for him.It's not all good, however. There are still the preachy, idealistic, naive detours. Plus, seeing a presidential campaign in action reminds me of all the reasons I hate politics: the superficiality, the appearances-are-everything conceit, the pandering to the media, the soundbites for the sake of it, the money spent (wasted), the back-stabbing, the horse-trading.Plus, the whole campaign and succession seems to drag on and on. After a while, I couldn't wait for it to end.
I finally got to see two episodes of this, after hearing about it for years. This comment is filed for the series as a whole, though I understand that the qualities I liked in these fifth and sixth season episodes are not characteristic of the first three years.I saw this on DVD so was able to avoid those distracting ads.What I liked about this was the way they learned to pace the thing. First of all, every arc is snappy, from the rushed one-liners to the resolution of some national or international crisis. But the nesting of the arcs is really worth noticing. There are the 40-70 second episodes, the tiny minidramas that often consist of dialog on the run. There are the episodic divisions of think five per episode that produce a chapter between commercials. There is that situation, the crisis that the episode addresses. There is the overarching soap opera of the characters that spans episodes. And the whole thing is nested within ordinary desires to explain the world politically. We have an undying need to do this, to have a coherent political story, so to nest in these ways fills that need with entertainment which many viewers I am sure will code as enlightenment. I am sure that few people will be jarred as I was by seeing Martin Sheen as president, he who I know from Apocalypse Now and Malick's first movie where he was challenged to eat a dead collie, and cinematically does.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
