I've just started watching this heavily honoured TV show which I inexplicably missed way back in 1999, especially as I tend to enjoy modern political dramas. I will say that I can see what the fuss was about and with only a few caveats will look forward to watching the hundred and plenty episodes which lie ahead.Of course it's mostly about the writing, with machine-gun dialogue, intricate but realistic story-lines and empathetic character development all to the fore, but the sets are beautifully and authentically (it seems to me) dressed while the acting too is of a very high standard. Like most of my favourite US dramas from "Hill Street Blues" on down, the show teems with interesting and credible characters while the situations, big and small, political and domestic are skilfully interpolated.Thus far my only carps are that Martin Sheen is perhaps too well known to play the president and seems almost like an impossible modern-day version of Messrs Smith and Deeds gone to Washington and town, while the introduction of his young black assistant Charlie seems tokenist. I don't believe either that all these people can speak so pithily all the time, but I'll give them the artistic licence they deserve, although not for a minute did I ever feel I was watching anything other than fictionalised drama, unlike say the recent .hit Norwegian political drama "Borgen".But it is very good fictionalised drama and to date seems well-deserving of its numerous awards.


                
I know all you WEST WING fanatics are going to hate me for dragging the current 9.0 rating down with my rating of 8.0, but I've got to. This show just wasn't the same after season 3, when during season 4 Aaron Sorkin and Rob Lowe left. It was fantabulous the first 3 seasons, but sadly perhaps went on 2 or 3 seasons too long. I cared about Josiah "Jed" Bartlett (played by the great Martin Sheen, who never won a Best Actor Emmy for this! For shame, Emmy voters! For shame!) and HIS administration (the aforementioned Lowe, Allison Janney, John Spencer, Bradley Whitford, and Richard Schiff), not whoever-the-heck-his-character's-name-was Jimmy Smits and his people! The writing on the show was great and great writing can keep a show going, but THESE original characters were also just as splendid as the writing. They were like real people who believed 100% in what they were doing: Sam Seaborn (Lowe), Claudia Jean "CJ Gregg" (Janney), Leo McGarry (Spencer), Josh Lyman (Whitford), Toby Ziegler (Schiff) all were 3-dimensional, individualistic characters w/ a common goal: to make the Bartlett administration the greatest in history (and they did!).The political stuff was interesting and well done, but the personal stuff is the real magic of the show. And the best and brightest of these personal eps and incidents occurred in the first 3 seasons: In Season 1, a season-ending assassination attempt on Bartlett; and late in Season 2, Bartlett's long-time aide Mrs. Landingham passed and he subsequently decided in the cliffhanger to reveal that he has MS (multiple sclerosis); Season 3 was strong as well.But smack dab in the middle of Season 2 they hit us with what I truly believe is the BEST episode of the series, the one entitled "Somebody's Going to Emergency, Somebody's Going to Jail"; in this classic ep, the West Wing staffers must meet w/ a bunch of seemingly meaningless caucuses, protesters, and people who had specific interests from the mundane (changing the world map) to the serious (pardons); this ep brilliantly tied together a personal incident that Sam was going (a betrayal by his own father) through with him having to look at pardoning a young woman's late grandfather (who was accused of treason back during WWII); not only was Lowe's acting astonishing in this ep, so was the rest of the cast, whose characters, even aware of his situation, still had to go through with the their mundane tasks (all of which hovered between hilarious (CJ and Josh dealing with the world map bozos), informative (Toby mediating a protest in downtown DC; "Free trade prevents wars!"), and moving (Leo empathizing with Sam at the eps start). At at the end of the ep, they all converged to console Sam, who had probably just had the most excruciating day of his life. It was just powerful stuff. THIS episode typifies what THE WEST WING was all about really: the characters.Now, for the downers. I never could get into Charlie's character. I found him awkward and the actor Dule Hill not very convincing. Also, the President is allowed to have an uneducated teenager as his personal aide? I don't think so! Plus, that relationship between Charlie and the Prez's daughter Zoe was boredom of the highest order; no chemistry whatsoever.Also, I found a lot of the sexual relationships boring. They tried to match Josh up with virtually every new female character (Marlee Matlin, Mary-Louise Parker) in sight and I found a lot of this tedious, but Sam (played by the obvious sex symbol Lowe) couldn't keep a woman (that hooker-turned-lawyer, Leo's daughter Mallory, the country-bumpkin Republican-turned-Democrat). OK, it was good Sam didn't end up with that last one! And CJ and that guy from THIRTYSOMETHING! Yeah, not too interesting. But when the show stayed with the White House drama, it was amazing, especially with the uncut tracking shots of characters talking in hallways.I give it an 8 b/c the first 3 seasons were magic, but it went on for 3 or 4 seasons too long. Just my opinion.
I will say before going any further than I enjoyed "The West Wing." It is a fun series that combines a number of great actors with the writing of the witty Aaron Sorkin. The plot progresses well from episode to episode, and no other television series has captured the reverence that so many people have towards the American presidency as "The West Wing." Bradley Whitford is lovable in his role as Joshua Lyman, and his relationship with Donna Moss (Janel Moloney) is my favorite part of the series. Martin Sheen does a wonderful job as President Josiah Bartlett as well.However, to add a caveat, much of the series often seem more like liberal wish fulfillment than good storytelling. Josiah Bartlett is a Nobel laureate who never talks about economics and who speaks four languages. He, like many other characters on the show, seems more like a archetype generated by elements of the American left rather than a flesh-and-blood character. His neoconservative stripe is a nice reminder of the political culture of the early 2000s though. The show's repeated attempts to make a right-winger part of the central group of characters are consistently failures, and its greatest success, Alan Alda's Arnold Vinick, is perhaps the most left-wing Republican presidential candidate in postwar American political history.It is therefore a success, but not an unqualified one.(I have watched this several times, most recently binging on it in April 2017)


                
The West Wing is a great show that I consider to be a *must watch*, even if only for the first 2 seasons. It's one of the original <U+0084>great shows on TV", paving the way for things like <U+0084>The Sopranos", <U+0084>The Wire", and <U+0084>House of Cards". This is the kind of show that always leaves you feeling good at the end. It's not most realistic portrayal of White House operations, and it's not without faults. But there is a lot of satisfaction to be had from watching competent and dedicated people trying to do their best at their jobs. And in this case, the main characters are the senior staff of the White House and the President of the United States. So their actions and decisions have a potentially huge impact. It has a very witty and smart dialogue, it's full of anecdotes, and it's also a very motivational show.What makes this show so great is its amazing characters and fantastic chemistry between them. The show revolves around the lives of the people in the higher echelons of the White House Administration: the President of the United States, Jed Bartlet; the Chief of Staff, Leo McGary; the Deputy Chief of Staff, Josh Lyman; the Communications Director, Toby Ziegler; the Deputy Communications Director, Sam Seaborn; the Press Secretary, Carla Jean Cregg; and their respective aides. Martin Sheen plays what is in my opinion the role of his live as Jed Barlet, the President of the United States. He is folksy and charming in a quintessentially American way. He's also brilliant, wise and competent, without being intoxicated with power. He can see the larger picture of life – we're are not put on this Earth to score points in silly pissing contests. We are here to make the most and the best we can with the gifts that God has given us. All of this means that he gives it all at his job in 16-hour shifts. And he does it with humility, respect and dedication to the office he holds. But he can also find the time to play a friendly tennis match against his staff. His doubles partner being Steffi Graf, of course :) I'll leave it to the reader to discover the other characters of this show, but I assure you that all of them are equally charming in their own way. Another strong point is the Bartlet Administration's approach to governing. It's so invigorating – especially in my day and age (2017) – to see the highest leadership in the country actually understand the gravitas of their function and tackling all the challenges of the office with professionalism and competency. By challenges I mean everything from the most seemingly mundane (the speech given at a Saturday special science program from the White House) to some of the most difficult of our time (education reform, gun control, world security, bipartisan cooperation, drug legislation and on and on).There are also some not-so-nice aspects to this show, but these become bothersome only if you binge-watch episodes. If you watch the show in reasonable doses, none of these will matter much:<U+0095> The main characters of this show are actually just one person, one mind – Aaron Sorkin. After you watch the show for a while and see how the main characters are always capable of continuing each other's ideas and speak with one mind you understand that they are actually just the splintered personality of Aaron Sorkin. At first, this makes them seem like an amazing team capable of near-telepathic communication. Unfortunately, in the long run, this starts to feel more and more like a monologue (a single train of thought from the writer) that lasts for the whole duration of an episode which just happens to have different parts of it spoken by different characters. It just doesn't feel like real people talking, and it shatters the illusion of the show.<U+0095> Too many episodes have simplistic plots that end up being easily solved by someone taking an easy and obvious decision. These episodes follow this formula: "Something happens needs a response from the White House. There is a 'wrong' and a 'right' answer. But the 'right' answer has some straw-opposition. Some back-and-forth debating ensues. In the end, someone in the White House comes to their senses, gently pushes the straw-opposition aside, and takes the 'right' decision easily and without any further consequences". Episodes of this sort end up leaving the viewer with a strong feeling that the whole situation could been easily avoided and everything was just a waste of time.I'm bringing this points up especially because there are episodes that actually put the characters in realistic and difficult situations, which require intelligence to solve and have lasting impact on the lives of those involved, and indirectly, on the Administration.As a parting thought, I just like to say that is a unique show that was, is and will remain enjoyable and relevant for a very long time.
One of the things I really like about "The West Wing" is that it's a show steeped in politics, but ends up being about the drama. I usually find myself getting lost in the dialogue, which is the mark of a great show. The writing on this thing is brilliant. Very nice set design, too. I've never been to the White House, but I do love the sets; it's just a very warm presence. And the actual show wouldn't be anything without its stellar. You'll be hard-pressed to find a better ensemble on prime time.Speaking of its politics, this has a reputation for being very left. Which is all well and good. But the person who turned me onto this was not at all liberal. Just saying.Personally, I just love Martin Sheen as President Bartlet. The man's got the commanding presence and charisma oozing from his very pores. I'd be lying if I said I didn't want him in the real oval office.8/10


                
Based on the reviews I've seen here, not too many Republicans out there watching this show. The series has a definite left wing leaning, which is fine and a refreshing change from so many hate mongers out there. A little unity, hope, doing what's right (and therefore, unpopular) - it's fiction we know, but oh to dream that we had an administration that could and would do all of those things.One reason I like the show - they hired one of Clinton's staffer's Dee Dee Myers as a consultant - to give it added realism. Does this show sometimes preach? Yup. Is it lofty? Is the President....Presidential? Yes! I did not start watching the series until 2008. I found it to be such a breath of fresh air from all of the fear mongers, haters and divisive people out there, I was ready for a little Hollywood. So enjoy a well written, funny, moving TV show and escape for a while to a place where smart people make tough choices and sacrifice themselves for the greater good. It does happen sometimes, just not often enough.


                
