I did and I lost two and a half hours of my life that I can never regain again.I honestly have no idea what the critics and fans see in this movie. And that's not because I can't appreciate "art". I love a good film with profound messages, brilliant cinematography, and great directing.This film just isn't one of them.My main complaint about this film is that it's so horribly slow-paced, to the point of boring its audience to death. On the other hand, sequences of dialog go by too quickly and there's not enough exposition to let people who haven't read the book know what's going on (My mother had mercy on me and explained everything before I watched it). Would it have killed them to hire a narrator? At least for the beginning and the end? Let me break it down for you: (Spoilers throughout) For the first two minutes you are treated to a black screen with no music, waiting for the actual movie to begin.For the following minute and a half, you see several pictures of sunrises and savanna landscapes. Like the audience couldn't figure out how to set the scene unless they saw the establishing shot three or four times.The next eleven minutes are occupied with the grunting monkeys. They fight, see the monolith, fight some more, pommel things with a bone. Supposedly they are prehistoric men whose evolution is being influenced by the monolith's singing. Not that you could tell if you hadn't read the book.*Finally* we get into space. Only to be subjected to twelve minutes of ships slowly spinning to the Blue Danube Waltz (A pretty quick-tempo-ed waltz as I understand, yet here it feels absolutely agonizing). At last we get some innocuous dialog and rather cryptic exposition about the government not letting people land on the moon. We are left to wonder about this for fourteen more minutes of Blue Danube and spinning ships and neat camera tricks with anti-gravity.Next comes four minutes of watching a ship travel over the surface of the moon and dock at a space station. We get a little more exposition in a board room scene that follows. Then we're back outside traveling at a snail's pace over the moon. A second monolith is revealed, again filling our ears with that horrible ringing (I had no idea that was an actual piece of music!). The monolith does its little light show and then the plot jumps forward.*Seven* minutes of watching the ship to Jupiter travel. By this point in time my brains had turned into mush. Could it be moving any slower? Maybe it's "realistic" to portray it as such, but we still don't need to see five or six different shots of the same thing to grasp the concept of its "realism". Let me tell you about this "realism" thing; I cheered when the secondary astronaut character died. Not because I'm a sadist and like watching people die, but because after five minutes I was just so annoyed at the sound of his darn breathing! I'm supposed to care about this character, feel when he dies! Instead I found myself waiting for blissful silence whatever way it came.Anyway, now we get to the most interesting part of the film-the part with HAL. Forget Dave the stick-of-wood protagonist. The real star of the show is that coldly impersonal, chillingly villainous, ruthlessly merciless bad guy of a computer. He's great. And the "Open the pod bay doors" sequence is wonderful. But it's too short. And it's not long before the director once again lapses into too-long goings on.Four minutes for HAL to die. And die he does. Slowly, painfully, losing intelligence with every minute, voice getting lower and slower, singing "Daisy, Daisy", all with a low and constant hissing that becomes just as annoying as the heavy breathing.Seven minutes of flying colors as Dave enters the monolith. Seven. I could FEEL my brains melting and dripping out of my ears! Seven full minutes of absolutely nothing but some guy's whacked out psychedelic version of space travel, again with that thrice-cursed chorus! We got the idea at the beginning of the sequence! Why drag it out so long? Unless he wanted to make LSD users go psychotic and have flashbacks.I'm not even going to try to explain the ending, mostly because I don't quite get it myself. Supposedly he's in an alien research laboratory and they're teaching him deep and profound things while he watches himself getting older and older and then they send him back to earth as some kind of cosmic celestial space baby. None of this comes across in the film. For all you know, it's just a sequence of images with no purpose or plot whatsoever. A lot of the movie felt that way.The first time I tried watching this movie I gave up halfway through. The second time I suffered through this sore excuse for a film, it was to help my sister time the sequences to see how long they lasted. It's that boring.Call this crummy film "art" if you wish. I wouldn't. I've seen more interesting "art" in the local museum. And I am never subjecting myself to this kind of suffering ever again.
2001 is one of those movies where, if you don't like it, you are told that you don't 'get it' and need to look at the deeper meaning and symbolism. You're told that you clearly have a slow attention span, and just want to see sex, explosions, and have the plot handed to you on a platter.Let's break down the movie shall we? Three minutes of blackness, with something that sounds like a dying hippo in the background. Then we get the opening credits. A minute of fascinating shots of the Savannah. Then a bunch of monkeys find a black rock and start killing things with bones. Cut to the first of many 20-minute shots of ships doing things while the 'Blue Danube' plays in the background. A bunch of pointless dialogue, and a group of moon scientists find another monolith.Cut to a spaceship that's too long for the crew complement--three sleeping people, two people named Dave and Frank, who have only slightly more personality than the stiffs in hibernation. And then there's HAL, the 'perfect' supercomputer who runs the ship. Predictably, he snaps and starts breaking the First Law of Robotics. Now this is something that has potential. An evil, coldly ruthless super-mind who controls the surrounding environment and can predict your every move. And what does he do? He lets one guy float into space and turns off the hibernation machines so the three sleeping guys die, leaving Dave floating in a pod. He simply uses the airlock, puts on a spacesuit, and turns HAL off--agonizingly slowly. Then, apparently, there's some psychedelic 'evolution' at Jupiter.Here's the movie with the pauses taken out: Apes see monolith, kill things. Scientists find moon monolith. HAL kills people. HAL dies; Dave gets a prerecorded message, and evolves at Jupiter.This is not me 'not getting it.' This is me being bored to tears by long stretches of absolutely nothing. Sure, it's realistic, but I find I have no reason to care. No matter the message, no movie can be good without being entertaining. Frankly, every character could be replaced with Keanu Reeves, and nothing would change.
I normally keep my movie thoughts to myself but this movie affected me to the point of voicing myself out.Movies are typically evaluated via (i) more/less objective attributes (plot, ideas, action, cinematography, etc.) and (ii) emotional impressions they leave. While the latter is extremely personal and diverse, some convergence can be achieved in the former. Unfortunately, this piece greatly fails in it: no plot, no original ideas, no action, horrible cinematography, and a very repetitive soundtrack. As far as the emotional impression goes: well, in my case, it gave me a highly unpleasant aftertaste: a very pretentious schizophrenic nightmare...Why is it so overrated then? I'd hypothesize that it is for the same reason as in the case of Malevich's "Black Square". When one sees something a piece of "art" of that type, there seem to be two typical reactions: (i) "There is nothing there, it is junk." and (ii) "There is nothing there but it must be great because everyone else thinks it's great. Then it must be an art." So what created this mob fame effect for this movie? I don't know for sure but it might have been the big names of S.Kubrick and A.Clark. Once such a "snowball" starts rolling down the hill and picks up the momentum, it is more difficult to stop it than to roll with it.Please trust your own independent feelings. Things don't become better because a million of other people say they are brilliant. Cheers.


                
2001 is the perfect movie for a certain group of people. You know who they are. Over the internet, in your college maybe--a student or possibly a philosophy/art/film professor. A person with a passion for avante-garde films with wacky imagery and little else. They're the type of people who find a college thesis' worth of material from the dialogue in the Matrix sequels, they're the ones that boldly declare a film 'art' and anybody else who disagrees with them 'just didn't get it.' 2001 is art alright. The kind of art that I can only liken as being assaulted and nearly beaten to death by an Andy Warhol painting. Yes this movie is art, and you will hate it for that.This is a shame since normally I like Stanley Kubrick movies, but 2001 is an experiment in film-making and nothing more. The plot is incredibly vague, revolving around monkeys battling a black monolith, a mission to space, and a computer program called Hal going insane since that's what most self-conscious computer programs do. The film is then peppered with other psychedelic imagery that are supposed to convey grand ideas. They'll only convey those types of things if you're pretentious and into that kind of thing, otherwise you'll view it as utterly pointless.2001 revolves around these whacked-out, LSD-induced images to string together some kind of story that interests you. It does not. A parade of shots that have little to do with one another and randomly show things happen does not a movie make.There are no doubt going to be people out there who will try to explain 2001's plot and why you should accept it as being a wonderful film. The thing is this: much like if you have to explain a joke then it isn't funny, it's the same thing with movies. If you have to explain to someone the plot and its various interpretations, then it isn't a good movie.Ultimately I can't change the opinion of the viewers and critics that loved 2001, but if 2001 proves anything it's this: keep your art to yourself.
This is certainly one of the most boring and meaningless films I have ever seen in my life. I love science and science fiction both. They are in fact 2 of my main interests in life. This movie still bored me beyond description! The accolades being heaped upon this hunk of garbage is hilarious. The most amusing tendency among the fans of this movie is ridiculing those who think it is boring and meaningless as stupid, ignorant or both. I am a professional in the computer design and engineering business. I am not stupid. And guess what? This movie is still boring and meaningless. It does have some of the best special effects of its era. In fact, most of the effects in this film would stand next to todays advanced digital special effects without being embarrassed. This is the one and only redeeming quality of this film. It's a collection of very long, very boring scenes that never seem to end. People have mentioned some of the most boring parts. The problem in listing them all is that it would be much easier to list the parts which are NOT boring babble. This movie is a complete waste of.....what seemed like 20 hours of my life. I highly recommend that you never waste time on such trash. For those who will attempt to dismiss my comment along with the other people they have dismissed let me be perfectly clear. I understood everything in the film. It is simply a terrible film. This pseudo-intellectual drivel is a director who thinks he's quite brilliant in his high school level presentation and vision of the journey of man. Of course he is very wrong indeed! If you enjoy this then I suggest you browse youtube for videos made by either inarticulate adults, or videos posted by immature children expressing their simplistic ideas of the world and mankind. The director is incompetent. What takes him 15 minutes of very boring film, a segment he labels "the dawn of mankind", near the beginning of the film is a segment that a skilled filmmaker would be able to accomplish in about 2 minutes at most. In fact that sums up what this movie really is. Very simplistic ideas drawn out, and I do mean DRAWN OUT SEEMINGLY FOREVER, in an effort to convince the audience that the filmmakers were very smart people. Hold a copy of the movie in your hand and you will see the condescension dripping from it. It's disjointed. It lacks cohesiveness. It adds elements of science fiction, horror, fantasy, and pre-teen created entertainment. It also fails to deliver in any of these categories. Stop attacking those who do not like this film. They aren't nearly as stupid as is implied here. This movie really does suck this bad. It's almost entirely comprised of shots and contrived scenes which are intended to showcase the effects. Nice effects. Utterly worthless film. Obtain and enjoy some of the many great documentary films about the space program if you want to see great scenery of space. To complete this huge hunk of celluloid garbage, the filmmakers end it with scenes that are not only long but can only be compared to patients in an insane asylum babbling incoherently. No we're not stupid. This movie just sucks. Beauty? Hardly. Deep? If you have a 5th grade education perhaps. Worth watching? Absolutely not! There is nothing brilliant about meaningless film that must be "interpreted" by the few viewers who claim they have the answer. Thats just incompetent lazy film making.


                
I'm sorry, good music and cool special effects do not make a good movie! What the heck? I mean, I saw this movie when I was a kid, and I didn't like it. Now, I have a growing appreciation for movies, and I wanted to write a comment from a more grown up point of view. I had 2 hours to spare and I watched this movie, I swear I nearly went insane. I normally put on the subtitles, in case I miss something or misunderstand the dialoug, 89% of the movie is silent! Apes?! I could just go to the zoo and say I saw this movie! I could watch "Star Wars" and say I saw this movie! It's the same friggin' thing. I'm not trying to be so harsh on this film, but how can anyone find this entertaining?! How?! Unless you are 150 years old, that is the only way I could understand. Geez, people. This movie is so out dated and needs to be thrown away, especially from the top 250! Why are so many bad movies on top 250?! I'm getting sick of these over hyped movies! 1/10


                
"2001: A Space odyssey" is one of the great cinematic visual experiences ever put on film. And flying across the United States from coast to coast while staring out the window is also a great visual experience. Yep, you're certainly glad that you weren't asleep the whole trip, but there's no way to stay awake the whole time either. Such is 2001. Looks Fantastic, but at some point you're just staring out that window wondering "For God's sake! When will we FINALLY touch back down and get on with it? Some fans see Stanley Kubrick as God. I see their point. God created this incredible planet and there's so much surrounding heavenly beauty to behold, just like Kubrick stuffs into 2001. That said, you just reach a breaking point at which you're like "OK, nice planets! Nice starry heavens!! Nice lens flare!!! Assuming though that I'll live at least one more day, I'll try and see the rest of it tomorrow 'cause I'm like really freaking' bored silly right now! Yep, tomorrow. I'll admire it . . . tomorrow . . . or the day after that, but for now it's just putting me to sleep. And guess what? My own dreams never leave me bored! I just don't commit them to film and then charge admission. THAT would be cruel.


                
This movie, I have seen it at the theaters when it came out, and many times after. I strongly feel that critics, are falling into a "The Emporor's New Clothes" syndrome. Some great critic said it was good, and many others followed. To have the courage to tell the truth, and say it was slow, and boring would make them seem non intellectual. The fact is it is very slow, and boring. The fact that some have called it the BEST movie ever made, is not realistic. Anyone, who has, or can sit through this in it's full length (I have many times) is trying to see what the critics find so wonderful about it. it is not. Criminals should be able to redeem a year of their sentence for each viewing of this film. "2001 A Space Odyssey" makes "Plan 9 From Outer Space", look like "Gone With the Wind".


                
This is easily one of the most overrated films of all time. Of the 141 minute run-time, maybe 30 minutes of that is story development; the rest is just time fillers such as watching a ship fly through space for ten minutes. I found it necessary to engage in other activities throughout the movie while these time fillers went on. This meant I was doing something else for about 90% of the time the movie was on.The music is loud, irritating, and incongruent with what is occurring. Half of it feels like happy show tunes when the visuals are either somber or nothing (i.e. a space ship flying through space for ten minutes).The ending had the feel that Kubrick was trying to do something artsy and creative...but failed miserably and created only something that was a boring culmination to a boring movie.Avoid this one at all costs...unless you want to take a 2 1/2 hour nap.


                
Well, While I'm open to slow pace movies - you know, some of the deep and meaningful European movies for instance - I have to confess I have never seen a more boring movie in my life.This has to win the grand Oscar of the most boring movie ever made. And trust me, I watch a LOT of movies - 4 to 6 per day, as my job requires.As to "BEAUTY", as mentioned by another amateur critique here, well, I guess "beauty" is in the eyes of the beholder as the proverb goes. Personally, I found it, err... not so much ugly (apart from the growling apes) but ... duh... boring beyond belief.How on earth the current rating of IMDb shows 8.4/10 beats the sh*t out of me.I guess I must have missed something.


                
I remember seeing "2001" in the early 1980's and honestly, I did not get it. I recently rented it and honestly, I still don't get it. While certainly a cut above other science fiction films of the day from a visual standpoint, the story is drawn out over two-and-a-half interminable hours.I've heard it described as "intelligent science fiction." I've also heard "Star Trek" described thusly. But somewhere along the line Stanley Kubrick, unlike Gene Roddenberry and the "Trek" writers, forgot about the entertainment factor.I gave it a score of three for the stunning graphics. Unfortunately, that's really all "2001" has to offer.


                
Let's just get one thing straight: The only reason I've given this film 1 star is because the option for none isn't available. This film makes me feel ill. Here's why.You can bandy around all the 'before-its-time' and 'visionary' platitudes you like, but the simple fact is that this film has no plot, its actors are on autopilot, its themes could have been drummed up by a four-year-old, and it's all directed with the kind of pomposity with which Stanley Kubrick was terminally afflicted."Kubrick? Pompous?" I hear you cry. "But what about The Shining? What about A Clockwork Orange? What of Doctor Strangelove?"Well, let's see. The Shining is good, but only for one reason - Jack Nicholson. Without his quiet madness and eventual raving, axe-wielding, snarling, cackling insanity, this film would just be an hour and a half of slow tracks through corridors broken up by scenes of people you couldn't give a damn about.A Clockwork Orange? Boring. The book is superior (as was The Shining, now I think about it). Humourless, dull, meaningless and dangerously close to juvenilia. Fourteen-year-old boys love this because people get hurt with sticks and there are boobs in it.Doctor Strangelove? Ah. Now I come to a problem, because Strangelove is a great film. However, I make no apology for saying that it's a great film DESPITE Kubrick, not BECAUSE of him. Peter Sellers is excellent in all three of his roles, George C. Scott is an acting powerhouse, and Sterling Hayden is a joy. The story is from a novel by Peter George. Kubrick brings nothing to the party.So, I think it's fair to say that Kubrick is a mediocre director with delusions of grandeur who rode to stardom on the back of exceptional performances from actors far better than he deserved. He wasn't a visionary. He was a hack.Now, back to 2001: Overrated Excrement. Sorry, I meant A Space Odyssey. That's another thing: comparing this dross to The Odyssey is like trying to make people believe 'Ernest Saves Christmas' is on a cultural par with Alfred Lord Tennyson.I started out a few paragraphs ago trying to explain why this film is so bad. Let me try again. There are a few themes in this, but they really boil down to these visionary gems: 1. People are bad to each other. 2. Technology is evil. 3. There is more in the universe than we can see.Hmm. Even in 1968 these theories were old hat. So, needless exploration of thoroughly explored themes aside, why else is this film pathetic? Well, the acting is sub-par for one. Keir Dullea's performance as Dave the Astronaut was practically non-existent. The film would have been much the same if he'd been replaced by a houseplant. Possibly better. And he was the protagonist. The film had to hinge on him and a computer, apparently voiced by somebody on massive amounts of lithium. Understated and slowly unnerving or just dull? I know which one I think. I like slow burners. I much prefer the build-up of tension to the shoddy action fluff made famous by the Bruckheimer/Affleck pairing, but this film has no tension. It has no build-up. It has nothing. The oft-heralded special effects are nothing special, even allowing for the thirty-five year time gap. The universally fawned-over shot of the bone turning into the spaceship actually made me embarrassed at its ineffectiveness. It was definitely amateur-hour at Stanley's house when they cobbled that together. The use of classical music is decidedly underwhelming. The 'Ballet In Space' scene with the ships spinning around each other set to Strauss's Blue Danube Waltz looks like an episode of Battlestar Galactica with the wrong soundtrack. Frank Poole floating off into space after being killed By HAL looks like a little plastic action figure being flushed down the toilet. The ape at the beginning who hurls the afore-mentioned bone into the air looks like a hired strippogram. Pathetic. Absolutely pathetic.You know what? I've had enough of reviewing this rubbish. It doesn't deserve a detailed critique. It deserves to be put out of its misery with a hammer to the temple.I can't urge you strongly enough not to waste your precious time on this god-awful film. I hate it with a passion born not of misunderstanding, but adherence to the idea that a film should not, under any circumstances, be a chore to watch through virtue of its extreme tediousness and pomposity. I stuck through this until the end (even past the ludicrous ending that lasted for about four hours) and gave it every chance to redeem itself. At the end, I sat back, disgusted, and felt a deep sense of gratitude that Stanley Kubrick had gone to a better place - a place where he couldn't do this type of damage again.This film is utterly without merit. Kubrick should be ashamed, and so should you for watching it. If you haven't watched it yet (and I sincerely hope you haven't), please, please, please don't do it. I'd rather you watch Affleck than this drivel.Well, perhaps not, but you get the idea.
I never saw this movie in the theater because it was made 12 years before I was born. Yet I have seen just about every space movie made in the last 40 years and this one is by far the worst slow paced movie I have ever seen! It starts out, boring. It goes 25 minutes with out one human word spoken. I say human word because I am not sure if the Apes were speaking Aponese or just gibberish. Not that it mattes because I don't speak any Ape language.Then we go to the space scenes. They are VERY slow. Maybe its realistic maybe its not, I don't care that space is a vacuum with no sound either. I want some space sounds to keep me from feeling like I went deaf. Finally, I could not take any more space scenes. After watching the second LOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOONG one with a sphere spaceship taking forever to land on the moon and coming to the realization that "This is the most boring movie I have ever seen!" I decided that all space scenes I would simply put on fast forward. Well actually 2X FFWD is WAY TOO SLOW so I actually put it to 4X FFWD and then the space scenes were normal space speed found in other movies like Star Trek or Star Wars or any other spacey show.I get this film and why some, especially at the time thought it was a masterpiece. For its time the Space scenes were amazing! Look at its competition at the time, the Original Star Trek and then look at this film. There is no comparison. However as far as story goes, it was nearly non existence and the movies pace was slower then a earth worm trying to find a hole on the pavement. I've attempted to watch this movie 8 times in my life and only recently I was able to finish this movie and only because I fast-forwarded near 50% of it.This movie is one of those rare ones where people either LOVE it or the HATE it. There is not a lot of people with an opinion about this movie that simply think in between. I hated it. I'm not a action junkie either, I just hated this movie. So Avoid it if you have not watched it, because it is a CAN miss movie, even if you might LOVE it, there still is no reason to watch this old movie.
I'd heard that 2001 was a good movie, so walking past it at the library one day I figured I'd give it a shot. Having been raised on Star Wars and Trek I figured it was right up my alley... I couldn't have been more wrong.My main beef was the lack of content and the crypticness of it. I mean, who wants to watch a space ship slowly pass in front of the camera for an entire minute? Who wants to watch a bunch of people in monkey suits dance around a singing brick? I didn't even get where this movie was going until I read a summary online.I have to give it to the people of 1968 to pull off a feat such as this, but that's about the only good thing about 2001. What good is special effects if there is no story to tell? Thank heavens people like George Lucas came along!


                
2001 Space Odyssey is complete and utter crap. It is the most overstated movie ever made. DO NOT waste your money or your time with this rubbish. Be careful about people who go on about how great this movie is. Most of them are pretentious idiots that simply join in the band wagon for fear of looking stupid.


                
This is the master of all travesties, how this film is so often regarded as the best sci-fi movie ever made is beyond me. It is a living testimony of how overrated Kubrick's work really was.The story is pointless, since it goes nowhere and explains nothing. There is about 30 minutes of dialog or so stretched out over the entire movie (which also indicates how crappy the story must be), and most of the scenes just keep going and going without adding anything except maybe incredible boredom. Even the actors working on the film though it would be terrible, even while they were making it.This movie is terrible, and should never have been made. If this is what science fiction should aspire too, then science fiction is a sad genre indeed.
If this movie was aired as an episode of The Outer Limits series (without revealing its director's name) the only thing that would make it stand out would be THOSE TENS OF MINUTES OF POINTLESS VOID. As some have said already, even for me this was one of very few movies where I skipped minutes of a movie void.The special effects used to take us into the space were probably stunning back in 1958. Today they are OK. Which is great achievement. But unless visuals are bad to the level that they are disturbing in my opinion they should not have much weight in rating.The primates on the other hand were simply terrible. *ANIMALS SHOULD NOT BE PLAYED BY PEOPLE IN COSTUMES.* I do understand not much could be done in 1968 (even CGI Caesar in Planet of the apes is not 10/10), but I write review for viewers in 2014+.Another issue I have with this movie is the technology predictions Kubric made here. A director should know this stuff never withstands the test of time. A truly great sci-fi focuses on gadgets as little as possible and rather spends the time/effort to tell the story (or build the atmosphere) instead.In "2001" Kubrick spent minutes showcasing wannabe-futuristic devices, and the result is that in 2014 they look silly. This rookie mistake alone safely renders all the "10/10, best SF ever" reviews ridiculous and out-of-touch.Given what I'm about to say about the message of this movie I can't decide myself whether torturing us for minutes with stuff like the blinking computer interface during the landing sequence was a mistake or a compensation for lack of something...As for the "deeper meaning"... You know the feeling when you are doubts about whether you are getting what the director was trying to say? Of course you have some ideas, but you keep dismissing them thinking "nah, that's too banal, there must be more to it"... And then you read what the excited people have to say about it, what people who claim to "understand the movie" think. And they happen to repeat what you dismissed earlier as being too banal. There are many reviews calling us (those who don't like this movie) morons. One such review explained "the morons don't understand the monolith was a teacher, and then a beacon, a tool, a next phase...". Ummm okay, I say, so it IS actually that banal. Yet it takes 2.5 hours of your life.
I really detest Stanley Kubrick. This so-called "great" director made exactly three good movies in his entire career: LOLITA, DR STRANGELOVE, and A CLOCKWORK ORANGE. The first one was pretty conventional Hollywood fare, the second a brilliant, jet-black comedy about the Cold War that hit every nail right on the head, and the third a brilliant but extremely unpleasant film adapted, I am told faithfully, from Anthony Burgess's dystopian novel.That's all she wrote, folks. Three good movies and he's a great director.Who decides these things, anyway? He made a mishmash out of Stephen King's brilliant novel THE SHINING in 1980, so obsessed with his own cleverness and "vision" that he simply ripped the guts out of King's work and replaced it with basically a lot of stunning visuals signifying nothing.Which brings us to 2001: A SPACE ODYSSEY. I remember reading somewhere that back in its day it was the fashionable thing to watch this movie stoned.I can see why. There's a plot here somewhere, but I can't find it. All I see are a bunch of disjointed scenes, all of which are either beautiful or at least interesting to look at, but which tell you nothing.Keir Dullea, a talented actor who was cruelly misused by Hollywood, appears stoned himself for much of the proceedings (perhaps he was, it WAS 1968 after all). In fact, at the end of the day, the best performance in the entire cast was given by Douglas Rain as the voice of the maniacal HAL9000 computer.And as usual with Kubrick, the thing is interminable; at nearly two and a half hours, it screams for a pair of scissors, or perhaps a machete.Are people so afraid of appearing dumb that if they find a movie incomprehensible they automatically assume it must be a work of genius? I don't know. What I do know is that Stanley Kubrick was a director who spent most of his career creating wonderful visuals. But that is it. Most of his films are all style and no substance. This one is one of the worst.How this film made the AFI's #1 spot as the premiere film in the sci-fi genre is a mystery that I shall never understand. This movie is pure dreck from start to finish.
I remember well the first (and only) time I saw this film.  I was sitting with my sister, both with our mouths wide open as the film came to a close. We could not believe that we had spent over two hours of our lives watching such a dull and pointless film. To this day I have been unable to find a living person that will admit to liking this film. I like intelligent, serious films, but this must transcend them all, to the point of comedy.


                
I saw this in 1968 and last week. I still have the same rating. Real sleeper


                
This movie is TERRIBLE. It is the most bloated, self-indulgent piece of drug-induced trash in cinematic history. There is no point to this film. Hal, who is considered one of the best villains in film, is hardly in the movie. And his demise is one of the most anti-climactic moments ever. It would be one thing if the movie had no point but to take such a long time to say nothing is painful at best. The whole end scene with the guy seeing himself, and then becoming himself is just plain stupid. In regards to quality, it is a drawn-out student film. I wish I had those two-and-half hours back that I wasted watching it. As a writer I am offended at this movie's high regard in film circles.
Everyone who likes this movie for its plot and philosophical content refuses to explain why. Instead, they dish up constructive comments like "if you don't get it, then I won't bother explaining it to you". Sophists used to apply such methods in order to make themselves seem wise. They would walk into a room and utter something completely unintelligible. Those who didn't understand it, believed that it had to be their own fault, as the sophists had already established a reputation for themselves. Also, they didn't want to ADMIT that they didn't understand it, as they believed it would make them look foolish. And so, what was in fact devoid of meaning began to be called "deep" and the word "mysterious" became positively laden. Well, I claim that 2001: A Space Odyssey is empty and meaningless. People have claimed otherwise, but no one has ever EXPLAINED otherwise. And surely the burden of proof must rest with them. Trying to disprove what has never been proven to begin with is a waste of time. It would be like attempting to disprove the existence of the easter bunny.


                
2001: A Space Odyssey, was without a doubt, the lamest, most boring, most unentertaining, poor excuse for a film, waste of time, I've ever seen! Whenever there was any form of live action, there was absolute silence. Whenever there was nothing to see but black, it was accompanied by the most horrible set of minor and dimished chords you could imagine. It was a waste of 2 and a half hours. I constantly kept repeating, "THE END" hoping that the film would heed my request. I don't see how it can be called a masterpiece. It was nothing but a series of segways from one scene to the next, with each segway getting longer and each scene getting shorter. The most excruciating scene had to be when the ship was entering Jupiter's orbit. A 15 minute sequence with simple images slowly flashing on the screen after being run through a filter. The music sounded as if a three year old had been sat behind a piano and been allowed to bang on the keys. Coming in at a close second, was the first 20 minutes in which nothing happened except two clans of monkeys fought, after it took one of them 19 minutes to realize that a bone could be used as a beating device. !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!THE WORST MOVIE I'VE EVER SEEN!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!


                
I usually do not comment the movies I come here to vote, but I have to make an exception on this one. The simple fact that this is a Stanley Kubrick film based on a book by Arthur C. Clark does not make it wonderful. I do not get the 8,3 average.Are people simply too afraid to disagree with the majority of people or has boring become exciting and vice versa. I might enjoy this movie if it would be available in an unabridged version which would probably be 10 to 15 minutes long. For the most part of the movie there's nothing going on (and I don't wanna hear any more of that "it's beautiful and artistic etc." stuff, 'cause in my humble opinion a movie is supposed to be entertaining.) Boring scenes about nothing after another with some dialog in the middle and absolutely no plot at all sums up the whole movie.Waste of time (and a good two and a half hours of it too). It's not worth the one star, but since i cannot give it a zero...


                
2001 is about some astronauts up in space on mission, along with a robot named "HAL 3000" though the movie HAL goes psyco and kills all but on member of the crew! this movie was The worst movie I have ever seen, from the beginning when i saw the evolution involving actors in ape costumes dancing like year olds to the end where The world starts all over again! the more I think about this movie the more I realize, that it could of been a good movie if it would of had 3 things different, a half sain producer (Stanly Kubrick) and a bigger budget, and some decent music! I would never recommend this movie because i almost went insane watching it in class (MY teacher made me watch it) and trust me it will make u go insane! the production is bad, and i would rate this movie worst movie of the century! I hope you take my review seriously and consider staying away from this torturous film!


                
