"200l: A Space Odyssey" is a supremely intriguing space-travel journey with a profound look at mankind's future... It is one of the very few great films of our times... It gives us something to think, talk and argue... It wonders about our importance in the universe and ignites our imagination and curiosity... It inspires us to dig for insights...As a science fiction fantasy, it is one of the most original films ever made... Kubrick's camera dances to the "Blue Danube" with planets floating exuberantly through the light years... It's an experience in the poetry of motion, a rich statement to the power of cinema...But "2001" reveals that it's not really a science fiction film after all... It's, instead, a philosophical enigma, a magnificent meditation on man's place in the grand scheme of things, and a quest to understand ourselves by knowing all else..."2001" is a unique film about man's evolution told in almost subliminal terms... The people in this classic science-fiction epic hardly matter... Kubrick relates a chronology in images of things<U+0097>the mountains, the desert, the technology, the space capsule, the computer named HAL (who is more interesting than the humans), and the time warp... The final landing scene is the very hallmark of cinematic genius...As a terror story, too, it is a towering achievement (not on the same scream-inducing level as Hitchcock's "Psycho"), but in an innocent and far more haunting way...The film uses invisible but powerful forces to manipulate the plot but perhaps the most overwhelming one is the picture's vision of man... In Kubrick's fantasy, the Golden Age of man was a neglected instant between a man-ape's exaltation at discovering the first weapon and a nuclear-powered spaceship floating in a graceful orbit around the Earth... Man has indeed evolved!As a spectacle "2001" assaults the mind, eye and ear, with stimulating images and suggestions... We are surrounded by a totally believable futuristic environment... The film is filled with brilliant sequences and extraordinary moments: The first interesting minutes in which the story of the apes is told visually, without a single line of dialog; the zero-gravity toilet with its great list of instructions; the stewardess defying gravity by walking the walls calmly upside down; the frightening moment when we realize that HAL is reading the astronauts lips; the magical alignments of Sun, Moon, and Earth; the "Starchild" returning home to charm the orb..."2001" is filled with poetic imagery: the view of the Sun rising over the Earth; the tossing of the bone into the air in slow motion; the slow images of the giant spaceship revolving in a cosmic ballet..."2001" is also a work of great visual acuity... It allows us to view more than the mystery of existence and destiny implicit in every man... Its end troubles many viewers as they demand clarity where there can only be mystery... They insist upon an answer where there can only be a question... Every viewer had a different explanation of the mysterious end of Kubrick's film<U+0085> But for those who can accept mysticism, the climax is deeply moving...
Originally, I was writing a huge analysis of this film to post on IMDb, going through the film, thinking about it in detail and peeling back all the different layers to it. About half way through I realised that it was getting too long, and I should perhaps be more concise with my review. This however, showcases the huge amount of substance and detail to be found in this film. In my opinion, the best films aren't the ones that tell you things. The best films are the ones that ask you questions, so that you can think about it for yourself.The biggest theme in this film, in my opinion, is tools. Near the beginning of the film we are watching two tribes of apes just after the creation of the world. They are rival tribes, but then there is a pivotal moment which changes everything. One tribe discovers tools, in the form of using dead animal bones as weapons, and they are automatically superior. When one apes is playing, smashing a bone against another bone, he throws it up in the air and we witness one of my favourite cuts of all time. Suddenly it cuts to a spaceship with a similar shape, millions of years later, and we come to witness the tools that were discovered by the apes now defining who the humans are. The place they are staying in, a spaceship, is a tool. Breathing, which should be a wholly natural thing, can only be done through a tool. A man's only means of contacting his family is through a tool. For a large part of the film the characters wear spacesuits which, to me, although it is all up to interpretation, is symbolic, as, without their spacesuits (a tool) they would be naked. Later in the film, we spend a long time following an expedition to Jupiter which has on board an artificial intelligence computer, HAL, an astronaut Dave, and about three other Astronauts in hibernation. The thing that is striking about this section of the film is that Dave and the other Astronaut who awakens, both give extremely unrealistic and unemotional performances. That probably sounds like a bad thing to you, but that's exactly what the director wanted to convey. The fascinating thing about it is that in a ship full of a number of humans and a computer, the computer seems to have the most humanity.In this section, the two Astronauts decide HAL the computer, has gone out of control and they must unplug him. HAL finds out, and a fascinating situation arises. HAL feels fear. Here, it is easy to view HAL as a one dimensional villain who just wants to destroy things, but really, I think he fears being unplugged in the same way a person would fear being killed. I also think he reacts in quite a human way, killing the the Astronauts in order to save himself. However, Dave reaches HAL's control room and so begins a scene that I think is more disturbing than most things you find in a 12 (I'm British, but I think that translates to a PG-13 in the USA). In this scene Dave unplugs HAL and the most interesting question in the film arises. Is this murder? Whichever way, this is a very sad scene as HAL shows genuine human sadness and fear. At the end of the film, after an odd sequence consisting of Dave going through a light, colour tunnel and then seeing various landscapes in weird inverted colours, he lands in an eighteenth century room. This is a highly debated scene and is completely open to interpretation, but I will give my views on it:In this scene, I think that Dave, has travelled so far out, that time and space are insignificant. What I mean is that he has travelled to a place where it doesn't matter where, or when you are, time moves randomly. You could be in the eighteenth century, you could be on earth, you could keep getting older or you could keep getting older, (which all happen to him): it doesn't matter. And then what I think is the most ambiguous ending in film history unfolds. A much much older version of him appears dying on a bed, then you see a baby on the bed replacing where he was which grows and in the final shot you see it next to the earth, a similar size. So what does the ending mean? What does the film mean? What is it saying about tools? Was the unplugging of HAL really murder? Is HAL really human? What makes us human? Is it trying to imply we are too reliant on tools? Perhaps it is trying to imply that we ourselves are becoming the tools, as the beings with the least humanity. This brings me to my first point. 2001 never makes any statements it, only asks questions. And the great thing about that is that, they are interesting questions I can think about for as long as I want and never come to a conclusion, as I don't think there ever was one.
This has really become a classic film, not just a sci-fi classic. "2001"was a ground-breaking event, visually-speaking, that had people talking big-time when it was released. In my college-age crowd at the time, all anyone could talk about was the famous "light show scene" late in the film on the trip to Jupiter.Admittedly, there are a few things that make this film less than appealing to some, and I've always found that understandable: mainly, the slowness of many scenes and the secular agenda. I've never let either one bother me. First-time viewers are warned: don't expect a fast-moving film. And don't worry about figuring out the ending. I don't know if anyone has an answer to that.The visuals - the "light show," modern furniture, immense space craft, the ending bedroom scene, the apes learning to use weapons to fight each other, etc - are all fascinating aspects of this movie, but there is more. The soundtrack, the more one hears it, is extremely impressive especially as technology improves and he we hear it on a good DVD and surround system. (The Blu-Ray is fantastic.)Now that's the way to hear classical music! Strauss' "Blue Danube" never sounded better! Played during many of the slower parts of the film, the dramatic music enhances the feel of the immensity of space itself. Then, audibly, we hear these eerie chants whenever the mysterious monolith appears, whether its on earth, out in space, or in Jupiter. In other words, this film offers a fantastic assortment of visual and audio "trips" for the senses.Story-wise, it's all about HAL, the computer, and two astronauts who are under his leadership. The spacemen - played by Keir Dullea and Gary Lockwood - are good, but HAL steals the show. His "voice" is mesmerizing, a haunting monotone. In fact, Douglas Rain is the unsung "hero" of this movie, with his voice-work of "Hal." The more one sees this movie, the more cold and evil HAL becomes.All in all, this is a movie - like the controversial "A Clockwork Orange" - that is so unique that I would think it would have be part of any movie fan's collection of the memorable films of the 20th century.


                
The only reason I give it 9 and not 10 is because of the ending. Too weird! It does lead me to believe that one or more of the production team were taking recreational drugs.But other than that, it is a wonderful rendering of what could have been and perhaps what might be. Rich in detail, stunning special effects and great sets. And all from 1968... heck, I was still in high school and, as a timeline reference, the Japanese hadn't yet brought their first 4-cylinder motorcycle to market yet.The one prediction which they had completely wrong was the operator/ownership of the shuttle - PanAm was strong in 1968 but would be long gone by 2001. And we haven't discovered any remotely controlled monoliths yet.Philosophically, the film contains several messages, but one pervades all : "we are mere puppets of the Universe".Don't plan on watching this movie quickly, or even once. You'll miss way too much of what makes it a Sci-fi benchmark.


                
For the first time we see a mysterious monolith still for long before appearance of the first human. Stanley Kubrick in the company of the screenwriter Arthur Clark shows to the viewer of monkeys. These are the beings, rather primitive from the point of view of social lines, who don't have accurate public organization. But here on the horizon the mysterious Black Obelisk appears. Creators only begin to provide the thinnest surgical hints to the viewer as a food for thought. Opinions of most of both film critics, and mere mortals dispersed about it from the moment of the movie premiere.The further travel to Jupiter looks awesome, with fascinating sounds and the color images rushing before the astronaut's eyes. The long episode of an unreal travel sharply breaks with a scene in usual, quite realistic situation in the living room where the traveler endures the accelerated aging and regeneration, having come to be an image of the star child. The star child who comes up from a monolith in space is result of this coition. This creation which received absolute knowledge, having experienced physical death and having revived, smoothly moves towards Earth. There, having found a physical body, the star child will differ from other people as well as modern people from the space station differ from the monkeys.  
The musical motifs (Richard Strauss' Also Sprach Zarathustra, Johann Strauss' Blue Danube Waltz) will forever bring the film to mind, and snippets of its minimalist dialogue ("Open the pod bay doors, Hal", "Good morning, Dave") pop up in homages and cultural references.In the end just wanna tell, that this is one of the best movies ever. With fantastic atmosphere, deep philosophical implication and a nonlinear plot. All of this forces your gray substance moves and to look for a way to a necessary enlightenment. And here, when you would seem it is already close to it, "the space Odyssey" quickly slips out your "hands", leaving you alone with own thoughts.
Strangely enough, I saw this film again the day after I first saw Star Wars: The Phantom Menace. One of the films is clearly superior, with outstanding direction, sound, visuals, music, plot, scripting, design and execution. And it's obviously The Phantom Menace, isn't it?Seriously, though, 2001 is a real slap in the face for George Lucas, a film that has all it's effects constantly on show, but never to the effect that they seem ostentatious. Lucas, on the other hand, uses Phantom Menace to throw everything he's got at the camera, a mind-numbing tedium of sfx, rather like a six-year-old throwing a tantrum at jelly and ice-cream party.2001 in comparison is elegant and sophisticated, taking it's time, showing it's effects in all their glory to an exquisite classical symphony. Beneath the visuals, which are absolutely stunning for 1968, produced on a tenth of Phantom Menace's cartoon budget, is an intricate plot. Rather surprisingly, Kubrick creates a wholly believable space backdrop, yet the men in monkey suits at the prologue look exactly like... men in monkey suits. Yet this exists as a perfect introduction, just as the psychedelia acts as a perfect coda. In the middle is the most successful element, Hal, a voice that can conjure both stolid calm and malevolence in the same monotone.
2001 is probably the most important science fiction film, taking the genre into the realms of art. And while I must apologise for reviewing The Phantom Menace almost as much as the film in question, this does serve as a very important film-watching guide: watching a terrible film before a good one enhances appreciation of the better work.


                
Starting with the Dawn of time, the history of mankind is portrayed as it evolves, encountering a mysterious black monolith in both, the pre-evolution humanity stages and the futuristic world of 2001. A timeless classic, the Space Odyssey is argued to be one of Kubrick's finest works, as it features one of the most well-known Match cuts in the history of cinema and was determined to be the "ultimate science fiction movie", as Kubrick said.Even after 50 years from the release, people are still talking about it and asking the same questions that still haven't been answered.In addition to an interesting plot, the movie was known to adapt groundbreaking camera techniques that would later inspire new filmmakers all around the world, seeing as Kubrick intended to break the set norms.Even though we speak of it as the timeless cinema classic, the Space Odyssey for many is quite hard to watch. It features long scenes devoid of action, to which the modern audience is not used. We have adapted the idea that films must always show us things and tell us what is going on, thus breaking the basic rule of filmmaking - show, don't tell. In doing so, the modern audiences have been desensitised and are not used to the film making us think. The Space Odyssey is still a brilliant film. First following a mysterious astronaut mission in deep space, it then comes to a tense showdown, paralleling Homer's Odyssey and even after the conflict is resolved the film takes the audience further than anticipated, giving each member of the audience to interpret the film differently.


                
To create a movie of this level in 1968, he deserves special recognition. It is an great accomplishment. Arthur c Clark also deserves the credit. I have only seen 3 Kubrick movie but this one is the best for me. yes it took me more than a couple of stop-reverse- play scenes to understand the theme (as it did for interstellar, mulholland dr etc). Thought Nolan was a sci fi hero but this just changed my opinion slightly. This is the kind of movie that u should see and experience rather than read a review and skip it. i did it for couple of years until i finally saw it today. worth every minute spent on it. The BGM creates the kind of tension filled environment around you, like you are there in space. The Graphics in this was near perfect for that age, watching in 2017 didn't even cause any problems for me. If you are onto the sci-fi movies this is a must watch, no wonder Nolan was inspired by this.


                
My Rating : 9/10The opening of this film is legendary and so is the ending. The middle can be immensely boring and a real test of patience. I guess the movie can be interpreted as an artist's hallucinatory portrait of man's existence through time.Overall - A great piece of cinema history.Highly recommended.


                
A movie fan at one of the cinematic conferences once spoke up and said that the best idea in a film is not to give any ready made answers but leave everything open to viewers' interpretations. In this case, we are all a part of art that we watch, we admire, we criticize but, foremost, discover. This assumption proves particularly suitable for Stanley Kubrick's 2001 SPACE ODYSSEY inspired by a short story by Arthur C. Clarke.What strikes viewers most about the film are the questions that the theme provokes and answers that we are likely to find in ourselves. But...nothing ready on a platter! Not much is given to us except for thrilling experience of a journey, a titled odyssey. The central theme-ODYSSEY the location-SPACESHIPS/THE UNIVERSE. In that respect, it seems inevitable to quote Roger Ebert who rightly pointed out in his review that Kubrick's genius does not lie in "how much" but "how little." Almost everything is left to us, which makes it a very difficult screen achievement and, simultaneously reflective, such "a philosophical statement about a man's place in the universe" (Ebert).From the first sequence titled "Dawn of Man," we see apes with an obvious aspect of imprisoning our vision within a certain framework. Nevertheless, soon, we discover that these apes begin to think. A sort of Cartesius' "Cogito Ergo Sum" or rather an inner existence that blends with the outer reality. Something driven by some supreme power? While we begin with dawn of man, we don't end with twilight of man. Here, rather, one could quote Steven D Greyfanus who observes that the movie makes a point about our existence and consciousness which are not self explanatory. Questions arise when a black monolith appears: a challenge for the apes...some mystery which will appear more times in the movie. Is it some limitation that emerges from it? Or rather some superior reality to discover only when man drowns in it?Steven D Greyfanus interestingly claims that "2001: A Space Odyssey doesn't just depict a quantum leap forward in human consciousness — it practically requires such a leap, on an individual scale, from the viewer." The movie is a challenge in itself, a challenge to rise above any ready made concepts of what a movie should be like, what it should look like, what it should evoke but encounter something new, even in the genre itself. To develop this point a bit, Greyfanus goes deeper comparing this odyssey to classical Odyssey by Homer...while in the mythology, the destination is clear, it is home, in the film, it is unknown. For can any man grasp the indefinite reality of the universe and its mystery? Roger Ebert memorably notes: "the film is not about a goal but a quest." The characters are the heroes of this quest. Mind you that many of them, in particular Dr Heywood Floyd (William Sylvester) or Dave Bowman (Keir Dullea) in the star sequence are the characters who rely solely on the intellect. In a truly unforgettable 'communication' with the on-board computer HAL 9000, there is, however, an intense desire for meaning, a quest for reasoning, search for answers. At the same time, there appears intense care not to allow any 'violation' of the mission's goals. But...at one point, man breaks a certain limit and goes too far. The realms of technology are going, the realms of human mind are going, what is left if the gravity of mind does no longer occur sufficient? The infinite that goes with Jupiter (not only the name of the planet but, for some reason deliberate or coincidental, the name of the Roman god).At that moment, we may all agree with Roger Ebert who says that it is a "transcendent film" and a "silent film."Primarily, 2001 SPACE ODYSSEY relies on visuals and music. There is not much dialog and if it appears, it is reduced to the maximum minimum, almost to a pseudo computerized interaction. There is not much 'humanity' in the language, not to say feelings. Even the 'Daisy' song or 'Happy birthday' that parents sing to their son seem to lack the basic enthusiasm and result in something artificial, robot-like. Visuals and music! The former is a unique achievement that helps us all experience the film in an unforgettable way. Seeing the movie on the big screen recently, I felt its intense effects to a grand scale. Kudos to cinematographer Geoffrey Unsworth. Music, however, is an even more inspiring aspect.What a terrific choice of CLASSICAL MUSIC! Not only is it an undertone of a unique human ability, but there is another greater undertone to that. Let me quote Roger Ebert again. He observes that any music score would go with conventionalized methods of evoking action and would underline the storyline. "The classical music," however, "exists outside the action." It is an ever present companion of man on his journey to the unknown, on his way to hear deeper, more profoundly. The waltz by Johann Strauss THE BLUE DANUBE seems to evoke a dance in the universe, outside of any gravity and within a greater power. Meanwhile, "Thus Spoke Zarathustra" by Richard Strauss marks the crescendo of emotions within phases of discoveries.The absolutely unpredictable finale brings everything to an uncommon conclusion, after all. You feel as if you have just started to watch this film. Time is not important but far more thought provoking is the fact that this art does not resort to pessimism of nothingness but appears to celebrate, inside us and outside us, the infinite mystery of human life.Prepare for something hard, sometimes vague and very odd, but worth enduring till the end.


                
Released in 1968, 2001: A Space Odyssey is not only considered the greatest sci-fi film of all time but also one of the greatest movies of all time. Stanley Kubrick takes us on an epic space voyage like no other, beginning the journey in the days of our early human ancestors all the way into the depths of space and beyond. Kubrick uses themes such as technological advancement, human evolution and extraterrestrial life to craft his story. Kubrick introduces us to the mysterious monoliths and the sinister computer, HAL. All while blowing our minds with stunning special effects, beautiful scores and avant-garde ideas and concepts. 2001 however as iconic and influential its is does have its flaws, those being some very slow paced scenes and very little emotion or character depth, despite these 2001 still holds up today as being a masterpiece of cinema. Beautiful, mysterious, influential and iconic. 2001 is not only an all-time great of film, but a beautiful work of art.


                
Stanley Kubrick's slow go science fiction piece demands patience from its audience as he bombards it with endless visual and audio extravagance at a sometimes snail pace that challenges one's concentration and endurance. It is a film experience to be survived with an outcome that will either dazzle you or bore you to tears.Something or someone is dropping large domino shaped monoliths about the galaxy. They seem to exude a superior intelligence bent on spreading the wealth where it takes on Earth enabling evolving mankind to kill and conquer through weaponry. When another monolith is discovered far into the future on the moon, Earth sends an expeditionary team comprised of five humans and one sharp self confident computer, Hal 9000 to inspect and follow the trail to Jupiter to get the lowdown. Dissension breaks out on the ship however and the mission is jeopardized.2001 is a visually stunning experience to behold on the big screen. It asks a lot of its audience and caught in the right frame of mind a cinematic experience of the first order. Ultimately it comes down to whether your mood is in alignment with Kubrick's tedious at times self indulgent floating rhythm. For nearly the first half hour there is no dialog for the remarkable opening transition from the dawn of man to present day space travel. Accompanied by a spot on music score (Strauss, Khachakurian) you are carried through space in a graceful and awe inspiring fashion both inside and outside the ship. The suspense ramps up when Hal goes rogue but even at this juncture Kubrick maintains his deliberate turgid pace that for some may ask too much. The visual fireworks really explode in the final segment partnered with an auditory assault that is to be endured rather than passively enjoyed as the last surviving astronaut roars toward Jupiter.2001 is a milestone in sci fi cinema; the halfway point between Melies Trip to the Moon from the 19th century and the ease at which advanced technology in this day and age can achieve creating similar terrain. Kubrick's use of sound and score to accompany his odd angled flowing visuals is indeed as mind blowing an experience one might have in 20th century film but his pace is painstakingly slow at times and you may find yourself wanting to abandon ship. Since it's opening decades back I have made half a dozen attempts to stay the course with this beast of a movie and finished it three times, twice with disappointment results. The one other time I completed it I walked out truly blown away. It is the one that remains with me and it is a very rewarding experience informing perhaps that the fault is in ourselves not the star, Stanley Kubrick.


                
It is a hard won struggle to put this film into words. Kubrick often left many puzzles behind in each of his films. But in the case of 2001, the puzzles are legion. This is one of the most complicated and powerful films that have ever been made. Watching it is an experience equal to being born again. It is enlightenment in film form. A beautiful insight on humankind that need not be looked at only once.Rather than breaking this film down into it's essential components and how they work, I will instead focus on what this film makes me feel. By contributing my understanding and interpretations of it, hopefully I can help you to process your own.Even now, as I type these very words I gaze up at the ceiling and ask myself what is it about this film that makes it so universally ground breaking? I'll reiterate: this film is infamously difficult to describe. But what can definitely be said is that with this film, Kubrick has conjured magic. True and real movie magic. He has gifted us with this incredible story about the human race. And like any good teacher, he instructs us passionately on who we were, who we are and where we are going. Are these not the questions in which we base our teachings on? Are these not the core principles of humanity as we know it? 2001 is light years ahead of it's time. Truly, a masterpiece of the craft of film making. It transcends all verbal description and has made a permanent place in our hearts and minds. It's not up to me to decide if this film is about God, Evolution, Extra Terrestrials or something else entirely. No interpretation is right or wrong. Kubrick has managed to combine Religion and Science Fiction into a seamless and ethereal experience. It is absolutely essential for viewing if you wish to become a film maker. And even if you do not, watch it anyway. You will be doing yourself a great disservice if you do not. 2001: A Space Odyssey is the film which holds all of life's questions and answers. Kubrick captured lightning in a bottle and we are blessed that he was willing and able to share it with us.
No joke, this is one of the best science fiction films I have ever seen and it's from 1968. The effects were amazing considering the time period and they still look pretty good today. The cinematography was also pretty incredible. The way in which all of the strange camera angles and camera effects used throughout the film, work together in conjunction with the effect of no gravity, create this confusing, cramped atmosphere that really makes it seem like space. The long stretches of music in the vacuum of space and the extended periods of no dialogue throughout the film somehow just fit perfectly. It's a strange and mysterious film and the ending is definitely something out of this world, but it just makes for one great sci-fi film.


                
I get it, I get it. The first three parts of this essentially four-part film are varying degrees of great. The "Dawn of Man" segment looks a little dated, but it's undeniably a classic segment of cinema. The "Sentinel" segment on the moon sets up the tone, casualness and general laziness of the film (please don't read the word "lazy" in any negative sense. The amount of attention to detail is staggering in this movie, but the feel is still best described as lazy - leisurely and for the most part banal. This is completely intentional on the part of Stanley Kubrick, of course.) The "Hal" segment is without a doubt the greatest segment, with incredible use of silence and slowness as a suspense-building mechanism, the unforgettable "daisy" scene, etc etc. This segment is what proves to me that this movie knows exactly what it's doing.Which can only lead me to conclude that it knows what it's doing in the trippy final "beyond infinity" segment. Heck knows, no-one else knows, but people love it: they call it poetic, inspirational, mind-expanding and so forth. I won't deny that people can get very strong emotions from the ending.My problem is that this segment is undeniably super-pretentious. It would look weird in Bruñuel movie. French cinema don't even give us this sort of completely humorless symbolism, the kind where you can almost hear the director sitting behind the camera, thoughtfully scratching his beard under his french beret and pondering the bleakness of existence when he really needs to unbutton the top shirt button and chill the hell out.(I get it, by the way. The star-child is the next step of human evolution, guided by the monolith just like in the beginning, bla bla)I was disappointed that Kubrick chooses to end his epic film like this. It crosses the line from entertainment into "if you don't get this it's because you're stupid" territory. And if, as has been stated many times, he can't be any less vague because no-one knows the answers to the questions he's posed, he has no business making this movie in the first place. Because it's a movie, not a documentary. You invented the monolith, so get off your hiney and tell us more about it, OK?
Nobody could have done it better than Kubrick. The question is, "What does 'it' mean?" I'll skip the story, what there is of it. Anyone who wants a reasonably decent explanation in coherent terms ought to consult the Film Guide series from Indiana University Press.It is an unforgettable movie that would not have had quite the same impact if it had been made more than one or two years, one way or the other, of 1968.Just take one instance. The computer, Hal, the most interesting character in the film, goes berserk. He signals to the two astronauts that there is a failure that must be fixed from the outside. The astronauts leave the space ship in tiny round pods. While they are gone, Hal kills all the other astronauts who are in hibernation for the long trip to Jupiter. Hal also causes a pod to kill one of the external astronauts and then refuses entry to the remaining live one, Dave (Keir Dullea).Dullea orders repeatedly, "Open the pod bay doors, Hal." His expression is one of vexation, as if he's having a duel of wits with a recalcitrant garage door. Finally he blasts his way into the space ship, barely surviving, then sets about destroying Hal. As he climbs a ladder to enter Hal's brain, Hal remarks soothingly, "Dave -- I can see your really upset about this." It's EXACTLY what Carl Rogers would have said. Hal begins to sound like a junior executive being fired. "I know I've made some bad decisions recently. But I can assure you that I am back to normal now. Really, I am devoted to the success of this mission" If that's supposed to be a joke, it must have worked in 1968, when we were all in the business of seeing (or being) humanistic shrinks. I'm not sure that everybody would find the humor in such a line now, in 2005, a year in which most of the USA seems to find itself adrift on Jupiter. In the end, Dullea, if that in fact is what we're looking at, finds himself alone and unborn in the shrill silence of outer space.That "star gate" episode -- wow! The coeval audience had a heck of a good time seeing it while stoned. Vavoom -- through an unknown universe! Into the Maelstrom. It must have been great if you'd been smoking grass. If you were tripping it might have become one of Edgar Allan Poe's worst hangovers. Just seeing it tonight took me back thirty years or so to when I was a research assistant at the New Jersey Neuropsychiatric Institute, engaged in a study of psychedelic drug use. It was perfectly legitimate, run by the psychiatrist who coined the term "psychedelic" and visited Aldous Huxley on his death bed, and endorsed by a former Attorney General of the United States. (By the way, has the statute of limitations run out?) We were not supposed to use drugs but one night circumstances demanded it and the next thing I knew I was wandering around a part of Manhattan I was completely unfamiliar with, the East 70s, never having gotten north of 14th Street in my youth. And -- wow -- everything was just terrible. People were walking dogs along the sidewalks and I fancied the dogs were staring at me because they knew I was a complete wreck. Well, let's skip it, except to say that what you need in a paranoid state is not the trip that Kubrick gives you, but a handle on reality. Well, I'm not sure, really. Sometimes I feel spaced out here in New Mexico where the Ice Cream trucks play "La Cucaracha." In the New Jersey neighborhood where I grew up they at least had the prescience to play the "Dies Irae."Anyway, one of the most impressive features of the film is the special effects -- all done in the 1960s before computers. They are all mechanical or photographic. No computerized graphic images like the dinosaurs in "Jurassic Park" or the musclebound monsters that leap around on today's screen. If you see a space ship in "2001", it was hand built. The FX are the pinnacle of pre-computerized FX. They're like the clipper ships of the 1850s, marvels of marine engineering, about as good as it gets, before they were replaced by steamships.I realize this is not much of a review of the movie itself, but without having looked, I imagine there must be a hundred or more so, really, why bother? Kubrick was an interesting guy. According to Kirk Douglas's revealing (and not very flattering) autobiography, "Rag Man's Son," Kubrick shot "Spartacus" which had been written by someone on the McCarthy-style blacklist and forbidden to work in the USA. A heated discussion arose about who exactly should get the writing credit, since the actual writer's name couldn't be used. How could justice best be served. Kubrick piped up and said if you want a writer's name, use mine. I'll take the credit. As Douglas put it, "Kubrick was a talented s***."But -- all of that period and personal detail aside -- this film is a magnificent artifact. What an artist Kubrik was.
What can I say about a film which is often considered the greatest ever made? 2001 was a breakthrough in technology, theme and content and is quite possible the finest science fiction movie ever made. To think that this movie inspired everything from Star Wars to Alien and Close Encounters.... science fiction owes a huge debt to Stanley Kubrick and 2001. If you haven't already then please go and watch this film. You won't notice the almost 3-hour runtime I can assure you that much.


                
Now, this comes with a change. The casting, screening and acting is of a different yet interesting tone. This is not an action packed space movie with superflous wars and ships rather an insight into the actual working of the space crew and the issues they face. The movie centres around finding the source of the monolith that is said to be the harbinger of evolution of humankind. Various missions are send to Moon, Jupiter for understanding the genesis but all turns out futile.
In the detailing part the movie shows the way the voyages work and the practical ways of working and problems faced by the crew members yet subordinated for the media sake. The movie turns upside down when the conflict arises with the 6th member (the supercomputer) which is at the brain of the ship. The conflict leads to victimization of the crew members with one of the them (Bowman) struggling against the AI. He finds a way into the ship somehow to deactivate the computer. 
The movie has many philosophical dimensions probably aimed at explaining the limited resources and intelligence of the human in understanding the deep secrets of the universe. It is likely that the movie outlines the depth of formation of universe and that man is still small whatever small accomplishments it may have made. At the same time unreliability of the AI is also signaled. 
Thanks for such a wonderful movie. Blessed to watch it. Miss it and you miss a lot!!
A film I experienced many times on the small screen but first time at the cinema as part of a 50th Anniversary showing. It is an epic science fiction story with long, sweeping scenes and grandiose concepts that slowly builds tension. The score is powerful and often unworldly and where the cold, harsh environment of space or large landscapes were present, the music gives way to long silences, equally as moving.The abstract elements felt like lucid dreams and the whole film leaves so much work for the audience, it is a departure from the more generally visceral, fast paced and clear narrative of modern films. To place the film in context, which it deserves, this was released one year before man landed on the moon.


                
This movie is very interesting because you've never seen anything like this in the year 68, so professional, so colorful, so impressive, and different. It might be the slowest movie you've ever seen, but, u can tell that it was intentionally made like that. I'ts like a journey in space that u follow along with. It's a very trippy and relaxing movie, although I don't do drugs, this is the type of movie that u can watch while high on weed, shrooms, or LSD. The music is very memorable and iconic, and used brilliantly. It's amazing to see such an old movie be visually pretty. U won't ever forget the evolution scene, The computer, The music, and the Abstract ending that was made for u to interpret on your own. That's what makes it special. The dialogue was nothing special, but u can tell it wasn't the focus of the film. There wasn't much of it, The biggest character was the computer. This movie is meant to be artistic, it shows off how well they made it look like a much much newer movie. The ending was made for u to interpret, so this movie can really make u feel like you're a part of it all! I feel like if u like good abstract art, you're gonna enjoy this masterpiece film. This movie also predicts a lot of future inventions. Makes it even harder to believe that the moon landing was one year after this film, after all, it's easier to fake it.


                
Oh. What a feel.! The epic movie, from none other than Stanley Kubrick (of the Clockwork Orange fame), is as intense as one can get. All the elements in the movie; like screenplay, music, direction, imageries, etc. are breathtaking in their approach towards the audience. The way the movie interacts with the viewers is certainly quiet gripping.One of my interpretations of this classic is that it subverts the idea of human progress by appealing to its inner consciousness about the true achievements of the evolution. Evolution plays a big role in the plot. There also is an AI character named HAL 9000, a.k.a. HAL. That machine is one of the most villainous characters the history of cinema has ever produced. Its single 'eye' plays the role of the eye of god and controls the human life on the spaceship. According to me, the theme is dark and the monolithic structure that gets showcased in the plot is an indication of the human negligence and the related dire consequences. The movie tries to showcase the significance of mankind, by commencing with an epic scene from the 'dawn' of man and thereby taking us straight into the future, 2001, which is scrupulously advanced, even more than that age in which we live today. The way the shots are taken, especially the outer space one, is outstanding. One can't digest the fact that the movie got released in 1968, a year before the man placed its feet on the moon, for the details of the celestial bodies and space are subtle.Stanley Kubrick did produce a masterpiece in this work. The foresight that he showed while creating this piece is tremendous concerning the future elements that he has used in the movie.The music is impeccable being classical and, at the same time, it establishes the running mood of the movie. The plot and characters aren't only the primary concerns for Kubrick; the meaningless scenes where no human action is shown are in the view of his, meaningful and crucial. So, expect some boredom if you aren't used to watching movies with such tempo. Moreover, it has that air of mysteriousness too, that captures one's thinking faculty.The movie ends without a closed ending. The viewers are left to draw their assumptions and interpretations. The creativity of Kubrick is a must watch.
Watching this masterpiece that has been released one year before the moon landing, just made me realize what a genius Director could ever mean. Leading directors of his age, and other big names in cinema industry later on, Stanley Kubrick must be considered as one of the most influential directors of all time.Starting with Christopher Nolan and his Interstellar (2014) the movie that has taken 2001 as the main reference, had an amazing similarity with it, that didn't stop at the story line, but it continued to include many other points in my opinion, as the cadence of the main soundtrack (which was one of the best movie themes ever) that Hans Zimmer has played the same of it in most of interstellar's soundtracks especially "No Time For Caution", which I believe it all came out of Nolan's instructions. Beside some other cinematographic techniques as the complete silence in those scenes taken outside of the ship in both movies. Even in the appearance of the place Dr. Dave (the main character in 2001) has reached after entering the star gate, with the one Cooper has reached in Interstellar. So did Gaspar Noé praised in his last movie Love 2015 in the words of his main character Murphy who considers 2001 as the best movie he's ever seen and as the reason he wanted to be a director in the first place. There was even A Clockwork Orange (1971) Book seen in Murphy's room. This Kubrick influence could be seen again in Noé's movie Enter the Void (2009) in the long colorful illusions scenes. Kubrick ideas have also been involved in many kinds of movies even in animation as The Simpsons Movie (2007), and Pixar's Wall-E (2008), and many other memorable movies.Watching Kubrick works would totally let you see how he was the godfather for many directors these days. I've mentioned only two of them, but the list includes many other big names as I said before.


                
2001: A Space Odyssey was the first great Sci-Fi Film. It has it all- A.I, Spacesuits and Aliens. Although many contemporary audiences considerer this classic boring and dull, it certainly is entertaining if you understand it. It's not simply a story of Astronauts floating around in space, but more a story of the change of man, and how technology has changed. The Opening Scene, The Dawn of Man, is one of the greatest parts of this space epic. It shows how man was thousands of years ago, and how man discovered weapons. I personally don't believe in evolution, but I do find this scene very intriguing and is more a scene of the change of the mental capacity of man, not necessarily the psychical. This is the clever way that Stanley Kubrick makes the scene. He sets the scene up as more of a personal interpretation, rather than put the facts on screen.Overall, 2001 is a great film that defiantly makes you think about life and the change of man.


                
Four million years ago, a small band of hominids scrabbles out a living on the African veldt. They face extinction. Then one morning, they awaken to the presence in their midst of a 4-meter-high monolith of unknown origin and purpose. The monolith subtly alters their behavior, leading them to the concept of tool use, by which they defeat a rival band. Violence assures survival. Jump forward to the year 2001. There are two bases on the Moon, one American and one Soviet. In the course of a magnetometric lunar survey, Americans scientists discover a large magnetic anomaly below the surface of the crater Tycho. When excavated, it turns out to be---you guessed it---a monolith, just like the one that, unbeknownst to the Americans, appeared on Earth four million years before. Except for a single, extremely powerful, radio transmission aimed at Jupiter, the monolith remains completely inert, its composition, origin and purpose a total mystery. The Americans undertake a mission to Jupiter. The spaceship Discovery carries the pilot, Dave Bowman, the copilot, Frank Poole, and the 3-man survey team, who are in cryosleep for most of the voyage. The Discovery is run by a powerful supercomputer, an HAL 9000, known as "Hal." Only Hal knows the true mission objective, and the conflict between his instructions to provide totally correct service and his instructions to keep the mission objective secret from the crew causes him to go "insane." He attempts to kill everyone in the crew, but Bowman manages to survive and to disable Hal while still keeping the Discovery functional. Bowman reaches Jupiter space and discovers a huge monolith orbiting the planet, identical to the one on the Moon only much larger. He approaches the monolith in one of Discovery's EVA pods, and discovers that it is a Stargate. He is swept across unimaginable distances and then undergoes a transformation into the next stage of human evolution, a Star Child.The New Yorker film reviewer called "2001" "some kind of a great film." How have the years treated it? Technology: In the 1960s, big, one-of-a-kind computers were the norm, and it was natural to think that this would still be the case in 2001. It was not until the early 1970s that the first attempts were made to run factories, laboratories, power plants, etc., using a big central computer, and these were failures. The old mainframes turned out to be unreliable and prone to breakdowns. It was then that the first distributed small computers were tried, with much greater success. It would be 15 years before the first high-speed microprocessors would transform the computer world into what we have now. Also, a lot of the machines, cameras, displays and readouts that we see throughout the film use long-obsolete technology or simply never developed as they appear in the movie.Culture: "2001" was a world in which technology, science and computers had drained the world of passion and pleasure. This was a predominant fear in the 1960s: The dehumanizing effects of impersonal technology and artificial intelligence. Of course, in the 21st century, the opposite has happened: We have adapted computers and communications to the expression, not the suppression, of our human foibles.Science: Since the 1960s, the age of Robert Ardrey and "African Genesis," paleoanthropology has tended to discredit the notion that the crucial transition from hominid to human was the evolution of violent, predatory behavior as being too simplistic.Business: Of course, Pan American Airways, the Bell Telephone Company, General Foods, and other companies whose logos we see in the film, that looked so convincing then, either no longer exist or have been transformed out of all recognition.Politics: In "2001," both the USA and the USSR have lunar bases. Now, of course, the Soviet Union no longer exists, we have not been back to the moon since 1972, and space exploration is much more international than ever."2001" was co-written by director Stanley Kubrick and the great SF author Arthur C. Clarke. Youngsters used to modern CGI technology would do well to remember that "2001" was the very first science fiction film to have really believable special effects. Compare earlier "classic" SF films---e.g., "The War of the Worlds," "Forbidden Planet," and "This Island Earth"---and you'll see what I mean. "2001" dazzled us in the 1960s, and it has aged well. Although it is dated in many ways---something that seemed unimaginable when it was first released---it still tells a wonderful story of transcendental human transformation, which has been one of Clarke's favorite themes. It is still one of the masterpieces not just of science fiction film, but of cinema in general.
Back when I first saw 2001 on the big screen <U+0096> more years ago than I'd care to think -- I thought it was the greatest movie ever made. It had it all, mystical theme, dazzling (for its day) special effects, cool technology, and Kubrick's trademark meticulous direction. I've probably seen it more times than any other film, and I usually managed to suck back a few tokes in time for the stargate sequence at the end. I've seen the sequel 2010, read Clarke's novel (and all of his sequels) as well as other books and essays that attempted to explain and/or expand on the movie's rather abstruse plot. But, it has been several years since I last saw it, so when I saw the re-release DVD on sale I picked it up and re-watched it again for the first time since the actual year 2001.Although after my numerous viewings the film couldn't contain any surprises it was still cool to watch it with fresh eyes. A few things struck me. For starters, I think the film has aged rather well. The special effects, stunning in their day, are rather commonplace now, but that's largely due to the influence of 2001 itself. Still, with one or two exceptions, they're still as good as many of the computer-generated effects of today, and in some cases, better.Second, I noticed for the first time that, perhaps because of the front-projection backdrops and rather stagy lighting in the "dawn of man" chapter, it had an eerie, almost CGI-like ambiance. It was almost as if the whole sequence was computer-generated, à la Final Fantasy. Interesting. And still, after all these years, the ape makeup is still pretty incredible, way better than Planet of the Apes, which snagged the Oscar for best makeup that year (some folks say it's because the Academy didn't realize the apes in 2001 were actually actors).Third, horribly stilted dialog. I'm surprised I never really noticed this before, but then, I probably wasn't watching it for the character development (see the toke comment above). Seen with 2007 eyes, the dialog had a distinctly "60's" feel to it, rather like the 50's dialog that was so well recreated in Good Night and Good Luck. People just talked differently then, although it's a difficult distinction to quantify. Still, given the fact that there's hardly any of it (the first actual words come some 20 minutes in), this didn't really detract from my enjoyment per se.Fourth, a few anachronisms. For example, Pan Am no longer exists; therefore the shuttle looks rather dated. Also, I'm willing to bet that, should Kubrick still be alive and working on 2001 today, he would likely be a lot more creative in depicting zero-gee. 2001 was the first sci-fi film to actually address the fact of weightlessness in space rather than simply ignoring it, but by the same token Kubrick in many scenes took the easy way out (vis, the "grip shoes" worn by the shuttle flight attendant), which, seen through 2007 eyes, looks a little cheesy. For example, why bother to climb or descend a ladder in zero-gee, when a little hop will get you there with a fraction of the effort? It was pretty obvious in some scenes (on the bridge and the pod deck, both of which were supposedly weightless areas of the ship) that Bowman and Poole were actually carrying weight. I also noticed, in most cases for the first time, many of the "goofs" listed here on IMDb. Perhaps with an additional 30 years of movie appreciation behind me, I am a little more observant.The stargate sequence: still not bad, although it probably could be dashed off today in a few hours using CGI, instead of the months it took Doug Trumbull to do it at the time using slit scan. I still really like the "Jupiter space" sequences. It has a wonderfully remote, alien vibe to it, especially the shots of this teeny-tiny spacecraft hovering in a void, dwarfed by the moons of Jupiter looming over it.And as for the ending, well, what can I say? Cool, but still completely incomprehensible (despite having read the book). All in all, although I would no longer call it my favorite film (I don't think I have a favorite any more, really) it still ranks up there with some of the greats, and it deserves a place in the IMDb top 250 if for no other reason than that it set the bar for all of the space movies that followed it, the Star Wars franchise, Close Encounters, the Alien trilogy, Star Trek, etc. etc. etc. It still, even after all these years, has one of the most "technically accurate" depictions of space travel of any of them. ...And it's kind of sad that even today, 6 years after the year 2001, we still don't really have bases on the moon, commercial space stations in orbit, or artificial intelligence.


                
