I know that this is one of the most popular movies of all time, but that is a flaw in the viewing public. The main reason I dislike this movie so much is because it was a rip off of a much better movie that came out a couple years before it. That being Dark City. Lets review the similarities shall we? First of all our main character wakes up disoriented and not understanding the world around him JM because he lost his memory and Neo because he is taken out of the matrix. We find that both characters have been given a false set of memories by puppeteers (be them aliens or robots) We find that these puppeteers are doing the same thing for all people in an attempt to keep their own race going (matrix as batteries DC cus they need to find the soul) Finally the main character proves to be the savior of the humans by finding they are the only one who can put an end to the false lives that the puppeteers are forcing humans to live. they both do this through the same method. by having a mentor teach them how to use the devices of their captors against them (neo learns how to hack and control the matrix while Murdoc learns how to use the machines of the strangers to alter reality. also we see stylish black leather as the main wardrobe in the matrix. black leather gowns are the main wardrobe for the strangers. moving away from the rip off problem we see that Dark City has a message implying you to ask yourself if your identity is more than just the sum of your memories. the matrix makes people feel smart for understanding the movie, but really offers no deep thought. the feel of Dark City is also better since it has the dark ambiance created by the same director as The Crow. while the matrix has nothing new or special about its "feel" just your basic action movie with a plot to try to make the viewer feel smart. Point is: same movie only better (although lacking the eye candy the public adores) is Dark City


                
I'm not sure why so many people were so impressed by this movie.  Story? Perhaps if you've never thought about realistic virtual reality, or dreamed you were a butterfly and wondered if you were a butterfly dreaming you were a man.  Then you might be blinded to the huge plot holes. But the script will fit wonderfully to its obvious destination: a video game surely on its way to stores right now.Perhaps the action sequences, if you're the type who likes violence video games so much you'd be happy to sit and watch someone else play one... over and over and over.  The camera tricks and effects were interesting once, but we've all seen them on TV already -- the commercial, in fact, is better than the movie.Certainly it wasn't the characters.  Only Morpheus had any kind of personality, which saved us from having to find out what the other actors might have been like if they'd been called on to act.  Keanu got two scenes that required acting (the kiss of life, and the epiphany), but he missed on both and just laid or stood there.  The rest of the movie, Neo was called The One, but he might have been The Zero -- other than a token reference to him having the trouble with authority figures all action heros are required by Hollywood Law to have (subtlely portrayed by having someone tell him "you have trouble with authority figures, don't you?") he had no character, making Keanu a great fit for him.William Gibson, save us!


                
This film has no saving graces.  A silly, unbelievable plot is made worse by childish characterisation.  The gratuitous violence at the end, with innocent security guards being shot to pieces by our illustrious "heroes" completes the film's moral bankrupcy.  Would someone tell me why the bad guys where dark glasses?


                
Somewhere along the line, someone planning this film forgot to put in a plot.  It's worse than "Twister" in that respect.  Ooh look at all our fancy camera tricks and weapons and weird sci-fi stuff that really makes no sense. But it's loud!  And that makes a good film, you know.  And I would love, just once in my life, to see Keanu Reeves not play a blank-faced doofus in every movie he's made since "Bill and Ted."In short, I absolutely and totally hated this film.  My fiance loves it and watches it at least once a month, but I would rather clean out a cat box every hour for the rest of my life than ever see this film again.


                
Tell me...what do you get when you take a bunch of computer nerds who have no concept of effective storytelling and put them into a room to make a movie...?  You get "The Matrix"I hate this movie...and you wanna know why?  Because it serves no purpose. It's "Dude, Where's my Car" on steroids...louder, flashier, but not a bit more interesting.  The whole thing is based on special effects.  It's a film by two directors that think half of the cameras running at 300 fps is art...or something.Hugo Weaving has the only good performance in this movie as Agent Smith. Carrie Anne Moss is bland as can be.  Do I even have to comment on Keanu Reeves....dude...woah...nuff said.This is the perfect example of Joel Silver run amuck.  Just because you have money to produce movies, doesn't mean you should produce bad movies....sounds pretty obvious to me.  I'm just so thankful when I see someone like Steven Spielberg putting out a movie like Minority Report...a movie (actually...a director and crew) that knows how to USE special effects to drive a story.  Not just shoot the hell out of a government building...hmmmm...not such a great scene to slip in there now, huh?So, to everyone involved in The Matrix...give up your black leather, gun toting, world-is-an-illusion, horrible filmmaking and go put your money to good use...like film school.


                
This film is abolutely awful. My girlfriend and I would have left the cinema half-way through if we knew that we both felt the same about it at the time! Apart from the special effects, the film suffers from WOODEN ACTING (There goes Keanu again!) and ridiculous storyline. The special fx are amazing though - apart from that it is a total waste of time. However - we seem to stand alone on this one, as the rest of the world seems to think this is the most amazing film ever made. Oh well.


                
Seeing this movie was like watching someone else play a video game: after 10 minutes I wanted to either leave or play some myself. As a matter of fact, the producers of this thing probably owe its popularity to parents who dumped their kids in video parlors at malls instead of sending them to school.I mean, even if you get past the impressive (for awhile, anyway) whistles and buzzers, "The Matrix" pushes the envelope just an inch too far when it asks us to believe Keanu Reeves' MIND is being sought to SAVE THE WORLD! It's too funny for words. WHO could believe it?Well, I guess if you have never met anyone who actually HAD a mind you MIGHT buy it. But, if that were the case, you probably wouldn't be allowed to go out of the house alone to see "The Matrix."


                
I can't believe that anyone would seriously suggest that this film was even average!  It was worst film I have seen in a very long time.The movie had so little to offer, it is hard to only point to specific flaws:1) Keanu has to be one of the worst actors of our era.  He shows no signs of even moderate intelligence or talent, and as a hero, he comes across as flat and unispiring.  It is hard to believe that his character would have anything to offer that would distingish him from your average idiot.  And in action scenes, it was impossible to tell if he is *supposed* to look silly or if he can't help it.  No charisma, no flair, just pathetic.2) Very shallow and poor development of an unoriginal idea.  The idea that our reality is not real at all is hardly original.  It has been the subject of science fiction for decades, and a successful treatment of the subject should delve into some psychological depths.  We should be left wondering whether our world truly is real.  Or we should get a sense of how willing or unwilling we might be to face the fact that our world is an illusion.  We should wonder whether it matters if our world is an illusion, or whether reality is what we perceive as real.  Whatever the protrayal, we should leave the theater feeling intellectually moved.  While the film briefly brushed on some of these topics, it was so brief and shallow that no impression was left.  Instead, focus returned to martial arts which had no real purpose in terms of the plot.3) The story dragged as we were forced to sit through an explanation of the matrix that was completely obvious--a couple of visual effects would have gotten the point across in less than a minute with more effect.  While the characters beat the idea of the matrix to death in the dialogue, it did little to shed light into the hearts and minds of the characters.  What was their motivation, from where did they get their drive and courage?  Why were they able to sense the matrix?  None of the answers are even touched upon, and the characters are flat and unrealistic as a result.4) The idea of the matrix is very poorly thought out.  Instead of creating a believable world and believable rules for the matrix, the plot resorts to physical fighting, which makes no sense at all.  The film obviously had no intention of stretching the mind of the viewer, instead catering to an audience of mindless action-addicts. While action might have added to a well-thought out film, it cannot support a film where the premise is psychological or intellectual.5) No sense of despair, darkness, or power from the futuristic scenes. The future world is portrayed so little that we really don't even have a chance to be overwhelmed by how horrible it could be.  In an attempt to make a happy action film, the dark undertones were completely dropped.The very few redeeming values were: 1) Interesting use of slow-motion action 2) A few nice special effects (no more than an average action film these days) 3) A promising premise.  While not original, the idea has great potential. Several other films, such as Dark City have shown a bit of this potential, and there is a plethora of such plots in books.In short, any thoughtful, insightful, meaningful, or inspired treatment of a potentially interesting idea was completely dropped to show a few almost laughably out of place action scenes.  The fact that people rave about this movie shows that people are willing to swallow the mindless just for some cool effects.  How sad.


                
Wow this film had soo much time and money put into bullet time i think they forgot about story, characterisation and plot.Yes it all looks nice, but that doesn't make a film. The plot had so many holes it was unbelieveable. The bad guys walk around with pistols, huh, they can choose any weapon they can morph into anyone and all they use is pistols. The Matrix has the ability to remove all doors from a room but it doesn't have the power to ignite the room so that they all burn to death. The idea of the matrix was good until you start thinking about it. This film is entertaining but at the end of the day it's just a stylised version of so many Star Trek episodes and a copy of everything Sci Fi that's gone before it.


                
Despite the fact that Keanu Reeves couldn't act his way out of a wet bag, I was very excited to go see The Matrix because it had Laurence Fishbourne who's a very good actor and the previews were visually stunning. Unfortunately, the special effects were the only things stunning about the movie, unless you count how stunningly stupid the dialogue was, or how stunningly bad the acting was (even good actors like Fishbourne and Joe Pantalione couldn't get anything out of this script).  The filmakers here took a wonderful concept, filled it with marvelous special effects and left it to die without any substance.  If it's enough for you for a movie to look good, then you'll love this film.  If, like me, you need an interesting story, good dialogue and acting, don't bother with The Matrix.


                
This may not be the worst movie of all time - but it does not belong anywhere near the TOP-100 list.  People that think highly of this movie are too eager to give the special effects (albeit original) way too much credit towards the actual worth of the movie. If it really was the "story" of the movie that attracted the crowds to the original, the 2nd movie would have done much better.  But since the effects are no longer "special" to a lot folks, it appears a lot of people are saying "NO THANKS" to seeing the sequel.  Which backs up my feelings on the first movie.  The story/acting was ok - but didn't WOW me in the least. Reeves is not a great actor - regardless of how much you adore him.


                
This movie SUCKED. Okay I have to admit that the stunts and special effects were cool. But the script was stupid and very predictable. And there was typical 1-D shallow performance from Keanu Reeves. And what is up with it being so high on the top 250 list. COME ON PEOPLE you leave Midnight Cowboy and Gone With the Wind out of the top 100, but manage to put this Gap commercial with special effects at #30.
3out of 10 stars.


                
I don't get why everybody loves this movie so much. It's just not that good. On its own merits, it deserves more than the one star I gave it, but when you factor in the annoyance factor of the gushing fans... well, let's say I just felt a need to counterbalance its high ratings.Blah, blah, blah, special effects. So what. Yet another example of Special-Effects-In-Search-Of-A-Movie. The story holds together poorly. The premise was initially pretty interesting, but the movie seemed utterly incapable of establishing rules for how its world works and sticking to them.Finally, the movie hit a pet peeve of mine, which was, to me, its ultimate, fatal flaw. I'm very big on the "science" part of "science fiction". So you lose me instantaneously when you start introducing mystic mumbo-jumbo into a science fiction story. For me, this film jumped the shark when we get to that wise woman character. (nevermind that the mystic nonsense is somewhat demystified in the sequel films; this review is about *this* film). Yeah, dropping in an all-knowing, cryptic prophetess, without the tiniest hint of explanation of her abilities, makes for a convenient plot device, but defies all reason or sense.


                
Whoah!  That was a really awful excuse for a movie.  Horrible acting and a horrible script is what you get with this one, but I expected these things to be bad.  What I didn't expect was that the SFX were horrible too.  I can't believe people think that they are good.  Good special effects make you forget that you are seeing special effects, and you can believe that they are real.  In The Matrix, you never forget.  They are way overdone and end up looking very childish, and we've seen these cheezy effects done a million times in commercials even though people may not realize it.All I've heard about this movie is how the effects are amazing, but I say if that is what you are looking for watch The Phantom Menace or The Mummy.  If you want to see a good virtual reality movie watch eXistenZ or even The Thirteenth Floor was better than The Matrix.


                
I didn't like The Matrix. I thought it was an alright movie until I saw it again, then it just got to be annoying. I know only pseudo-intellectuals use this term, but it was pseudo-intellectual. I thought the characters were wooden, the dialogue was pretty bad, and it was all too convenient for me. When a character skips over the growth and learning process because they just downloaded the skills, like flying a helicopter or learning kung fu, I see that as a flaw in the story and writing. Then where does it stop? I was expecting a character to actually say, "Well...yeah...I know how because I uh...I downloaded a...program." Nobody's fooling me with the whole "it's about computers, they can do that" bit. Save it for the 13-year-olds that "understand" the plot. There are smarter and more creative ways of conveying this idea. I hated the fight scenes as well. CGI on almost every fight, especially when everything looks like a game later does not mean its good. Far from it.


                
I mean really, how can this drivel make it into the all time greatest top-40. I baffles me, stupefies me, that so many people really like this movie. Keanus acting was so terrible I felt like my mind was going to explode, while all the other actors moved about in such a pretentious solemn stupor that I just couldn't care for the characters they were supposed to represent. Excessive use of sunglasses, trench-coats and "revolutionary" stop motion action sequences just added to the pointlessness of the film. When the plot got so confused and muddled two thirds of the way through, the only solution is to bring out the big guns and have a mass gory bloody shoot-out, which completely offsets the amateurish philosophical babble at the start.Like many others on this board that gave it a one, I tried to see the film a few more times to "get it" or whatever. No, sorry. This film stinks. There are so many better "alternate universe" films out there.


                
I side with the negative crowd on this one; with the risk of sounding pompous I have to say this: To believe that this is a brilliant film suggest a low level of education and an underdeveloped personal philosophy. There, I've said it. To question the realness of reality is a 400-year old Cartesian idea. Actually, it was explored more interestingly in the old Star Trek episode "Spectre of the Gun" in 1969. The rest of the film is an obvious rip-off of "The Terminator" and all of John Woo, which are far more interesting movies. The film ponders too long on the central premise, and there isn't enough action to make it a good action movie, either. Still, overall production design is great, but the acting is wooden, and Fishburne makes for an unconvincing guru. All the good scenes were revealed in the trailer, so there's not much else to do than just sit in the theatre and feel patronized by the whole thing. At least, that's what I did. The whole thing just isn't half as clever and original as it wants to be.


                
Great idea, with very little of that idea transferred to the silver screen. Plenty of neat special effects to distract the audience from the flawed and empty re-telling of the age old "what is reality" story. A few interesting bible references, great blue-screening (better than Episode 1 by far), but with stone-like acting from every cast member, everyone ends up looking like part of the machine. If you want to see a movie that really deals with the issue "what is reality" see Darren Aronofsky's "Pi" (1998). If you want to see a bunch of fake kung fu, slapped together on an Avid machine to impress you, then see the Matrix, but most of these reviewers are mistaken (no offense); it's really just filler with a bit of truth. Wake up.


                
No head, no tail, only a heap of special effects. The film all in all can be summarized in those words. Incredible persons who perform incredibly, with thousands of bullets flying and none of them reaching the targets, a story almost immaterial and a lot of deja vu worse of their predecessors: Keanu Reeves quoting himself in Little Buddha when he meets the other possible elects, the Blues Brothers or Man in Black for the black glasses, Butch Cassidy and Billy the Kid for the scenes of Reeves coming from behind a column with two guns blasting and so on. What did I forget ? Yes, some indirect advertising of a famous cellular telephone producer (the kind used is so particular .), perhaps not so common in 2199 (when is supposed to be the story), a software house where your chief tells you will be fired if arriving late working (while it is known that usually software houses are opened nearly 24 hours a day). A film to be forgotten.


                
I'm glad to see that someone rated this film as over-rated. I've seen it several times as I like to make sure I'm not acting on first impressions. I love Sci-fi films and films that offer an odd perspective on things but this film, dear God it's so over-rated it's unreal. Most of the people I know rave about it but I can't stand it.I've seen half of the sequel and it annoyed me so much I turned it off.Utter drivel. I'm sure that some of out there will think I'm insane but hey, who cares.


                
This is one of the most over rated rubbish i've seen.This film borrows so much from the Asian cinema and some sci-fi classics.The acting in it,is well TERRIBLE to say the least.Keanu Reeves walks around like hes smoked way to much blow.He is that wooden Disney have signed him for a re-make of Pinocchio.The special effects are good but no better than T2 made 9 years before this..Why this film has such a big fan base is beyond me.if you wanna see a film about robots taking over the world/destroying all of mankind.Go and rent any of the Terminater films to see this subject done in style.And don't watch Matrix 2 or 3.Their even worse


                
Oh dear..... The amount of people who saw this movie and loved it makes me worry about the state of humanity.I saw this movie because some of my so called friends were saying how excellent this movie was ( I have seriously questioned my friendships with these people after this disaster!!!) and to say it was rubbish is an understatement.Keanu Reeves who plays the 'hero' role, is one of the most wooden actor's and in this movie he just plays Ted from Bill and Ted but in leather!! Thats not to say that I do not like Bill and Ted as I enjoyed both of them. But to have Reeves playing him in every film is a bit much.The story is boring and all the acting is poor. Why did they bother with this movie. If I wanted to watch a truly great sci-fi movie I would watch any of the Star Wars films.When watching this movie I broke into a cold sweat and started uncontrollably shivering - The film had made me ill. After sitting through it, I had to bleach my DVD player to get rid of the foul stench of rubbish.


                
This reminds me of watching someone else playing a videogame. Empty plot stolen from assorted sci-fi novels and works of eastern philosophy, weak unimpressive acting from keanu reeves. This movie is nothing more than a special-effects showcase. The only light in the mire that is this picture comes in the form of Laurance Fishburne, who brings his character devotion and life that is not present in anyone else in the film.


                
I must say that I am a small admirer of sci-fi movies. Nevertheless, I have always liked good action, even if it happens in outer space. I must remind you here great movies, like "Total Recall", "Terminator" and "Star Wars". These movies captured my phantasy and my curiosity. Great expectations I had when I started watching Matrix. I have heard so much about its deep dialogs and its special effects. In reality, those hopes collapsed in face of this movie. I have to confess that it is absolutely awful. Nothing more and nothing less. The dialogs are sprinkled with a myriad of pseudo-philosophic sentences, which are intended to awake in us deep thoughts. Well, it didn't arouse anything in me but boredom. I do not accept that Morphius has some kind of deep perspective on life and I do not accept Neo's battle with himself as representing something in our lives. The movie has engaged in a circle of happenings which do not take us anywhere. All the passes between the real world and the Matrix world are so casual and unsophisticated, that it puzzled me. I do not understand why did the producers of this movie bother with so many transitions between the worlds, when nothing really happens, and the basic difference between the worlds is always maintained. Lastly, I was deeply disappointed in the special effects. They are so simplistic and so few that I wonder whether this film should even be classified as a modern sci-fi.  My final conclusion would be that this movie has become some kind of culture item, and people were grasped by its media-magic. Two years after its release, it's so vane. Try to see it now, and you will be convinced.


                
