Without a doubt one of the best and most influential movies of all time, the Matrix is the defining science fiction film of the 1990's and the biggest leap the genre has taken since Stanley Kubrick's 2001: a Space Odyssey and Ridley Scott's Blade Runner. The Matrix is a ground-breaking motion picture that not only raised the bar for all the science-fiction films to come after it but also redefined the action genre with its thrilling action sequences and revolutionary visual effects.The film tells the story of Thomas Anderson a computer hacker that in the world of hacking goes by the alias of Neo. When he is contacted by the mysterious outlaw Morpheus and having always questioned his reality, he is awakened to the truth that the world he's been living in is a simulated reality called the Matrix and that he's nothing more than a slave in this dystopian world, created and controlled by A.I powered machines.The direction and script by the Wachowskis is fantastic, as they drew ideas and inspirations from every other great sci-fi and cyberpunk movie and anime before the film, combining it with stunning action and putting it into one picture that has enough style, substance and subtext that everyone ended up giving their own interpretation of the story. The research that went into the preparation of the screenplay is quite extensive but the manner in which it is presented on the big screen is also very impressive. Every character presented on the film, has a well-defined arc and a purpose, and their motivations are clear.The cinematography is impeccable. It was very innovative in the use of the camera angles and movements, the zooms, the slow motion captures and the different color palette used to differentiate the Matrix and the real World. The editing is flawless, as it makes sure that every scene is integral to the story and ensures the pace of the film stays ferocious through its entire runtime. Each frame is also packed with so much visual information for the viewer to devour. The visual effects introduced us to the bullet-time effect and their impact can still be felt in today's movies. The performances are also incredible. Each member of the cast gave their best performances and brought the characters they portray to life, but the one that stands out the most is Hugo Weaving's disciplined rendition of his character, Agent Smith; a powerful computer program made to search and destroy the human rebellion, in undoubtedly the greatest performance in his career.In conclusion The Matrix is a masterpiece everyone should see. It is one of the most thought provoking, inventive, pioneering, influential and stylish movies of all time and it's also full of philosophical and religious allegories waiting for interpretation. Immortal for its contribution to cinema and pop culture, its brilliant combination of inventive visual effects, excellent vision and exquisite action easily makes it one of the best, most influential and most entertaining movies ever made.


                
The story of a reluctant Christ-like protagonist set against a baroque, MTV backdrop, The Matrix is the definitive hybrid of technical wizardry and contextual excellence that should be the benchmark for all sci-fi films to come.Hollywood has had some problems combining form and matter in the sci-fi genre.  There have been a lot of visually stunning works but nobody cared about the hero. (Or nobody simply cared about anything.)  There a few, though, which aroused interest and intellect but nobody 'ooh'-ed or 'aah'-ed at the special effects.  With The Matrix, both elements are perfectly en sync.  Not only did we want to cheer on the heroes to victory, we wanted them to bludgeon the opposition.  Not only did we sit in awe as Neo evaded those bullets in limbo-rock fashion, we salivated.But what makes The Matrix several cuts above the rest of the films in its genre is that there are simply no loopholes.  The script, written by the Wachowski brothers is intelligent but carefully not geeky.  The kung-fu sequences were deftly shot -- something even Bruce Lee would've been proud of.  The photography was breathtaking.  (I bet if you had to cut every frame on the reel and had it developed and printed, every single frame would stand on its own.)  And the acting?  Maybe not the best Keanu Reeves but name me an actor who has box-office appeal but could portray the uneasy and vulnerable protagonist, Neo, to a T the way Reeves did.  But, come to think of it, if you pit any actor beside Laurence Fishburne, you're bound to confuse that actor for bad acting.  As Morpheus, Mr. Fishburne is simply wicked!  Shades of his mentor-role in Higher Learning, nobody exudes that aura of quiet intensity than Mr. Fishburne.  His character, battle-scarred but always composed Morpheus, is given an extra dose of mortality (He loves Neo to a fault.) only Mr. Fishburne can flesh out.People will say what they want to say about how good The Matrix is but the bottomline is this: finally there's a philosophical film that has cut through this generation.  My generation. The Wachowski brothers probably scribbled a little P.S. note when they finished the script saying: THINK FOR A MOMENT ABOUT YOUR EXISTENCE.  What is the Matrix, you ask?  Something that's closer to reality than you think.Either that or it's my personal choice for best film of all-time.


                
The Matrix is one of the best sci-fi movies ever made!I read it used to be one of Tarantino's favourite ones too, but the second and third ones ruined the whole beautiful idea and brought the overall value of the movie pretty low.The story/philosophy is mind-blowing and the directing, special effects and the overall performance absolutely amazing. Thomas Anderson (Keanu Reeves) is an IT specialist in his day-to-day job and a hacker (alias Neo) during the night. He is looking for Morpheous (Lawrence Fishburn) who could give him the answer to the question 'What is the Matrix?' The more relevant questions to ask, though, would be "How would you know the difference between the dream world and the real world?" and "How would you know if what is happening right now is not a virtual reality?"The antagonist, Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving), is one of my favourite characters. Just watch his mouth - the way he speaks, the tone and pitch of his voice, his pronunciation, even the pauses he makes while speaking, have an incredible effect on the viewer. The concept of people being like cancer to this world is absolutely astounding.Carrie Ann Moss was the perfect choice for Trinity because any other blond, big lipped, big brested 'bimbo' would have totally ruined her character.A few more questions pop up in one's mind. "Haven't we gone too far creating such super intelligent machines?", "What if they become so powerfull one day and take control over humanity?"The acting's just amazing, all of them, no exceptions. The 4 leading characters though... (Morphy, Trinity, Neo & Agent Smith) - (yes, to me there are 4 leads) - I love them all. I can't imagine the movie with any other 4 actors but L. Fishbourn, C.A. Moss, Keanu and H. Weaving. They were born to play those roles.Whoever did the casting did a terrific job. Bravo!Brilliant, absolutely brilliant!


                
By the end of the 90s, there hadn't been much in terms of fresh, new sci-fi that we hadn't seen before. Or so I thought.The Matrix combined the best of hard science-fiction with Asian cinema's frenetic and masterfully choreographed action sequences, gorgeous direction, pitch-perfect casting, and the best martial arts I'd ever seen in a Hollywood film.I don't think the sequels did it justice, but The Matrix - as a stand-alone film - remains one of my all time favorites in ANY genre.


                
Writing a review of The Matrix is a very hard thing for me to do because this film means a lot to me and therefore I want to do the film justice by writing a good review. To tell the truth the first time I saw the film I was enamored by the effects. I remember thinking to myself that this was one of the most visually stunning films I had ever seen in my life. Also having always been a comic book fan and a fan of films that were larger than life, the transitional element of the story was very appealing to me and this probably heightened my enjoyment of the film very much. It wasn't until some time later (and after having seen the film a few times more) that I started to think about the film. I recognized the Christian elements quite quickly but it wasn't until I wrote an actual 15-page essay on the film that I tapped into some of the philosophical and religious elements and that made me appreciate the film even more. I won't say that I have recognized all elements because the film is quite literally packed with them.Acting wise the film works excellently. I won't say that there aren't any issues because there are but overall the acting is pretty flawless. Keanu Reeves plays the main character, Neo, or Thomas A. Anderson and while he is not the perfect actor I think he does a pretty good job in The Matrix (and the sequels). He doesn't have the longest of lines which was probably a deliberate choice from the directors and it works because this gives him a better opportunity to work on posture and facial expressions and I must say that overall his body language is very good. Very clear and well defined. Laurence Fishbourne plays Neo's mentor Morpheus and he does an excellent job of it. His lines flow with a certain confidence and style that makes his character somewhat unique and interesting. Carrie-Anne Moss does a good job as well and succeeds in looking both cool and sexy in her leather outfit. Joe Pantoliano, a critically underrated actor does a brilliant job of bringing his character, Cypher, to life. I can't say much about him because his character is pretty essential to the plot and I certainly don't wan't to spoil it for anyone. Gloria Foster appears in a relatively small role that will have greater significance in the following films and she does a very good job. The best acting is provided by Hugo Weaving, however, in his portrayal of Agent Smith. It is really something to watch him act out the changes in his character. Agent Smith gains some human traits like anger, sense of dread, hate and eventually even a sly sense of humor (mostly in the sequels). Two thumbs way up to Weaving who has created one of the finest screen villains of all time.Effects wise the film is simply stunning and it deservedly was awarded the Oscar for best effects (and was regrettably cheated out of a nomination in the Best Film category) ahead of even Star Wars. The reason that I think The Matrix deserves the Oscar for best effects is simply that the effects in The Matrix are more innovative than the ones in Star Wars. Just take a look at how many times the effects have been spoofed and you'll probably agree. The effects also help in the symbolism of the film and in creating a very dystopian atmosphere not unlike the one seen in Blade Runner and this works brilliantly. The film looks beautiful at all times and today 6 years later (my God has it already been 6 years?) the effects still hold their ground against new science fiction films. Add the effects to the brilliant editing and you have a visual masterpiece on your hands. Very well done.The reason that I think The Matrix is more reviewable than pretty much any other film is the story and the philosophical and religious elements of the story because with every viewing I catch something I didn't see the previous time I watched it. Without spoiling the film I think I can mention a few of the more obvious elements. Obviously the film draws on the Messiah myth as Neo is a clear reference to Jesus with the analogy of his name (Neo = one, as in The One) but also hidden in his other name, Thomas A. Anderson. The first part of his last name, Anderson comes from the Greek Andros meaning "man" and combine this with the second part of his last name "son" and add a little creativity you will come up with the combination "son of man" which was a title Jesus came up with about himself. Also the first time we meet Neo a man calls him (and I quote): "You're my Saviour man. My own personal Jesus Christ." It doesn't get any more obvious than that. Aside from the Christianic elements the film also gets its inspiration from Budhism, Gnosticism (Gnosis = knowledge) but is also inspired by Plato and his analogy of the Cave and Jean Baudrillard's essay, Simulacra and Simulations. Explaining these elements would make this review go on forever so aside from mentioning them I will not comment on them further.To all the people who doubt the profound nature of The Matrix I can only give one advice: Free your mind and watch the film again. You won't regret it. If I had to choose a favorite all time film my choice would probably fall on either The Matrix (obviously I don't expect people to agree but if they do thats great) or The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King and I recommend it to all fans of sci-fi and people who like philosophy.10/10 - on my top 3 of best films.


                
** May contain spoilers **There aren't many movies I watched in the theatre twice <U+0096> let alone on the same day - but immediately after the credits had rolled (and still pumped up by 'Rage against the Machine'), I queued up for the next screening of 'The Matrix'. I was so blown away by that film, I feared - and probably rightly so - that I hadn't caught every detail of what I'd just seen. I later found out that many of my friends had had a similar reaction to the film, and I know virtually no one who liked the film and didn't watch it at least twice. It's simply one of those rare films that are so rich you just have to watch them several times.In structure, style and concept, 'The Matrix' was ground-breaking; it marked the first time the visual style of Manga comic books and Anime such as 'Akira' or 'Ghost in the Shell' had been successfully translated to a live-action film. Apart from 'Blade Runner', which has a totally different mood and pace (but is also a masterpiece and visionary film-making), there simply hadn't been anything even remotely like it. The jaw-dropping action sequences have such a raw, gripping energy they feel like an adrenalin overdose, but unlike most action films, they never overshadow the story; on the contrary - they enhance it and make complete sense within that universe.As for the story itself, I think this is one of the most original, fascinating Sci-Fi tales you'll likely ever see on screen. Clearly inspired by Japanese Anime and Manga yet also by authors like Isaac Asimov or Philip K. Dick, the story about humanity's war against its own creation, machines of an artificial intelligence that have evolved to the point where they have become the dominant 'species' and vastly superior to their creators, could take place in the same world as 'Blade Runner' or 'The Terminator' - albeit several hundred years later. But there is also a mythical, even religious undercurrent to the story; the themes of a prophecy, a "liberator" or even a "messiah" make 'The Matrix' transcend the Science-Fiction genre and become even more unique.'The Matrix' was a watershed moment in filmmaking <U+0096> in every respect <U+0096> and even though two inferior sequels have left a bit of a stain on the film, they can't distract from what an uncompromising and hugely influential masterpiece this is. Sci-Fi movies that were released after 'The Matrix' have tried very hard to achieve a similar look and tone, but the original still owns them all. 10 stars out of 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/
Even with the new 4k hdr these the graphics and action scenes area holding up to the test of time. It not only looks better than mainstream movies today, you're hard pressed to tell what was added in visual effects and what was happening at the time of the shoot.The entire tower scene, not just the bottom level, is a thing of beauty. From all of the rain and explosions and bits flying around that you can see clearly now in 4K, to the generated explosion when the bomb hits the basement. Just gorgeous. Give it a watch, or a rewatch. It's worth it even now more than ever.


                
My review of the best epic Science Fiction Action film, The Matrix (1999) starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, Joe Pantoliano, Marcus Chong and Gloria Foster.This was be the first movie I went to see in the movie theater with my mom when I was 15.years old, when I read in the magazines about The Matrix I was blown away and I wanted to see it right away. The Matrix is the best action sci-fi films that Keanu Reeves made in the 90's. It is one of my personal favorite movies. The Matrix is a (1999) American science fiction action film written and directed by The Wachowskis, starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne, Carrie-Anne Moss, Hugo Weaving, and Joe Pantoliano. It depicts a dystopia future in which reality as perceived by most humans is actually a simulated reality called "the Matrix", created by sentient machines to subdue the human population, while their bodies' heat and electrical activity are used as an energy source. Computer programmer "Neo" learns this truth and is drawn into a rebellion against the machines, which involves other people who have been freed from the "dream world".Written and directed by the Wachowski brothers, this classic sci-fi action film stars Keanu Reeves as a lowly computer programmer who discovers his entire existence, and that of all mankind, is nothing but a simulation in a computer. The reality within a reality is a concept that's done before... but never like this - The Matrix requires absolute attention from his audience, least you'll be completely lost in a few minutes. With the help of supporting cast members Laurence Fishburne and Carrie-Anne-Moss, Reeves discovers that inside this simulation environment known as The Matrix, he can control, bend, and manipulate space-time... resulting in some of the most incredibly iconic images to ever grace the silver screen. The slow-motion "bullet-time" effects as they're known today were groundbreaking and revolutionary when we first saw them 12 years ago. Although Reeves is notorious for his inability to really convey much emotional range, his character here lends itself well to him as an actor. This is a movie that makes you think, makes you gasp, and makes totally forget where the 136-minutes went after finishing it. It's no wonder this film spawned two very successful sequels, and dozens of copy-cats. The Matrix, "Visually revolutionary, and mind-blowing." Keanu Reeves plays the main character, Neo, or Thomas A. Anderson and while he is not the perfect actor I think he does a pretty good job in The Matrix. He doesn't have the longest of lines which was probably a deliberate choice from the directors and it works because this gives him a better opportunity to work on posture and facial expressions and I must say that overall his body language is very good. Very clear and well defined. Laurence Fishbourne plays Neo's mentor Morpheus and he does an excellent job of it. His lines flow with a certain confidence and style that makes his character somewhat unique and interesting. Carrie-Anne Moss does a good job as well and succeeds in looking both cool and sexy in her leather outfit. Joe Pantoliano, a critically underrated actor does a brilliant job of bringing his character, Cypher, to life. He also played the roles in Underrated Daredevil (2003)and Bad Boys I & II. I can't say much about him because his character is pretty essential to the plot. Gloria Foster appears in a relatively small role that will have greater significance in the following films and she does a very good job. The best acting is provided by Hugo Weaving, however, in his portrayal of Agent Smith. It is really something to watch him act out the changes in his character. Agent Smith gains some human traits like anger, sense of dread, hate and eventually even a sly sense of humor. Two thumbs way up to Weaving who has created one of the finest screen villains of all time.Effects wise the film is simply stunning and it deservedly was awarded the Oscar for best effects (and was regrettably cheated out of a nomination in the Best Film category) ahead of even Star Wars. The reason that I think The Matrix deserves the Oscar for best effects is simply that the effects in The Matrix are more innovative than the ones in Star Wars. Just take a look at how many times the effects have been spoofed and you'll probably agree. The effects also help in the symbolism of the film and in creating a very dystopia atmosphere not unlike the one seen in Blade Runner and this works brilliantly. The film looks beautiful at all times and today 16 years later (my God has it already been 16 years?) the effects still hold their ground against new science fiction films. Add the effects to the brilliant editing and you have a visual masterpiece on your hands. Very well done.The film also won 4 Academy Awards including for best visual effects. 
10/10 for one of the best epic American science fiction action film's in the history movies like this and Aliens (1986) don't exist anymore. It is one of my personal favorite movies, it is the movie I saw with my mom in the movie theater it is memories on my mom who is no longer with us anymore and I miss he.
The Wachowski brothers really did excel themselves with this movie. It's a brilliant movie on a number of different levels - the directing is excellent, the camera work is great, the visuals are stunning, the kung-fu is A+, acting is executed with style and conviction, and the plot is truly inspired. It's really hard to use enough superlatives on this movie!It'd be a 10/10, except for the ending. Having Neo do what he does at the end really lets it down, in my opinion. However, there's a couple of sequels on the way, so let's see what the Wachowskis can do to make up for it.Other than that, (and like I said above) the movie is operating on so many different levels that each time you watch it, you pick up something new... this isn't by accident, either. The Wachowski brothers had the actors read a number of definitive works (Simulation & Simulcra was one I believe) in modern literature and psychology, and applied liberal dashings of aspects of the major religions to provide the best sci-fi movie of the decade, if not ever.I'm yet to meet somebody who hasn't enjoyed it. It's my favourite movie to watch on a good cinema system, too.


                
It's been a while since a movie has generated enough interest in me for me to watch it.  "The Matrix" looked exciting enough in the trailers, so I decided to give it a look.  What I found was an amazing movie, with some of the greatest special effects I've ever seen.  The camera angles really work for the action sequences and the choreographed fight scenes made me yearn for more.  Say what you want about Keanu Reeves' acting.  He may not deliver the best dialogue, but his look can carry a film.  He was a great choice for the role of Neo.  Carrie Anne Moss was great as was the underrated Laurence Fishburne.  I highly recommend this film for those who are a fan of visually stunning movies.  It will blow away your senses...


                
The Wachowski Brothers vision of a possible future takes the visual and sound aspects of filmmaking to a new high. Incorporating older still photography with computer enhancement to the degree that appears on the screen has raised the genre to a level that will be very hard-pressed by filmmakers for a number of years. Acting was wonderful, script, visual, sound, everything about this film is a tribute to a usually overlooked genre.


                
It is funny how it has been 15 years since "The Matrix Revolutions", bringing the movie trilogy to a close. I wrote reviews for it and "Reloaded" as well back in 2003 and I realized that I had never written a few lines for the first movie. Well, here I am.I will keep it short. We all know how good "The Matrix" is. The plot, the visuals, the mythos, it all adds up to a movie experience that is timeless. Almost 20 years later, it now has a "retro" vibe that makes it more interesting, with late 90s cars, rotary phones, Nokia cells and CRT monitors.Today sets the 4K HDR release of the trilogy. Coming back to "The Matrix" after probably 10 years since my last viewing, it is a constant reminder of how the Wachowski's masterpiece shaped up the movie industry and its echos are still felt today.A true timeless piece of movie history.


                
When we will see another movie with the same speed? So deeply philosophical? Sadly, the most likely answer is... NEVER


                
In the year 1999, "The Matrix" and "Fight Club" were undoubtedly the best films of the year. The Matrix was truly revolutionary in special effects, specifically in CGI (Computer-Generated-Imaging) technology. The still cameras that were used to capture multiple angles of a single shot, in bullet-time technology, was a creative new approach. The film is initially suspenseful with people not knowing quite what was happening until Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne) reveals that Neo's (Keanu Reeves) reality was actually a fabricated world that is an elaborate simulation created by machines. Neo and the majority of the world's inhabitants have been stuck in simply a mental simulation prison. The magnitude of philosophy in sync with special effects make "The Matrix" a one-of-a-kind movie masterpiece. College classes show this movie in their philosophy class, and at the same time can prove to be one of the best special effects movies ever. Supplementally, "The Matrix" also provides endless action and a pretty solid storyline that influences the philosophical ideas in the movie. There are so many great things in this movie, it is just crazy.The color palette along with the time and effort put into stunts also accelerates this movie on all filming levels. "The Matrix" leaves the viewer a sense of pride in the world he/she can live in to just know that people are capable of creating at this level. Unfortunately, monetary and timing motives offset the potential quality of the sequels. "The Matrix Reloaded" and "The Matrix Revolutions" were just a waste of time and weren't carefully thought out, as was the first Matrix. 10/10
When The Matrix first came out, I was way too young to appreciate its beauty. Inside, the film began unravelling layers of reality. Like an onion. And like an onion, it potency is unmatched in its own family of similar genre'd films. It begins, as society shapes the roles we play within in. A cycle, hopelessly dependant on the system, but slowly and surely, we learn the truth. And from there on, the rest is history. My go to film, no matter what the mood. A titan of a film, and the best film ever made, in my opinion.


                
I find it strange that most of the people who watched Matrix were only attracted by the visual effects and overlooked the scientific facts on which this movie was based.People enjoyed the flying mostly and hence liked Matrix 1 more than they did with 2 and 3 although the answer was in part 3 that is who will win the war eventually between humans and machines. Some people they make fun of the idea that one day humans will be in direct war with machines but those people have not read yet about the Nano technology. The latter technology offers something like the software which teaches Neo how to fight in little time. Well through Nano, they will be able to plant a brainlike chip which works 10,000 times faster than our brain and they are now trying to optimize the speed limit in a way that doesn't endanger our brain which might be burnt working under such speed.As for the flying part, it is very possible if the science of Psychokinesis is given more consideration and in the near future I reckon they will with the evolution of human body which is going toward less and less movement. Has anyone seen the prototype of the new cars which have no pedals and we use sticks to drive and direct the car in different directions.Well, I guess the movie has tackled all these scientific aspects alongside psychological and philosophical ones in a very brilliant way and I 100% give this move 20 on a scale out of 10!


                
The Matrix is a stunning, fast paced movie with lots of great special effects, high action, and a great soundtrack.But...is that all it is?No.  It isn't.When I listen to people talk about this movie, or read reviews by people who don't like it, the main problem they seem to have is the the plot, which they claim is mind-numbing, inaccessible, or just plain dumb.  They claim that the reason the movie is so popular is because if the special effects.Those who make these claims are just a little clueless, and the true art of storytelling is lost on them.Here's why.  Every story that we see on screen, read in a book or on the web has been told before in one fashion or another.  "Jurassic Park" is nothing more than a retelling of "Frankenstein" when you get right down to it. What catches our attention is when the story is re-told in such a different light that we like the retelling without really being called back to an earlier version.  The "Jurassic Park example can work again for this point.  No one sees it as another retelling of "Frankenstein" at all, or at least, they don't dwell on the issue.  Shakespeare didn't create any stories....he borrowed from other texts, used other sources, and used words to his advantage.  The whole thing involves what is called "intertextuality", a term that I won't go into here, but is what I am trying to explain in the brief example of "Jurassic Park."Okay, stop yawning.Now, the Matrix has done the same thing, and what is funny is that very, very few people have recognized the major source of the story ( I wonder if the writers really know ).  I have heard that it is supposed to be Christian themed, and while there is some imagery in that respect, like a character named Trinity, Neo's death and rebirth at the end of the movie, the ship's name, etc. etc. etc., the list can go on.  But it has nothing to do with the story, which borrows very heavily from a philosophy written by Plato, of all people, back when the years were still labeled as BC.Plato wrote a philosophy, the actual name escapes me, but I keep hearing it referred to as "The Cave."  In this philosophy on the workings of a society, Plato stated that if you were to take four people from the day they were born, tie them to chairs so that their heads cannot move, and place them in the back of a cave where they cannot see the opening, nor have any daylight. They only have contact with each other.  Now, on the wall that they are facing, they can see shadows moving, be it a shadow puppet play, or whatever you can imagine, but all they see are those shadows.  You leave them in this cave for 20 years.  The only life that they know is the chair, and the playing of shadows on the wall.  They will not know the shadows are merely shadows, nor will they know the idea of freedom, and they will now know anything of the real world.  Then, you release one man, let him wander the world for awhile.  He sees that the world isn't just shadows on a wall, etc etc.  If you put him back in the cave, he will not view the shadows the same way that he once did.  He will also try to enlighten the other three that the images on the wall are only shadows, and that there is a beautiful and colorful world outside their cave.  But they will not believe him, and will even begin to see him as a blasphemer, and an enemy.WHEW!!That's the basic story in the Matrix.  Neo has been removed from the cave, and has seen the real world, and now knows he has been seeing shadows his entire life, and his mission is to make humanity realize that they are seeing shadows as well, but until that time, he will be regarded as an enemy by those still inside the cave.  The agents are the keepers of the cave, and the Matrix itself is the shadows that we see.  When you see this connection, the story can make more sense to those who can't quite understand it.And so by blending old, old stories with modern filming techniques and great acting by all involved and fast paced action, there is something to be said about this movie being a work of art, because it truly is.


                
*Deeply exhales* The movie MATRIX was indeed a breaking point for movie makers, and it paved way for both marketers, producers, and film makers generally. The era at the time the MATRIX was released really needed something new and different, and this was what the MATRIX was able to deliver. With ground breaking still motions and effects, it was indeed a movie of the time. While being perfectly casted with Keanu Reeves playing NEO, and Carrie-Anne Moss playing Trinity, while leaving the boss himself in the middle of it all, Laurence Fishburne playing Morpheus. Their roles were imbibed in them as if it were their true nature and this really made a significant difference between the so called science and fiction.


                
What is real? How do you define real? This question has been explored for its significance in metaphysics in other movies as well. The Thirteenth Floor is one of them and the other is Dark City. I mention these because they were released more or less around the same time as this movie was released. But these two movies do not enjoy the position and the popularity of this movie - The Matrix, why? Look at the box office success of the Matrix. Look at the popularity of this movie. Advertisements have been created based on the themes of this movie. Most people seem to have heard of the movie if not seen it. The Matrix enjoys a prominent position in the top 50 on the IMDb. Even a list of 100 best movies of all times as compiled by a documentary on the Discovery Channel mentioned this movie as among the top 100. The key to the enormous success of the Matrix is the symbiotic combination of two opposing elements. The first one being metaphysics or philosophy and the second element being intense amount of action. The Dark City is limited in its action and stresses more on the metaphysics aspect and so does the Thirteenth floor. When you see The Matrix, you see that there is far more metaphysics and philosophy in this movie when compared to the other two. And when you see the action sequences of the movie, the two movies fade into oblivion. There is so much for the intellectual to busy himself with in this movie. There is a reference to so many mythological places and figures. The character Neo is an anagram of One signifying the One Absolute many cultures believe in and then there is Trinity, an obvious reference to the Holy Trinity. The names of the ships, the numbers on the door, the name of the book Neo takes his CD out from all have a significance, a clue, if that is what one wants to call it. This movie gives enough to the intellectual to study and talk about. And yet the movie does not fail to capture the attention of the average movie goer. The average movie goer does not want to search for hidden symbols, he does not want to discuss the movie for hours and hours. He wants some action and some fun. The movie gives that as well. The movie has a lot of guns, a lot of chases and a lot of fighting. The average movie goer can appreciate the main aspect of this movie without bothering about all the hidden symbols which the intellectual chooses to see in the movie. Yet, he apparently does not deny himself the spirit of the movie and enjoys it. And I believe this is what has made the movie successful - the reconciliation between action and thrill and metaphysics and philosophy. This movie deserves all the praise and success that it has got. My personal all-time favorite. I never get tired of talking about it till date and love to see it with my friends if I get the chance.
"The Matrix" has redefined the science-fiction genre. Previous to this movie, most science-fiction movies consisted out of scene's in space with spacecrafts, aliens, all set in a futuristic world. Most movies that tried to be different from this, mostly failed. "The Matrix" does however does not fail and it redefined the science-fiction genre and has taken it to a whole different and more seriously taken level of movie-making. The movie has inspired many different movies ever since and showed that science-fiction and action elements are a great and spectacular combination. From that perspective "The Matrix" is one of the most important movies for film-making, from the '90's.This is a superb piece of movie-making. The Wachowski 'brothers' were obviously inspired by the Japanese anime style and they transform that style spectacularly into a life-action movie. Because of the style and flair of the movie, it makes the action look spectacular and even also look as something totally new. The fantastic bullet-time effects were something unseen before and are already alone reason enough why this movie is already almost a classic and certainly unforgettable movie. The style and new effects used in the movie make this movie to be also a refreshing one. It's an extremely original movie, both story-wise and technique-wise.Especially the action is what truly makes this movie a success. The fight and action sequences are beautifully choreographed. It also all is beautifully shot by cinematographer Bill Pope, who uses some fantastic lighting and camera-angles at times. The musical score from Don Davis is also quite good. Also the costumes and settings most certainly do not disappoint. The special effects are spectacular and also something totally new at times.The cast is not the strongest element of the movie. Keanu Reeves is fairly good as the main character but he lacks some charisma at times. Some goes for Carrie-Anne Moss to be honest. Actors who do not disappoint are Laurence Fishburne, Joe Pantoliano and the fantastic Hugo Weaving in his real big breakthrough role. He is an excellent 'villain' because of his look and way of acting.But what really makes and shapes the movie is its story. Yes, it's complex and believe, not everything makes sense or is explained in a satisfying way but it at least is something totally original and imaginative. The story really shapes the movie and its style and make the action and science-fiction elements of the movie work fantastically together.The movie is great non-stop spectacular action entertaining that doesn't even get slow or boring even when nothing is really happening. This is mainly due to the imaginative powerful story of the movie. If you don't understand and/or get the story the first time, just watch it a second or third time. The movie is worth it. The movie uses multiple layers, symbolism and elements from religions and other styles of movie-making. It makes you discover more new things, every time you watch the movie. One of the most original and influential movies from the '90's and therefor also an absolute must-see!10/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
(Correction of a reference I made in my review of April 12,1999)1. The feel of "The Matrix": This is a movie that envelops you, and is reminiscent of two works: a movie and an excerpt from a novel. The first is the 1-hour made-for-TV-film "The Lathe of Heaven," by Ursula K. Le Guin which was broadcast on Channel 13 / Educational TV back in 1980: after the film, I felt I was a character living in the film. "The Lathe of Heaven" was about a character whose dreams become reality; every time he wakes up, he is in a new future / futuristic setting where everything changes in accordance to his dream.Kurt Vonnegut (in "Breakfast of Champions") had a small sci-fi concept in one of his books called (approximately) "A message from the creator." In this story, God writes a book to the only person in the world. God tells him that the entire world was created for him, all religions were invented so he could have a choice of religions, and other people were merely robots who had a specific purpose, such as fighting with him. Thus, whatever he does doesn't matter, since no one else is real but him. The character reads this book, and goes insane, thinking that it is true.Similarly, when you leave "The Matrix," you wonder what is real and what is a simulation. After the movie, my friend walked across the street blindly ignoring cars, perhaps trapped in the illusion that this was not real. It took several minutes for him to escape this fantasy world. It affected me similarly.2. Personal Reactions: a) Movie was great (tentatively on my list of "top 12 movies" for me). b)I did not like Fishburne's pockmarked face and grimaces. c)Some corniness in the awakening kiss given to Keanu/Neo, that in my mind, could be traced to reality: people in comas do hear and can respond after what appears to be death.3. Plot Holes: How did the Operator recover from being killed/shot? How did the Oracle know what would happen?4. Political Correctness: a) Two to four black heroes who could easily have been white; b) a possible lesbian; c)a Latino; d)a short person; e)bad white guys(and no bad ethnic types); f) a middle-aged kindly motherly type, g)even a few kids as potential heroes, with one being a guru.
I think there were Action/Sci-Fi movies before The Matrix and there are action/sci-fi movies after The Matrix. It changed everything. This movie was one of it's kind when it came and there was nothing like this seen before. Awesome action sequences, bullet times, slow motions and the concept, everything was awesome.Not just action, the movie is great in other aspects too. The movie is thought provoking and very influential. This movie forced every filmmaker of action/sci-fi movies to step up.I still remember when i watched this movie for the very first time more than 10 years ago, it felt like i'm in a different world. I've never ever seen anything like this. Movie had awesome effects, that might seems outdated these days, but that time it was first time something like that was shown in movies.This movie was really a gamechanger, and we are lucky that this movie actually happened.


                
What is the Matrix? It's a computer program created by the machines that now control our world, used a means to control our minds while we are used as batteries.In the wake of a war between mankind and machines, most humans now live in this computer generated world, and for the few that don't, life is pretty hard, living in the squalid remains of our planet.Keanu Reeves (Neo) a computer hacker is trapped within the Matrix, but he has a dream of something more. Growing suspicion of his surroundings and a belief that his life isn't quite right leads him to the truth, where he is rescued by a handful of freedom fighters lead by Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne)Does this seem a little mad? It does to me, but the fact remains that throughout our history millions have fought and died for the idea of freedom, so i guess this is human nature to try and attain freedom, regardless of the consequences that may ensue.Once free from the Matrix, Neo is told that he is the one (a little cheesy), he is the one man that can beat the machines, because he can bend the rules of the Matrix and become more powerful than the programs (agents) who control it, they are governed by rules and he isn't (now there's a nice trade off, for living in squalor. If you get bored, just plug in and kick some ass, sounds cool) Using groundbreaking special effects techniques the Matrix takes us to the next level, techniques that we now take for granted and see every day, were born right here.As Neo struggles to believe he is the one, the team continue to pitch battle against the machines in style, as they enter the matrix and fight to bring it down and rise up against mankind's captures.This movie really is cool, the cast is strong, in particular Laurence Fishburne and Carrie-Anne Moss, the script is pretty slick and the idea is good enough to get us thinking (at very least it acts as a vehicle to carry the visual feast that is The Matrix) For its originality, groundbreaking effects and sheer enjoyment i give it 10/10, even though it does have some tiny flaws.
Strangely, Matrix is one of the few action films that open my brain to deep, profound thinking while at the same time it magnetizes me with the most brutally good action scenes. Putting together the thinking line of the new generation, where we are just but pawns in a system we don't understand or belong, Matrix also borrows a lot of the oriental culture with the fights and it's inner travel over the nature of Life.Little by little one will start to see the light, and everything will make sense. By the second view, you will get a higher conception. By your third view this will amaze you. Brawn mixed with brains. The Matrix IS the science fiction film. With a perfect script that drowns so profoundly into the true nature of things, and with major, Industrial high tech digital action, I will ask you this if you haven't seen the movie:-What are you doing reading this instead??


                
Still in 2019 a lot of people will this this movie as science fiction, I could watch it over and over and still discover need things and details that can relate to real life event.
The characters did an amazing job.


                
