OK- don't get me wrong this was a groundbreaking movie. However I have some serious problems with it.First the good. The action scenes and special effects are awesome. They really did set new standards and knocked that hackneyed load of tripe The Phantom menace into the bin. The ending is also fantastic- there is no way that an ending this perfect was meant to be followed by two mediocre sequelsHowever, The plot is more full of holes than a fishnet stocking. For instance- I know this is nit picking- but how can Cypher be betraying the crew when not only do they have to plug him into the matrix for him to go and meet the agents in the first instance, but are also monitoring said conversation.Secondly- the philosophical parts. The matrix basically asks the question is it better to live the dream. The flaw comes in that in this case it is quite clearly better- great, so mankind is not "free" but each person lives a sufficiently realistic existence inside their own head for it not to matter. If the alternative is living in fear and squalor, dodging sentinels whilst eating what looks like congealed semen then I would frankly rather live inside my own dreams dining on fine food etc.Next up, the acting. Could someone please explain to me how Keanu Reeves is a leading man. He single handedly trashes all the good work put in by the supporting cast- especially Laurence Fishburne and Hugo Weaving. Anyway how can I be expected to take a film seriously where Keanu is effectively god?Overall, a reasonable film but not the second coming of Christ so many people think it is.


                
I have heard so much about the Matrix and finally watched it for the first time this weekend.Boy, were there lots of action sequences. Lots and lots and lots of action sequences. You can feel the filmmakers just trying to top the last sequence instead of doing something like advancing the plot or developing the characters. Unless you think the action sequence is the be-all-and-end-all of movies, all that action just gets boring after a while. I have nothing against whiz-bang special effects as long as they do something worthwhile to move the film along (the Lord of the Rings films are good at this). But this is just not happening with the Matrix.The Matrix concept itself is thought-provoking. Why isn't it developed more? The fact that this monumental struggle for the soul of humanity ends up with a shoot-out, a helicopter-dangling rescue sequence and a martial arts fight is almost laughable. It's like saying the mysteries of the universe can be unraveled by watching beer commercials. If you want to see an ending that leaves you with something worth chewing on, you'll be sadly disappointed (as I was).As for other elements of the movie -- Keanu Reeves, as much as I usually enjoy watching him, was extremely wooden. Fishburne and Moss were good at what they did, but their parts were pretty two-dimensional. I couldn't get emotionally involved with any of the characters, which is ultimately the fault of the writers. The cinematography and "style" of the film and the sets is pretty cool to look at. However, the whole black clothes and sunglasses motif is just a little bit hokey after a while. And the agents -- I swear they look just like the bad aliens in Brother From Another Planet -- I kept expecting them to shriek at each other.I look at it this way - people who think that sitting in front of their tubes and playing video games is a worthwhile way to spend their lives will probably love this movie. People who want something more will think it's pretty hollow. It's a shame because the concept had a lot of potential, but the filmmakers took the easy way out.


                
The Matrix took everybody by surprise back in 1999 but after the initial euphoria there was very little left to say about this movie which is, I believe, way over-rated. True, the special effects had a new look but that's pretty much all there is to it. Now those SFX are clichÈ and close to ridiculous. Look at Terminator II, now over twelve years old, the SFX are still ahead of today's standards.The story is basically a cross-over between the Terminator plot (also Blade Runner and a lot more sci-fi movies with the mankind overrun by machine and artificial intelligence idea) and the Dark City setting and ambiance (trench coats, an artificial city). This lack of originality is why, in my humble opinion, the movie's sequels didn't do as well. The acting is OK but far from good and the directing is the same as most 'hollywoodian' movies from the last ten years (IE lacking personal style. Seriously, what's the difference between a Wachowski bros. flick and a Roland Emmerich one?).I've tried to watch it again on several occasions but usually I end up fast forwarding to the main action scene and then turning the movie off and then I get the feeling that that scene resumes the entire movie; a lot of noise about nothing.


                
I think this movie will be forgotten pretty fast. The first time I saw it, I was stunned by the bullet time and the "real-ish" combat. But all in all, it's a very shallow film. Neo is about as interesting a character as a dead fish (not counting Finding Nemo, which probably could have contained a dead fish more interesting than the character Neo), an Morpheus, Smith, Trinity, all of them, Switch and.. oh, did I mention all the characters? They are boring. And the story is very silly. Come on - humans as batteries, programs with families?? Who designed this matrix-thing anyways? It must have been an idiot! The plot barely survives the first time 'round - second time you watch it - it fails. The sad part is that this film is being dragged down in the mud with the two sequels that have been made for the sake of sequels with a combined narrative of about a minute. Worse examples of "and then"-scripts are only found in Steven Seagal-movies. (except the action which is very amusing - Neo beating up a couple of Smiths with a Smith..)


                
After watching a movie which some call "The best sci-fi film of the Millennium" I had this serious and uncontrollable urge to go in depth and examine it to the last piece. You can ask me "Why can't you just seat back and receive pleasure?" I can. But not when it comes to movie which is called cult.The special effects were good. But the only reason they were made is to create a show. Check out the eXistenZ - I don't think there were any computer animated effects at all, but you get a full feeling of another reality.What's really bad is a plot of the film. This is supposed to be a movie were the Good Guys are fighting the Bad Matrix. But what Matrix is bad is questionable. It takes away people's freedom to control their lives but allows them to live in a bright sunny world, when the real world is dark ruins, ugly closing and food that looks and tastes like plastic. Some people could say that the Matrix is doing a good deed.Not to mention that using a people's bodies as a batteries is not very effective, you have to feed them and that's a real waste of energy.Absolutely unnecessary thing in this film is a Kung Fu. If you can bend spoons and duck bullets with the power of your mind, you don't need any martial arts. It was made only to put some action into film.And the worst thing is a prophecy about the "Chosen-One". Neo was the "Chosen-One" all the time and it doesn't matter if Trinity would fall in love with him or not. He had his abilities, he trained them and it's logically to assume that he would get them. But no! He fully gets them only when Trinity says she loves him. Yes, it was in Oracles prophecy, but don't You think that the things You can do are not depend from what other people think about You? This is really falls apart, and this is a major moment in movie.To avoid any farther damaging of a Matrix fan's feelings, I must say that this movie is not all that bad. It's a good show and you can really enjoy it, but please, don't call it "The best sci-fi film of the Millennium"! Go see Alien instead.
My mark - 4 out of 10.


                
I'm waiting, like a vulture, for this movie to become dated. And it will. The club scene, the sunglasses, the fashions, the cell phones - oh yes, one day it will all look and sound unbearably corny. And then, we'll have to actually pay attention to the script and the acting (or lack thereof). And we will realize that this movie reeks.For an action film, it's remarkably dull, with the first half basically consisting of a looong string of complex explanations. It doesn't help that Neo is a totally flat character. If I'm to care that he's trapped in the Matrix, I need to see more of his life there. Sadly, one scene of Neo at work, being berated by the boss, does not a fascinating character make. I also think it was a terrible mistake to make him a programmer, since he already understands the nature of computers and should, therefore, be more receptive to the idea of the Matrix instead of consistently incredulous. And am I supposed to believe that this master hacker doesn't know what an EMP is?The film is also terribly derivative. Morpheus is an even more gaseous version of Yoda, and Neo is clearly based on Luke (promising young man discovers super-powers and helps rebels overthrow their nasty oppressors). The visual style is ripped off from the Alien movies, as is the snake-like parasite that somehow manages to burst through Neo's bellybutton without leaving a mark. The evil agents clearly evoke The X-Files, the notion that mankind is enslaved by robots in an apocalyptic future comes straight out of The Terminator, and - most damningly of all - the concept of a virtual reality environment called the Matrix had featured some 23 years earlier in an episode of Doctor Who ("The Deadly Assassin"). Maybe the Matrix didn't consciously rip off all of these sources, but it's certainly worth noting that this movie is utterly unoriginal in every respect but its action photography (and that will, like all the rest, probably date badly).Needless to say, Reeves is pretty bland, and Fishbourne is just plain embarrassing in his first scene (it doesn't help that his every dire line is punctuated by a melodramatic bolt of lightning). Only Carrie-Anne Moss's Trinity comes up smelling like a rose, and it's good to see such a strong role for a female character - though I think she should've been the hero, as she's got more charisma than everyone else put together.I was quite disturbed by the metal detector scene, as it appears to be nothing more than a particularly violent video game sequence that's meant to inspire future generations of random crazy shooting maniacs. It's worth mentioning that the security guards who are so callously slaughtered by Neo and Trinity are not evil, just thralls of the Matrix, like Neo had been merely days before. Why, therefore, does he have no qualms about blowing them all to bits? Tacky, man - really tacky.I enjoyed Joe Pantoliano's character, probably because he was allowed to have an actual set of motivations and opinions, whereas the other characters are just filler. And you know, a few segments were effective; the Oracle has real presence. But the film is basically a dog, and while it pretends to cast all kinds of light on the problems with modern society, at the end of the day it's a stupid action movie that raises interesting issues, then resolves them with ridiculously OTT karate battles.As a movie, The Matrix is decent entertainment. As sci-fi, it's derivative and sloppy. As philosophy, it's risible, misleading, and poorly informed junk.


                
"The Matrix" is a decent and entertaining movie that is only viewed as something more than that by those who haven't seen better.The story borrows heavily from other films and tries real hard to convince it is more than your average sci-fi/action movie.  It's not.  Keanu Reeves' acting is better here than in anything he has done before or since, but that's not saying much.  He does not make a good leading man and is easily eclipsed by the supporting cast (mainly Laurence Fishburne).My suggestion is if you want to see The Matrix then see it and enjoy it, but then go out and see far superior movies like "12 Monkeys" or even the "The Cell".


                
Let's face it folks take away all the fancy shmancy special effects and what are you left with? An average at best action movie. I never bothered to watch the sequels as they looked like crap from the previews and with this one still in my memory I decided there was nowhere to go but down.


                
The Matrix is quite possibly the lamest cultural phenomenon since The Blair Witch Project. It's all polish and no substance. Frankly I don't find any redeeming qualities to this film franchise at all.Lots of big flashy fight sequences with no context. Lots of high-tech special effects with no character. Lots of plot complexity with no heart.I plain and simply do not get what all the fuss was about.And it took me multiple tries to watch this film end-to-end without falling asleep in the middle. The whole sequence of Morpheus teaching Neo about the Matrix put me to sleep every time.Horribly overrated. In ten years people will look back on this and say "what in the world was I thinking?"4 out of 10.Barky


                
Yet another film from the school of thought that thinks special effects compensate for no plot or character development.  At least Keanu isn't given an opportunity to act; that really would have made this film horrendous. Instead, it's an o.k. action film that has its fun effects and its dull moments.  Consider it a lukewarm appetizer before Star Wars opens next month.


                
i'm not sure what the big deal is about this movie.i mean,it borrows heavily from other sources,such as the bible and Star Wars,among others.the gist of the story is that the world people see around them is isn't real.it's actually a construct made by machines.Humanity is actually enslaved by the machines.but there is one man who can free humanity.that man may be a hacker who goes by the name Neo.Neo is portrayed by Keanu Reeves.also playing prominent roles are Carrie Ann Moss and Laurence Fishburne.but in my mind,it is Hugo weaving who steals the show as the enigmatic agent Smith.i will admit the movie has some great special effects and some spectacular fight scenes.but some of the moves in the fights are really silly and are not what i would call practical.also,a lot of the movie is slow moving,and the characters don't behave in logical ways.still,the movie does have its good moments.there are some genuine moments of high tension.this is the first of three movie in The Matrix franchise.for me,the first movie in the series is a 6/10


                
I have never fallen asleep at the cinema, but The Matrix is the closest I've ever come to doing so.  Quite frankly, the first hour of this film is the most boring hour of film ever.Keanu Reeves cannot act, neither can Laurence Fishburne, Carrie Ann Moss doesn't do much better.  The whole thing is too dark, and let's be honest: If you've seen the trailer, you don't need to see the film, as it shows you all the special effects there anyway.I've been more disappointed by other films, but I fail to see how this uninspiring and badly acted mess is hailed so much by fans.  Any old fool can string together a series of special effects, the trick is to link them with a good story and enjoyable characters.  The Matrix does neither.
I'll admit it picks up a bit in the second half, but I was so completely and utterly appalled by the first hour, no amount of bullet time, however impressive, can save this film.My Rating: 4/10


                
This movie has a nice feel to it with the sleek stars, martial arts, distopian future with artificial intelligence overlords theme, and black leather and guns.  Basically this is all it has, but it is enough to justify watching.	The main problem I have with this are the gaping plot holes.  Firstly why are the robots keeping people alive.  Oh sure they say something about harvesting body heat, but more energy would be expended daily in moving food (low energy fluid fuel) to people than could be extracted.  Also if they are feeding dead people to the living people their energy source would shrink exponentially.  These plot holes could have been easily avoided by not trying to explain anything and showing more Keanu Reeves running on the walls.  Let’s face it this film wasn’t about plot and the makers probably expect us to equate vague with deep.	In terms of acting Keanu Reeves was actually not that bad.  The role calls for him to look cool and be naive and a bit slow, which he is very good at. He is a pretty guy, shame he can’t act.  The other actors are the same. They adequately wear leather or sack cloth and look cool when necessary.	My final advice is to see this if you are drawn to the visual promotional material.  Don’t expect things to make sense or be coherent.  This film has a sleek feel to it and an interesting mood, but that’s about all.


                
I'm probably going to get lynched for saying this but...*hides and whispers* It's really not THAT good.It is an entertaining film. It is very good for passing a couple of hours and for dissecting with friends afterwards. It is a film that was made for video nights for that purpose. I'm not saying I don't like it, I do. But I do not think it is a masterpiece. I do not find the secrets of the universe contained herein - but that is probably because I am not a conspiracy theorist and hence that level of the film is just daft to me. Indeed I think it would have been a lot better had they just made a good old fashioned adventure story with a cyber twist rather than making it a theological debate.At a technical level it is absolutely amazing and that is the key to the success of the film. If it did not have the technical stunts and gimmickery then the reaction to it would be a lot more muted and probably more realistic. It is no accident that the people I know who have praised it most highly are cyberpunk fans! Other friends have been a lot cooler about it.On the other hand it does have Keanu in leather and for that I can forgive much!


                
There are few words that describe "The Matrix," but derivative, loud, painful, and disappointing would be a good start. From a plot straight out of a Dick or Gibson novel, to the agony of watching Laurence Fishburne recite pages of truly awful exposition, this is a film that tries really hard, but often misses the mark. To be fair, the film is aiming high and the middle third works really well. The sets, costumes and effects are terrific and the stunts and fight scenes are pretty wild. There are also some nice metaphors playing out, and there is a serious parable being told here. The dialogue during the middle is also sharp and witty, and makes me wonder who wrote the rest of it, particularly all the scenes where Fishburne and Keanu Reeves play Obi Wan and Luke Skywalker. ("The matrix surrounds us, it penetrates us...." And I thought the next Star Wars movie wasn't coming out until May.) The film can't decide if it wants to be Aliens, Johnny Mnemonic, a Borg episode, a John Woo film, or a Gap ad, so it borrows lots from all of them and ends up being too little of each. Like a lot of sf films lately, there was a really good movie in here struggling to get out. But it never makes it.


                
Terrific special effects, very noisy, no story, less wit, sophomoric (high school sophomore) philosophy/theology. And what a shame our heroes couldn't use their spectacular technology to, say, synthesize a nice cold bottle of Moet champagne and extrude some Baccarat crystal to drink it from, instead of gruel in tin plates.


                
Alright. It has amazing digital effects. It's one of the most "styled" movies I've ever seen. But computer effects and sets don't make a good film. Agree? =) The action sequences are so exaggerated and the fight scenes look so terribly ridiculous, all you can do is laugh about them. And the story is a typical hollow 90's collage of old science fiction movies. Other examples: "Alien: Resurrection", "Event Horizon", "Sphere". I say it's a big load of crap. Believe me! 4 shtarz.


                
The Matrix is not a bad film, it keeps you involved because of the slow uncovering of the complex and bizarre plot, the twist and turns as the movie unfolds, Agent Smith as the perfect baddie and of course the pretty wild action sequences. The atmosphere is suitably dark and the special effects are excellent. All good enough for a fine evening of movie entertainment, right? Unfortunately there are some rather big problems as well, and they really bug me the morning after watching the film. Truth is, I am really struggling with the plot. I am quite a fan of science-fiction so that in itself is not what bothers me. I don't even mind the questionable assumption that human bodies can be harvested for power generation without having to input more energy than they produce. No, the real doubt I have is simply: why this Matrix? Why do the machines even bother to go to such lengths as this incredibly complicated computer programme that makes humans think they have an actual life? Why not just let them rot in their pods and good luck to them? What do the machines get out of it? Surely it costs vast amounts of energy to keep this programme running and hook up all the humans to it? Why do they do it? What's the point? Also, why do Special Agents have any limitations at all? If they are computer programs, and the world they operate in is a computer programme too, why are they not simply all-powerful and invulnerable to bullets and other attacks? A computer programme has no physical limitations - anybody with a games console knows this. Why bother shooting at a virtual body with virtual bullets? I realise these are fundamentals required for the plot to work, but I find the problems a bit too glaring to overlook. When you think about it, this film is no more than an excuse for the (in themselves quite good) special effects. Therefore, in the cool light of day I can't give this film more than 4 stars.


                
I was not as impressed with this movie as i expected i would be.  i voted this movie a "4"  and the reason it got that and not a lower number was because i respect the special effects used in this film.  As far as the story and acting goes, it was on the right path, but far from perfect.  The ideas were there, but the execution was a little off.  If you're a fan of the sci-fi movies and love to see special effects, then i recommend that view this movie in the theaters, but if you're not really interested in these kinds of movies, then wait and save your money for when it comes out on video.


                
I have just watched "The Matrix", and I was very disappointed. I had heard it was a real good movie, and it was placed as #40 at IMDb, so I had some expectations.After watching the first half hour I could see that it wouldn't be one of my favorites. It was more likely that it would be the most disappointing movie ever, but the action in the second half of the movie was pretty good made, so it saved the movie from being a complete disaster.The story in The Matrix was so stupid that I considered stop watching the movie, but I had to watch it all so I could rate it here on IMDb.
Normally I like movies with "the chosen one" like Star Wars and Lord of the Rings, but The Matrix was so stupid. The actors constantly repeated "he is the one", I think it would be enough to say this three or four times.I really don't understand how The Matrix could be in the top-250 at IMDb, but some people like movies with stupid stories if just the action is good. This movie does not deserve more than 4/10.


                
Nearly unwatchable clap-trap about "common man" Reeves caught up in secret struggle between computer-enhanced good and bad guys.  The special effects are great, but c'mon, there should be a coherent or compelling plot somewhere.  It's ridiculous that this movie is voted (at this writing) as the 30th best film of all time;  I must have seen some other movie coincidentally called The Matrix.


                
I saw this film after hearing much hoopla and hype surrounding it's special effects. Always a fan of good Sci-Fi and well done special effects as well as a coherent plot and strong characters, I laid down my $. My first comment is that the special effects were outstanding. Extremly well done and (as opposed to some other films) an intricate part of the story. What was lacking was a coherent plot and strong characters. I was dissapointed that more explanation of the "Matrix" and it's reason for being were not explained in more detail. The movie is very dark and depressing. The scenes of Neo in some type of fetal-hybernation state with the tubes coming out of him were downright disturbing. Most of the actors give pretty standard performances and as usual, Keanu Reeves continues to underwhelm me with his "Whoa" style of acting. Quite frankly, I left the theater feeling uneasy and eager to see a bird, a green tree, people laughing, anything that would erase the depressing state the film put me in. Other films have moved me emotionally (Saving Private Ryan was gut wrenching to watch) but most always seem to end on a positive note or at least have me contemplating something positive. The Matrix had me grasping for the Zoloft. Action/Sci-Fi films need to get beyond their attempt at "eye-candy" entertainment and start providing something more substantial to leave us with. Thank goodness, George Lucas figured this out over 20 years ago with Star Wars.


                
Sorry, I had to break up the monotony of review after review that essentially all read like this: "The Matrix is AWESOME!"I'm as much of a Keanu Reeves fan as the next girl... I even think that he did a decent job in Much Ado About Nothing, but I was very disappointed in his performance in this movie.  His acting was so wooden that I rarely sensed any well-conveyed emotion.Also, what was up with the writing?  I remember when I first saw the trailer for this movie, I laughed for weeks over the fact that the shot of a supposedly amazed Keanu saying "whoa" in a breathy voice was the highlight of the 30 second advertisement.  There were several points during the ridiculously absurd and unbelievable movie that caused both my date and me to guffaw when we saw it on the big screen.One thing I do have to say in the Matrix's favor is that it looked pretty damn good (this description does include Keanu, by the way, who looks excellent in the wardrobe they gave him).  Lately a lot of bad computer generated effects have made their way into movies, but this one was nearly visually perfect.  Some of the scenes involving the twisting of reality were pretty amazing.  If only the actors could have been as convincing as the effects... and if only the plot they had to support wasn't so silly, I might feel differently about this film.


                
Every year there seems to be at least one movie that has theater-goers buzzing, but which ends up being much ado about nothing. Here's 1999's: The Matrix.  Whether it's the hokey idea of robots using humans as batteries rather than harvesting power chemically or geochemically, the dissolution of the trying-to-be-hip science fiction movie plot into a typical action/shoot-'em-up vehicle, or the bedamned Hollywood ending, there's much to annoy the serious film-viewer in The Matrix. Its basic plot (human discovers he's in a faked, alien-generated reality/ discovers he has super-powers to fight aliens) was used in 1998's Dark City, a more stylish film that also suffers from a Hollywood-esque ending. Invest your $7, $8, or $9 in Duracell stock.


                
OK, I'm probably one of the very few people that found this film incredibly boring, tedious and predictable.It felt like I was watching Men In Black V. Terminator 2.  I kept expecting Tommy Lee Jones or Will Smith to turn up any minute.  The concept of bad(?) guys wearing dark suits and sunglasses and trying to hide the truth from us mortals has been done before in MIB.  The concept of computers taking over the world in the future and one person being the saviour was done before in Terminator 2.It was predictable that Mr Keanu Reeves was the chosen one, yet he would not realise this fate until there had to be a near death scene where the audience were all to believe he was dead, until he realised he was him - the chosen one.  There was lots of mush in there about if you know then it will happen, oh please fetch me the sick bucket.The special effects are OK, not much to shout home about, and definitely did not add anything to the film.


                
