I remember taking a class in social psychology many years ago. The Joy Luck Club figured prominently in the course. I like the idea of combining movies and theory.I am now studying metaphysics, and any study of reality begins with René Descartes, the father of modern philosophy. Descartes began his intellectual odyssey with this question: How do we know that there is a reality outside our own minds? We each know that we have experiences, and we can be sure of these experiences; therefore, each of us can be sure that we exist. But how do we know that the internal experiences we have corresponds to objects outside our minds?This is the whole theme of The Matrix. Watching this film is like studying metaphysics.


                
At first, I wasn't interested in seeing the Matrix. But after hardly hearing any bad reviews for it (and believe me, I hear bad reviews for every movie I enjoy) I decided to give it a try. At first, although I really loved the fights, graphics and characters, the plot confused me. (Anyone confused by the plot at all should go to www.knowthematrix.com and you'll find out everything you could want to know) By the second time I watched it, I really understood it, which made the movie even more enjoyable.I really loved this movie. Just about every character, good or bad, is very interesting and cool. The acting was excellent. Even though I think this was Keanu Reeves at his best, the best acting jobs were done by Laurence Fishburne (Morpheus) and Carrie-Anne Moss (Trinity). Hugo Weaving did an excellent job as Agent Smith and Joe Pantoliano was great as Cypher as well.The plot is one of the best movie plots I've seen in a movie. An accountant by day, computer hacker by night guy suddenly finds out that reality as we know it is fake and that we are actually in a giant computer program run by robots (that we created, of course) in order for them to get power. Not only that, but he finds out that he is one who is, according to prophecy, going to put an end to it. The greatest thing is that you learn things just as Neo does, so you can really relate to his character.My favorite thing about this movie is that no matter how many times you watch it, you will learn more about it. I guarantee this. Some may not like this movie because the plot is too complicated, but I recommend that anyone who enjoys movies should go buy this one right away.


                
Matrix till this day is one of my most watched movies of all time.


                
This movie raises one of my favorite questions. What is reality? The biggest strength of The Matrix is the story. The special effects hold up because they did not try to go beyond their technological limits. The Matrix is the best sci-fi/action flick ever made.


                
Right there with Seven and Silence of the Lambs for me.  I love this film, and rate it a notch above some of the other great action films of our time (i.e., Terminator, Predator) because it has a really well thought out (although moderately unbelievable) story line.  A lot of thought provoking material, and some interesting subtleties. I've seen it 10 times (I don't usually watch a movie more than once), and I'll watch it a few more. Enjoy!


                
A large part of the appeal of 'The Matrix' for me was the special effects and action-packed scenes. But, on reflection, part of the appeal is also its philosophical and religious underpinnings...When asked whether Buddhist ideas influenced them, the Wachowski brothers offered an unqualified "Yes!" and at a very basic level, the movie portrays two levels of reality: our everyday existence and a deeper, more significant, underlying reality (the matrix). This is very much like the Two Truths in Buddhism: relative truth, in which everything is perception, and ultimate truth which is the way things really are (objective reality). Because of our ignorance, we mistake the everyday world for something real and objective, and this is the cause of our suffering. As in 'The Matrix', breaking through relative truth to direct contact with ultimate truth represents a high spiritual attainment, some would say enlightenment, an awakening. (Remember the message on Neo's computer screen: "Wake up, Neo!")Mahayana Buddhism suggests that there are great spiritual warriors (like Neo?) who are walking the path from ignorance to enlightenment, and who can in turn guide us on the path.


                
It was a very good film and I very much enjoyed watching it.


                
Overwhelming and spectacular first part from a trilogy with some of the best action scenes ever made . This excitingly original film is full of thrills , cutting-edge visuals, stylist innovations , fights , tension , suspense and groundbreaking races , but also several commercial elements , including computer-simulated violence . This is a dynamic, fast-paced and amusing movie , though overlong . It's an enjoyable , if somewhat light-headed piece of escapism with state-of-art special effects and straightforward screenplay . Big-budgeted film by the great producer Joel Silver led to break into the booming Sci-Fi/adventure/fantasy market plenty of inventiveness and imagination . Full of action, it's complemented by rousing scenes , breathtaking fights and struggles are spotlights . It deals with Neo (Keanu Reeves) ¨who is thought to be the chosen one¨ a computer hacker learns from mysterious rebels about the true nature of his reality and his role in the war against its controllers . One night, a mysterious woman named Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss)seeks him out and introduces him to that faceless character he has been waiting for : Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) who carries him to Oracle (Gloria Foster) . Then Neo is advised by the Oracle about his future . As Neo learns about Matrix , he aware all life on Earth may be nothing more than an elaborate masquerade created by a malevolent cyber-intelligence and he results to be the chosen one . The rebel leaders led by Morpheus estimate that they have little time until 250,000 probes discover Zion and destroy it and its inhabitants. During this, Neo has to decide how he can save Trinity , Morpheus and partners from a dark fate and taking on Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving) and his hoodlums . Meanwhile , a traitor betrays the group and the events get worse . It is a dark time for the world in this first adventure as the epic war between man and machine reaches a thundering crescendo : The group desperately battle to hold back the marauding Sentinel invasion from overtaking them . Neo, Morpheus and Trinity race against time to get their purports . While the human city of Zion is preparing for the oncoming war with the machines with very little chances of survival.This is an action-packed , booming following with some of the best action scenes ever filmed , plenty of bounds and leaps over buildings , including awesome visual effects by John Gaeta . This thrilling movie contains impressive fights , chills , breathtaking designs , dense philosophy and many other things . From the beginning to the end the comic-book action-packed and extreme violence is continued and it's fast movement ; for that reason the picture is pretty amusing ; furthermore contains lots of spectacular combats in mart arts style staged by Yue Woo Ping who also made ¨Kill Bill¨ and ¨Crouching tiger, hidden dragon¨ . Contrived beyond belief with spectacular struggles that play like video games , but slickly calculated to please 2000s audiences . Moving and pulsing musical score by Don Davis . Magnificent , glamorous production design by Owen Paterson . Colorful and imaginative cinematography by Bill Pope . The motion picture is stunningly written , produced and directed by Larry and Andy Wachowski-The Wachowski Brothers . It' s followed by ¨Matrix Reload¨ and ¨Matrix revolutions¨ with similar artistic team and cast adding Anthony Zerbe , Harry Lennix, Gina Torres , Harold Perrineau, Jada Pinkett Smith, Nora Gaye , among others in which the the city of Zion , the last outpost of humanity , is defended by valiant warriors against the massive invasion of the machines to save the humanity as Neo , Morpheus and Trinity fight to end the war at another front while also opposing the invasion on the hidden underground refuge .


                
One of the icons at this era, it changes the way I saw life and movies.


                
When it first premiered in the spring of 1999, I believe few individuals could predict the impact that The Matrix would have, not just on cinema, but on pop culture in general. What began as a modestly budgeted action-science fiction film starring an actor with little thespian acclaim quickly became a touchstone for the popular zeitgeist, and arguably cut into the popularity and impact of the soon to be released Star Wars Episode I. Time has not been kind to the franchise that was The Matrix: the two back to back produced sequels, The Matrix Reloaded and The Matrix Revolutions, were met with critical derision and public indifference, especially Revolutions, which did not live up to the box-office success of Reloaded. However, looking back at the original film, it's easy to be reminded of why The Matrix was such a hit in the first place.For those unaware of the basics, The Matrix focuses on Thomas Anderson, aka Neo (Keanu Reeves), a computer hacker who is searching out a fellow hacker, Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne), whom Neo believes will give him answers to several questions he is holding, most specifically the question "What is The Matrix?" Neo eventually meets Morpheus through an associate of his, Trinity (Carrie-Ann Moss), and Neo is finally told what he may not have truly been ready to hear: The Matrix is an interactive software program that the entire human population is connected to and through which they appear to live out normal lives. In reality, humans are connected to a giant power plant and are held here by a race of sentient machines that have conquered the world and use humans as a power source. To keep them under control, they are attached to The Matrix, but some humans have managed to break free from the machine's control and are now building a resistance, with the eventual intention of destroying the machines and the Matrix and freeing all humans from bondage. Morpheus believes that one of the keys to accomplishing this goal is Neo, whom he believes is "The One", an individual with the power to control and reshape the Matrix at will, and who will lead the humans to victory.To be completely honest, much of the Matrix is not tremendously new. Many elements are lifted from countless science-fiction novels and stories, and the film's writers-directors, The Wachowski Brothers, Larry and Andy, were unabashed in their love of particular types of cinema that they liberally ape here: martial arts and action movies, as well as a hint of Japanese Anime. However, as a package deal, The Matrix works stunningly well. While those who have read science fiction, or are fans of the genres of film that the Wachowski Brothers used as their inspiration for The Matrix, may be able to recognize some aspects of the film, most viewers of mainstream cinema would not have seen most of the components in The Matrix, therefore making it a unique experience. Even for those that can pick out the source elements, The Matrix is an entertaining blend of much of the familiar in fresh packaging. It's difficult to remember now, with all the knockoffs and "homages" in the years since, what a new look and feel The Matrix had at the time. The fetishistic use of black leather costumes, the impressive martial-arts sequences, the elaborate visual effects, most specifically the "bullet-time" super-slow-motion shots and the film's rather understated religious undertones were not worn out and overused by countless other films picking at The Matrix's bones. Everything here was new to the mass audience, and that alone could account for a large chunk of the film's success.Now, with the hindsight of seeing the two sequels, it's easy to see what a pared-down film The Matrix truly was. While it is obvious that the film has to take time to set up it's characters and situations, it is a very fast paced film, with very little fat on it. The Matrix glides along, never overstaying it's welcome in a particular scene and sequence. Many accused Reloaded of being a overstuffed film, but none of that is in The Matrix.One of the film's greatest strengths is it's character development. Neo, Morpheus and Trinity are not the most fleshed out characters in film history, but at the same time, they are not shallow. Each is developed enough to give us some insight into them, becoming individuals that we come to be invested in. Neo especially, being the focus of the film, is given the most screen time, and he acts as a surrogate for the audience, taking us slowly into the world of the film, allowing the new environs and situations to unfold in a natural, unforced way.Visually, The Matrix is stunning. It's production design and visual effects are both noteworthy (the film won the Academy Award for best visual effects for that year), with the ever popular "bullet-time" sequences, as mentioned previously, being the standout. The Matrix also benefits from the decision made by the filmmakers to have the main actors train to perform most of the fighting sequences themselves, giving them all the more verisimilitude, as opposed to stunt doubles.Despite the bad taste left in many viewers and fans mouths by the two sequels, The Matrix is still a powerful and memorable piece of film that is as influential and pivotal as the Star Wars franchise, and deserves it's place in history.
I couldn't believe the people who voted poorly for this legendary, top creative movie. I'm dead sure they didn't understand the story behind the world & the principles of the Matrix. Go see this movie 5 times more, then watch the Animatrix & read the books, maybe you need a manual to make it to your minds who knows....I agree that a quite similar idea was used in Alex Proyas' Dark City. But what if I tell you both Dark City, & this so called Star Trek Episode is a complete copy of another concept?Go see for yourself. Google these keywords down :"ALLEGORY OF THE CAVE by Plato""Thinking so ruthless for the ones who create or derive ideas & improve them to a point where they can shape it into a movie, & not showing any respect for creative minds".... it's a very easy thing to do. If I start to think so blame oriented, then I come to a conclusion which is "from this time ,no one should make a movie. No horror movies! No vampires, no werewolves, no creatures. No thrillers with killers. Why? because these were all used 200 centuries ago in books & literature. Oh all movies are copycats right!?!? Then I think we should kill ourselves, drink cyanide or something. there is nothing else to do in this world.


                
Maybe it's not that bad, but what makes it all the worse is how highly acclaimed it is. I had to keep slapping myself to stat awake during this movie. The storyline for this movie is sooooo modern and overplayed. This is in a way just a hyped up and sci-fi version of the truman show. I will never understand how this movie got to be soooo well liked. This is one of the only movies that everybody seems to disagree with me on. So if you're wondering why i'm writing this it's just to prove anybody wrong who thinks that there is nobody who hates this movie because i do. Also if you're a fellow matrix hater then i feel you're pain especially this year now that 2 of them are coming out at the same time practically. I'm just glad the second one failed moneywise so that hopefully the third one will get hardly any money and all this talk about the future Star Wars trilogy will be thrown out the window.


                
The Matrix not only supplies the world with a whole new level of special effects mixed with style and substance, it also brings a whole new meaning to the word 'paranoria'. This is one of those great epics that becomes a milestone in our present day world, a mark for which just about everybody can appreciate. Not since the original Starwars trilogy has a science fiction film reached across almost the entire population and gripped it with awesome special effects, great sound, and a overall feel of ground breaking movie making magic. It also serves up a good dose of paranoid delusions we all need in our lives every now and then.
'The Matrix' may not be one of the very greatest examples of its genre (like '2001', 'Metropolis', 'Blade Runner', 'Back to the Future', 'Star Wars Original Trilogy', 'Alien' and 'Aliens'), but that it is revolutionary in how its visuals and use of sound broke boundaries like had never been done before cannot be denied.It is not a film to be seen if people want character depth or relationship depth, with the forced and underdeveloped love subplot between Neo and Trinity being 'The Matrix's' sole weak spot. This ended up not being that huge a problem for me because everything else is so well executed.Particularly striking about 'The Matrix' is its production values. Simply put, the film looks amazing in its audacious production design, dazzling special effects that are some of the most ultra-cool and imaginative to exist, super slick editing and often jaw dropping cinematography. So much more than a film with ground-breaking special effects and use of camera work that broke boundaries.Use of sound was also striking, and how the pulsating and hypnotic music score was used. Andy and Larry Wachowski direct adeptly, while the script is an intelligent mix of complex and well-explored themes, mysticism, philosophy and even Lewis Carroll and the story is often invigorating and intensely taut with a smart concept brilliantly done.Action is superbly shot and edited, and the way it is choreographed is relentlessly intense and breathless in its energy, Kung Fu has rarely been more vertigo-inducing (despite how this sounds, this is not a bad thing as it added hugely to the intensity and paranoia of the story's atmosphere) on film.Keanu Reeves is in one of his best and most iconic roles and has never looked cooler, certainly has not looked this comfortable for a while before then. Carrie Anne Moss is strong. Even better are an imposingly charismatic Laurence Fishburne (also in one of his best roles), an amusing Joe Pantoliano and a deliciously wicked Hugo Weaving.Summing up, not one of the best of the genre but a mile-stone nonetheless and a great one. Followed by two sequels, both nowhere near in the same ball-park. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
Superb science fiction i enjoyed a lot. and even now I'm really inspired with the technology used and really awesome movie. This film is heavy on special effects and brooding paranoia, light on plot, dialogue, character, and even coherence. THE MATRIX challenges what's real and what's part of an elaborate, fake cyber-reality, so it can be confusing for both the audience and the characters in the movie. But it's certainly an ideal pick for the kind of teen who wishes that video games could come to life. Though it's rated R for violence (some pretty gross, including an icky bug that enters the hero's body through his belly button) and language, most teens 14 and up who are begging to see it should be able to handle it without a problem. Thanks


                
I still remember arguing with my brothers how much I did not want to see this movie, I was begging them to see something else, but they insisted I would love the film. I finally gave in, and I am so glad I did. I was glued to my seat, it was nothing I had seen before, or anyone for that matter, The graphics were amazing, the action was intense, I ended laughing at myself for resisting to see it in the first place. I though Keanu was gorgeous in the film, and loved Lawrence Fishburne. They selected the perfect actors to portray the characters. I enjoyed the story too, but I did not think it was necessary to continue, I felt it ended well. Of course I did end up seeing 2 and 3, but did not enjoy them as much.


                
Incredible, amazing there's no need for more words.


                
Such a great movie. If you love sci fi it's a must see. Keanu Reeves should of won a Oscar;) Hope they make another one. Wish I would of got a chance to see in theatre. Great Story, great actors and great effects.


                
An excellent movie ,a very pleasant film and very many special effects


                
I would say the Matrix is one of the best movies I've ever seen, but there can always be more


                
Strange we don't hear much about Matrix anymore. Definitely a classic of its time and pioneered films like this. Inception is great but Matrix is greater.


                
This is an almost perfect Sci-fi film. The visuals hold up well today, Keanu Reeves at his best and such a great, original story. Slick and stylish, This was the invention of bullet time. Easily the best film of the Wachowskis career. Film Noir meets the millennium, this will be Inspiring all types of cinema for years to come.


                
I could say this is a modern day allegory of "The Cave", but it is so much more. I believe the movie redefined the science fiction genre film from what I first saw it 15 years ago, and has even opened up new gateways for various philosophies.In my opinion, this movie is all about taking chances and breaking free from the monotonous dealings of everyday life; along with making changes to be free from the shackles of one's personal limit.Another one of the themes it asks us: nothing is what it seems. It gives us a sudden realization of what is hidden from us from plain sight and the opportunity to see what's "underneath" the curtain of illusion. It gave us the idea to question ourselves and the potentials of our minds and our bodies.Say what you will about Keanu Reeves, after 15 years I cannot picture anyone else for the role of Neo and that's saying a lot for the character he has portrayed. He plays a convincing role of a frustrated man living a normal life until he takes the pill of salvation.It is my number one best movie ever released, go see it!


                
Rating-9/10The Matrix is a legendary Sci-Fi film with big effects, action and adventure and serves up a superb film that can thoroughly be enjoyed. With it's story with a thousand pieces, watching it is like a jigsaw with pieces added in over and over making for a plot which is well done and thought out. Some consider it a classic and it is easy to see why, the effects are well done and the cast do an OK job too and coupled with the plot and just even little things the creators have put in, it turns out to be Brilliant and pretty flawless, and here is why I think so below this.The story is fast, explaining all the things going on well and letting the viewer take things in gently but by the end the story accelerates and the action and adventure kicks in, a beautiful balance. As I said the plot is smart and slick and for us the viewer predicting what is next cannot be guessed, even if you know the basic plot, too much happens to know at all what is happening. Within the story we have all the famous slow motion fight scenes and they do wonders for the film which succeeds with a perfect mix of violence but drama, thrilling yet witty, it all goes well and I couldn't tell you to watch this more, if you haven't already.I felt the cast aren't the best in this and Keanu Reeves in the lead role is kind of stale and dull, very emotionless, but he doesn't do his job that badly that the film is also Poor. Laurence Fishburne is OK in his role and even if you think he is being emotionless that is just what Morpheus is like anyway so his role is fine. Everyone else is fine but no one excels in the entire cast and if anything the acting is this movies weakest part, but it isn't bad though. Finally on the characters they are fun, dark thinking and always serious but with a good mix of Neo(he is oblivious) we see a fun start but by the end everything everyone needs to know is already taken down.The Wachowski brothers do a great job with this, and to say this is there biggest hit, well it really is and by far as it is well directed by them and also written by them in a great way too. It serves up to be fun but dramatic and although the fun side isn't expressed greatly, the drama is good enough for it to be superb and the brothers knew what they were doing here. I loved the effects, and to say they are in 1999 it is even better with some fantastic things on show and great choreographed fight scenes(with a little effect added in) which are just great to see with the eye, even if a little violent at times, and maybe comic book style.The film can be too violent so maybe not for those who dislike that kind of thing, the story I guess for some could be confusing and if you don't listen to the entire story then you will lose what the whole point of what there doing is about. Overall not too many criticisms but I said about the acting and maybe the film is slow, but for those who watch I think it is up to you to see any criticism, I am sure some will dislike this movie so just have a watch and see what you think.People who enjoy a good action film wrapped in a smart plot will love this and I couldn't tell them to see this more. Sci-Fi movie fans will also love it and with such a rich Sci-Fi script and special effects it could be some peoples favourite movie by the end of the film, also in that mix the fight scenes could gain fans by themselves as little movies before or since have implemented such an interesting and fast Sci-Fi action film, dabbled with a little mystery.I give it a 9/10 meaning I thought it was just about a wonderful film, and it is just stunning, if you attempt to rate this you get thrown up with the acting and then the story, the special effects but is it too confusing, but by the end you just feel you have seen a superb movie that you enjoyed to the fullest. With the sequels regarded as some of the worst sequels ever you can just sit back and savour the first one and who knows, maybe you will enjoy the other instalments too.


                
The Matrix, according to Martin Heidegger's posthumous comments, is the conclusion of the destining of the last 2000 years of western philosophy (or, at least, the last couple of hours of western philosophy).  First, Plato's myth of the cave - then much later - Descartes' pineal gland and its vibrations, Locke's secondary qualities, self-enclosed non-disclosive Humean impressions, Kant's appearances -- and finally the Gestell -- you have now the Essence of the Matrix.  For more information, enroll in the nearest philosophy department.


                
