I'm writing this review after reading at least 30 reviews here on IMDb (10 of 1 star, 20 of 7+) and I just wanted to emphasize how shocked I am that someone actually gave this one above 5 (maybe for the effects which aren't that special, even then) and I must agree deeply with the 1 star givers - This is probably one of the worst, most viewer insulting, carp of a film I've seen and I'm a Sci-Fi / Fantasy standard geek who read lots of books and see 90% of all genre related movies. All the characters are near to completely shallow, the dialogues are pathetic and scares, the wanna-be-Protagonist (i.e. the replicants) are seem to be on cracks with super-power and no apparent real intellect (or moral, if that even matters). The concept of sending one man (may he be a replica or not) against the "most dangerous escapee" is ridiculous, all the genius "gene creators" have no security none so ever, live in dirty places (and always alone!) and have no survival instinct at all. I can't believe Philip K. Dick book is that shallow (which I haven't read as of yet). This was a boring movie, with no real philosophical point, no trigger to continue watching it and no deep thoughts at the end...Is this really the movie that was considered a milestone in Sci-Fi? I tend to think even BttF trilogy had more philosophical moments :( Don't waste your time on this movie!
What a waste of time. 2 hours however long of my life wasted. I watched the directors cut and boy is it boring. Easily the most boring film i've seen since avatar. I personally love sci-fi films whether it be star wars or alien. My favourite book of all time is enders game. The film moves so slowly that I could feel my hair grow faster. There are literally 5 things that happen in the movie. People read way to far in this movie about how it's supposed to be about how the robots were more humans than the people, personally I believe that's a load of poppycock. When the original was released nobody went to see it, the original was cut and given a commentary for a reason, the film was too long, boring and doesn't make much sense. The commentary helped this film so much, it gave it a story and stops the watcher from having to make up some random story to stop themselves dosing off.


                
For the life of me I can't think of a reason why this movie is held with such high regards in the sci-fi community, except for having the holy trinity of geekdom (it's set in the future, sexy robots and Harrison Ford). Every movie geek that wants to secure their geek cred will go out of their way saying this movie is awesome and the best thing to happen to sci-fi since the invention of movies. In reality, they are loath to admit that it's a boring, overrated piece of cinematographic crap that nobody outside the community actually likes. Even though I've had all my life to watch this movie, I've never made it the whole way through in one sitting. In fact, I've seen more of Flash Gordon and Conan in one sitting than I have of this movie (and the fact that I made it almost all the way through both Guru and Gigli is a testament to my unwillingness to turn away from a movie once I start to watch them). Overall, a boring movie that nobody should bother with. If you want Ford, robots or movies set in the future there are far better things out there than this one. Having all the things you like in one movie doesn't make it good.


                
Blade Runner is perhaps the worst film adaption of a novel ever made. To say that Blade Runner is an adaption of Phillip K Dick's inspiring novel "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep" is not only a lie, but it is an insult to both Phillip K. Dick and any movie that has been adapted to film with even a marginal degree of success. It is most generous and honest to say that Blade Runner is inspired by "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?".Blade Runner presents, at best, a surface-level representation of a select few of the novel's characters; these representations are devoid of the depth that made them captivating. Likewise, there are many great (and well-developed) characters who were excluded from the film.The subplots, entire segments of the plot, the greater part of its ethos, and major aspects of the novel's theme are also expunged from this film. In short, the elements of the novel that have moral, narrative, effusive, or dramatic merit are conspicuously absent from this film.Instead of being a narrative that re-affirms greater truths about humanity, Blade Runner exists only as a testament to sloppy adaptation by screenwriters who have such little respect for literature that they would cinematically re-hash a novel's spark notes.I believe that, were the novel by which Blade Runner is inspired more widely read, society would recognize Blade Runner as the fecal insult to great literature that it is.


                
An exercise in graphic design. A movie that wanted to speak to the human condition, but choosing to do so by avoiding all things human. There's lighting, and costumes, and set design to burn, but all the actors have been forbidden to act. One cardinal rule has been adhered to, "show no emotion". In the future, it rains all the time and we've all become automatons, sheesh, would somebody mind writing a movie for this trailer?


                
Hey! Get this straight. If you don't like Blade Runner, you don't understand it. Why? Because you don't. You're not allowed to dislike it.Over the years Blade Runner has gathered around itself such a huge fan-base (that's so out of whack) that anyone who says they dislike it is instantly discredited and dismissed as an idiot. So, you better like Blade Runner, or you're an idiot, got it? Blade Runner is a completely brain-dead, wannabe, intellectual, Sci-Fi film that spends 2 hours delivering a careless and poorly managed love story and then "Wham! Bam!" at the end it's suddenly a statement about the meaning of life. (Sorry, but the last 10 minutes don't make up for the first 2 hours.)And the question was raised - "Was Deckard really a replicant?" Who cares! Harrison Ford's portrayal was about as realistic as that of a robot. And about half the time he walked around looking like he'd just been punched in the nuts.Is Blade Runner a finely sculpted masterpiece of cinematic excellence? No, it is not!! If this film is really Ridley Scott's idea of poignant commentary, then it sure makes me glad to know that he doesn't have an ego.


                
I love Harrison Ford. I had very high expectations with this movie. The future, robots that look like humans, futuristic city, flying cars. And it has an 8.3 rating. I cannot explain how overrated this movie is. The movie does not explain anything about what is happening. The entire first quarter of the movie is Harrison Ford walking around extremely confused. There is very little action in this movie and the false opinion that the movie reveals something about "human nature" or "the human mind" is plain wrong. If you are a hardcore science fiction person, action person, or any human being that has ever lived, you will hate this movie. Half way through the movie, Harrison ford drops everything he's doing to practically rape one of the robots. I was only thirty minutes in when I wanted to turn it off but I'm glad I stayed until the ending because I have found the most over rated film in the history of science fiction


                
Awful - this is the only correct word that comes into mind while trying to express an impression after watching this horrible, endless, long, slow, trite, banal, bland, vapid, tasteless, languid, sorrowful and pitiful movie. Risdley Scott made this maybe as a film noir, instead he made a deep insult to all of us. Mindless bog, slow dark laughable waste of time and money, terribly poorly sync'd, with all plot holes, silly dialogs and unbearably poor acting of Hannah, Hauer, Harrison and all the rest. Ut seems they were all dead bored with this curio, and endless steamy dark scenes only build up a bigger misery that this film evokes. There are no redeeming features in this bog, no light in this drabness, no sense in this ugly mire. I was repeatedly told how cool Blade Runner was, now I say that the blade is blunt, and the only running must be away from this horrible dross. Must not be seen by anyone and ever.


                
There are movies that stand the test of time with the exception of some outdated special effects. Some movies in this category are: the Star Wars trilogy, Poltergeist, and even The Terminator. Then there are movies like Blade Runner, where one leaves the theater, or turns off the DVD player, scratching his head. Movies like Poltergeist and The Terminator work because both stories revolve around ordinary people with ordinary lives to whom the viewers can relate. Star Wars, while not completely relatable, has such an interwoven, tightly knit story in a fantastic world, that viewers can imagine the existence of such world. Even further, viewers know how to adapt to this world to the point where they can play dress up, speak Wookie, and recreate this environment. I've never heard of a Blade Runner convention.This movie wants so bad to be taken seriously, or does it? The soundtrack alone contradicts itself. The title sequence begins silently with a few heavy pounding beats and shrilling chords, making the viewer believe she is about to experience something along the lines of a war film, or better yet, a thriller. The movie's prologue somewhat adds to that assumption, although it's a little wordy and complicated of a background for the viewer to completely understand. Replicants bad. Humans good. Why? Dunno.After the serious introduction, the film loses credibility with its choice of bizarre magical fairy notes as though the story was a Read Along and it was asking its viewer to turn the page. Yes, the movie was made in 1982, but so was Poltergeist. And even then I am sure people were associating that sound of chimes with whimsical fairy dust. The sound often implies that something supernatural or magical has or is about to occur. However, it was just odd.There are other contradictions in the film, mainly the Replicants themselves, which left me with many questions. Why were Replicants created? If they are dangerous and illegal aliens then why is the Tyrell Corporation still producing them? Why are Replicants made in the first place if they are not supposed to exist? What is their beef with humans? What is humanity's beef with Replicants? Roy and Leon can handle sub temperatures like pros but Pris freaks out about a little rain? Am I supposed to feel sorry for Rachael? Why did Roy save Rick? What did Pris's acrobatics have to do with anything? Why didn't Rick retrieve his gun after he dropped it? Was climbing out onto the windowsill and scaling the side of the building really his best option? What's with: the guy with the mustache; the boiling eggs; the singing Japanese/Chinese lady; smoky/misty rooms and the city being foggy; the unicorn and the photos? Finally, how come the Replicants can run through sheets of glass, ram their heads through walls, and drive nails into the palms of their hands, but they fall down dead after one gunshot? The building is called the Bradbury, but if I were Ray, I would not feel flattered. Perhaps I did not catch on to every detail and many of the questions were answered in the movie, but I do not plan to watch this film again to find out.
This is one of the worst movies ever made. I can't believe this movie has a "cult" following.I like just about any movie, I even get enjoyment from the straight to DVD American Pie movies and other B or C rated movies. However, this movie is just awful to watch. I stopped watching it 3 times and kept forcing myself to go back and try to finish thinking it will eventually get better. And while watching it I had my DVD player on 2x speed because its so boring and slow.Avoid this movie unless you want to fall asleep.


                
Blade Runner has been hailed as a true classic, though when it came out it was blasted at the box office. It was seen as too complex particularly the ending, which was why it was simplified. But over time it has been seen as the iconic sci-fi film of the 1980s.I saw this a few years ago, the director's cut version on DVD and I have to say this film was awful. I found it far too complex but even then I still wouldn't like it. I found it very depressing, overlong and tedious with just endless talking.Though I did like the story from what I could discern from it and Harrison Ford's acting is commendable, but even he couldn't save this. A film I won't see again and I hate but I'm probably in the minority in saying that.


                
This by no means was a great movie. Movies like this and Taxi Driver, I just don't understand how people can rate it in the top 100 of ALL TIME.
Yes, the visual effects were great even by today's standards. But visuals alone don't make a movie. Otherwise the new Planet of the Apes should be mentioned in the top 100 too. Furthermore, I thought Ford was a total miscast (though not as much as Hoffman woulda been). I kinda got the feeling this movie couldn't decide if it wanted to be a philosophical drama, but then an action movie at times. It ultimately failed on both fronts. If you wanna see a philisophical, non-action Sci-Fi, IMO Gattaca did much better. Like others have mentioned here, this woulda been much better as a short. Not a 2 hour picture. And as for all the different "versions", I don't even care anymore.Check this one out if you will, just don't anticipate anything spectacular about it.


                
I rented this movie based on the high reviews here on IMDb. What a disaster! I never write reviews but had to give some warning. Harrison Ford is the greatest Blade Runner ever, yet the only detective work he does in the whole movie is analyze a photo, which led him to the first replicant. The second replicant attacked him, and he was given the location of the last two because they were at the apartment of the scientist they murdered. Wow, if that's all it takes to be a Blade Runner then sign me up. Even the action scenes were drawn out way too long, killing any kind of flow. I'm trying to figure out why this movie rates so high but am stumped. Horrible film. Bad! Bad! Bad!
Because this was the most boring movie I have seen in years, if not ever. A simple waste of time. Where does all the hype come from? Best sci-fi movie ever? Milestone? Seriously people what's wrong with you? Nothing happems, no development, just non stop boring. Oh wait: young Harrison Ford eating noodles, a snake and some 80's boobies are worth mentioning.I will watch the sequel tomorrow hopefully I won't regret it...
Thats's all. All of the philosophical discussion, toward the end, drowns in the cruelty. It's a pity. The idea had some potential, and for a while it progressed. The colors of the movie are not to my liking, but I understand this is a matter of choice. However, more and more as the movie goes, the main theme of the movie becomes a violence. For the first time when it had no sense whatsoever, was the meeting of the white hair android leader with the chief designer of that generation of androids, the Sebastian. The rebel android leader had no reason for killing Sebastian, even less the director had no reason to make that scene so gory. Even less reason for killing, had the same android to kill the 25 year old genetic engineer, who took home him and his female android partner. In a similar manner, although less gory, the android hunter Deckerd showed plain cruelty, when he effectively raped the female android Rachael, especially when she saved his life some time earlier. I'm sorry, but senseless cruelty is never justified even for artistic reasons.
Dear reader of this review, I feel sorry for you. Why? Because reading this means that you've probably seen this crap of the movie, and you're wondering what happened, how this tedious, ugly, pointless crap could possibly be so highly rated? As one other reviewer pointed out, to call this movie overrated is just not enough. This movie is supposed to be philosophical. What is the meaning of life, what is the point of death, why must I die? Well, there are hundreds of movies and books out there dealing with this subject, and every single one of them does a 1000 times better job at it than this movie. BTW, try reading the Bible and the Gospels for answers about life and death. Since other reviewers have pointed out the terribly slow pace of the movie (the only other movie that was this slow was first Star Trek movie "the slow motion picture" - don't watch that one, either), I will write about something else - the ugliness. First of all, the creators of this "masterpiece" have used the irritating cliché of setting the entire film at night. It's always dark, in every single scene. Every single room is ugly. The makeup is ugly. The whole damn thing looks like a hell hole full of broken drug addicts, and the music contributes to the feeling. I felt mild nausea throughout the whole thing. There are a few visually interesting scenes of Los Angeles from above (at night, of course), but the most prominent thing in those scenes are gigantic videos (placed as advertisements on buildings) of Asian women swallowing pills. Maybe the best symbol, of how wrong the makers of this movie were about the future, were prominent advertisements for Atari and Pan Am. While they drive flying cars in 2019, they watch TV on old sets which look like from 1970s. It's just a terrible movie, overall.


                
I consider myself somewhat of a movie buff, and several of my friends had highly recommended this movie to me. So a few other friends of mine (who'd also never seen it) and I watched it one night, and we very nearly turned it off. It was not the movie we were expecting, and we were certainly not pleasantly surprised. It was marketed to us as an action film, yet the actual action sequences were few, far between, and frankly rather boring, especially in contrast with Harrison Ford's usual daring escapades. I generally enjoy think pieces, but this one was an exception. I found the plot to be a bit hard to follow, and nothing about it made me want to put in the effort or the second viewing needed to fully comprehend what was happening. For example, the nudity was completely gratuitous, and Harrison Ford gave, in my opinion, the weakest performance of any movie I've seen him in. I don't want to give away the ending, as it seems that most people love this movie, but I felt it was not a good resolution to the story, and that in particular a speech given by one of the characters was trite and not nearly as life-changing as it thought it was. (I've been told I missed the point, and I guess that must be true because I couldn't even find a point...) I personally would not recommend this movie to anyone, although it seems I'm in the minority, so watch it if you want. But don't say I didn't warn you...


                
Movie was really awful. When I read all the reviews and ratings, i thought that this will be good one and entertaining.But after seeing this movie, I am really surprising how this movie got 8.3 rating out of 10.I will give max 2 out of 10 if you ask me to rate this movie.There is no stunning fights in this movie.Acting and all is not good and Really disappointed with Harrison Ford's performance.My real suggestion to sci fiction movie lovers - don't waste your money to see this crop movie.Time for me to see some good movies of Harrison Ford's 'Fugitive' and 'Raiders of last Ark'


                
This movie is disappointing, boring, slow, predictable, and a poor excuse for a sci-fi/action.  How it could possibly rank in the top 250 is beyond me.  If films such as Brazil or Dune put you to sleep, so will this one.


                
Certainly the most over-rated sci-fi film of our time. OK it looked quite distinct in 1982, and the image of a grim future with giant TV screens high above the city was memorable.Plot? There's not much to say, the film contradicts itself many times and the weak and limp tale crawls along.Acting? Ford's OK, Young is pretty and dull, Olmos is cool, twenty years before being cool fighting Cylons, and Hannah is sexy but hopelessly out of her depth.Apologists for Scott's fiasco blame the evil "suits" for messing up their Lord's film but in truth the directors cut is worse than the original movie.The sound is badly mixed too - why is that? See Trancers instead - at least it's funny as well as dated.
I have seen both the original cut and the final cut on the big screen. The first Blade Runner left me feeling elated, entertained and full of inspiration. This tired retread left me feeling disgusted and flat.Why disgusted? In the first Blade Runner we witness the snapping of an important man's neck. The one scene in the whole movie that I could have done without, but it didn't ruin the movie for me! At least it was an instant death. This time in the film, for some godforsaken reason, the director had the replicant's kill by pushing people's eyeballs into their brains. It's horrifically shown once and implied twice. Now what possibly does that add to the movie? Is society becoming so sick that Hollywood thinks that's entertainment? Are we so desensitized that gruesome violence no longer revolts? All it did was turn the bad guys (replicants) into monsters. One is left without an once of sympathy for them unlike in the original Blade Runner.Why flat? Well the speech at the end of the film by the dying replicant leader now rings quite hollow. Who gives a hoot what wonders he's seen. Just hurry up and die so you don't kill anymore decent people. While those replicant designers were short sighted and a certainly terribly naive, does that warrant a death sentence? The replicants are like spoiled children: If I don't get my way, I'm gonna throw a tantrum! In this case if you don't "fix me" I'm gonna push your eyeballs back into your brain! The other reason it left me flat was the "boy meets girl ending" is so trite! At least the original Blade Runner had what I would consider a passionate ending by a being that does not torture its victims. Too bad Hollywood doesn't pay its writers better, instead of forcing them to go on strike. Maybe then we would have some really daring sci-fi film making instead of this tripe
I guess I missed the point of this movie (if there was one).  I found it to be the most boring and slow movie I've ever seen.  Dialog was slow, scenes took forever, and everything was dark.  The perfect remedy for insomnia.


                
I'm 23 years old, but until yesterday I hadn't seen Blade Runner. All I knew was it was supposed to be a fantastic sci-fi film. After watching it I can honesty say it was one of the worst movies I've ever seen. I thought it was bland and boring. The only thing I thought stood out was the lighting. If you liked this movie, and you're reading this, you might be saying maybe he didn't get it. I absolutely got it, and it didn't interest me. I'd personally rather watch paint dry then this muck of trash ever again. There are only a handful of films I've had to fast forward through, and Blade Runner was one of them. I really can't understand how a movie like this was so bland.


                
This film is a so-called cult sci-fi hit from Alien, and more recently Gladiator, director Ridley Scott.  Unlike those two films, this one is terrible.  Harrison Ford is basically playing a variation of his Han Solo character from Star Wars.  I went out and rented it on DVD to see what all the fuss was about, and all I can say is that it is highly overrated.  I must say though, it is quite visually impressive for being made before the era of computer animation.  It is also dated by today's standards, despite what people say.  The plot is without a soul.  The visuals are the only thing that kept me interested.  The ending was a surprise.  That was different...  Anyhow, I couldn't wait for the film to end.  When that happens, it usually means that the movie does not deserve to be in the top 250.


                
I recently saw the directors cut of this film. After about 75 minutes I couldn't bare to watch this atrocity any longer. It sounded as though it would be an amazing film. LA in the future. Robots running wild. Gaudy neon lit streets in a hellish future. I was convinced that this would be brilliant, but alas, how wrong I was.There are periods of up to ten minutes when there is complete silence. This is supposed to be tension but it is excruciatingly boring. The acting is even worse, in particular Daryl Hannah's performance. And the script is absolutely atrocious. This film would have been SO much better if it was directed by someone else, maybe James Cameron or Robert Zemeckis. One of the most overrated movies ever 4.3 out of 10.(for another good review, read the one by jdogg_101 submitted on November 2 2002.)


                
