There were some buildings and then it rained and it's always dark and Edward James Olmos makes some origami and oh, someone shoots another guy, and then it rained and there was a chick dressed to look like Auntie Mame (look it up) complete with 40's style clothes and then it rained and Harrison Ford is in yet another dimly lit room (they don't have lights in the future?) and then there was a half naked lady (boobies!!) who had on some kinky high heeled boots that suddenly turned in to flats so she could run away in the rain...and it rained and oh wait! For some unknown reason we got some kind of hallucination of a running unicorn with no explanation and then There's Darryl Hannah with bad eye makeup and then it rained and some people said some stuff but none of it was really memorable and then it rained and some some nerd and his self made toy midgets did some stuff and then it rained and then Harrison Ford got into a fight with Rutger Hauer and then it rained and Darryl Hannah did some flips and screamed a lot and then it rained and then there was a white dove and some more rain and that about covers it.
Being in my 40's and a big Sci-Fi fan, it was really odd that I had never seen this movie till now - and I have to say, it wasn't worth the wait!I wont argue that the film was very artfully shot, but the story was slow and just bizarre. Of course bizarre is what film students and art critics love, so I'm not surprised that this is so highly thought of, and i'm sure they spend many an evening pouring over the plot, trying to find hidden meanings that aren't really there.Sometimes a cigar is just a cigar..... Sometimes a slow and dated plot, is just a slow and dated plot.....If you watch movies, not to make yourself look intelligent, but rather (heaven forbid), to be entertained, give this one a miss.


                
We waited eagerly for this movies release in 1982. It's a ravishing movie just as the preview indicated... but after watching it dozens of times now, it is also ...how best to say it... woefully unshaped. The script is completely unremarkable. It has perfectly flat, uninteresting characters who are handed inept or trifling exchanges. I don't know what you could even characterize as a climax or even a development (and I like me some dull movies). The movie traipses into editorializing "Who's the greater danger?" territory with the replicants not being especially evil by comparison. You don't see them gunning down a terrified woman in the streets like Deckard does. But really, any clarity or philosophical weight that a fan insists is in there, is projected into it by the viewer. It does equal or (can you believe it?) surpass some of the very best old, noir compositions; but we do see that giant billboard one or two times too many. Ignore the bare-bones story. Turn the volume off and enjoy the visuals.Ridley Scott had no peer in the visualizing department in 1982, then he went on to less visual, more 'shaped' output after this (Thelma and Louise, Blackhawk Down... Robin Hood?) and it was easy to see why he should have stayed with the more visual productions. They were more remarkable.
When you hear a film described as a 'cult classic' usually you know what to expect, and this doesn't fail to deliver. Everyone knows that 'cult' should read 'crap' and 'classic' means 'universally known as.' Doesn't it say something when Scott himself released a directors cut of the film?. Weirdo mumbo jumbo involving a cop trying to track down androids who have settled on earth, its not only poorly scripted but boring along the way. It is rumoured that even Harrison Ford hates it and in all honestly, could you blame him?


                
Being a real movie enthusiast, watching at least 8 movies / per week of all nationalities, I can honestly tell all readers that this was the most boring two hours of my life. When I was watching this movie, I was thinking much of the time, please Harrison Ford, make this movie better, but no, he continued drinking. The scenery is much of that seen in high quality movies/game worlds such as that in Bioshock creating an eerie feeling. More than that, the movie should be skipped. Watch Riddick instead!Synopsis: -Do not waste your time. -2 stars because the city scenery was well designed. -8.3 makes me sick. Please do not drink and comment.
Firstly Harrison Ford is one of my favourite movie stars of all time. Yet this is quite possible his worst film ever. I watched Blade Runner years ago and didn't like it but I was about 12yo at the time so when it was on again recently I sat down to watch. I so wanted to love this film, I love Sci-Fi and with Ford as the star I was expecting to finely discover what all the fuss was about.This film is just plain boring, nothing much happens. There is not much action, which I expected and the ending was a massive anti climax. I really cannot understand why this is considered a classic. It is a completely forgettable movie and I can not think of one positive to say about it.


                
I saw this when I was very young, and couldn't really remember it. I'm 20 now, and decided to watch it, but there have been mixed reviews from both critics and fans as to how good it is. And to tell you the truth, I was a bit apprehensive about watching it, just in case I hated it. 'Cause I know there are millions of people out there who regard this as one of the greatest sci-fi films of all time!!!My simple review is - I hate this film.It has no pace, none. It just drags along.It's funny, 'cause I like Ridley Scott. I like Harrison Ford. And I like sci-fi. So why didn't I like this?It's a mystery, maybe it was hyped up too much, but my argument about the pacing of the film is my main complaint!The futuristic visuals are great, don't get me wrong, and that's probably where my love for this film ends.It was just too boring, the only decent part was the chase between Batty and Deckard towards the end of the film.Maybe the film was too intelligent for me. I know there are all those insinuations that Deckard might well be a replicant, but to me, I couldn't really care less. The film has a message yes, I know, but it just didn't gel with expectations, perceptions etc.I'm sorry, but this film just didn't do anything for me.2/10. and that's just for the SFX and the final chase.erm...Enjoy!


                
I fail to see why people like this movie other than reasons based on "Wow, wasn't the cinematography awesome." Sure the cinematography was good I guess, but if the plot doesn't keep up than it's a waste in my opinion. The movie brings up the classic concept of "what does it mean to be human," but then never really creates any interesting twists or plot development based on this. I doubt even back in '82 the concept of dealing with artificial life was 'that' novel. I've seen old Star Treks that dealt with the issue. Strip out all the dark lighting, rain, and slum shots and what do you have? - a boring movie. It got so old afer a while seeing the flying police cars over rainy slums. Then inside buildings rays of light kept flashing in as if from search lights. Everything seemed so artificial and it was as if the director was just wasting my time.


                
I really wanted to like this movie but I had to force myself to watch it till the end..it's just unbelievable boring


                
This is easily one of the most overrated sci fi flicks ever. I challenge anyone to read the screenplay the whole way through without falling asleep. Yes, it's very visual and Vangelis did a good, appropriate (not amazing) soundtrack to give it that dark depressing "dystopia" bit....OK, fine...but that's it. No characters of even the tiniest interest to either love OR hate, a laughably bumbling love angle, and almost zero action except for one brief flurry around half-way through and another at the end. Speaking of which, a totally stupid ending...not Roy saving Decker, that was a great idea (and where it should have ended), but then Decker and Rachel hooking up and going....? where? And do we care? No. This movie was loaded with over-the-top pretentiousness and about zero believability, even given the premise. I saw it in the 80s and went "eh." I just saw it now for the first time since then, as I was interested in the new one and wanted this as a base, but found it's even worse than I remember. Read the review titled "So very very boring"....a bit harsh but sums it up fairly well (and is more entertaining than this entire film).
I saw the Director's Cut of Blade Runner How the heck is this movie on the top 250? It is flawed beyond imagination. The only positive thing I have to say about this movie is that visually it is entertaining.Where to start? It uses many old ideas movies have used but does not bring anything new to them ("I am a robot but I feel real"). The acting was laughable. Even though this movie is not too long, it is very boring. You would think they are taking their time to explain something but no. This movie hardly went into any real depth. The first chase scene was not done well at all (I almost laughed). Gosh, the climax! The part of the movie you really wanted it to pick up speed but they dragged it out to the old cat and mouse routine. This kind of goes hand in hand with it being badly written. The movies attempts at being poetic is truly pathetic. It turned out so corny The final twist that Ridley Scott added to the Director's Cut when you first saw it was somewhat interesting, but then you would realize this twist is so illogical the only way to actually explain it is to have a sequel. Also, the twist is like one of those last minute things that M. Night Shamalan would put in his movie.Not recommended at all
After hearing wonderful things about it and reading rave reviews here on IMDb, I finally rented Blade Runner (Director's Cut). And what an incredible let-down it was. I had heard that it wasn't an action-packed, fast-paced film, but I was expecting something...the word evades me....good, perhaps. Thought-provoking. Interesting or original. The movie I saw was none of these. Instead it was 1) unforgivabley slow-moving and 2) very dated.It started off with promise. The beginning scroll was enough to lure me in, and the interview with Leon was cool. But then we get to the parts where Harrison starts sneaking around, looking for clues. I was told that the original version had Ford reading a monologue during these parts, but that it was cut out for the Director's Cut. Why?? The deadly silence makes it boring beyond belief! I usually don't mind slow-moving movies, but I dozed off several times during this one.Another problem is that although this is a sci-fi futuristic film, it has a severe 80's look, especially the ladies' hair styles. I'm sure it worked well back in '82, but here in 2000 I find it very distracting. And the idea of machines having feelings isn't a particularily original one nowadays - I'm sure it was fairly interesting when it first came out, but my reaction to the premise in general was "yeah....AND...?" (i.e, nothing new.)I will give this another chance and rent the original version, but I'm doubtful that it will redeem itself. It may be an allegory of truth and value of life to some people, but in my opinion it's just a big ball of nothing trying to be meaningful. It's just not good.Al's Rating: 2/10The 2 points are for Harrison Ford and Rutgar Hauer.


                
An hour into the film characters were still being introduced and I was still waiting for something to happen. I found it insanely slow moving and utterly boring. If the logline doesn't sound confusing enough, the film will indeed proof it is! The film was a box office failure and its easy too see why.


                
I have watched Blade runner twice. The first time being because of how highly my dad regards it and the second time being because I was forced to by the course I am taking in college. In all honesty, I enjoyed it at first. The long drawn out establishing shot of the city is amazingly beautiful and a nice way to start film when accompanied by the interrogation scene which follows it. The latter of these shots has excellent lighting and an intriguing intensity that drew me in and making me want more. However, it is that and only that which is led to me rating the film two stars because as soon as the gun shot of Leon (I think?) is shot the goofiness begins. How can such an apparently critically acclaimed film be so insanely awfully written with out of place dialogue and mumbling of Harrison Ford. To put it very simply, it is boring. The story is boring, the characters (with the exception of Roy) are boring and yes it may be very "pretty" but its all style and no substance. It seems that if you were ever in need of proof that there is a generation gap in existence this is the film to prove it. I could not count the number of 50 something year old adults on my hands who have said "how damn excellent the final speech is". This being the final speech where Roy pulls a dove out of nowhere and awkwardly explains how he is more human than Deckard will ever be. Deep? Yes. Worth the wait? No. Blade Runner, in my eyes, will go down in history as the film that teenagers who still listen to vinyl, were "born in the wrong generation" and like to point out that they make their own abstract films will regard as "fantastic".
Probably the most boring science fiction film I've ever watched, and I've sat through it 3 times really trying to give it a chance. I don't think the script is anywhere close to "brilliant" as many have deemed it, however, the story does have potential to make a decent movie had it been done right. The screenplay and overall pace of this movie destroyed any desire I had to watch more than half of it. First time I watched it I kept waiting for it to get more interesting and it just never did. It's bland and very poorly directed from an otherwise great director. I usually don't differ too much from general opinions with regard to cinema but why this movie is viewed with such high regard is a mystery to me.


                
OK, I don't really know what to think about this movie... Personally I found it pointless. I mean, why does Deckard have to kill these replicants? All they want to do is find their maker. So the thing is; This guy makes replicants, Deckard kills replicants, so why should they care if they want to meet their maker? Why does Deckard care if they hurt their maker? And the whole romantic aspect of this movie is totally pointless. Which is what I think of this movie: "Totally pointless."


                
I basically just made an account so I can review this:
OK I'm willing to accept that maybe back in the day it was an OK movie, but if somebody would recommend me this as a good sci-fi cyberpunk (also it apperently tries to be a Noir?) movie today, I would have to punch him in a face. I'm sorry, the characters lacks... well characters. Over 50% of a time you are watching a silent movie and when they speak the sound is so badly captured I have to rewind just to check what they said. (not all the time I admit but it's still bad) Come to think of even camera job is sometimes sloppy and the pacing is sluggish at best (I'm watching a dude climbing stairs for a two minute realizing that if somebody cut that out, no one would miss a thing, but that's just nitpicking) The onl reason why I didn't gave it a 1 star is that Rutger Hauer is actually trying his best to do with the little he was given and he was the only thing I enjoyed in this movie and he was barely in it. Also that in the end it turns out that he was actually kinda the good guy and Harrison Ford's character the bad guy. But reading all the nonsense about the philosophical questions it raised about "being human" seems pretty far-fetched. The only question it raised in my mind is: "Why do people like this movie?" But for those who thinks that way, at least you can enjoy telling yourself how primitive I am for not "getting it". ;)
I'm a huge fan of just about everyone in this movie, including Harrison Ford, Rutger Hauer, Sean Young and of course the director, Ridley Scott. But after re-watching this movie this past weekend, I can honestly say I will never watch this movie again! I saw it when it first came out (in 1982) and I kind of liked it, but not like everyone else loved it so much. So when the sequel opened this week and so many reviews are saying what a great follow up to the first one, I realized I needed to watch the first one again to refresh my memory. I'm glad I did. Not only will I never watch this movie again, I now don't see any reason to pay to see the sequel! In my opinion, the first movie was quite boring and just downright silly when it came to the climatic fight scene. But forgetting about that for the moment, there was nothing special, in my opinion, about this movie. Just my opinion, but not worth higher than a 2 rating.


                
And that was on the top of my mind the whole time. Are we really to believe LA could be ten times the size and population it is now in just a matter of decades? This film has an impossible view of reality. The truth is, you can't have overpopulation if nobody in the future makes babies. Sounds old fashioned, but that's the grim reality of the 21st century, which in just a few decades will see perhaps the first voluntary decrease of the entire world population. We're just about at our peak, folks. The issues of the coming century will be how to have a stable society in which all its institutions become increasingly evacuated. Liberals who make these sci-fi films just don't get it. The future is not going to be a mechanical, sexy, technological utopia. It will be filled with religious strife as it has for millenia, because it's the pious who procreate more.Sure, maybe we will one day have androids that look human, maybe even think somewhat human. Maybe we will love them, like we love a pet. But it's absurd to say we will farm them out like slaves. Imagine that. We make these droids in our own likeness with our own emotions and then submit them to slavery. Like humanity could sink so low and still have a working civilization. We could have made them look like machines, but instead we chose our likeness. Riiight.I think I would have swallowed this stuff when I was a fifteen, but thankfully I've since matured just a little.I don't care much for special effects anymore, though I'll give the critics the beneift of the doubt that there were breakthroughs in style and technique here...too bad they were wasted.


                
Watching a man (Harrison Ford) investigate the whereabouts of robots in a snail-paced and lethargic fashion in director Ridley Scott's Blade Runner in 2018 is almost a torturous experience not because of how it is ahead of itself in retrofitting futurism in its hollow plot borrowed from a hollow story with, at best, two key takeaways but because of the emotionless narrative that puts emphasis only on the production setup and not on the proceedings which are as dull as the overall tepid writing and wooden performances. TN.


                
Boring, boring...and oh yes, boring. Nothing new or clever about the story even for the time in which it was released. Missed this one a a kid but I watched it 3 times as an adult really trying to enjoy it but it just never happened. Not an action junky here, nor do I need big, loud hollywood dazzle in my movies. I simply cannot understand why this movie is given such praise, it's just not a good movie. Outside of being visually ahead of it's time, it's a huge FAIL.


                
Would've given it a 1 but ill be generous and go for 2/10 just because of the background music/score/soundtrack whatever you want to call it. Another one of those Matrix-esque movies that gathers a mindless mass of fans who say the movie is "deep" or some other pretentious shite like that just because it had some surface level intellectualism and a few philosophical quotes blurted out here and there. "meow meow meow the main cop dude could've been a robot too" oooh so clever; would never have saw that coming. Disgusting bogus character development, the love between Harrison Ford and the robot chick was f'ing contrived and out of the blue, the Spanish cop who placed origami pieces everywhere ahahaaha what was up with that... the Tyrell godfather figure had absolutely no security, the robot guy somehow knew the status of the chess game, the stupid eye symbology, the constant appearance of the oriental lady on the advertisement screens XD, the robot chick not killing Harrison Ford and then doing some flips only to get shot XD, cancerous movie with absolutely nothing going for it but the back ground music.
The most praised movie of 1982 (Along with ET of course) gets a 8.2 average rating on this database you are on right now. How could it be that high? I mean this is a complete garbage film that is so overrated. And heres why: In 2019, Earth has been rebuilt and Los Angeles becomes a dark and depressing area or "colony". A group of replicants (robots who look like humans) from outside of Earth steal a spaceship to get to Earth to meet their creator and murder people. Then the police call a retired employee, Deckard a Blade Runner (A person who kills replicants) to kill the replicants. Why is it so moronic? Well, there are a series of plot holes: One plot hole is that there are said to be six replicants at first, but then for some reason even when none have been killed, it is said to be 4 with no explanation. There is also no reason for the replicants to be murdering a bunch of random people. Plus because of reasons that will spoil this film, wouldn't the geniuses that created the replicants build them so that they won't kill people and steal spaceships? This is completely illogical and idiotic. That's not all. The film is also VERY BORING. Even though I watched the whole movie, I lost interest in the first 10 minutes and nearly fell sleep. I mean there's not much action. It's just a bunch of talk 11/12ths of the time. And not interesting talk like the Indiana Jones films. So overall, this is pitiful. It also lacks strong emotion, heart, and development. So overall story of the movie is so depressing, dark, cruel, very boring, and is completely illogical.There's also the characters. Oh my gosh, this is sad. The replicants in the film (Roy, Leon, etc.). Lemme just say that they have no personality. Sure they're robots, but maybe they shouldn't have been so bland. Y'all may disagree, but I think they should've had a big personality like Bender from Futurama did to make them more interesting. Harrison Ford was wasted because he would underact and sound bored while playing Deckard. Deckard is charmless, and bland. The creator of the Replicants amazes me because of how forgettable he is. Then there's Sebastian. He's actually a 25 year old who do to health problems looks so old, but he does collect toys and show a smile, which is why he is the best character of the movie. So yeah, these characters are so boring, undeveloped, and such that it is just unappealing.That's your answer. Blade Runner is the steaming pile of crud. The writing is abysmal, and the characters are so bland. It is so boring that I was so close to falling asleep. One of the only redeeming qualities I didn't mention before was a Star Wars reference when you can hear a Chewbacca growl at one part, which is a very small pro but adds a little Star Wars, which is why better than this Atrocity and has everything this doesn't: A well crafted story, memorable characters, a little heart, and lots of charm.2/10


                
...i had really great expectations but this movie is just a piece of crap. Hard to beliebe that it is rated with 8 or more....
I'm completely disappointed!!


                
This movie was made a year after I was born. I've heard many times since then how iconic this film is, how it's one of those films you just have to see.To all those who think this: what movies are you watching?! Blade Runner's special effects may have been hot in the early 80s, but today they're predictably lame.But that's not the worst part. That I can live with. It's the story line that's awful! It's so boring and long-winded, I can't imagine anyone watching this today (without the distraction of the special effects, which no longer distract at all) and thinking it's actually good. The story line might have worked for a 45 minute TV movie, but for a feature film it's way too basic."Man makes android. Android turns on man. Android tries to find place alongside man. Man tries to kill android. Man learns from this." Please. Give me a little more credit. What a waste of time.


                
