But it's almost like an art movie, the first science-fiction art film<U+0085> It's a futuristic film beautifully put together<U+0085> It's really impeccably made by one of the great visionary directors<U+0085> And you really saw a future that looked very different from the future you had seen before<U+0085> A future that looked very believable like the visual-effects shots of the flying car going over a futuristic city<U+0085> The fight sequence doesn't prepare you for the traumatic emotional side that there is in the film, it leaves you sort of broken<U+0085> There is a beautiful, delicate emotional great scene that I remember when I first saw the movie<U+0085> I'm in the theater and I'm so drawn in what Rutger Hauer's doing<U+0085> I'm so drawn in by what the theme of the movie has brought us to<U+0085> The magnificent moment where he is letting go of life<U+0085> And in those last moments of letting go of life he's really learned to appreciate life to the point where he spares Deckard's life, and where he's even holding a white dove because he just wants to have something that's alive in his hands<U+0085> It's an amazing sort of crescendo that's going and there's Rutger saying: "I've seen things you people wouldn't believe. All these moments will be lost in time like tears in rain." Hauer puts all the things that are so amazing about people: sense of poetry, sense of humor, sense of sexuality, sense of the kid, sense of soul<U+0085> Scott brought out the best qualities in his performers<U+0085> He coaxed and very gently manipulated performances from his actors that in some instances I think they've rarely topped<U+0085> You feel the story, you feel the emotions of the characters and you will be lost in the middle of this wild world, you know, it's so rich and it's painful<U+0085> I mean it's a very bluesy, dark story and told very compassionately<U+0085> The overpopulation, the sort of crowd scenes is so rich and varied and there's such an extreme detail designing the magazine covers, designing the look of the punks, the Hare Krishnas, the biological salesman, everything is designed<U+0085> You have just Piccadilly Circus punks walking by<U+0085> You have a sense of layers in that society<U+0085> That is one of those things that you see again and again<U+0085> The city landscape with the big billboards à la Kyoto or Tokyo<U+0085> Scott was able to create the look based on what goes on in various cities all over the world<U+0085> Whether it is Tokyo, Kyoto or Beijing or Hong Kong or whatever, you're right in "Blade Runner" country<U+0085> "Blade Runner," to me, embodies the elegance, the power, and the uniqueness of a film experience<U+0085> It's the most classical, beautiful, purest movie-making writing and then the film-making itself is<U+0085> The images and the sound and the music, it's pure cinema<U+0085> Ridley came out with an amazing, brilliantly executed future of an absolute dystopia<U+0085> The intensity of his perfectionism on "Blade Runner" made the movie<U+0085> This is a master at his best<U+0085>


                
After seeing this movie over 10 times (over the years) I have to say that the 'directors cut' does not hold up to the stand of time when compared to the actual 'first release' version.The release version had the classic 'detective voice over' which really added A LOT to the plot and the depth of the characters.I moved my rating down from '9' to '8' for this reason. As time goes on and movies evolve we tend to demand better quality.Unlike Casablanca, Blade Runner has become shallower over the years. Still a good movie, its just no longer 'that good' of a movie.In general I find that directors who leave open key themes in the plot deliver a more shallow product. Weaving the threads of each theme in a plot together to form a composite whole is what a voice over does.Ultimately the play between good and evil for a cop/detective/centurion is a timeless story about individual response to evils of socially engineered injustice (intended or unintentional).I would like to see a re-release of the movie with the original voice over. It would make a difference.


                
"Blade Runner" is one of the best science-fiction movies ever made. This movie shows that science-fiction stories have brains. It was directed by famous writer and director Ridley Scott. Starring legendary Harrison Ford and famous only in his native Holland Rutger Hauer. The main female role went Sean Young for who it was a debut in the full-length movie.The film tells us the story of Rick Deckard(Harrison Ford) replicant(androids) hunter. Once he gets a task to stop a group of replicants who escaped from a colony. However, the group under the Roy Batty( Rutger Hauer) command is not going to give up. Pursuing a group, Deckard understands that he has strange feeling in relation to one replicant Rachael(Sean Young). This is the main question of the film whether people can feel something to the machines and if so, are they different from us."Blade Runner" has a lot of positive moments. Firstly, the movie looks very spectacular. Special effects look realistic and the style is one of the best in cyberpunk stories. Also the film is notable for its excellent acting and wonderful musical accompaniment.The film has only one minus. It is a little tight but it does not spoil the impression
.
I want to recommend this film to all people who want to see a movie that wiil make them think and it is better that they be over 14).


                
In anticipation of the sequel, I watched the original Blade Runner for the first time in 30 years. I was blown away by how good this movie actually is. As a vision of the future it is almost perfect, and even when watching it in 2017, there is nothing that implies it was made in 1982; this movie has not aged at all. In fact is is so good as a 'stand alone', that I'm hoping the sequel doesn't ruin it. The future is exactly how one would imagine it to be, the story is set within the realms of extreme possibility, and the acting is believable. Recommended.


                
It's easy to see why this movie is so loved to this day. There are some incredible and iconic shots. Vangelis created one of the most integral soundtracks of all time. It's noir, sensual and dark, and futuristic with eerie synthesizers. The showdown between Roy and Rick is superbly tense and shocking, so well- shot. The moral question: 'Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?' becomes more pertinent with every passing day.
To say BLADE RUNNER is an incredible looking film is a gross understatement.The art direction--whether costume, scenic design, or special effects--is simply stunning, creating an extremely dark, sometimes beautiful, but always fascinating vision of a future Los Angeles that has begun to collapse into grotesque decay. Hardcore science fiction fans will instantly recognize that the city's spectacular highrises reference Fritz Lang's silent METROPOLIS; art history buffs should notice a distinct Frank Lloyd Wright tinge to some of the set designs; costume designs are clearly intended to evoke the spirit of 1940s film noir. The resulting melange is simply extraordinary, very powerful, and incredibly atmospheric.The cast gives able, stylish performances in keeping with the film's dark but glossy tone, but the script they play is a very muddy one. The story concerns a special agent (Harrison) who is assigned the task of locating and "retiring" (i.e. killing) a handful of violent androids who have illegally landed on earth. While I greatly admire the film's decidedly "open-ended" conclusion, I do not greatly admire the on-going vagueness that besets the storyline as a whole.We are persistently asked to ask believe that Harrison Ford locates his quarry via the vaguest information imaginable; moreover, although specifically described as a highly experienced and formidable agent, Ford's character gives little evidence of it: he's always being bashed around to the point of death and then overcoming his opponent more through dumb luck than superior skill. Most annoying of all, the film flirts with issues concerning creation of artificial life without actually amplifying any of them in a consistently engaging way.In spite of these failings, the performances and most particularly the incredibly compelling make BLADE RUNNER a fantastic triumph of style over substance. It is extremely enjoyable, and it is easy to understand how the film has drawn so many enthusiastic fans.The DVD presently available is a "director's cut" version and offers both widescreen and modified-for-television formats. The former is recommended, for the latter undercuts the visual fascination of the film. The picture quality of the widescreen format is superior; the sound is good but not exceptional. Aside from the choice of formats and brief biographies of the principal players, there are no extras of any kind.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer


                
After my dad told me that ''Blade Runner'' was a worthwhile movie, I decided to watch it with my cousin and my boyfriend. Harrison Ford is the star of the movie, but I didn't know that Daryl Hannah was one of the Replicants until I watched the movie. The year is 2019. The place is Los Angeles. Many humans do not live in Earth anymore, choosing the colonies in the space, and the humans who continue in Earth are cops or the ones who are not approved in exams and tests.The technology reached a point where man could create the Replicants, half humans and half androids created to work in the space, but forbidden in Earth.With a cyberpunk vision of the future,with lots of Neon and dark atmosphere, we have the main character,Deckard. He is a Blade Runner, a future cop who is a specialist in terminating Replicants. His mission is to kill all the last 4 Replicants, but the problem is that he falls in love with Rachel.
'Blade Runner' is one of those movies that offer so much that it requires and deserves repeated viewing. It is filled with allegory, allusion, other metaphors and so much philosophy. The writing is exceptional as the screenplay is layered and the dialogues are very philosophical. It's a fantastic film to discuss with others as it ends on an ambiguous note and there is a lot of symbolism that is open to interpretation. Perhaps I too will be editing my comment after viewing it again.On the technical side, it looks amazing. The dark dazzling world is eerily real. It also reminds one of noir classics. It does not have the stop motion that CGI's of today's movies have. I loved the technology that was used in 80's movies like 'Blade Runner', 'Starwars', 'The Dark Crystal' and 'Labyrinth'. They made their worlds more real to me. And when I revisit those movies today, it brings a nostalgic feeling as I remember how much I enjoyed these films. In the more recent movies, it's quite easy to tell which scenes were done with CGI as there is a lack of authentic look about it. Back to 'Blade Runner', the special effects and cinematography are mindblowing and how can anyone overlook Vangelis's powerful score? And what makes us appreciate them more is that none of them are over-the-top to the extent that they compromise the story.I haven't seen all of Ridley Scott's film but so far I'd say 'Blade Runner' is his best. His direction is solid. This wasn't an easy film to make and Scott deserves all the credit he's gotten. The cast is also interesting as it includes (then) not-so-famous actors. Harrison Ford, Rutger Hauer, Sean Young, Edward James Olmos and Daryl Hannah all fit the bill.Today if one looks at these new science fiction wannabe movies, there's a sadness about how science fiction has progressed in Hollywood. Even now when very enjoyable brilliant films like 'Matrix' and 'X-men' are made, there are always sequels that completely destroy the essence of the first movie. But we will always have classics like 'Blade Runner' and 'Starwars' trilogy to revisit. 'Blade Runner' is a profound movie. It works on so many levels that it provides much more than pulp fiction entertainment.


                
"Blade Runner's" themes are encapsulated best by a brief scene during which a replicant called Deckard - who doesn't know he's an android - reveals to another replicant that her memories are not her own, but belong to the niece of Tyrell, the head of the corporation that built and programmed her. "Those aren't your memories," Deckard says mournfully. "They're somebody else's."Contemporary materialists echo these sentiments, applying Deckard's cyborg speech to all of humanity. According to the theory of materialism there are now no subjects, there is only subject-matter. Selves are nothing but electronic packets, while private persons are "simulacra", Rationalism rejecting the notion that there is some ineffable "thing" over the genetic, neurological and social coding that makes us "us", maintaining instead that the personal and the biographical are only explicable in machinic and impersonal terms. The question raised by film-fans – "Is Deckard a replicant?" – thus misses the implications of the film completely. The criteria for rating the human above the replicant have been evaporated. Deckard, like man, is a machine that thinks it is what it is not and is certain that it is not what it is. As all identity is construction, everything has been produced and nothing is given. As man is defended by his own narcissism, Deckard struggles to come to terms with this. Like most subjects faced with this trauma, he oscillates between retreating to either the Symbolic Order (the social world of linguistic communication<U+0085>of The Law) or The Imaginary Order (the fundamental narcissism by which the human subject creates fantasy images of both himself and his ideal object of desire), both of which are tragic flights.But, as philosopher Slavoj Zizek argues, the lesson of "Blade Runner" (or rather Philip K Dick's lesson) is not only that everything in the personal is in fact the product of impersonal processes of cause and effect, but that it is the very act of delineating the underlying nexus that regulates our lives, that marks our freedom. For this reason, "Blade Runner's" replicants are actually the film's only pure subjects precisely because they testify that their "content", including their most intimate fantasies, are not their own, but already implanted. i.e, it is only when I acknowledge my replicant status, that I become a truly human subject.What the film fails to do, however, is recognise that the "replicant as pure subject" is itself not an identity, but the product of a machinic process which mis-recognizes itself as the process's final cause. So rather than a subject, we have the continuous production of subjectivity (in which the personal is always the "sim-personal"; the simulation of the personal by the impersonal). In this algorithm, self-consciousness as pure introspection simultaneous with what it is introspecting, is impossible, as subjective reflection must always exists "two steps removed" or "behind" the process, consciousness, like memory and habit, always an "after the fact" reflection on the unconscious processes which produce it. In this sense, the subject is by definition always nostalgic, a subject of loss.For this reason, for the pure subject to have reflection is for it to automatically realise, nihilistically, that consciousness is itself nothing. Unless this happens, the replicant remains a "simpersonator", able to simulate personalities, but always confusing personality-function with consciousness-as-essence. In other words, unlike Deckard, the pure subject would not go from "it does not know what it is" to "it now knows what it is", but from "it does not know what it is" to "it knows it cannot know what it is becoming", which is the kind of morbidly fked up place Cronenberg now resides.But, philosophically, "Blade Runner" doesn't go this extra mile. If the film is about nostalgia and loss, it remains trapped on the level of thinking in terms of "memories" and "death". IE – whether replicant or human, memories aren't ours and all existence ends in death, as bemoaned by one dying, rain-drenched replicant.In this regard, the film is a lamentation more in the style of such Westerns as "Once Upon A Time In The West", "Unforgiven" and "The Wild Bunch". Indeed, "Blade Runner's" screenwriter, David Peoples, injects many western motifs into the film, borrows heavily from "High Noon" (a 1952 western that features a lone bounty hunter tasked with killing four outlaws) and would himself go on to write "Unforgiven". Fused with these are director Ridley Scott's motifs – an emphasis on eyes, photographs, pictures etc – (photographs are objects of place, sentiment, history, and memory. Similarly, phrases like "we get the picture" or "world picture" show that consciousness can be discussed in terms of a picture) all of which stress the recording and capturing of memories.Of course, stylistically, the film does borrow from the noir genre. Deckard (Harrison Ford) is a trench-coat wearing detective, navigating his way through a future Los Angeles every bit as oppressive as that of classic noirs. The film also deals with noir fate. But rather than the cosmic webs of betrayal so favoured by Chandler, here fate becomes the universality of death (programmed obsolescence) and the "inescapability" of the human OS, of source code Homo sapien. Incidentally, "Blade Runner's" "elevator ending" references "The Maltese Falcon's" "elevator ending", another noir which ended with the "stuff that dreams are made of". Fittingly, all those involved with the picture, EXCEPT Ridley Scott, believe Deckard to be human. Fancher and Peoples wrote about a human Deckard, Ford played a human Deckard, and yet Ridley Scott continuously states that Deckard is a cyborg. Of course, as director, Ridley Scott becomes the Noir God of the picture. He is the head of the Tyrell Corporation. He is the implanter of memories. He builds the androids, falsifies information, keeps them misinformed and in the dark. The film works precisely because Ford thinks he's playing a human whilst Scott KNOWS he is a machine.8.9/10 - Worth multiple viewings.
It wasn't until my teens that I watched this film. It was a little hard to follow but I got into it and it made me interested in cyberpunk. That's a brand of science-fiction that deals with urban environments and cybernetics and computer technology. Think TV shows like Batman Beyond and games like Deus Ex. But this could very well be the precursor to all those different cyberpunk sagas. Here is the story of a gang of near-human androids known as Replicants who want to live comfortable lives. But not if the LAPD has anything to say about it. Harrison Ford plays a police detective whose job it is to eliminate these near-humans. Can he do it? Will the Replicants claim victory? Is he destined for a quick funeral? You'll have to watch and find out.


                
I saw it for the first time, it was in 1996. It was the version released in 1982, I think it was that year, so in this review, I'll talk about this version made that year, because it was the first version that I saw. So to write a review, I will report the first experience.I saw it for the first time and I was amazed at the visual department of the movie. A harmonious blend, with an exemplary cinematography. Incidentally, I was not the only one, because Blade Runner influenced countless people. It's a unique case where a quality of the film stands out more, which marks the film forever and the general public gets this impression. Blade Runner, and above all, a visual experience with little or no element of drama. It's a visual experience, and if people want to take advantage, they should leave that aspect aside. This is the highest quality of the film, the ability to enter the audience in a cohesive way in that universe and live a visual experience. It's like most sci-fi movies of the 80's, a movie with strong male influences. That is, you will get here, scenes of violence and some nudity to the mix. But Ridley Scott, controlled himself and did not let the train out of the line. Yes, you also have here the evil corporation, but it was done in a more discreet way possible. no exaggeration, of course This is the big difference between a mediocre director and a good director, having a good self-control. Putting things in your movie at random is too banal and mediocre.The characters were well written, though Scott could not take much advantage of the great actors he had. Ridley Scott always had the problem of not being able to take 100% of the juice of the actors and put human emotions in his works, even in dramas (e.g. G.I Jane). But in this film, Rutger Hauer managed to put a lot of juice himself, especially in the third act, in the confrontation with Rick Deckard, which left the scenes excellent and striking like a great character. In the end, the film does not need much drama element, because there is something bigger here. An exploration, a discovery, that goes beyond the dramatic element. I think Ridley Scott got this great virtue. You get to get interested in the movie, even though it has very little character depth. This is because Scott, is primarily a visual director. There was not in the early 80's, director with better imprint for the visual department. And this for me, is a mark of success. You have difficulty in a job, however find other ways to overcome this same job or task. It is a high quality and a proof of great capacity. As the great director that Scott is, he finds it difficult to achieve characters' depths and achieve human emotions. He was able to create an experience almost 100% depth only with a single department, in this case the visual experiment. But let's be realistic, cinema is primarily a visual art. And like a visual work, Blade Runner is perfect at what it set out to do.In addition to the timeless visual aspect of the film, Scott was able to insert an exemplary sound aspect that further helps the viewers to be inserted into the film in an exemplary and cohesive way. The soundtrack is almost perfect for this kind of movie, strong and simple. But very well built. The dialogue is also well written in this film. In spite of many clichés and typical of the 80's, it ends up disturbing the experience a little, but it does not end with the experience of the film, but it hampers a bit in the final balance of the film. This is the proposal of this film, and if the film itself is consistent with its proposal, why not consider the film, a good movie. In the end, if you can overcome, the lack of dramatic element and depth of the characters, and the typical characteristics of the male productions. You will find here a great experience to live. Even for the present day, a unique experience in its own kind.


                
I want to say first thing about this movie,I like the universe I created.In 1982 I would never wait for a successful job like this,a wonderful universe with limited resources created us to tell the future in a very beautiful way.I think the movie could be little more fast than better.I think the movie could be little more fast.didn't bother me but could tighten viewers who didn't know the blade runner movie.
if I had to talk about acting, I think it was all great,old players are really different.I've always enjoyed it throughout the film but there were some flaws in it, too,in 1982, I attributed the lack of resources


                
The entire movie from the intro background setting is about machines and their humanity, 'more human than human'. Having watched it in 2018, i was not surprised at the ending. The concept might have been new and refreshingly thoughtful in 1982 when the movie was released but as of now, so many other movies and TV shows have explored this concept and surprised and delighted their viewers. Not to say that the movie didn't have its surprises. But when you have already visited the central idea multiple times, the surprises act as a cherry on the cake when the cake has gone stale.Hats off to the excellent acting by Harrison Ford. The setting is also commendable, giving off dark post-apocalyptic vibes which its sequel failed at miserably.Watch it because it's a classic.


                
Blade Runner is an excellent film by Ridley Scott, the director of Alien. The visuals are absolutely incredible and are just as good as today's special effects (1999). The acting is superb, especially by Rutger Hauer and William Sanderson. The only problem is that the film could be considered a tad bit slow. If you are in the mood for an un-action packed sci-fi film, Blade Runner is one of the top choices on the list. Ranking = 8 of 10


                
This is a film that is so deep, rich, and multi-layered, it may require more than one viewing to fully absorb the brilliance of what you've just seen. At first glance, it can be a bit slow. It's told in a classic film noir fashion, so this is to be expected. Director Ridley Scott seems to want to savor every shot, and an astute audience will be able to sense this.Now, I say the film is told in a classic Noir style, but this can be misleading. There is no Humphrey Bogart in Blade Runner, snapping off brilliant one-liners once a second. Only hopeless people, in many ways victims of the merciless world of which they are all a part. Deckard is a typically downbeat protagonist, a hard-boiled cynical leading man with a weakness for heavy drinking. The plot is a mystery in name only, as the audience is allowed to know what Roy Batty, Pris and Leon are all up to before Deckard ever finds out. This only lends to the dread and inevitability of the film, lending further to its pervasive gloom. There is no final scene at the end where the bold detective puts all the pieces together and says "Ah-Ha!". Instead, we find Rick Deckard questioning his own existence and drinking away his constant doubts, all the while embroiled in a romantic relationship with someone he's sworn to kill.Blade Runner requires audience participation, particularly in the Director's Cut, which is entirely devoid of some rather necessary exposition provided by the Original Cut's much-maligned voice-over. Certain facts will not be clear even at the end of the film, requiring personal interpretation in order to be appreciated fully. Other facts will be given away in much more subtle ways than in most modern cinema, such as through visual cues and tenuous dialogue.


                
"Blade Runner" is an enjoyable and 'solid' sci-fi film. However having read Philip K. Dick's novel "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?", upon which the film is based, I was left somewhat disappointed/wanting more. (Inevitable I guess, given the calibre of Dick's writing.)I accept that film adaptations of original written works typically sacrifice some plot threads and/or character details in order to produce a coherent film of an appropriate length. However "Blade Runner" really would have benefited from a better 'sketch' of the futuristic world in which the characters live (I mean in terms of plot rather than visual detail), and a tad more time spent establishing the background and motivations of Rick Deckard (the bounty hunter) and the androids he pursues.That said, the film is visually impressive and boasts good performances from Harrison Ford, Rutger Hauer and Sean Young.


                
When you watch movies like 'Blade Runner' or 'Alien' you realize how much Ridley Scott was a typical director of the 80's and you wonder how he now became a typical director of the 90's. With these two films I mentioned he directed the two most important science-fiction movies since 'Star Wars' and defined a style which became regular in films like 'Dark City', the other 'Alien'-films, 'Outland' or 'Terminator'. This dark, quiet tone with not too much action, not too much story but a lot of style and atmosphere. Today it seems impossible to make a film like 'Blade Runner'.Maybe one of the most important differences is the look of the special effects. I like big CG-effects which make you go 'Ah' and 'Oh', but the effects in sci-fi films of the 80's are different and somehow better than today. Most of them are models and matte paintings and this looks somehow more realistic. You see that the big complex the industrial named Tyrell lives in is real. It is standing there. This always amazed me.But 'Blade Runner' has more than special effects, although they were and are really impressing. I was pretty sure there was more and during watching the film the second time after several years (this time in the Director's Cut) I wondered what. I mean, the story isn't really so complicated and hard to understand. Cop has to find four replicants. Replicants don't want to die. I mean, that's it. The characters all seem to be unhappy and with a lot of secrets but that's nothing new. This hasn't changed pretty much. And you don't get to know so much more about them.I think the films lives nearly entirely out of his atmosphere. Everything looks so dark and so much full of atmosphere you nearly can feel it. It's always raining (and it does in most dark science-fiction-films, because there are less things that produce more atmosphere) and always dark (the same). The characters are looking more at each other than they talk. They look at each other and into mirrors and in to the dark sky. This is what makes them alive, since you don't know anything about them.Consider Harrison Ford's character. At the beginning he sits in a Chinese fast-food bar. He says he quit his job as a blade runner and he doesn't want to do it anymore. Why? Why can his former chief (M. Emmet Walsh) so simply put him back into his old job? You see some photos in Ford's apartment but never get to know who the people on it are. But still I think it's his best role ever. It's his only role where he plays a character who isn't simply good. He does a bad job and he knows it.Still, this a really fascinating movie with lots of neat details like the big elevator at Tyrell's or the puppets at Sebastian's who always run into the same door. And the showdown between Ford and Hauer (who had definitely his best role here) is just fantastic. But does anything of this make real sense? I'm not quite sure. And I'm less sure if I think about the work of the author Philip K. Dick on whose novel the film is based. Dick is a fantastic sci-fi writer and he has always a lot to say. He makes us think. 'Blade Runner' made me think too. But I just didn't get anywhere. Maybe I'm just stupid.


                
I have no doubt in my mind that the decade in which movies look most dated is the 1980's. So how is it that Ridley Scott could make a film 30 years ago and made it look like it could have been made in 2011?For some reason i have never managed to watch Blade Runner all the way through before. I'm sure i have seen some bits but the entire film seems new to me. I cant get over how stunning this movie looks. Granted , i watched this for the first time on Blue Ray but regardless of the quality of the picture , this film looks so modern. The story is nothing special , it doesn't have to be , but thanks to some amazing performances from Rutger Hauer and Daryl Hannah and some masterfulll direction i can totally see why this has become a cult classic. I don't think Harrison Ford is that that great in the film , he pulls silly faces sporadically and he tries hard but he never puts in a great display of acting.I plan to see the directors cut at some stage to see how Ridely Scott intended this film to be. Perhaps the ending may have turn out to be a little darker?


                
I don't know why I spent so many years really disliking BLADE RUNNER. From the first time I saw it back in the summer of 1982 I disliked it. Maybe it was because I'd spent the previous year or so seeing trailers and "making of" segments that made it look so good that basically nothing could possibly live up to such expectations (and what could be better than ALIEN?)Then there were Deckard's square glasses (you can't drink well out of a square glass), all that tedious smoky light drifting through blinds, and that dove being released in slow motion to make us feel just so<U+0085>whatever.I guess I do know why I spent so many years disliking it.Yet, slow motion dove notwithstanding, I find this new cut tremendously entertaining. I never imagined that more explicitly making Deckard a replicant could make it so much more fun. (Okay, here it is for the sceptics: Gaff's origami unicorn tells us he knows Deckard dreams of unicorns. He could only know this if said dreams were implants) Sure, it was always in the mix that Deckard was potentially a replicant. People suggested as much back in '82. The suspicion is alluded to in the movie – "Have you ever tried taking that test yourself?"Now we know for sure. He's a robot and his memory is false. This makes almost everything about the early part of the film wonderfully weird. It opens up the possibility that when Deckard is brought into the police station and speaks with Bryant (M. Emmet Walsh), that this is the first time these two men have ever spoken! "I need the old magic," Bryant tells him. But there is no old magic. Deckard's complicated, perhaps tragic, in any case mysterious, personal history doesn't exist. Bryant has been told to speak to Deckard as if they'd known each other for years. By who? By higher ups. By people at the Tyrell Corp. maybe. In any case, it's made perfectly clear that replicants equipped with memory implants are a new model. Very new, like not even on the market yet. I know a lot of fans buy into the "Deckard is a replicant" reading, while at the same time wanting to imagine him as a grizzled old veteran cop, with years of experience under his belt. But I don't think you can have it both ways. If he is a replicant, he is necessarily new. Just off the assembly line, like Rachel must be.Similarly, when we see Deckard going into his apartment, after his visit to the Tyrell Corporation, this is the first time he has ever entered this apartment. He only knows his way around it, and who the people in his photographs are, because of the memory implants.Obviously, if you prefer, you can imagine Deckard as a week old replicant, or a month old replicant, but I don't know why you would. There'd be no point in having an expensive replicant drifting through the city reading the want ads for a few weeks, looking for a job his manufacturers know he'll never take. No. It's much more fascinatingly twisted to watch this character do for the first time things he thinks he's been doing for years. He gives Rachel the VOIGHT-KAMPFF test. He's never given a Voight-Kampff test before. He makes a phone call. He has never made a phone call before. And, of course, he has never killed anyone.This way of interpreting Deckard's actions is provocative not necessarily because it's so radically different a take on reality from what we're used to, but because it's a play on a dynamic that's so absolutely common. The main character's backstory is fictional in every movie. It's the stuff all screenplays are made of. The first time we catch sight of a character in a movie is, effectively, the first time he or she has ever really existed. Backstory is a thing we the audience believe in to create for ourselves that sense of reality or continuity which narrative so depends on.For instance, when The Maltese Falcon opens Sam Spade and his partner Miles Archer are sitting around their office. They're partners. They've known and trusted each other for years. They're worked on numerous cases together. But, of course, they haven't really. They only act like they have. It's just a movie. They don't exist prior to the first scene in it. The concept of Deckard's memory implants merely makes this idea much more literal.And making abstract, theoretical ideas literal is something the best science fiction has always been good at. Serious SF has the ability to confront a concept that's fuzzy and hard to wrap your head around and recontextualize it, turning it into something immediate and tangible. One of the proto- Sci-Fi masterpieces, Stephenson's Doctor Jekyll and Mister Hyde, does this as well as anything. After all, duality within the human soul had been dealt with and analyzed from any number of viewpoints. What Stephenson did was make the abstraction of moral duality more easily viewable by making it a much more real, immediate situation in which his main character experiences the extremes of this duality in clearly distinguishable personalities struggling for control within himself. False personal backstory isn't the only abstraction BR makes literal.There's no difference between what the replicants want and what anybody else wants. The conflicts that the replicants are struggling with are the same existential issues everyone confronts: I'm going to die. I don't know when. I don't want to. What's so unusual? But the fact that their problems are so essentially run-of-the-mill doesn't make the film less interesting. It makes it more interesting, as it bundles this familiar angst in a shiny new package and, successfully, freshens it up, letting us experience it as something novel and provocative.


                
Blade Runner is a great movie with a fantastic,sometimes confusing and very different story line,with a very good cast and great characters,with an outstanding performance from Harrison Ford and great work from legendary director Ridley Scott.This movie has a strange history,it did not go down well with critics,but as time went on,it became more understood and got the respect it deserved,also there are many different endings to this movie.If you are looking for a movie packed with action,I wouldn't recommend Blade Runner,but if your looking for a movie with suspense,with a good build up,I would.Han Solo and Indiana Jones aside,Rick Deckard is one of Harrison Fords greatest performances.Rick Deckard,a blade runner in the year 2019,must track down four replicants who stole a ship and have returned to Earth to find there maker,its up to Rick to retire them.


                
In 2019, androids are dangerous, incredibly life-like, and banned on Earth. Deckard is a bounty-hunter who specialises in "retiring" rogue androids. He is charged with finding four such fugitives, who seem intent on contacting Dr Eldon Tyrell, their designer <U+0085>There are a handful of movies where I think the filmmaker should be entitled to receive royalties on the style of their film; Blade Runner is one of these select few. You could literally pick almost any TV show or commercial from the last twenty years and they all steal something from Blade Runner; looks, clothes, sets, lighting, makeup. It's an absolute triumph of artistic design - the most interesting-looking science-fiction film ever made - but it's also so much more than that. Its critics accuse it of being all looks and no drama but they've really missed the point; it's also a fantastic story with endlessly fascinating characters and unusual situations. I mean, what other movie ends with the villain saving the hero ? Hampton Fancher and David Peoples' script is a loose but clever adaptation of Philip K. Dick's classic 1968 novel Do Androids Dream Of Electric Sheep ?, although they stole the title from a more obscure book, The Bladerunner, by Alan E. Nourse. At its core is the concept of the androids' humanity. Deckard tries to rationalise his occupation by referring to them with third person pronouns and cynicism but essentially he's just a killer, and all of the android death scenes are bloody and disturbing. They might not be people, but they live life much more than the rest of the population seem to. Scenes like the one where Deckard teases Rachael with her false memories and she quietly cries at the awfulness of what's been done to her are charged with emotion and tenderness. All of the performances are absolutely first rate in extremely demanding roles; Ford is terrific, Young, Hannah and Olmos are iconic, Turkel hypnotically enigmatic, Sanderson and Cassidy both beautifully tragic, Walsh and Hong are hilariously seedy, and best of all is an unforgettable Hauer as the truly one-of-a-kind Roy Batty. Hauer is Frankenstein's Monster for the modern age, striding through the movie, alternately terrifying, humorous and tragic. His final scene in the rooftop rain is one of the most powerful endings in all cinema, majestically stylised and beautifully acted. Scott is often accused by half-witted detractors of being too focused on the imagery in his films - heaven help us, isn't that what a movie director is supposed to do - tell a story in pictures ? Scott is a genuine, no-apologies, barking-mad genius and this movie is just crammed full of amazing shots - the opening cityscape, the golden Tyrell Building, Deckard's future-noir apartment (which is just about the coolest in any movie), Pris' punk-doll look, the Esper/photo sequence, Roy in the elevator, Roy with the dove, way too many to mention. Movies can be so much more than just talking heads, and when you see one as good as this, I'll be goddamned if it doesn't convince me that Cinema is an Art after all. Add to this an incredibly stylish electronic score by Vangelis which complements the dark, industrial visuals perfectly and you have one of the most imaginative, entertaining and memorable science-fiction films ever made. I'm not going to get into that whole Unicorn dream / replicant Deckard thing because I believe we're free to interpret any movie anyway we want. I do have to say though that I liked the original version with the gumshoe-style narration - I sometimes wish filmmakers wouldn't keep dickering with their work; once it's released, that should be it. Featuring superb photography by Jordan Cronenweth, astounding production design by Lawrence G. Paull (Harlem Nights, Escape From L.A.) and terrific visual effects by Douglas Trumbull, Richard Yuricich and David Dryer, don't miss this fabulous futuristic classic, made with incredible skill and intensity by a truly great filmmaker.
Upon my second viewing of Ridley Scott's Blade Runner, I enjoyed and appreciated the film a lot more. The film is successful in its handling of the loaded subject of artificial life, introducing new ideas of false memories and a unique vision of a dystopian future. The core build up is well crafted, performed and shot, however it loses momentum towards the end, causing me to question the films central achievements and consistency.Blade Runner follows Rick Deckard, an archetypal retired cop coerced into one final job to catch and kill 4 rogue Replicants (Robots forced to do slave labour for humans). The film plays with crime, sci-fi and noir themes, distorting our expectations and forming a unique twist on the conventions found in each genre.Running through the film are motifs of eyes and Christian symbolism, the former including the intense Voight-Kampff test scene and the above eye shot with the industrialised, dystopian L.A sprawling ahead. The Christian symbolism is a questionable inclusion in a film with no major connection with religion, one flawed example being Roy Batty's hand pierced by a nail during his pursuit of Deckard. Likening Batty to Jesus doesn't fit with his violent, calculating personality shown through the film. The subtext here seems to have been added as an afterthought, it's too sloppy to relate to any ideas the film has already established, and too major a comparison to introduce at such a late stage.The film is infamous for its long-running debate about whether or not Deckard is a replicant. Both sides have their merits, Deckard being a replicant would lend to the ideas concerning artificial life and the existence of an objective reality, however it would detract from the complex history and social conditions surrounding replicants the film presents - it would be very unlikely that a replicant would be put in a position of power such as a blade runner, even for experimental purposes. This final mystery disregards the emotional crux of the film, both humans and replicants are shown to be emotionally equal, showing balanced levels of thought and feeling. Deckard potentially being one is almost irrelevant to his character, disregarding the obvious irony of him hunting his own kind and not knowing it. The ambiguity revealed in the final moments distracts from the poetic image of a man and replicant in love, fleeing society and breaking all the rules as they go.Roy Batty's death speech is the highpoint of the film script-wise; his sudden jolt of heroics is shocking and performed well by Rutger Hauer, who makes the insane robot's bout of divine understanding believable and compelling. However when considering the relationship between Batty and Deckard, Deckard having killed Batty's replicant girlfriend Pris, Batty minutes before breaking Deckard's fingers, and the blade runner's numerous attempts to kill him, his final act of kindness seems like a well concealed deus-ex-machina. One argument could be Batty accepts his fate in his dying moments, no longer having a reason to kill Deckard. But earlier Batty finds out he has no chance of life, yet still mercilessly kills J.F Sebastian - despite well deserving of its iconic status, the rooftop sequence doesn't hold up to scrutiny.The set design and lighting (or lack of) compliments the narratives stylistic twists, the people in their flying cars don't enjoy a luxurious future of economic stability and urban technological perfection, instead spluttering through darkness, drowning in noirish smoke and patronising talking advertisements. J.F Sebastian's decrepit, rainwater filled home is an excellent manifestation of the state of Earth in the future. Abandoned, half-destroyed, and gradually dissolving away as the opportunity of the future slips by, the rain forever dripping into nothingness.
In 1982 Ridley Scott sure was on fire with this directing and take on showing a future look of Los Angeles. The cinematography and background scenes of this film are flashy, neat, and well done they make the film memorable. Especially when the viewer first glances and sees the streets and skyscrapers of L.A. and the screen of images on the sides of the big buildings. Set in 2019 in Los Angeles you have Harrison Ford as Rick Deckard a blade runner who's assigned to protect the city and future from criminals. This film is more than sci-fi you get to see a romance develop with Ford's character with a female named Rachel(Sean Young in an early role). Also performances from such names as Daryl Hannah, Edward James Olmos, and M. Emmet Walsh are worth a watch. Overall an underrated sci-fi classic good work from Ridley especially in 1982 for trying to show a future L.A. most memorable is the cinematography and flashy images of the background make this film such a classic.


                
I rented this at Blockbuster after thinking about it for a very, very long time. A friend of mine had recommended to check this out, and that I should go for the Director's Cut version. So naturally I got quite excited when I found this in said rental store and noticed that it was indeed the Director's Cut. When I finally sat down to watch it, I was immediately engrossed in the action. Not long after it starts, something happens. Then the movie kind of slows down... a lot. It keeps that slow pace for a very long time... and then something happens again... and it returns to the slow pace. The whole movie is like that... mostly slow, with a burst of action here and there. I don't know if this was on purpose or not... but as a result, I found the movie mostly dull. Just for the record, I wasn't expecting a huge action-packed sci-fi shoot-everything-you-see extravaganza. The plot is pretty good, just very oddly paced. The acting is pretty much flawless. The actors playing Replicants have to portray a adult characters with the emotional maturity of a young child... and they pull it off perfectly. The special effects are amazing; quite an accomplishment for the time the film was made.*MINOR SPOILERS*One of my biggest problems with this film is that the investigative portion of the film doesn't seem to hold water... Deckard pretty much runs into each of the Replicants casually, rather than figure out where they are, or where they will go.*END SPOILERS*Now, what I found great about this film(and the main reason everyone loves it, I would suspect) is the great theological and ethical questions it asks. Chief of them would probably be: If we actually created Artificial Intelligence(A.I.), would it be right to consider them lesser creatures... as opposed to equals? It also demonstrates how everything we create are for our own use, not for the greater good. And how everything we create, we exploit and use. The film holds many truths about human nature and much food for thought, stuff that will create discussions between you and your friends... but not enough. Having watched this so close to my second viewing of Abre Los Ojos, I can't help but compare... and this just loses right away. In the end, this is a very good sci-fi film with astounding visuals and some depth, but I fail to see how it's the best sci-fi film of all time. I recommend this to fans of science fiction, particularly of the works of Philip K. Dick(since apparently this is a very accurate representation of his novel, Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep... one I have yet to find and read). Be prepared for a oddly paced and somewhat slow film, though. 8/10
I'm not normally a huge fan of the science-fiction genres. I like the old Star Wars movies but I could do without most of the rest. This is one of the exceptions however.What's not to love? It's got the best of Harrison Ford, neo-noir, and Ridley Scott. It's got a fun sort of steam-punk feel to it. And it's got a great story too! Recommend.


                
