Blade Runner belongs on a list of 2 or 3 movies that had me walking out of the theater in a stupor as though hit by a sledgehammer, the first time I saw it. It fulfills one of my requirements of great films in that I walked out of the theater a different person than when I entered. And it fulfilled another requirement in that it improved with repeated viewings.There is so much to take in visually, intellectually, and emotionally that my mind was overwhelmed at the first viewing trying to sort it all out. Unlike the so-called "entertainment" we get today at the movies, this film didn't spoonfeed its meaning to you. It left the ending ambiguous so your imagination has to supply it.The film demands discussion. There are so many topics to debate. Is Deckard a replicant? Do Deckard and Rachel live happily ever after? Why is there a unicorn in the director's cut? Is Deckard a hero? Or are the replicants really the good guys? Every time I watch it, my answers change.I may be one of the few that really likes the original. Probably because I've seen that version a couple dozen times since 1982 before the director's cut came out. This may contradict what I said earlier about being spoonfed, but I liked the narration because it explained what was going on in Deckard's mind. And I didn't mind the "happy ending" because it still implied that their troubles may not be over. "I don't know how long we had together. Who does?" But with that version memorized, I now appreciate the directors cut. It probably has the better ending. (At least I think so until I view it again!)It's also fun watching actors before they became more famous later like Sean Young, Daryl Hannah, M. Emmet Walsh, William Sanderson, and Edward James Olmos. I think they all did a great job. And Vangelis did a beautiful, moving score.After "Blade Runner", most of the big blockbuster science fiction movies boil down to good guys vs. bad guys with lots of loud explosions and in-your-face effects. Very simplistic messages, if any. That's why I still contend that an "oldie" like Blade Runner still outshines them all. It has incredible special effects, but never at the expense of the story. The cityscapes do more than dazzle you, they involve you.The more I think of it, the more I realize that "Blade Runner" is not only my favorite science fiction movie, but one of my favorite films in any genre. I wish Ridley Scott would return to science fiction, but then again today's Hollywood would never release a movie like "Blade Runner."
What can be said about this film that hasn't already been covered in preceding decennia? Blade Runner (either version) stands the test of time as an epic story which transcends a disparity of genres, as well as the seminal "dark" sci-fi film which has been mimicked so frequently (to varying degrees of success) since its original release. The interplay of film noir, sci-fi, and what is one of the most philosophically symbolic and academically analyzed narratives of the modern era holds its ground on both visual and cerebral levels even in the face of today's CGI laden blockbusters. The new director's cut, contrary to many cinematic re-hashings, actually serves to clarify many of the more nebulous aspects of the plot and makes a great film even better, arguably allowing it to be modernized and polished for a new generation of viewers who are more picky and yet simultaneously less idealistic. All while sustaining the feeling and flavor of the original. Call it restorative work if you will. The tinny and meandering score by Vangelis is pure 1980s at its most brooding and fits the texture and mood of the film beautifully. Indeed, for many reasons, finding this film in someone's DVD collection makes a true statement about their discriminating and refined taste in movies, and equally their appreciation of film as an artistic medium. I would suggest picking up a reader by someone like Nietzsche, Foucualt, Descartes, Kierkegaard, or any of the great existentialist philosophers after viewing this film in order to appreciate the story & its concepts at a whole new level, regardless if you're watching it for either the 1st, or the 100th time. An enduring classic and an intrepid piece of film-making with rich & often haunting visuals designed to entertain and promote introspection amongst its viewers. 9/10.


                
Sometimes you just need to give a film a second chance, even if it is 20 years later! Only some rave reviews about the picture quality of this new 5-disc "Complete Collector's Edition" enticed me to watch this again. Wow, I am glad; this was a very entertaining and a tremendous visual and audio treat.I actually appreciated the audio best because, even in this new Blu-Ray era, one doesn't often find a film with very active surround speakers. However, this "restored" version did and the sound is, at the point, the best I've heard on a Blu-Ray disc....or any DVD, for that matter. The visuals? Well, fans of Blade Runner know all about them. They are fantastic. Scene-after-scene reminded me of a Stanley Kubrick film or another bizarre 1980s movie called "Jacob's Ladder."Because there are so many things to see and hear, and the story is different, one filled with strange characters, I can see where people would watch this film multiple times and enjoy it very much each time. The "Collector's Edition" has the best picture ever, according to director Ridley Scott, and "is the version I'm most pleased with." It has added scenes one didn't see in earlier versions. The rest of the DVD has those earlier versions. Apparently, there are several including those with Harrison Ford doing narration, like out of a late '40s film noir.Speaking of the latter, that's what this film looked like: a combination film noir (or neo-noir) and sci-fi movie. It has many dark images, fantastic night-time scenes, wonderful closeups and an always-interesting color palette. Sci-fi films usually get dated in a hurry, thanks to ever-increasing special-effects progress in the movie industry, but this still looks very good. Despite being made over 25 years ago, Blade Runner still looks very much state-of-the-art.Scott says this is the best version and the best his film has ever looked and sounded. Since it's his movie, who am I to argue. So, if you're like me and never gave this movie a chance (I lost interest halfway through with my VHS look at it), give this a second look on this Blu-Ray edition....and you will be blown away. This is, indeed, an amazing film.


                
When I saw it, I wanted to be in high technology. When he spoke to the computer and instructing it to move, zoom in, left, right, print.... I ended up eventually doing the same things in my line of business. At first not as fancy, then we just made leaps over what was fantasy in that movie. We are still working on the genetics aspect. My job takes me to places that amazing young people work on applications that seem unrealistic to me. Person specific medication is one. No longer needing to take medicine with side effects or too much of one chemical and too little of the other. Laser sharp medication is more like it. Based on your DNA and anything that makes you what you are chemically, a mixture of medication with exact doses of each ingredient will be produced and it will target the problem that you have. Instead of a shotgun approach. I am told that it's not there yet for mental health issues but it works on addiction. Mental health issues are another category in themselves. Probably 30 years from now one of these people told me. Maybe never she said. If it is so darn complicated I wonder if there is hope for the poor souls living every day of their lives with one for or another of anxiety. Like the characters in this movie. The poor replicas did not even have a say in their existence. No different than us really. But their lives came with an expiration date. Ours is a highway that we take and choose when to get gas, pee or what sideroads to take. Much different.


                
One of the best films of the 80's and one of the greatest classics ever. This film is one of those movies that has everything, has action, adventure, suspense, science fiction and persecution. In addition, the film has actors such as Harrisn Ford, had a good director (Ridley Scott), had a good soundtrack and had special effects. Highly recommend.


                
I actually appreciated the audio best because, even in this new Blu-Ray era, one doesn't often find a film with very active surround speakers. However, this "restored" version did and the sound is, at the point, the best I've heard on a Blu-Ray disc....or any DVD, for that matter. The visuals? Well, fans of Blade Runner know all about them. They are fantastic. Scene-after-scene reminded me of a Stanley Kubrick film or another bizarre 1980s movie called "Jacob's Ladder." Because there are so many things to see and hear, and the story is different, one filled with strange characters, I can see where people would watch this film multiple times and enjoy it very much each time. The "Collector's Edition" has the best picture ever, according to director Ridley Scott, and "is the version I'm most pleased with." It has added scenes one didn't see in earlier versions. The rest of the DVD has those earlier versions. Apparently, there are several including those with Harrison Ford doing narration, like out of a late '40s film noir.Speaking of the latter, that's what this film looked like: a combination film noir (or neo-noir) and sci-fi movie. It has many dark images, fantastic night-time scenes, wonderful closeups and an always-interesting color palette. Sci-fi films usually get dated in a hurry, thanks to ever-increasing special-effects progress in the movie industry, but this still looks very good. Despite being made over 25 years ago, Blade Runner still looks very much state-of-the-art.


                
How this film has been underrated when it came out (mediocre, dull etc)!This is one of the very few films I like to re-watch from time to time. Ultimately this is not something I do for the story. Although I sometimes find new content here and there, things I missed the first time, the major reason to re-watch films like this is: -the astounding visuals (watch it in High Definition and be amazed, factor 10); -the music, I love Vangelis' unique soundtrack because he managed to make jazzy/bluesy synth music;-the atmosphere. Sure, it's all been done before, the film noir routine, but here it engages without being too formulaic. The philosophical themes are interesting too providing plenty of questions if you are interested. Mostly: what does it mean to be human? For instance, watch Rachel cry when she finds out she's not human after all. It evokes a form of pity, because, is she really that different from us? Isn't she worthy of a normal life? Aren't we all machines in a way, following the written routines in our own DNA code? Lack of empathy makes the replicants different from humans, but only for older models. And they get more human by the day. When they get too human they expire...the 4 year lifespan. But like any life form, they want survival. More even, to get the maximum out of the whole experience called life. Human after all?If you're not interested in such questions, this is still a beautiful film for the unequaled visuals, music, atmosphere and acting.I like the simple, original romantic ending, it's less ambiguous than the director's cut and I didn't mind the voice over at all. The director s cut has a completely different climax which is maybe less satisfying but stimulates much more thinking. Both versions endings are good and deserve recognition (particularly the original version has been bashed too much).The film is also better than the book though some would disagree. The book fails in truly capturing the atmosphere of a future where most living things are mechanical because it's one of Dick's less efficient books with a very forgettable ending. As much as I like his tales, his ideas usually outshine his writing. The film has much more atmosphere and tension.


                
You can only be in awe of this seminal film.Retro showings of the director's cut in the cinema gave me the wonderful opportunity to watch this film in this final cut on the giant screen for the first time. For some reason it brings out so much more to see. I'd watched it on video and DVD on my old home teles, but now for the real experience as the director always wanted.Where should we begin. The inspirational look, the majestic synth music or the existential allegories. No short review can do this film justice. There's just so much to discuss and take from this film. There are no answers, but questions and thoughts.I really recommend this to all. As a tour de force of cinema and sci-fi, it truly is peerless. Can't wait to watch it again.


                
And this one still is a classic! I can't believe how cinematically advanced this film was for its time. Comparing the two films, this one had a better pace (although still a little slow for my liking) and the length was perfect... the latter being 45 mins too long. This is a legendary sci-fi film that set the stage for future sci-fi! almost perfection at 9/10 from me


                
A feast for the eyes. Dark and uncompromising. With a haunting musical score by Vangelis that adds a hypnotic quality to those breathtaking landscapes of a mega-city in a dystopian future. To me, Ridley Scott's visionary masterpiece represents the ultimate Science Fiction film (and the final cut is the version to watch).


                
This is a film that took me at least 3 viewings to fully appreciate (Like most people apparently), now is one of my favorite films of all time. Blade Runner is in every way, a flawed master pieces, a film that has problems that everyone overlooks because of how good the film itself is, the visuals are by far the stand out of the movie, they still look outstanding, so many years later, and the special effects have barely aged for the most part, the environments were definitely something unique for their time and you can see how they became an influence for so many films of the genre that came after it,the world feels alive, real and it's an amazing achievement, the directing by Ridley Scott is one of the best I have seen in his entire career and the musical score by Vangelis is fantastic and the script is excellent, the story while pretty straightforward, there are so many details that requires you to pay attention to fully understand what is happening or in some cases, what might be happening, Harrison Ford also delivers in my opinion one of the best performances of his career, through the entire film i didn't saw Ford, I saw Deckard. The film has flaws that lie mostly in some scenes that do drag a bit too much and some plot elements here and there that could either be shorten or skipped entirely, but like I said, those flaws are overcome by everything the film does right and that's why Blade Runner is to this day considered a master piece.


                
I see Blade Runner as a hybrid of three different genres: sci-fi, art-house, and film noir.One thing I've long appreciated about sci-fi is that, at it's best, it provides a platform for a treatment of philosophical topics. The "what makes us human?" topic is a meaty one, and they give it the treatment it deserves in Blade Runner. The opening scenes with the Voight-Kampff tests are an excellent lead-in to this discussion as they challenge the viewer to ask themselves "How would I react in these situations?" That engagement with the viewer does a lot to draw them into the story. The vivid setting elements pull the viewer in even deeper.Art-house films are more of an acquired taste; they require some patience from the viewer. 2001 kind of set the example for art-house/sci-fi, and I think Blade Runner was following in it's wake. A lot of people badmouth Alien 3 for similar reasons. The big issue there, I think, was that audiences were expecting a sci-fi/action movie (like they got with Aliens (2)) and were served up a slower-paced, more arty, piece instead. Mismanaged expectations. Zardoz is another art-house/sci-fi film along these lines.Classic Noir films (e.g. 40s-50s era) are typified by bleak tones: people are trapped in unpleasant situations, the world around them is corrupt, and the characters typically drive toward a doomed fate. (The "Private Eye giving a voice-over" is also a hallmark of the noir genre.) I've typically described noir as "part crime drama, part psychological thriller, part bittersweet romance." Neo-noir builds on the genre and typically adds the following elements: identity crises, memory issues / subjectivity, and -- most importantly -- technological problems and their social ramifications. All of these things describe Blade Runner to a 'T'.<U+FEFF>


                
* This comment was written following a theatrical screening of Ridley Scott's final cut of "Blade Runner" and is written about this newest version.Before I get started I must note that "The Final Cut" is a definitive cut of the film. This is the most cohesive, well-paced, and entertaining cut of the film, by FAR. I really hope Ridley Scott doesn't go do another cut because this one is as much as can be done without altering the script or filming new scenes.Another point I was thinking about during the film is how much of a 'theater movie' this is. I have seen the film in two forms (director's/theatrical) a total of three times, and though I always thought it was a good film, I never quite saw what all the fuss was about. A good, solid science fiction film was what I saw each time, but I had what felt like an epiphany during this viewing. The film is easily one of THE MOST GORGEOUS things I've ever seen. Brilliantly shot by Jordan Cronenweth (and I definitely give Ridley Scott some credit for how good this looks), the film is astoundingly beautiful and effective on the big screen. When watching it one realizes that each shot was painstakingly thought out, but unlike some others I've seen, the film is so fluid that you can't stop to think about such matters.One of several flaws I still believe "Blade Runner" suffers from is Vangelis' then ultra-modern score, which by today's standards is so dated it's distracting. That's not to say the film isn't well-scored, but synthesizer scores always bug me because they're bound to sound dated, and this is coming from a guy who loves 80's electronic music (the good stuff, not MTV). Another distracting aspect of the score was the bizarre combination of East Asian, Indian, and Arabic music which felt completely out of place and often forced. Since I'm criticizing the movie in this paragraph I'll throw in my opinion that the script was unbalanced in points, though drastically improved over the original 'voiceover included' version. I felt that dialogue could get distractingly forced at times.Still, during this viewing of "Blade Runner: The Final Cut[" I noticed that the majority of criticism leveled at the film is a big load of rubbish. Technically speaking, there is basically nothing at all wrong with the film. Visual effects are excellent, photography and editing are accomplished, and the acting is phenomenal across the board, be it Ford, Hauer, Hannah, or Young, watching them was a pleasure.There is something the film communicates when seen on the big screen which is missing from home video viewings, and I'm not sure what it is. Is the film so visually dazzling that viewing it on a theater screen glosses over its numerous errors and some other minor flaws, or is it just that with Ridley Scott finally fully overseeing the final product the film has really improved as much as it did in my eyes? Whatever it was, "Blade Runner: The Final Cut" is an outstanding science fiction film, not without its flaws, but still one of the most effective films in the genre I've ever seen, and though it forsakes a lot of Phillip K. Dick's philosophical pondering to focus more on the pulp-ish if quite intelligent sci-fi/neo-noir aspect of "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?", the film stands so well on its own that I left the theater overwhelmed and feeling even a bit privileged to have had the chance to view this incredible film on the big screen and learn to appreciate it more.9/10


                
Based on a novel by Philip K. Dick, this futuristic urban Sci-Fi film is a masterpiece indeed. Director Ridley Scott has managed to turn Dick's story into a dark and complex film-noir styled mystery, that packs as much punch on an aesthetic level as it does on an emotional and substantial one. It's clear throughout the film that the movie makers' intentions was to make this more of an intelligent character study cum thought-provoking drama rather than the thrill seeking movie that the Sci-Fi genre movies usually are. This is shown by the way that the action in the movie is kept down to a bare minimum, and the way that the film always seems to want to put forward an idea rather than an action sequence. The plot, which covers themes such as what it takes to be considered alive, follows a group of four androids ("Replicants") that have escaped their masters and come to Earth, where Replicants are illegal. Their intention is to seek out 'the maker' and try to add to their maximum four-year lifespan, given to them to ensure that they wont have sufficient time to develop emotions. On their tail is Deckard; a policeman in the business of hunting Replicants; known as a Blade Runner.Through a grim setting and dark characterization; Ridley Scott has truly succeeded in giving Blade Runner a classic film-noir style. This bodes well with the futuristic metropolitan version of Los Angeles that the film takes place in. Both of these elements blend excellently with the characters, which are intriguing as they are dark. Harrison Ford steps into the role of Deckard; the classic noir protagonist. We never really delve into his character; but at the same time, that ensures that the mystery surrounding him is kept up, which serves in making our protagonist all the more intriguing. Rutger Hauer, who gives a career-best performance as the leader of the Replicants, matches him. Hauer treads the line between pathos and pure evil brilliantly, and it's always easy to believe that he is the doomed android that the movie presents him as. The main thing I love about this movie is it's style; the dark Gothic undertones are superb to look at, and once the film enters it's final third, the atmosphere takes over and the way that it builds to it's beautiful and classic conclusion is absolutely superb. Blade Runner may have been met with negativity on it's release; but today it's an absolute classic.


                
A milestone in sci-fi movies.
No human eating monsters, no dark shadows that prey humans, no blood splashing scenes.
A hymn to the purest aspects of real psych which conquers even man-made androids.
A link between intellect and the very essence of human existence .


                
I watched this film a couple of weeks ago as the new 2049 one is coming out and I realised I had never seen the original before. People always told me it was a good film and worth watching. Having watched the film myself I can tell you these people are wrong. Blade Runner is a great film and you need to see it NOW!The film is gorgeous in every sense of the word. This film is very noir and reminds me of detective noir movies like the Big Sleep or the Maltese Falcon. As you can imagine the cinematography is perfect and the CGI for its time is pretty impressive. The CGI is almost akin to Star Wars IV in how good it looks.I love the scene in Tyrells office in the first 30 minutes of the film where Rachel is being interviewed. The use of colour and shadow in the office perfectly sets the tone for the interview between Rachel and Rick. The scene also illustrates why Ridley Scott is a great director. He is known in his movies for creating emotion trough darker surroundings and it's perfectly shown here. Ridley Scott has directed some brilliant movies like Alien, Thelma and Louise and Gladiator. However I think his best work has to be Blade Runner from a visual perspective alone.The music in this film is sublime. It is very synth heavy and perfectly captures the tone and theme of the film. In some parts the music is soft with just faint piano playing to give us a feeling of intimacy which works really well, especially for the scenes between Rick and Rachel. In other scenes we get a fast pace synth heavy track that compliments all the dynamic movement that the characters are doing in the scene. Vangelis knows what he is doing in movies and lends his skills as a composer expertly here. Hats off to you sir "we are not worthy"!!!! The plot itself was based off a 1968 novel by Philip K. Dick called "Do androids dream of electric sheep?" The film does not follow the book to the letter but the bare bones of the book are there and also the message behind it. The plot is a slow burner in places however there is a fundamental question posed to the audience. "What makes something a human being?" The replicants in the film look like people, act like people and die just like people. There comes a point where the androids in the film become more human than the humans are and they express real emotions that are very complex for androids to understand.The plot deals with mortality and the fear of death as well. The whole motivation for the escaped androids is that they do not want to die. Roy Batty goes after the "cure" to death and even goes so far as the meet his maker to try and stop death. When his creator says that escape from death is impossible Batty lashes out at first, and kills his creator and several others, however at the end of the film where he saves Rick Deckard from falling to his death he comes to some inner peace realising that death is inevitable. The plot of this film has so many interpretations and has been discussed so many times that it has taken on a life of its own. I even may have interpreted it differently to others however the fact of the matter is there is not right or wrong way that a film can make you feel, it is personal to you.The actors in this are brilliant. You can really tell that they gave a sh*t about the film and everyone brought their A game. Harrison Ford is great and gives one of the best performances of his career hands down! His scenes with Rachel where a high point as you could tell his infatuation was real and at the same time you saw Rick's torment as he realises Rachel is an android and not 100% human.Rutger Hauer is fantastic as Roy Batty and crosses the line between human and android so convincingly that whilst watching the film you see him become more human with every scene. The scene where his character dies actually makes you feel for a murderous android, and his line about his memories being "lost in time, like tears in rain" had a certain melancholy feeling to the scene. All I can say is that this film is brilliant in terms of plot, acting, music, looks and feel. The pacing is a little slow in parts, which meant I did lose concentration the first time I watched it, but not so much that it distracts from the film. In short this is a true classic and a must see for Sifi NERDS. Go see this film you will not regret it.
Blade Runner is an Dark, Apocolyptic Scifi Noir that comprimised nothing in transporting the watcher into its rich story. It is one of the only films that can call itself Scifi without turning into an action filled adventure story. The film doesn't fall for fads of the time, making it absolutely timeless and not feel 80's in the slightest. The cinematography is decades ahead of its time, on par with films of the mid 2010's. Its music and sound is a beautiful blend of synths and analogues, your really able to feel what it is trying to tell you.If you haven't seen this film yet, it is a must watch for any film lover new and old.


                
Enough cannot be said about the virtues of this movie, both visually and thematically. It's one of Ridley Scott's finest efforts behind the camera and a sci-fi benchmark that created a legacy that still permeates everything that it's related to futuristic and technogical landscapes.
From the very first shot, the movie will grab you by the scruff of the neck and take you on a visually stunning journey where there is even room for philosophical ruminations about the very nature of what it means to be human. But not all of it is fantasy and wonder. The movie is flawed in that it depicts its main characters in a very unrelatable and detached manner. This is also its worst pitfall. Scott was way more concerned about creating a futuristic setting than he was in delving into his characters' psyches. Actors were left to their own devices when trying to gleam into their characters reasons for being. Most of what can be seen on the screen, acting wise, was due to the actors commitment to their respective roles, e.g; Rutger Hauer's compelling performance of an android who only wants for his kind and his own, that which mankind has always taken for granted, the possibility of living longer and free, must surely be the outstanding performance of the movie.
Nitpicks aside, the movie is still to this day a remarkable cinematographic achievement and one that gains with repeated viewing. Amazing production design, photography and state of the art special effects has made it stand the test of time. Along with viewing it in its final cut version, which is the best of its five cuts, a viewing of the documentary; '' Dangerous Days'' in which we, the audience, are given the chance to dive right into the laborious and painstaking process of creating such a cinematic marvel, is not only advisable, but mandatory. Feast your eyes on it.


                
The original Blade Runner, directed by then relative newcomer Ridley Scott, is loosely based on a Philip K. Dick novel Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?, but the only things similar are the setting and some of the characters. Even the story only superficially resembles the original written work. As thus Blade Runner has come to stand as its own thing, an inspiration for future films and the cornerstone of an entire subgenre of science fiction. Namely, that of cyberpunk.The story within the movie goes that Rick Deckard (Harrison Ford) is called back into service as a blade runner. Those being hunters tasked with identifying and 'retiring' rogue replicants, artificial humans. Four of these have just arrived on Earth, and Deckard's old boss wants them found and retired. In pursuit of this goal we explore the world of 2019 Los Angeles as well as the themes of humanity versus robotics, the meaning of lifespan, mileage versus years and the illusion of memories.Blade Runner is a slow movie, especially the director's cut that removes the narration added to the theatrical release and returns some of the gorier shots. The film is not terribly action-packed, but rather a neo-noir film set into a dystopian future. It's a detective story through and through, with a philosophical undertone. And for what it is, it's one of the best examples there are. This is a film you can get obsessed over. It almost always requires multiple viewings before you start to truly appreciate it. But when you do, it will likely become one of those defining films, which you'll use to rank all the others like it. And, as stated, it is something of a genre-starter and I'd dare to say that modern science fiction owes a lot of its style and feel to this film. All science fiction.Is it a bit slow? Yes. Is that a problem? You shouldn't let it be. Is it an amazing look into the future of humanity and the rise of man-made intelligence? Absolutely!


                
All in All, Blade Runner is a really good movie, even with its two flaws. I find the Plot a little weak for a Sci-Fi movie that isn't all Action, I was expecting more of a plot since this is part Drama. The second flaw is that Harrison is not that good in his role as Deckard. By no means is he bad but he just isnt that convincing. Because of these flaws I cannot call this the best Ridley Scott movie. It is his 4th best though, just a tiny cut under Alien.


                
(The famous spoilers shall follow).   To everybody who likes this movie, I say "ditto".  It is multilayered, moving, and looks great. 
    I would like to respond to a post that someone left earlier this year. This person commented on the scene where Deckard prevents Rachel from leaving his room, shoves her against the wall,and manipulates her into sleeping with him. She comments that Blade Runner fanatics must not realize there is anything wrong with this. Give me a break. One doesn't have to agree with all of the main character's actions in order to like a movie. This individual also charged Ridley Scott with racism, complaining he indirectly used the frequent Japanese and Chinese characters as scapegoats for the inhumanity of technology. I never associated Blade Runner's high Asian population with the replicant experiments. It just always struck me as a visual way to suggest this was in the future. Census figures are not frozen, they do change. Yes, we have the Chinese character who designs replicant eyes. But we also have white genetic experts in Sebastian, and the powerful Tyrell.  Please. There's enough racism in this world already. No need to sound alarms in corners where it doesn't exist.    And I must say, I am not entirely happy with the notion that Deckard is a replicant, as the DC version indicates.  I feel the question of "what does it mean to be human?" is covered well enough with all of the other replicants. By the end we've already seen a demonstration of two robots' love for one another (Roy and Pris). Deckard's love interest, Rachel, is also a replicant. To then learn that Deckard is supposed to be a replicant is redundant. Why not leave Deckard human so we can also ponder the idea of a human and a replicant having a deep relationship?
Bravo Ridley Scott !This movie has a pulse which hasn't skipped a beat since 1982.I can still remember my first time seeing this production in the theatre. Long before big screens, Dolby Digital sound and large cushy cinema seating existed.At it's conclusion, I walked out thinking, "Wow, that was really different.".  Different in that it was ahead of it's time.This is a love/hate movie.  Either you're fascinated by it's style, or you find it boring.  If you have any sort of imagination, then you'll definitely be amazed by this picture.I proceeded to watch this movie multiple times, on VHS, television, DVD. Each time picking out something new I admired.Sure, the music is a little dated and the 1980's advertisements for such names as Atari show up in scenes, making you chuckle.  But the story and it's characters are pure genius.Each character was unique and identifiable.  Actor/Actress selection was perfect.  Harrison Ford, Joe Turkel, Joanna Cassidy, Rutger Hauer etc, etc, etc....The movie has an obvious "dark" atmosphere about it and if you don't like Sci-Fi, best you not watch this flic.  But to me, this is true Sci-Fi.  If you stretch your imagination into the future, perhaps almost believable in some respects.Today's Sci-fi movies tend to rely heavily on visual effects to draw it's following.  In contrast, Blade Runner is a well thought-out story.I heard a rumor once, that a sequel was being considered.  That makes me a little nervous.  Sequels can have such a way of diminishing the original production if you don't get it right.  If someone does decide to do so, please, be careful and call me first !Looking to add to your movie collection ?  This is definitely an item that should be on your list.


                
I think Blade Runner is the best movie ever made. It contains great actors, a good plot, wonderful music... and those three element + an unbelievable atmosphere.This is a movie to die for!


                
The plot centers around a BladeRunner and his latest job - to retire a number of run-away replicants in a futuristic (2019) Los Angeles. This is a truly amazing piece of art: director Scott's direction and eye for details is stunning; the set design and art direction is flawless; the cinematography and musical score is breathtaking; the acting is solid - and in Hauer's case rather touching as well.It's not a film to embrace easily, and obviously not in everybody's taste, as evidenced by some entries here. But the overall "feel" and atmosphere of this movie is something special, especially if you view the "Director's Cut". It has some minor, but important, changes compared to the first release from 1982. The widescreen version is a must, since the visuals are absolutely top-notch, and Scott really uses all of the possibilities of a widescreen movie."Blade Runner" is it's own universe, and a major milestone in film making! View it, but give the movie the time it needs to really sink in. They don't do movies better than this! A final word of caution: The DVD edition of the director's cut of "Blade Runner" is, in my opinion, rather disappointing. No extras, no trailer, no nothing. Just the movie! On the other hand, that is (almost) good enough, since the widescreen transfer is of very good standard regarding soundtrack and picture quality. Enjoy it!


                
Imagine what will happen if stylish neo-noir science-fiction movie will be directed by young Ridley Scott at the peak of his career, based on the novel by talented amphetamine-addict, who is scribbling on drugs countless stories about borderline states, disguising themselves as science-fiction (Philip K. Dick), special effects in this film will be made by legendary Douglas Trumbull, Vangelis will write music, starring charismatic Harrison Ford, beautiful Sean Young, ingenious Rutger Hauer ("tears in the rain" line is his invention) and young Daryl Hannah? Well, the movie will get a commercial failure and the avalanche of criticism in the United States. That serves as another proof that nor commercial success, nor critics reviews should not be taken into account when assessing the motion picture arts."Blade Runner" is one of the last specimens of the pure art in the mainstream cinematography - it's when public's attention is drawn not by hurrying plot, but by exquisite picture, the so-called atmosphere that combines a certain style of storytelling, visual style, including special effects, high-quality music and actors' ensemble. If we add to this some philosophical depth and give the public time to reflect on each episode, without being distracted (harassed) by the following one, you will get an almost perfect motion picture. And if you appreciate beautiful motion pictures, then "Blade Runner" is your movie.As of the idea of "Blade Runner", it is not obvious and at the same time is simple, like all true ideas - if at the beginning of the movie Deckard required Voight-Kampff test in order to determine whether Rachel a human being or not, at the end just two questions were enough for this. Actually, no more are required.9 out of 10P.S. A small remark. If before watching "Blade Runner" you have not read the novel on which the movie is based - "Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep" by Philip K. Dick - it is better not to read (otherwise you'll have false expectations). If you decide which version of the movie to choose, then just do not take "The Final Cut". I would suggest "The International Cut", as the most conscientious observance of neo- noir atmosphere and best explanation of the plot twists. Although "The Director's Cut" and unofficial (but most complete) "The Electric Unicorn Cut" have their advantages, but these versions are not as atmospheric and rather intended for hardcore fans of "Blade Runner". As I see it, director's hints on Deckard's artificial memory (dream about a unicorn and paper unicorn near his flat at the end, some dialogues) are excessive, contradict logic and unnecessary overcomplicate movie's main idea.


                
