Maybe my expectations were too high after reading so many wonderful reviews, but this movie did nothing for me. The beautiful music was the best part of the movie, aside from Richard Armitage. I found Daniela Denby-Ashe to be very annoying and unlikeable. I didn't buy the love story at all. The two barely even talked to each other, and next thing you know he's proposing to her. The whole time I'm watching it, I'm thinking "WHEN DID THEY FALL IN LOVE WITH EACH OTHER?!" Since the love is so underdeveloped the romantic ending meant nothing to me. I would definitely not put it on a list of my favorite costume dramas. I found it to be boring and disappointing.
The Beeb must have spent an absolute fortune on this series. The cotton floating in the mill. Resurrecting hundred year old looms from some museum somewhere. Roping off large parts of Manchester to film cobblestoned streets.Unfortunately the acting is sadly mediocre. The casting is mediocre too. And they didn't spend any cash on wigs. So all the actors have their own hair which is beautifully clean. To say nothing of the sublimely plucked eyebrows of every single female actress in this series. Including the supposedly poverty-stricken mill workers.The older actors (Mama Thornton and Mama Hale) look only about 10 years older than their supposedly grown-up children. Big mistake.But the biggest flaw is the casting of the 2 leads. Margaret comes across as a prissy, stuck-up b.i.t.c.h. And what's more. She is on the plump side. I kept thinking that in 5 years Margaret would be as big as the servant, Dixon. And that is not a good thing to be thinking in the middle of a costume drama.I don't know why Mr Thornton gives Margaret the time of day...let alone falls in love with her. Mr Thornton is very handsome admittedly...and very slim...actually he's a weedy geek. I kept seeing Jack Spratt and wife whenever I saw Margaret and Mr Thornton together.I wish the BBC would release the version they have with Patrick Stewart playing Mr Thornton. Its about 10 times better than this tripe.
