Very good period drama that BBC can always be expected to produce. I've never read the book but like most adaptations, i'm going to soon! I absolutely adored this TV mini-series! The first two episodes were so bleak and John Thorton was an absolute git! But sure enough, Margret left an impression and the better side of his nature shone through! The ending was so romantic is right up there with my other favourite BBC adaptation 'Pride and Prejudice.' The delicate and unexperienced kiss so full of love just had me grinning inanely - so romantic! *happy sigh* I agree one-hundred per cent with the other reviewer - Thorton did remind me of Mr. Darcy but we do need more men like that! If you want a drama that mixes historical facts (the development of workers union) and the personal journey of a young women (Margret Hale played by the lovely Daniela Denby-Ashe who has such gorgeous facial expressions) with a splash of romance then 'North and South' is definitely for you!!
Very nicely filmed, somehow both visually stylish and accurate on period detail. Based on the novel of the same title by Gaskell, a work that is crucial for understanding <U+0096> in an ideologically deflected way <U+0097> the transition from Romanticism (the country cottage, poetry, equality, etc) to early Victorianism (industrial power, science, Darwinian adaptation, bourgeois reform, etc.) that Gaskell seems to endorse through the transformation of the heroine, and her choice of husband. Myth in action here, as in the sense of resolving this contradiction in imaginative fiction. Alas, the contradictions between Romantic values and Victorian values remains with us even into the 21st century. This perhaps explains why the BBC television production of _North and South_ was so watchable for so many viewers.


                
Although 'North and South' has a plot which could be dismissed as pure Catherine Cookson - rich clergyman's daughter with family in reduced circumstances move from leafy Hampshire to smoky Milton (Manchester) where she makes friends with factory folk and has a love-hate relationship with the local squire (sorry, mill owner and magistrate) before she comes into money from father's old schoolfriend (who has a yen to marry her) and she saves the squire from bankruptcy by offering him a loan but marrying him instead - it really is done so well that you don't notice the implausibilities and creaks in storyline as you're watching.With a cast who are firing on all cylinders - Daniela Denby-Ashe (Margaret), Lesley Manville (Margaret's mother), Tim Pigott-Smith (Margaret's father), Pauline Quirke (their servant Dixon), Richard Armitage (the mill-owner), Sinead Cusack (his mother), Brendan Coyle (a union man and mill-worker), Anna Maxwel-Martin (mill-worker's consumptive daughter), Brian Protheroe (friend of Margaret's father), and William Houston (strike-breaker) - 'North and South' can never be accused of being boring. It looks as if money has been spent on it as well, which makes all the difference.
*Contains Spoilers*This is a wonderful adaptation of Elizabeth Gaskells industrial novel. Seeing the smoky industrial atmosphere leap from the pages and into life was a true treat. The casting was good, Richard Armitage being a perfect and broodingly handsome choice for John Thornton. Daniela Denby-Ashe was also a good decision for Margaret Hale, capturing that queenly yet innocent quality which the book strongly emphasises. For some aspects of the series the producers used a creative licence. For instance, there is no description of John Thornton beating his workers in the book, however, beating workers was a common practise for industries of this time period, so it therefore a distinct possibility that John Thornton, had he been real, would have indeed beaten his workers. In the book Margaret Hale does not enter the factory at all, I am however glad they used the factory shots of the cotton mill as they were some of the most haunting and beautiful scenes in the series. The only alteration from the story line for which I have misgivings, is the ending. Romantic? Yes. Realistic? No! A Mr. Thornton and Miss Hale kissing in such a public situation - a train station no less, would have been considered in those times as outright scandalous! I can understand the conveniance to the story as well as symbolism for having them meet in the trainstation and even the need to provide overall audience satisfaction with a kiss, however, I think it should have been more tastefully and realistically executed, perhaps them kissing for the first time once they had hopped on the train (this still would have been scandalous, but not as bad).Despite this rather large flaw (as it is the ending) overall the series is enjoyable and true to the themes of the book. I highly recommend it to fellow hopeless romantics and anyone else looking for quality entertainment.
Manchester -called Milton - in the series is depicted authentically in this gripping four part BBC series. Edinburgh stands in for exterior scenes.The cast is flawless and to single out one of them for extra praise would seem totally unfair.I intend to read the book as I find the story absolutely spell-binding. It had me from beginning to end, and that was the only spot of trouble I ran into. The end. Otherwise I would have given this a 10/10 rating.The scene in the railroad station at the end tested my credibility metre. For one, the extremely sudden turn-around of the Margaret character was poorly written and I can't quite believe this would have occurred in the novel. For two, the anachronistic kissing, though agreeable, seemed completely out of place. I bought it with Darcy and Elizabeth in the wedding scene in P&P but here I found it jarring enough to remove me from the story. This was Victorian England. This was a public railway station. These were not working class people. And he had just been to her old home and taken a rose from there to give her, not knowing at that point she would ever be in his life again and for that matter not knowing how much these roses had ever meant to her? In spite of that, it is not to be missed for the 95% of time it nails the era and the way the cast portrays the characters, all excellent and well deserving of any awards they may receive for this.8/10.
I'm 14 years old, and am a huge fan of period dramas. Other than Jane Austen, Elizabeth Gaskell is definitely my favorite author. This movie is spot on with the book. I don't remember reading anything in the novel that wasn't in the movie. It was casted perfectly and I can't imagine anyone else who could play a better Thorton. The *one* thing I have a problem with is at the beginning of the movie, when Mr. Thorton beats that guy up. That was definitely not in the book, and simply made him look rougher than he already was. Other than that, it was a fantastic movie. If you like Austen, you'll probably love North and South!
I had not read the book and I'm ashamed to say I haven't read many of the classics but why read them when I can watch them so beautifully? I loved watching how each character changed in the duration of the four episodes and wished it was longer. You really felt Margaret's disdain and then loyalty to the union workers plight. It's like she really was looking from the outside and seeing both sides. Well done!


                
I watched this very skeptically. I was not familiar with the novel or the earlier productions, but this show was done very nicely. All actors were convincing as was the setting for the drama. The main actress did a phenomenal job, but Richard Armitage stole the show. I was completely bowled over after having seen his performance in the Hobbit series recently that this was the same actor. Overall this is a good watch especially if you are a fan of English period drama's. The music is also excellent and really sets the mood. Cinematography is always very important in period pieces and this show was great to show the early mills society in North England. I would definitely recommend this to anyone who likes history and good story.


                
