What's so hilarious about a show that criticizes low budget films? With the comments so supposedly clever that idiotic fans label the show "genius" and the "greatest show, ever...", etc. MST3K is the TV equivalent of idiotic trash like the Howard Stern radio show. A bunch of morons sit around and make fun of, whatever, without taking a good look at themselves. Taking pot shots at low-budget films is no big deal. The morons who embrace this show have no imagination and have to have someone make the remarks for them, so they can feel superior. If MST3K took on the big, so-called "important" films, like ALL THE PRESIDENTS MEN, THE COLOR PURPLE, ARMISTAD, anything by Woody Allen, Robert Redford, Spike Lee, etc., then I could respect them. Making fun of a low-budget film on a televised show, is the TV equivalent of a bully picking on a 98 pound weakling.


                
Before anyone bites my head off since I'm treading upon their beloved terrain, this is just my opinion. I'm not saying you can't like MST3K or that my opinion should be the only opinion. I'm saying that I myself find its content and entire premise of the show stupid. Not to sound like a film snob, but just... just why? What's the point? Sure, humor is subjective, but this whole show is just immature and obnoxious, and reminds me of those "react" videos on YouTube where you're watching somebody else watching something. I just don't get it. Maybe you have to be a certain type of person to get it, and if you are, fair enough, but seriously, where's the humor in this? It's just annoying! For half the price it costs to watch an episode of this, I can go down to the thrift store, buy up some B-movies on VHS and make fun of them myself, and actually enjoy what I'm watching on my own terms without needing three stenciled cartoon heads in the bottom of the screen telling me when to laugh and talking over the whole thing. I have a certain respect for some parodies, but MST3K isn't even that. All it is seems to be a bad film with a commentary dubbed over the top. I'm sick to death of being told by all my pretentious hipster friends that I'm so ignorant for failing to find MST3K funny. It amazes me in a depressed kind of way that there are seriously people who have wasted a certain chunk of their lives watching all ten seasons of this without just getting bored.


                
I'm a big fan of "it's so bad it's good" movies (check my IMDb reviews). I've enjoyed watching them since I was a kid, even before the concept of bad movies a la Ed Wood became an "in" thing. Some bad movies are so beautifully bad that they're almost an art-form. Some films definitely deserve to be made fun of, like TERROR IN THE JUNGLE, DRAGON HUNT, NIGHTMARE WEEKEND, A NAME FOR EVIL, DON'T GO IN THE WOODS come to mind. But there are also big Hollywood movies which are as bad if not worse than the majority of obscure grade-z films. So as an avid fan of bad movies, I finally decided to watch several MST3K episodes and I never laughed at anything. Anyone can do funnier improvisational bits than these guys. In fact, drunk guys who know nothing about movies would be funnier than these guys.I watched the episode with THE CRAWLING EYE and it wasn't funny at all. The movie itself is not great but with so many bad movies out there, which are much worse than this, THE CRAWLING EYE didn't deserve to be made fun of. Some films are so bad unto themselves that add-libbing comedy bits to them is hardly a remarkable or a clever feat.This is the main problem with these guys. Not only they think they're funny, when in fact they're not, but they selectively choose certain films to make fun of, mostly old low budget movies, when big budget atrocities released by Hollywood, past and present, like THE PHANTOM MENACE or VAN HELSING, deserve more derision than these often forgotten or deservedly forgotten films. It's very easy to make fun of old movies if you're a snobby Fanboy. It's ironic that a low-budget show like this one can only afford low-budget films. Getting the rights of big budget films would be too costly so these poor unfunny comedians are stuck trashing films which are mainly public domain stuff. But there's something more disturbing about this show. It's the inherent elitism it reeks. Today's generation rarely watch old movies. There's so many disposable new films on DVD or cable, and so much specialty programming spoon-feeding these young viewers that this generation can hardly think outside the box when it comes to entertainment. When I was young, everyone watched old movies and as well as current films. There were just a few channels and we could watch something made in the 1930s as well as the 1970s or 80s. It wasn't unusual for me to watch a WC Fields movie one moment and then watch a brazen Blaxploitation film right after. Ask anyone under 30 who WC Fields is and probably no one would know who this comedian giant is. And it's not just about old movies, but TV shows, music, books, etc. A 20-something will see an old film on TV and immediately switch channels. We have an entire generation of moviegoers who don't even watch movies which are 5 years old, never mind one that is 40 years old, no matter how good or bad they are. And these MST3K guys feed into this massive generation gap, by trashing old movies mainly because, well, they're just old. For many, an old film = bad film. Just check the MST3K IMDb forum for examples.In the end, if you're a fan of bad movies, you don't need to watch MST3K to enjoy them. I certainly won't be watching this unfunny show anymore.


                
Mystery Science Theatre 3000 sounded funny on paper, but in practice it was annoying cause unless you have actually seen those movies it was like having some idiots sit behind you and talk during the whole movie. If those people really had talent they would make their own movie or TV show, not rip-off others work and make useless comments about it. I suspect those who enjoyed this are part of the short attention span generation that has no depth of thought of their own, and need someone to constantly babble at them while a movie is playing leading them around as to what to pay attention to. If a movie is grade-B or campy, fine, I can figure that out and enjoy it myself for what it is. I don't need some lame people talking through it. What a dumbing down of art, just like rap "artists" who can't write their own music so they steal others and talk over it. These people talked over the work of others too. They do this because they don't have any original ideas of their own. Why was this show on for so many years, because it was cheap to produce.


                
To most of us, its a television show. But to a fanatical minority its a religious artifact, and one hesitates to criticise it for fear of being accused of blasphemy. But, as I.M.D.B. is all about freedom of speech, I feel that I must have my say on the subject. If you are a die-hard 'Mystie', look away now please as I am going to give your beloved show a well-deserved trashing.'M.S.T.3.K.' was launched in 1988, the creation of its original star Joel Hodgson. It is set aboard the Satellite of Love, where Pearl ( Mary Jo Pehl ) forces Mike Nelson each week to sit through 'bad' movies. Nelson has robots - Tom Servo, Gypsy, and Crow - for company. They make sarcastic comments during the film, and this is where the 'comedy' comes from. Unfortunately, much of it is obvious and forced. Because the films come from the '50's, 60's and '70's, the gags tend to refer mainly to outdated fashions, special effects, weak scripts, or one star's perceived similarity to another. The rest of the show featured inane sketches, indifferently performed. I am interested in how the films came to be made and marketed, and about the people who made them. Contrary to what this show would have you believe, they were not idiots but poor souls struggling to produce entertainment on minuscule budgets. In some cases their work proved more enjoyable than many big budgeted productions. But 'M.S.T.3.K.' is not remotely interested in the films themselves, except as objects of ridicule. Its secret agenda is to promote Nelson, Pehl, Mallon et al as great comedians. In that it fails dismally. They come across as complete bores.The comment 'this film should have been on M.S.T.3.K.' appears with increasing monotony on I.M.D.B. message boards, usually posted by people lacking in the wit to say anything original. Another is 'thanks to Mike and the bots for making this terrible film enjoyable'. Well, they certainly did not make enjoyable the films I saw, the exact opposite in fact. During the 'Agent For H.A.R.M.' edition, for instance, the regulars could not find anything amusing to say about it, so one resorted to yelling the middle-eight bars of Monty Norman's 'James Bond' theme at every opportunity. Funny no, irritating yes.Some reviewers have based their strong opinions on the 'M.S.T.3.K.' versions, rather than the originals. Its rather like someone who had never seen a John Hurt movie looking at a photo of him made up as 'The Elephant Man' and trying to guess what he looks like in real life!The choice of films to be 'riffed' is also suspect; which numb-skull selected 'Squirm', 'Phase 4', and 'Danger Diabolik'? Those are very good films! 'Cosmic Princess' and 'Riding With Death' were not films at all, but compilations of television series ( 'Space:1999' and 'The Gemini Man' respectively ). This fact went unmentioned by the cast. Where the hell was 'Plan Nine From Outer Space'? The show has a loyal fan base and like all loyal fan bases, tends to be mindless. One user I was unlucky enough to encounter compared it to the Mona Lisa and The Bible! I hurt my sides laughing when I read that. Probably the first laugh I have got out of this shabby show.Thankfully, it is no longer with us. I hope we never see a revival of 'M.S.T.3.K.' except as an example to future generations how not to make comedy programmes. There is something hypocritical about a bunch of talentless people relentlessly sneering at the work of others.
It was easy to see why this stupid show got canceled. It deserved it! If you don't remember this thing it was the show where a woman trying way too hard to act like Roseanne forced a human mannequin named Mike Nelson and his little puppet friends to watch movies. If you ever wondered why she was making them watch movies it just proves you put more thought into this show than the people behind it ever did. This was easily the most pretentious puppet show in television history. A better title for it would have been Puppets And Poseurs. You may think I'm joking but some people try to act like this show was deep and intellectual. Let's see...puppets...a guy in an ape suit...songs so stupid that even Barney the purple dinosaur would consider it beneath his dignity to sing them. Yep. Sounds deep and intellectual to me! To be fair the pompous airs surrounding this program came from the way Mike and the puppets would make self-consciously "intellectual" remarks that Nelson's more insecure fans like to pretend only they understand. Mike himself was much too stiff and awkward to carry a show. His performance was so bland and lifeless that it made you appreciate how energetic and upbeat the zombies in a George Romero movie are by comparison.You'd think a guy who sits around with puppets and sings incredibly stupid songs would realize he's in no position to make fun of anyone else on the entire planet. That's because you'd be unfamiliar with the Mike Nelson philosophy which seemed to be that if you make a pretentious Shakespeare reference during a bad movie it somehow makes up for how stupid your own show is. I remember Nelson joking about Jim Carrey being lame. I hate to break it to puppet boy but not enough the worst moments of Jim Carrey's admittedly stupid early films were as bad as those brain-dead skits he and his little puppet friends would frolic through.Mary Jo Pehl as the redneck woman was absolutely pitiful. She needs to issue an abject apology for ever pretending she had a shred of talent. Even the way they slanted all the sketches entirely in her character's favor couldn't sponge away the flop sweat she always had on her face. I was about to say the guy in the Grim Reaper outfit seemed to have wandered in from the wrong show but if you consider the fact that he wasn't the least bit funny I guess he was on the right show after all!The funniest thing about this show was how snobbish the people on this show tried to act toward the movies even though their own sorry show sucked even worse than half the films being shown. And just when you thought the show couldn't possibly get any worse they'd start singing! I actually knew someone who liked this show but he was one of those people who don't seem to be into this show for the show's actual content as much as they're into it for the sake of their own feverish Rupert Pupkin fantasies about being writers or performers for this show every time they watch a bad movie on their own. All they talk about is what they think their favorite puppet would have to say about whatever they're watching. With research there is hope for a cure. Whenever I would "riff" on how badly this show sucked he'd freak out but I'd remind him it was just a show and he should really just relax. People were laughing at bad movies long before this Sci Fi Channel turkey came along and they'll be laughing at them long after this thing is forgotten. It's not the great innovation that Mike Nelson's fans seem to think it is. Movie host shows are a very old concept. Sometimes this program showed movies like Prince Of Space or Horror Of Party Beach which are so bad they would make you laugh even without some talentless hacks sitting there desperately trying to sound funny. Other times they would show films that are only bad in spots but Mike would strain to act like they were bad enough to deserve constant ridicule. If you want to see something that really is bad enough to deserve constant ridicule check out the dumb skits and even dumber songs on this incredibly overrated puppet show.


                
I just can't understood why there is so much hype about a terrible, boring, lousy, uninspiring and immature piece of trash like this. It is easily the worst show ever made in the story of television, it is even worse than "Family Guy". Basiccally this show put some morons saying bad things about some obscure B-movies from different ages, and all what they do in all the episodes is keep complaining about how bad those movies were(Wow, I couldn't never figure that for myself!) No, I am not lying: I guess that this pathetic excuse for a show was the inspiration for the internet trolling and a lot of unfunny Internet "comediants"... In other words, this show was responsible for the death of real comedy in the new century. Thanks to "Mystery Science Teather 3000" we had things as the unfunny jokes of Maddox and the Nostalgia Critic, and awful internet sites as Encyclopedia Dramatica. This show is worthless: It should have been canceled after the first episode. It is the worst show ever made.-1000000/10
Mystery Science Theater just plain bites. If you want to heckle a movie then get a movie and heckle it. Don't rely on these idiots to do it - they're just, plain, not funny.Heckling is not a spectator sport. Go ahead and heckle it yourself. And even if it was a spectator sport then get a few friends together and with a half a brain and a few six packs of beer, I'm sure you can do it better than what's on offer here. I'm often amazed that the film companies that made these movies allowed them to be denigrated by this puerile humor.But, if you want real sport, then get one of these old mid-century chestnuts, turn the volume down and try to come up with your own dialog.


                
Dante writing the Inferno today would reserve for the worst fiends a most horrific punishment: watching all this series for eternity. This sophomoric dreck is worse than any of the "bad movies" the series lampoons. This attempt at being campy fails--it is merely bad.Commentators criticizing this trash risk ad hominem attacks from the fans who apparently are omniscient: Animan122 comments: "People who diss the show have limited exposure to it, plain and simple. ...Bryce David (who, by the way only gave "Jaws" a 5/10, Jaws, for god's sake!) ..." Animan122 next ridiculously states his perceived criteria for the series' movie selection: "The reason they didn't do big-budget movies is because it would've cost too much to get the rights to them." The real reason was that they were in public domain and free!Even though I have a high pain threshold' I was only able to watch a few of these, none all the way. I learned of the series as I had wanted a DVD of Corman's "The Undead" (1957), apparently only legal in PAL format from Arkoff Film Library (UK). I'd never heard of Mystery Science Theater, but found a DVD-R of their "Undead(1997)." It was so bad (their additions) I had to buy the PAL version (tho later found a fair quality region-free DVD-R). The Corman film stands on its own; why add sub-juvenile drive-time radio type drivel escapes me. Suitable for a coaster or Frisbee or for insomnia. Thomas J McKeon


                
If you look in the dictionary under the word overrated it says "See Mystery Science Theater 3000". If you look under the word pretentious it says "See Mike Nelson". One of the reasons it was so easy to feel contempt for Mike was the way his own stupid skits sucked a hundred times worse than many of the movies he tried to make fun of. His skits were always about something stupid like destroying planets or the planet of the apes or ancient Rome or whatever. His songs were even worse and really made you wonder why someone didn't sit Nelson down and explain to him that when your own material sucks this badly you're the last person who should be talking about anyone else's creative misfires. Mike played himself on this show and was utterly unconvincing unless of course he really is awkward and wimpy and does nothing but stand around with a vaguely puzzled look on his face. Obviously this won't be one of those reviews that says things like "This show was the crowning triumph of western civilization! My Mom said so!" Since the whole premise of this show was making fun of lame material the viewers couldn't help but notice how overwhelmingly stupid the show itself was in so many ways. The thought of someone like Mike Nelson trying to make fun of anyone else in the world was probably the funniest aspect of this whole show. I guess he felt qualified since after all he was on this show where he skipped around with puppets and sang little pixie songs...and then there was that show he did where he skipped around with puppets and sang little pixie songs...and, uh, did I mention he was on a show where he skipped around with puppets and sang little pixie songs? Wow! What an impressive resume Mumbling Mike Nelson had! Mike and his staff should have stuck with making fun of awful black and white movies from the 50's since even their own atrocious material couldn't help but look good in comparison. Unfortunately they made the mistake of frequently trying to ridicule more recently made movies which no matter how bad were still often superior to the amateurish comedy skits on their own show. Plus Mike often tried making fun of people who still have real careers in the real entertainment industry unlike Mike Nelson who has nothing but a canceled puppet show and a cult following of Harold Lauder/Rupert Pupkin types. And at least the people in those movies hadn't been reduced to working on a puppet show yet. Mike's fans take this stupid show very seriously but not quite as seriously as they take themselves. If you thought Trekkies needed to get a life you should get a load of Nelson's fans. Part of what makes it so funny when this overrated show gets knocked down a few pegs is the way Mike's fans like to get snotty about every other TV show and movie in the world but fall to pieces when someone points out how lame their bland darling was. So much time is spent defending Mumbling Mike from smack-downs I guess the motto of the Mike Nelson fan club is something like "Mike Nelson: He wasn't quite as lame as people say he was" or maybe even "Mike Nelson: At least he wasn't Jim Varney!" Mentioning Varney serves as a reminder that the skits on this stupid show were down on the same level with Varney's movies no matter how much Nelson liked to put on airs that he was doing "cerebral" humor. Throwing in pretentious remarks here and there doesn't really make a show deep. Especially not when the original material is far worse than the movies being ridiculed. And the less said about the stupid songs the better. I defy anyone to try watching this show without fast-forwarding through the bits with either Mike and the puppets or Mary Jo Pehl and the man in the ape suit. The only reason I don't dump on Pehl as much is because I think she might have made a better star for this show than Nelson. It may seem like I'm being a bit harsh on this stupid show but after hearing how good it supposedly was I checked it out and saw that in reality it sucked. So I figured if you live by the "riff" you die by the "riff". And I like to remind people who like it that it was just a show and they should really just relax.
I can't believe anyone could make fun at PHASE IV, one of the best science fiction movies ever made. The DVD for PHASE IV is coming out in June and I can't wait to see this brilliant flick again. Directed by Saul Bass, this seldom seen and under-appreciated sci-fi mini epic is a thinking person's sci-fi, not the bubble gum variety which is mostly what we see today and for it to be included in the same category of films such as SPACE MUTINY or MANOS THE HANDS OF FATE is truly mind boggling.PHASE IV is already difficult to come by and one of the few times people could actually see it was when these idiots trashed it. Shame on them in making fun of it. But then they wouldn't be able to see a great film if it hit them on the head with a 2x4, looking at the lame comedy, cheap sets and awful intro song that make up this lame excuse of a TV show.


                
One thing I will never understand is how such a horrible and unfunny show can have any fans. This is the awful series that instigated the thirty-somethings to sit behind their keyboards all day and mess up the IMDb Bottom 100 chart. In my opinion no movie that appeared on MST3K should be allowed on that list because they are only there because a few people have nothing better to do. As of right now, a quarter of the movies on that list are from this putrid show and I believe all the vote riggers are most likely fans of humorless garbage like this nerd comedy.Please everyone get a life. No one cares about this show or the worthless movies that appeared on it. Of course you may like this show if you think Mr. Bean is good.


                
