This is an example of how many Beavis and Buttheads actually have too much money and power.The idea is the same lame idea that drunks, crack heads, and deadheads have been harping on ever since movies were shown. Their intense hatred makes them hate to see people have a good time, watching great science fiction.So they call the best science fiction movies ever, classics like FIRST SPACESHIP TO VENUS, "bad" movies. End of their credibility, but it doesn't end there. They take the entire golden age of science fiction and let you think you are going to watch the films, but instead, they just keep talking through each film, making comments that make no sense.If they would do this for the stupid science fiction movies of today, like the Terminator series, it might make sense, but it would still just be hateful for those who want to see the movies.It just goes to show which type of people have the most hate in them. Very pathetic. No one wants to hear these talentless, boring drug addicts whine during a movie, whether the movie is good or bad, and there are a few bad ones, but very few.It also proves that Beavis and Butthead were not a myth. I met plenty of them. Their underlying theme is pure hatred, and that's all they want. This trash is purely for psychotic control freaks, period.


                
This is currently rated 8.7 up there with the greatest TV series of all time. Really? Really? I get the premise. Some of the movies are so boring the only way to watch them is by making fun of them. However there are also older Saturday matinée movies aimed at kids in the day. They weren't really meant to be taken seriously. They were just time passers for 10 year old kids. To flog these movies just hits a bad note with me. But the biggest problem I have with this is that I don't find their comments funny.I don't like to ridicule the past. Modern audiences might allow themselves to think they are enlightened but to me if feels too much like making fun of the weakest kid in the class at recess. And that 8.7 out of 10 rating, that is ridiculous. The bar is just so low these days...


                
