Actually this is much easier to write for me, since everybody in the USA seems to know this show, in Germany almost nobody (besides some die-hard b-movie fans) does. So I can start off and tell you that this show is actually not funny at all. And in my opinion, maybe five percent of the joke speak to me. The reasons? Okay, why is it possible for any comedy show to NOT be funny in general? For example if you include too much of "humor" in every part of the show. In MST3K obviously everything wants to come across as funny as possible: The title-song is very funny, the character's costumes are, the character's names are, their pronouncing is, the design of the robot is and the studio is so in the end it is not bearable anymore because everything wants to shout at you: Look how funny we can be, but, ... I think this show's members are very self-righteous, all of their talk is very arrogant and ignorant, especially that's the case with Mike. I don't like this guy, he's definitely not funny, he obviously hates b-movies (at least he tells us all the time). I think Joel is okay up to a certain point but his jokes aren't humorous either. The whole atmosphere of the show is much too much forced to be cool - watch the scientist, watch the robots, watch Miss Forrester, but none of them can convince me of having any talent. What is very disappointing is that we never get to know any information about the movies. Obviously never. This wants to be a show by b-fans for b-fans but it does not provide any information about the actors, about the directors, it just picks on them. And so, the movies that are featured never have the chance not to suck. The movies are treated very unfair, especially in this whole ridiculous atmosphere, the movie just is a target for their childish riffing. Okay, I think that Manos still was the best episode, but I would still consider it at about 4 points, simply because the robots behave too hysterically. By far the worst one I saw was hobgoblins, so in fact the "dialog" between the hosts and the director. This is so childish and stupid, I really feel insulted by this. And of course you will never hear anything that could give you information on the movie, nor the movie will receive criticism by the host, it's only superficial mockery. Yes, superficial, I don't think that the references are too intellectual, nor are they funny. And how the ... can they dare to be talking while there is a dialog going on?? So in my opinion, this show does provide us movies that would be lost forever, and it does provide very few funny jokes and it does also pick on so called educational shorts (e.g. "keeping clean and neat") but in general it is not funny, it is not very creative, those hosts too much behave like clowns so they destroy any atmosphere of trash. Either a bad movie is unintentionally funny all by itself - so they just intercept my fun, or it isn't unintentionally funny - so they are inept of making it a piece of gold. A nice try but a very bad realization. Not recommended. P.S.: Excuse me if I made errors using the English language.Update: Maybe I've taken the show a bit too seriously, although I still think the show should have provided more information. I still don't think it's funny enough to be good and I still criticize it for its too freaky characters, but I can understand why the target audience likes it.
I do not see why people are claiming that this show is great. When I was told about this show, I thought it would be the funniest show ever, because the idea of it is so appealing to me and I love shows where they make fun of things, like the soup, and tosh.o and other stuff like that. But honestly its not funny. One thing that this show flaws in is that its rated PG. Most shows where they fun of something is usually rated PG-13 or TV-14. It's really hard to make a successful show where they fun of something and its rated PG. Second of all, the movies they chose were just not the right type of movies to make fun of. They should have did movies that were more recent like movies from the 80's or 90's. I mean they should of done movies that came out immediately on VHS. But it might just be me and not my kind of comedy. I mean its late 80's and throughout 90's comedy that even though its only 10-20 years away from 2010, comedy back then could have changed.Third and probably the biggest flaw is that the comments themselves. They commented every five seconds, and a lot of them didn't make sense and it wasn't even that funny. And also I'm not sure why but I think it would have been funnier if they were facing you (away from the screen) instead of towards the screen and you see their backs/shadows. What they also should of done is not show them at all when the movie played and every minute or so and not every ten seconds, they pop up and comment. Also they could of done is when they're going to comment is pause the movie and make that noise when you stop and put your hand on a record player and comment. I love this idea. I think they should make a modernized version of this because there are so many screw up movies and bad movies today such as almost every movie on the syfy channel. And if they were to do that, I really, really think they should make it PG-13 or TV-14. And use the concept and techniques they use on the soup because I think it would be a great hit.


                
"Mystery Science Theater 3000" was a very popular show and it even spurred on a few imitators. The formula was thus: a bad film is shown while the three leads make fun of the ineptness of what they are watching. I don't particularly enjoy this....I'd much rather just see the bad films myself and laugh at them without being told to laugh at them. But my problem with the show is that after a while, it appears that the producers had a hard time getting rights to mock bad films and they went after decent ones...films that simply didn't deserve the full "MSTK3000" treatment. "Girl in Gold Boots", "Final Justice", "Revenge of the Creature", "The Mole People", "The Brute Man", "Mitchell" and "The Amazing Colossal Man" are all decent films. "Danger: Diabolik", on the other hand, is an exceptional film...yet all these were torn to shreds on the show. Additionally, until IMDB recently changed its criteria for admission to their infamous Bottom 100 List, a huge number of the films parodied on "MSTK3000" also appeared on the list...and several of the decent ones listed above were included...and truly horrible films didn't get on the list. So, my advice is that if you enjoy the show...by all means watch it. But don't be a mindless zombie and assume all the movies are trash...many are actually enjoyable and the filmmakers and actors DON'T deserve to be maligned by the show.


                
