One of the things I don't understand about people who say mst3k is stupid is why they can't see that it's boxing in our corner against movie stupidity. Granted, TIE was a pretty decent movie, but when Rex Reason's stuck to a magnet-unless he's made of metal-something needs to be addressed.One could ague that the bots are just doing rehearsed versions of what audiences can do spontaniously, but what MST3K does is save the audience the trouble of thinking any up. Then it inspires (us) to do spontanious versions in future features.If this comment confuses anyone, it's because it's intended for the movie version as opposed to TV.In the movie, This Island Earth was the one being MST3K'd & Mike Nelson was in it.I used to think it was Hollywood poking fun at itself. But somebody on the discussion board said it was not made by Hollywood, but from someone in the mid-West who was demonstrating that the viewing public isn't going to swallow everything Hollywood dishes out to it.I liked the part where the scientist told his assistant what he said to himself after 5 cups of coffee. I won't spoil it more than I already have by repeating what the bots said then. I also liked it when they said "What'w this '& the rest' crap!?" when Russel Johnson made his entrance.


                
I only recently came across MST3K , It´s fun ... it really depends on the movie tho and how high you are . I can see why it lasted 10 years


                
MST3K is such a classic show! We've all seen movies and shows that were just so cheesy or bad, and riffed on it, ourselves. It's such a creative idea for a show, that just brings on the belly laughs. I feel that the show really began shining in the 'Mike Nelson years'. Joel was always pretty funny, but not hysterical. Periodically the show would air episodes that weren't quite as good as others, but that was rare. (Maybe if the movie was really, really old!) This used to be my Saturday morning routine, when it aired on Sci-Fi Channel. Those were the good old days. This show will remain a staple, of TV comedy at it's best, for generations to come!


                
