Simple concept, brilliantly executed. Three little shadows aiming poisonous barbs at unintentionally hilarious films, most of them 1950s-era sci-fi and horror turkeys. "I Accuse My Parents," "The Giant Gila Monster," "The Girl In Lovers' Lane," "Teenage Strangler," the list of my personal favorites could go on and on. The shows with Joel Hodgson were especially well-done, and one hopes that we will hear again from this very funny fellow. For unclear reasons, only the recent shows from the sci-fi channel run (the shows from the comedy channel run were far superior) are being re-run. One wishes that one of the myriad of cable and/or satellite channels would re-run the classic shows we know and love. Also, a nice set of DVD releases (unlike the cheap, single show DVDs which have been produced) would be welcomed.


                
MST3K was there way before South Park and Jon Stewart and Comedy Central doesn't even bother to show episodes.It's the little show that could and seems to be forgotten about because of shows like the ones I mentioned.Show MST3K some respect that put Comedy Central on the map,so to speak... At first,when I saw MST3K,I didn't know what to think.."Why are they talking over the movie?"Then,I finally got it and became hooked from there on out!What's great about the riffing,is that not only is it very funny,but you could be watching and thinking to yourself that this actor looks familiar or look at that boom-mike back there or whatever and then,next thing you know,one of them will say it! Making fun of bad movies is something that every one has done,way back to the 50's or 60's(maybe further than that),but MST3K has turned it into an art form. I agree that there were some movies that weren't that bad,but at least they made some really good riffing on them. As far as "This Island Earth",I think the studio picked that one for them to do.There were some really great lines in it,but the movie was a lot better than the ones they were used to on Comedy Central. I'd love to see the show back on the air because I miss spending time with Crow and the rest.Plus,there's a slew of bad movies to mock! Without their riffing,bad movies are more painful than usual..Bring them back!!


                
Mystery Science Theater 3000 (MST3K) is a shoe-string budgeted masterpiece of television history and I've only recently been converted to the community of 'MSTies' myself, but wow is this series a whole lot of fun or what? It makes the worst movies ever made into essential watching thanks to crew on the Satellite of Love and The Mads.MST3K is an American production that has all the low-budget production but pricelessly endearing and golden charm of BBC television shows like Red Dwarf, Doctor Who, Fawlty Towers and so-forth; and it's a science fiction show that uses its space-oriented set-up to tell some truly hilarious jokes (especially in the 'Manos: The Hands of Fate' episode). It's also important to note that much like Star Wars or Star Trek, MST3K has a dedicated fan-base that had a pretty vocal and innovative internet community in the 90s which has helped mold modern fandom into what it is today (for better or worse). MST3K is as essential as other television classics like Seinfeld, Friends, Twin Peaks, The Twilight Zone and The Simpsons. MST3K is television for film-lovers and sci-fi junkies.Give this classic from the '80s and '90s a go; it's great, and it's a great proxy for watching some of cinema's greatest mistakes.


                
This show was made back in the late 80's and ended I think in the late 90's. Considered to be a, if not, one of the greatest cult classics of all time. It's mostly about a guy called Joel Robinson getting sent into space for some reason aboard the satellite of love. He then makes some robot friends Crow, Tom Servo, Cambot, and Gypsy for company and to help him get though really bad movies. Something about Dr. Forester and TV's Frank trying to take over the world with really bad movies and Joel and the bots are the test subjects in it. They've cover a lot of bad movies like the Gamera Trilogy, as well as "Manos, Hands of Fate" which is considered the wost movie ever made. Some of the jokes are a bit dated but you can understand the subtext to them pretty quickly. Later in the series Joel left and this guy Mike Nelson took his place. Joel did make a cameo but Joel was thought of as better than Mike. Since Mike at times tries too hard with the jokes. All in all it was a good movie and most of the cast members now do something called the Cinematic Titanic which I haven't looked up yet but will. Sometimes I wonder if they can still do another MST3K one day even though bad movies now have nudity, bad language, and graphic violence in them now. Reviewers now I think get a lot of inspiration from the MST3K episodes and really liked it. Anyway look at some of the MST3K work when you can, it's a surefire classic.


                
