As a "medical" show you have here a totally fantastic crew and set: the doctors are all good looking (chesty women and young men with good hair (and a nicely maintained Aussie accent)), relatively young people with all their hair on, and a hospital that seems like it was just recently visited by an interior decorator (lots of orange walls, glass, high ceilings), and is located somewhere that's always sunny (enormous amounts of natural light). There are no nurses, etc--instead our good doctors do everything themselves, including spending valuable time trying to take blood or finding a lost patient. Right. As others have pointed out the episodes are severely formulaic. There are two facets to each story: 1. Fixing mystery illness 2. Bickering with each other/ sexual tension/ House's addiction, lack of sentimentality, or the ironic contrast between his skill as a doctor and his lack of empathy. The plots all go this way: 1. Scene with patient becoming ill. 2. Opening theme 3. House and etc arguing rapidly about patient's conditions; House snaps witty remarks but they settle somewhat on a hypothesis. 4. Hypothetical diagnosis wrong, patient is worsening. 5. Another diagnosis with some more doctor/doctor bickering, and some revelation on part of House's character (he still has a heart, he has lots of pain, etc). 6. Diagnosis brings patient near to death, something must be done, but what?! 7. House gets some clue, and sends junior doctor to patient's home or interrogates family member. Family member cries and/or gets angry /something radical found at home. Risky diagnosis discovered by confident House, but could be win all/lose all 8. Patient is cured. End with showing some part of House's personality (addiction, lack of sentiment, inner anguish, etc).The initial exposure to Dr. House's personality as a Sherlock Holmsey type of vicodin-addicted character is amusing. While Holmes was usually cold, House is sardonic, unsocial and bitter, and uses sarcastic humour. He also uses dark humour to deflect his interior character, which is supposed have some pain and some loneliness to give his character interest. However, after the umpteenth acrimonious but witty reply, and the umpteenth little scene showing that he isn't completely unpleasant just gets eyerollingly boring.This is how the majority of episodes play out. Once in a while it's good if you've forgotten how the last episode played out, but I found that watching this show on a regular basis just feels like a huge waste of time.


                
House M.D. had a lot of things going for it: an excellent cast, interesting medical cases, a touch of comedy, etc. These elements allowed this show to be a considerable success.However, with the breakup of the original team at the end of season 3 things started to get worse and worse. House M.D. tragically turned into a soap opera, and whatever interesting medical element it disappeared. The show started to focus on the romantic relationships between House/Cuddy, Chase/Cameron, and Foreman/Thirteen. All of these relationships ended tragically, with the female character eventually leaving the show. By season 8, all of the original female characters were gone, and Kutner had previously committed suicide, so the excellent cast and the interesting medical cases that made the show great were no more. Even the comedic elements of the show disappeared as the show became dark and suppressing.As such, by season 8, House M.D. lost everything that once made it great. For me, the last straw was the departure of Lisa Cuddy and the imprisonment of House. Cuddy was adorable and after his prison sentence, House lost whatever believability he may have still had. Since the show has gone down hill I think season 8 may be it. Hopefully the series producers can still give us a nice finale.
In this show Hugh Laurie plays the most annoying, despicable, uninteresting, hateful, irritating and the ugliest character ever saw in television.I never hated so much a fictional character before: House is easily one of the worst characters ever made, I absolutely hated him. I simply cannot understand why people like so much him.This show is just not that good: Every single episode is the same thing, all the episodes are boring, formulaic and predictable and all end in the same way (House was right, and the others were wrong) This show is a complete waste of time. It is one of the worst shows ever made, along with "Family Guy" and "Mystery Science Teather 3000".
First season was great. Just a simple medical drama without useless threads. Sadly it's been going downhill since 3rd season. Now House M.D. is just another average TV drama for a Sunday evening. The biggest flaw is that Greg isn't now just an ass, he became so unbelievably pathetic and childish.Fortunately there is still Wilson. Their friendship is just so great, probably the best I have ever seen in any series. Just one of a kind. It's all about the interaction.7 out of 10, just because the 1st season was truly amazing and they haven't destroyed House - Wilson friendship.
What kind of movie is this??? It is so absurd that it prompted a guy to write a book explaining why the renowned Demented Diagnostician is more incredible than the Incredibles themselves. Nobody on earth could ever achieve such a semi godlike status acting like him. He wouldn't have survived first year in any college! It's just ridiculous. And that other African-American doctor? Nice guy! He injected his own doctor teammate with a deadly substance to insure that she would do all she could to find a cure for him!!! What does such a nut job show teaches you, or at least adds for your welfare? Nothing; absolutely nothing. The sadness and the lunacy overwhelmingly surpass the funny jokes and the clever diagnosis processes that once made the series watchable.
i hope he dies a slow, sad, tearfully remorseful, and mock-worthy death.and everyone yawns and scratches.the series should have ended when Morrison left--at the latest.and really, cuddy's character was simply absurd.this ran out of interest by season 4, but like a bad stock investment, you keep hoping it will recover.the last years have been *sooo* dishonest. there is simply nothing to admire, and certainly not wit, ethics or courage.


                
The last two seasons have been excruciatingly boring and lame. We get it - House's path from a borderline lunatic/genius to a mediocre nobody with a sill prominent talent for medicine is complete; once again, TV has taught us the value of being a mediocre imbecile, not holding your head too high and not rocking the boat. Everything the show used to promise id dead and rotting. This has become worse than One Flew over the Cuckoo's Nest; House's lobotomy turned him into a flowery daddy to Cuddy's dimwitted child, and everyone is dumb, happy and smiling. At least Cuckoo's Nest didn't try to pontificate about the virtue and value of being a lobotomized zombie and a servant to society as House does. Terrible in every aspect, not the least Lauries' robotic, uninspired acting that used to pass unnoticed when there as a story to hide behind and good actors to cover for him. The show basically died when Jennifer Morrison left and just went on downhill from there. The most hilarious moment: House, allegedly an educated and eloquent guy posts a note THE GAME IS A ITCHY FOOT' and, in all his "intelligence", does not know it's "AN itchy foot." Trust a dumb Brit to pretend to be a doctor.


                
House is one of the great shows on TV, I love it and never miss an episode. HOWEVER......the latest season has not started off too well and I thought last night (Risky Business) was just awful! We tolerated the prison episodes but now we are back in the hospital setting and expect the usual standard of story/characters and acting. But we are not getting it. How can Hugh Laurie be expected to act with someone as inexperienced as Ms Yi (Dr. Park), I'm sorry guys but she cannot act, I felt so sorry for her and winced every time she had a line to say. If you want a smart, young little cutie pie why did you fire the previous one? I think her name was Ms. Tamblyn - she was very good. As for not bringing back Cuddy, 13, Taub, Jessie, that was stupid, stupid, stupid. Pay them the money they want, they were worth it - and you are making it.


                
I don't get it. I just don't get it. I really don't see as to why this show is so popular. I've watched this show several times and it's the exact same each week! Here's what happens in every episode.... Someone comes in with some disease and they don't know what it is, and after much testing the doctors, all except for House, believe said person has some horrible, rare form of cancer. House however, always seems to think otherwise, and believes this person has, for some reason, inhaled anthrax. No one ever believes him though. So the majority of the show is just House bickering with the other doctors over what is wrong with this person who is on their deathbed. No one can ever seem to come to an agreement until the person is about to die, then they all come to the conclusion that the sick person has, in fact, inhaled anthrax all along, but it inhaling anthrax causes cancer-like symptoms, and that is why the other doctors believed it was cancer. Then, with just about 10 minutes before the anthrax-infected person is going to kick the bucket, they treat the person and all is well. Whew! Just in the knick of time! And to top it all off, there is always some hidden family secret as to why this person has inhaled anthrax, which leads to arrests or whatever. It's stupid, and the same every time, just with a different disease inserted in each episode. And what's with Dr. House? I've never seen such an eccentric, un-lovable character such as House. I hate shows where you can't like the character.This show is redundant, trite, and not to mention boring.You've seen one, you've seen them all. Spare yourself.
I cannot believe that some reviewers claiming to be medical doctors have praised this series. In just two episodes I have seen an exploratory laparotomy done for no reason at all, acute intermittent porphyria diagnosed by intramuscular injection of toxins (FOLLOWED by examination of the urine!), junior medical staff being sent to illegally search a patient's house and doing a CAT scan themselves ("wait, go back a bit - what was that?") ... all right, it's fiction, but in a medical drama we have the right to expect at least a little credibility.Hugh Laurie was excellent as a couple of bumbling dimwits in two series of Black Adder, but that seems to be the only character he can play. His acting in House is utterly unconvincing and limited to icy snarls and snide wisecracks. Is the USA really so short of actors that they had to import Laurie to play this role? Of course, it could be that every self-respecting American actor turned it down, and who would blame them.
The character House was great! But the characters around him were constantly ridiculing him about being selfish and hateful, When they were nothing but selfish and hateful! Basically always trying to find any excuse to take the moral high ground against him without pointing out their own faults. Yet the whole time House did nothing but mostly unselfish things like saving people's lives. And the ending of the series was horrible! Cuddy was nothing but a very vindictive person, She always has high moral opinions of others, But never any opinions of herself. To be honest she would be a nightmare to be with. You can't just walk around claiming you have better moral judgment than anyone else, And then automatically be considered a great person. The real world just does not work that way. And people like that are the biggest frauds in the world. So to be honest she is lucky she only had a car go through her house. So to see a person like House letting himself get dragged down by all these fake people, Well it is just too much to swallow! And a person like House would have never even been with a idiot like Cuddy in real life! And he would have left those twilight zone people in that twilight zone hospital a long time ago! So you can tell the writers ran out of brain cells the last six seasons. They should have ended the series after season two. The show was like a nightmare soap opera for trailer trash after season two.


                
You yanks really can cope with such a fake accent and corny , cheesy lines. WOW, no wonder you can vote for G Bush and live with it. You should know Hugh Laurie is no more than half of a comedy pair in the UK. I really don't understand how he scored with a US TV series. But really you guys are more then welcome to keep him.I know over there you have one of the worlds worst medical administrations resulting in the worlds worst health care. So I ponder on the possibility that this series is an attempt to boost the bad reputation of the American medical system.Indeed, it seems like Hollywood is running out of ideas, Scrubs, Doogy Howser and all the never ending dramas about Accident and emergency or the "Law". Seems they know how to keep you guys just amused enough to keep watching those adverts between the breaks and the propaganda during the news. I imagine thats the main purpose of these long running soaps.


                
I guess my opinion won't be very popular, but I don't care. I am here to say what I think of House and I think it's bad. The structure is absolutely boring, somebody has something bad happening to them, then he gets to this (in)famous clinic, where the main doctor is an absolute pain in the bottom, treats his patients like rubbish, but, no, then he is actually a good guy, because he helps them. Don't forget to add some tense music when a patient is having sudden 'unexpected' problems, and by the third episode you watch it, you get bored stiff, as there is nothing happening, just House having some 'profound' thoughts and him figuring out something unexpectedly along with some rubbish talk here and there between the personnel.
I think House is a jerk. Not like a jerk who turns to be a nice person eventually, I mean an actual jerk.With all this said, it then basically becomes a place where everyone gets to have sexual intercourse, because why not, we're doctors, and our lives are tough with patients dying, having seizures, barfing, etc, so we have to mingle together to get that stress away. The ways the series tries to deliver 'profound' messages are abject, and just leaves you confused with question such as 'What?' or 'Why?', and has you ask yourself a question: 'Why do I bother watching this?' or 'Why am I trying to find something good in this?'There is not a single character who can be liked or related to, because everyone, and I mean everyone is a jerk. Sometimes, they mix it up a bit with the story, and sometimes, somebody actually dies, yet still, it's manipulative rubbish that is not to be seen by anyone with a brain and some decency.If you disagree, that's okay. It just means that each one of us truly is different. If you liked or loved it, that's fine, good for you! But I hate this thing for the reasons mentioned above.
As a Diabetic of 33 years experience I must say this was a great way to ruin a usually semi informative show. If a Diabetic learns 1 thing that gets drilled into your head it is this: If you put insulin into a vein it has a huge chance (somewhere around 99%) of killing you. This is because the insulin entering the heart causes the heart to go into low blood sugar shock which causes the muscle to run out of energy. Now I know the facts of most of the show is fairly loosely based on reality but 1 semi educated Diabetic could have told them that the forearm is a dangerous spot to inject insulin. Use the stomach or leg instead... but wait they can't do that, House would never take down his pants... RIGHT??? This uneducated move causes me to consider not watching the show anymore... 10% of America and Canada has Diabetes and of those 10% develop insulin dependent Diabetes as a kid. that means they have just insulted 1% of the population and that doesn't include insulin dependent Diabetics that had adult onset.. on a rough guess 10-20% of adult onset diabetics.
This is one of those shows that you could watch one and know the entire story. Hugh Laurie is awful in this (and he is actually English- not American). Usually it's along these lines; someone will come in with a mystery illness and house's staff will try to diagnose it. Then house will say something like "no it's not cancer, you've got a severe case of Influenza (while the whole time his staff will conflict his opinion). But in the end, after usually almost killing them, house is right. This show will go off the air eventually, and fade from everyone's memory. The cop show phase is dying, this will too, but in the end everyone has their opinion.
Any Series that forces Pro-Abortion attitudes into peoples homes in the guise of entertainment is NOT entertainment. It doesn't matter how it is packaged up, when the messages are so very obviously biased and without genuine merit, WITHOUT demonstrating the other side of the argument (and in fact belittling the argument against killing millions of children every year, when in fact the default position of any rational, sane human being should be to protect life at all costs)this program is no longer entertainment and is in fact propaganda.Writers and producers need to learn that not everyone is as easily fooled and are not as willing to be force-fed something we are vehemently opposed to! For this reason, the franchise is not acceptable to a significant proportion of the population and is not acceptable to me.


                
As a drama I rate it as a 4. As a informational series I rate it a 6.BUT! Dr House is a good Doctor because the character cares for the patients. He is a good doctor because he takes drugs. He's a good doctor because he solves the problems he doesn't really want to deal with. He's a good doctor because he bucks authority. He's a good doctor because the nurses respect him, his staff respects him. No, this is just a typical hospital story set in some land where doctors only care about making themselves look good in their own eyes.If the TV networks think they have created a true representation of the medical community in which there was a doctor like this one he would be on the street or better yet in jail, wasting their life telling everyone how good he was. Would someone really want to be treated by someone taking drugs to reduce their personal pain, not caring about the one thing they have promised to do. Would you want to trust someone who takes drugs on film for a living. Yes, that is what the networks think we want to see. The TV network wants us to think this is somehow real.I would rather be treated by Marcus Welby from the 1970's with no advanced technology than by a truly uncaring and totally disconnected person. I lost my father to a physican who felt that technology was better than feelings and carings. A physican that did not listen to my father. Maybe this will help someone else deal with their loss, but this is a Television medical show is turly lacking in any type of moral responisibily. I myself was mistreated for a condition by a doctor who did not want to take the time to perform any tests because of HMO issues.I do understand that the actor portraying Dr. House is well paid (in excess of $50,000 per episode) to act in this manner and this is not a reflection on his moral standards, but it is a reflection on what he is willing to do for money. I would just like for the TV show to end in a real manner, with Dr. House and the entire staff being arrested and put in jail for life for the loss of their patients. That would truly be a fitting end to this series.Sometimes, actors get more involved in their parts than they wish.


                
House, was once my favorite show. Great storyline and characters that you care about now. But no more after Season 7. House was a likable character because even though he *acts* like a jerk, his motives were pure in the pass. Not in Season 7, he was just a jerk. But the problem with the show started in Season 4 when David Shore and company did not remove the 3 original ducklings (Chase, Foreman and Cameron) while attempting to bring in new people. This was a bad move, you either keep the original people or cut them lose *quickly* so viewers can start developing an interest and connections to the new characters. (the new duckling) Instead, it became a "tug of war". This show used to be a 10, now it is not even worth a 1. Needless to say, I won't be tuning in anymore.


                
