If you ever have time check out the reviews of this show from 2004 (the beginning) to now (2011) and it's quite amusing. The show started with rave reviews from people and critics alike. For the reasons that a - Hugh Laurie is a good actor and I still feel this way b - the show had a very different and original take on the medical show (not sunshine and rainbows) and c - the writing tended to be pretty good and not overly predictable. Well when a show enters its 7th or 8th year it becomes hard to be fresh and not predictable. And sadly I feel like this is a show that more or less went the "if it ain't broke don't fix it" way. Basically the shows premise is the same every episode, weird sickness, misdiagnosed by experts aside from House, person becomes more gravely ill, sometimes dies or close to dying than usually miraculously saved by the misunderstood genius, House. I would say 90 percent of the episodes follow that methodology. Which becomes extremely taxing after say oh, maybe a season or so. That being said I also find it very unrealistic as a medical show. I say this in direct contrast to others because so many feel it shows the dark side of medicine in some ways. And in that sense I suppose I mildly agree. But this whole BS of a doctor who breaks all the rules is bogus. People like it cause its fun to watch not because it could ever happen. Almost everyone of the scenarios would have him out of a practice or losing his license. I don't say this to ruin people's party I say this because it kind of ruins the show in ways. I think writers need to find a better balance of real and fiction. A perfect example is Aaron Sorkin. He may write a bit overly brainy or pretentious but at least it straddles the line between reality and fiction quite well. All and all this show has run the course that many have, completely different, people love it, show realizes its a hit and doesn't change, people become tired of it and move on. Honestly I'm surprised its still on. It is hardly talked about in the media or by critics anymore. Apparently it has quite the large blind following that are willing to still give it their time. I can't wait for it to end because once it does supposedly Hugh Laurie will be giving attention to developing his book, Gun Seller, into a movie, and finishing his second. I like Hugh Laurie a lot and he is a great writer but I feel this show is quite a bit beneath him. Although if I were offered millions to do something that by this time had gotten almost second nature I have a feeling I'd do it too.


                
This is truly a show designed to be interesting for only 3 or 4 years. I can easily see it being no.1 throughout a 4 year period. It is so predictable. There will be someone dying of something rare and house will either fix them or they die. The sidekicks will make a list of things it might be, eliminate certain things and occasionally break into their house to find other clues of what could be wrong. The ground work is laid out the same on every show. It has gone from brilliant to repetitious and stupid. Some new twist could give it a couple more years, such as house reaching rock bottom with his pill addiction, lose his job and become homeless while still somehow saving lives. Stretch that out for at least a season with a whole lot of different adventure. This might hit it big and last a few more years? How much more can we stand of seeing one show be almost exactly like the next. It needs to be changed up or dumped. Don't get me wrong I think Hugh Laurie is an excellent actor but the show is in trouble. I would have giving this show a 9 in the early years but it doesn't rate watching during the last several years. So I take into consideration that it was once a good show so I will go higher than a 1 but only up to a 3.
I'm not really an avid TV viewer like I use to be and the shows I use to watch were popular 10 years ago. House is a show I've watch a couple of times and at the end of every episode I really don't see the big appeal. Its a medical drama no different from ER, but ER seemed more realistic then House. Now lets talk about the character House: He is a brilliant doctor that doesn't seem to like anybody and yet somewhat still helps people but pisses them off at the end cuz he doesn't want to get emotionally attached. This character is boring and annoying and if he were my doctor, I don't care if he does have a cure for my problems, I'd beat him up for being a jerk. Not to mention the means he uses to solve the case doesn't seem reasonable for a guy who can care less if you crashed your plane into the sea or got shot the next day. He contradicts himself too much and complains a lot about his stupid leg problem and the fact that he's always alone. I have a solution to his loneliness problem; how about being more nice to people? The supporting characters don't seem to have a spine in their body when confronting house and why does the boss keep him around? There are plenty more doctors that can do his job, probably a lot better. The patient cases are interesting but its always the same thing; they convulse and collapse and then convulse again, at the hospital they look fine then convulse again. House finds out the problem and insults them at the end. I'm not a big people person myself but come on! The show is repetitive and House seems like a pathetic person who should've shot himself a long time ago.ANother problem is the diseases out there. There isn't a lot of cures out there, especially for sexually transmitted diseases and they talk about patients who get their medical problems by some mere chance of irony that represents their lifestyles that got them the disease in the first place. So its the patients fault for being sick. This is every episode in the show!! Thats why its repetitive! WIthout further a saying, I think the show needs more interesting characters and have house try to understand the errors of his way cause, this guy is lame to me. He can find out that your allergic to metal by just looking at the house keys you scratch your head with everyday but can't find a cure for cancer. I can't wait for this boring series to end.


                
characters are interesting but watching House be an ahole and popping pills every ten minutes is asinine. No Dr. in any hospital would get away with any of his behavior. That part is so over the top ABSURD as it gets. Plot-- wrong diagnosis, wrong diagnosis, wrong diagnosis, wrong diagnosis. patient cured. Shows can be entertaining but it's unbelievable. He would have been beaten to death by a patient or relative for his inappropriate behavior towards children, patients, staff. judges and the human race in general.


                
