I started watching "House" recently on USA Network, just to see what all the hub-bub was about, because so many people were saying what a great show it is and how much they love Hugh Laurie and yada yada yada.I must be missing something all these other people are seeing because I can't stand the show and I can't stand Hugh Laurie.As for the show, it has an even more formulaic outline than "Law & Order". We see the patient falling victim to some strange malady in the first three minutes, the team spends fifteen minutes trying to figure out how to treat whatever it is that's affecting the person, by the half-way point you can be sure you'll see at least one heart failure, the person comes this close to dying by the 45-minute mark, and then voila! House has an epiphany and snatches the person from the grips of the Angel of Death and the patient is all fine and dandy, even though he was on dialysis yesterday and his liver stopped working two days ago.In between all the doses of Interferon and all the discussions of which "-osis" or "-itis" the patient might have, we're given glimpses of the personal side of the team: their sex lives, their friends, and the way Dr. House chooses -- or should I say refuses -- to interact with the rest of humanity.The rest of the diagnostic team and other hospital employees are one-dimensional characters. Foreman walks around with a chip on his shoulder and thinks he's better than the others, including his boss, and feels he's being held back, but it's unclear whether he thinks it's because of his race or just that his skills aren't being fully recognized.Chase pouts a lot; not because he's unhappy necessarily but because he thinks he looks cute when he pouts. Cameron wishes she could save the world, and more importantly, save House from himself, but is either unwilling or unable to act on any of her feelings.Dr. Wilson puts up with a lot of stuff from his "best friend"; either he has the patience of a saint or he secretly enjoys being constantly manipulated, humiliated and embarrassed. Chief of Staff Cuddy comes to work in attire that's more suited to a cocktail party than an administrative job and also seems to enjoy being manipulated by the Great Doctor House. You'd think both of these people would avoid any contact with someone who so obviously takes pleasure in seeing them squirm, yet they seek him out and beg for more.With regards to the patients, outside of immediate family members they never get any visitors, nobody ever calls them, they don't get flowers, and after they get into the hospital bed they become nothing more than a prop for the rest of the cast to play off. When they go into cardiac arrest the visitors they do have stay in the room, wringing their hands, asking stupid questions, and just generally getting in the way while the doctors bring out the paddles.As for Mr. Laurie, his voice has no inflection whatsoever and he puts me to sleep with his constant growly drone. Maybe if they let him use his natural British accent he could find some tonal changes to break the monotony. His character's cynicism towards life and disrespect towards everyone gets annoying and tiresome after two or three shows, and I find myself becoming distracted by his disheveled appearance and wondering how a man can maintain a three-day growth of beard every single day, and why a hospital wouldn't force him to at least wear clean clothes if he's in contact with critically-ill people all the time.Maybe I'm just too old and cynical myself, but if I ever get sick, please, please don't send me to Princeton-Plainsboro Hospital.
I have never EVER taken the time to write a comment on ant website before. However, after reading some of the comments on here I was compelled to break my silence.First of all let me start off by saying that this television show is, in fact, a television show. Nowhere does it say that the series is based on true events or that the characters are real. It is make-believe. Actors playing characters. So comments such as "thank God your doctors are better than these jokers", or "Dr House is a good Doctor because the character cares for the patients. He is a good doctor because he takes drugs. He's a good doctor because he solves the problems he doesn't really want to deal with. He's a good doctor because he bucks authority. He's a good doctor because the nurses respect him, his staff respects him. No, this is just a typical hospital story set in some land where doctors only care about making themselves look good in their own eyes," only make me laugh. It is set in 'some land'<U+0085>..'some land' called Hollywood. With characters portrayed by ACTORS. To complain that House's bed-side manner is non-existent, is an empty complaint.The second most common complaint about this show is that "He says inappropriate things constantly, he wears his wizened cynicism as a badge of his brilliance (he knows more than we)" or "A highly unlikable, loathsome, unkempt, Vicodin addicted doctor spends the duration of the broadcast arguing, making smart-ass cracks, and smarmy contradicting & disrespecting his fellow co workers, residents, interns and the families of the sick." If I remember correctly there was a TV show that was doing that well before House and that show went on to air 251 episodes over a 10 year run <U+0096> M*A*S*H. Hawkeye Pierce constantly bucked authority, forged weekend passes, pulled as many substance induced ER sessions and thumbed his nose at authority long before Dr. House. I know people are going to say well that was a comedy, House is a drama. I would have to say that House is more of a Dramedy. I might get more laughs out of Dr. Gregory house than I ever did from Hawkeye. Having said this both characters would have done anything to save a patient, albeit by different means, but neither one were fans of the Grim Reaper.The other complaint is the show's formula. "As for the show, it has an even more formulaic outline than Law & Order". With it's somewhat predictable patient story lines and outcomes. Isn't that what everyone really wants? Some sort of predictability? The first thing that comes to mind (and I know I am now comparing TV to cinema) are the Rocky movies. Everyone knew what was going to happen. It was the ultimate in predictability, yet everyone flocked to the theaters to see it <U+0096> myself included. This show would have no premise if he all of his patients died. He would just be a grumpy, drug-addicted doctor who killed his patients. Fun show! People need to realize that when they sit down in front of the TV at night unless they are informed otherwise, that what they are viewing is fictitious. Fictional characters, fictional locations and fictional circumstances. You watch TV to be entertained the same as when you plop down 10 dollars to see a movie.When people who haven't watched this series ask me to describe it, I usually tell them it's like Archie Bunker (another show with a cantankerous lead with a big mouth) being your Doctor. Not everyone liked Archie Bunker. Maybe it was because he was a bigot, maybe it was because he was outspoken, maybe it was because they don't find that kind of humor funny or maybe you just don't like Carol O'Connor, but it shouldn't be because you've mistaken fiction from non-fiction.


                
This past August, I began watching old episodes of House. I had avoided it because my wife & I are usually quite picky about what we watch. My wife had seen some past episodes from a 1st season DVD that someone had brought to her work. So, I figured I would check it out.I found myself intrigued by the cases and amused with the lead character, Dr. Greg House. He seemed to have a personality only a mother could love, with much effort. However, my wife was fairly bemused as it appeared that I was starting to get hooked.That is until the episode Thirteen. I guess it had to happen. There was a hole in the character quota. After all, they had the rascally curmudgeon (House), the loyal sidekick/friend (Wilson), the former ghetto child with a chip on his shoulder and brilliant in his field, a gorgeous team member who tried to rise above the fray, a good looking Aussie with an accent that the girls love, and a witchy boss, giving them a powerful woman character. Wait a minute! They missed one. Where is the resident and requisite female or male homosexual? How could we have missed that all these years? Well, that problem has now been "solved". They've just made Thirteen a lesbian/bisexual, and a slutty one at that, according to the Oct 21st episode.It was bad enough when they had the lesbian "couple" who lost "their" baby during the newborn epidemic. Now, we have to be subjected to a recurring character in this role.The problem is, up to this point, House has been an excellent, if somewhat flawed, series. I think that Hugh Laurie is brilliant as House. The Wilson character is the perfect foil/best friend. However, all this is not enough to overcome this new development with Thirteen (I know they probably addressed this about her before, but I most likely missed that episode).It is too bad. I was really getting to like this show.
I don't believe how no one notices that black patients are tortured either "accidentally" or because there's "no other choice". Most recently a kid.On a general note, the writers are trying to inject drama into every second making the show lose any feeling of naturalness or flow. It would seem the show producers think very little of the audience's intelligence or ability to spot subtle racism.Also, the initial diagnoses are deliberately wrong simply for the sake of drama. Who cares about the patient, right? How any real physician can stand this show is beyond me.
