Normally when I watch a series, I mildly enjoy it and wander through the series mindlessly, particularly with sitcoms. On very rare occasions, a show will pop up that I enjoy the main actor so much I follow him around for a couple years. This happened with House. Hugh Laurie plays the part so perfectly and does this incredible thing where you absolutely hate him and love him at the same time. You want him to be happy, but you also can't help but feel like he deserves some of the things he goes through. The thing that impressed me the most about House is the fact that House stays House from the first episode of season one to the last one of season eight. His personality doesn't waiver for one second, and that's a feat in and of itself. While all of the medical jargon wasn't necessarily accurate and they had a habit of people coughing up blood in almost every episode, I did find it far more fascinating than any of the crime dramas that pop up. That might just be my personal opinion. It did get old the last couple of seasons though. "It's lupus!" Probably the best part of the whole show was House and Wilson's relationship. All of my favorite moments surround their crazy shenanigans. Like the chickens. Ah, the chickens... The worst part is when it's over. You are depressed for a few days. You know a show is good when it does that to you. I wholeheartedly recommend you go watch House.


                
"Everybody Lies." Gregory House is a cynical, narcissistic doctor who lives his life in a hole. His character is hysterical, annoying, and sometimes a little far-fetched. At times, one is to wonder why House has not been fired from Princeton Plainsboro Hospital where he is employed, because of his outrageous comments and actions. On the flip-side, one is also to wonder why, since he is so brilliant and within the last 10 minutes of every episode manages to pull out a correct diagnosis just before the patient flatlines, his medical team and the Dean of Medicine still doubt him. We see Dr. Cuddy (Dean of Medicine) deny him several times, doubting his diagnosis, as well as the team.However, these little itchings are hardly enough to scratch the show. The show is honest in almost every aspect, covering alienation, depression, and the peak of human emotion. The medical side of the show is always correct as well, with an interesting twist. Both the medical terminology as well as the physical symptoms and the diagnosis are always spot on, yet still manage to be reachable and understandable by the average American fan.It's intensity reaches a perfect peak, never going too far. There are risky moments, but this is the same with every show. In certain touchy areas, the writers for House MD have managed to keep Gregory House in the character of his outrageous self, yet cut off the edge a little so as to avoid controversy.House MD has earned the diagnosis of a perfect television series, sure to last a long time, with a great cast, and a great plot line.One needs no medical degree to see that this show is a hit!


                
This show cannot be compared to E.R. which is frivolous and trite. House is more thought provoking and in-depth with the real aspect of medicine, showing that you don't just get to yell and scream out a bunch of acronyms in an E. D. and "Tadah" either save, kill or run them up to the O. R. (as is such silliness in E.R.)... I give House an 8, just due to some outrageousness such as a known opiate addicted doctor would obviously be suspended and have had to go to rehab or more likely had their license revoked (plus criminal charges as well, blah blah blah..). Also sometimes the outcome is Too Grande to be true 'YET it is a TV series so can't be all too real all the time. To compare with E.R. is just silly due to the painfully over ran series and the soap-ish nature. Well, House M.D. is just a much better and "thought provoking" series; The writers do not bore (compared to ER) with tedious who's doing who and the most OUTLANDISH soap crap to ever to be called a serious drama, I will say the first few ER years were not as bad and quite entraining.


                
I am on my third name here, so it is time to update some reviews, HOUSE being one of them. The show is about a brilliant Sherlock Holmes-type diagnostician who flaunts convention and constantly gets himself in all sorts of pickles, including being shot. He saves many more patients than he loses, so the hospital (set in Princeton, N.J.) keeps him on. He works with a team of similarly brilliant doctors, each of whom has a specialty. Huge Laurie, a Brit little known in the states, plays House so well, you'd swear there must be a House in real life. Well, I come from a medical family and worked in a hospital years ago, and never met anyone quite like him. But who's to say? The show unfortunately jumped the shark a couple of seasons back, with a really bad and seemingly unending story arc involving a vengeful cop (David Morse) out to take House down. Since then, the show has slowly fought its way back. Lately, it has been more of a soap opera than medical drama. We'll have to see where it goes from here. Don;t want another ER, if you get my drift. Great supporting cast, perhaps most notably Lisa Edelstein as House's boss and foil. A bit bloody at times, but hey, it's a hospital!


                
I've absolutely loved watching this show. Instead of rehashing what everyone else has said (about Hugh Laurie's great performance and interesting character, blah blah blah) I'd like to say what to expect from EVERY SINGLE EPISODE.Someone, usually the first person to actually say something, passes out, starts bleeding, vomits, or does something else extremely dramatic and gets taken to the hospital. Then, someone convinces House to take on the case because something is weird about it. (A 10-year-old had a heart attack! What??) You spend most of the rest of the show watching everyone try to figure out what's going on and they do EVERYTHING wrong and nearly kill the patient several times. Then, suddenly, House or someone else randomly notices some detail and put all the pieces together and - voilà! - the patient is cured.And some how, episode after episode, you can't tear your eyes away from the screen. It's a mystery. What did he do wrong? What's really wrong? Who lied, and how did they lie? How is he going to figure this one out?! I MUST KNOW!! And then there is all of this great character development that makes you love (or hate) every character in the show. It's a blast.


                
Reasons why House should suck: 1) realism is tossed out the window for the sake of furthering the drama. Hospital with glass doors & walls? Not so good if you have people in hospital gowns or patients who expect to have a bed pan changed in private. Four doctors assigned to a single patient and they sometimes appear to work 16 hours a day on the case? Yeah right. That alone makes the show more of a fantasy than Lord of the Rings. Diseases kill the patients w/in 36 hours. Convenient. All diseases progress from symptom to symptom over the course of minutes and hours rather than weeks or months. Half the time the medicine that treats disease X kills people that have disease Y. Doctors risk felony charges and losing their medical licenses on a weekly basis by breaking and entering into patient's houses. 2) Same plot every week. House & his team come up with 3 diagnoses. The first two are wrong and the 2nd treatment nearly kills the patient. The 3rd diagnosis is correct, the treatment is incredibly risky, and yet it works and the patient lives. 3) Gregory House is a miserable bastard and treats most of the people around him in a lousy fashion. OK, all that said, I give the show 8 out of 10. The fact that the show has all that going against it AND it is a joy to watch tells you about quality of acting, scripts, and directing.


                
We don't get this on free to air where I live but I've just watched the first series on DVD. Fantastic television. Hugh Laurie is superb. The comedy from Black Adder and other English works makes this work well. Odd listening to his American accent. I noticed some factual errors which surprised me because generally the accuracy is acceptable. Toxoplasma gondii isn't a fungus, it's a parasite. Some of the time sequences are unrealistic and the through that the three young fellows would know how to run all the pathology tests beggars belief. The rest of the cast is great. It's nice to see that political correctness is lampooned at every opportunity. I can't wait to buy the rest of the DVD when they are released.


                
House's sarcasm and uncaring dogmatism are a relief from the drama of prevalent TV shows today. House's character is on the mean side, uncaring, always truthful, and almost always right. Other characters balance out his character with realism, positivism, and questioning House's decisions. Although show has same basic predictable elements (he's got to solve it in one hour), the path to the solution is unexpected and entertaining.The characters and the show in general are more believable than normal TV shows, with very few fluffy, useless words/conversations. Most of the show is productive in getting to a solution and gives the watcher the impression that things are always getting done. There is minimal drama between characters as the majority of the show is dedicated to finding out that patient's specific disease, and the character interaction that does occur usually stems from the problem at hand.


                
This used to be one of my favorite series. House being the screwed up doctor, who is struggling with life and himself, addicted, in pain, but brilliant. This made him a very interesting character. This reached the peak in the end of season 5, where he goes insane in a 'cool' way and ends up in a mental institution. The series went very grim that season, and ended up even more grim and catching, almost striking. It feels like the natural consequence of how he lives and handles his emotions, feeding it back to the reason why we 'normal' people live our lives as we do.That is where the series should have stopped. Because after that, House simply gets better (although the episodes playing inside the institution are still quite good). During season 6, House is still quite the same but without the vicodin, but when he grows into a relationship with Cuddy in season 7, he basically becomes normal. Just a normal doctor, who is happy, has no problems, and is good at his job.How do the writers expect me to find that normal doctor interesting? All that happens now are things that have been happening on side-tracks the whole series, the same jokes. The talks with Wilson that used to be serious and confronting and funny are now about Cuddy's child and and they added some little 'brilliant' girl that does nothing but talk about morality, to a very childish and annoyingly overdone level.As I said, this used to be my favorite series, but I don't think I'm going to watch another episode. House has lost it.
Both entertaining and poignant, House is definitely a show worth watching.When one first watches this show it may seem House is nothing more than a severely twisted and sarcastic pill-popping doctor who does nothing more than argue with his interns. However, a closer look at the show reveals thought-out character development, as well as an examination of human nature and philosophy. Besides the deep and emotional side of the story, my other favorite reason for watching this show - Hugh Laurie (Dr. House). A great actor, and possibly the only one who could pull off a character such as House.However, I did rate this series as an 8/10. The reason? : Seasons 1&2 were by far the best, containing meaningful developments in character and truthful commentaries (which make up for the mediocre acting of House's interns and the House&Stacy moments). After the early episodes of season 3, the show began to slide. The once deep show has been reduced to repetitive cases,awkward character interactions, and simple situation driven plots lacking the once character development oriented episodes of seasons1&2.In order to fully enjoy this series, one must put aside his initial impressions of House as a manic and a druggie and rewatch the episodes once or twice in order to acquire the nuances wrapped into the show.Still, House remains a show that should not be missed! (especially seasons 1&2)


                
I've got one big complaint about HOUSE that I must mention. I work in the medical field and one thing is glaringly missing from this otherwise excellent series: ancillary staff. Where are the nurses, radiologists, and lab techs? Trust me, doctors DO NOT start their own IVs on patients, or run the CT machine, or draw blood, or process viral cultures. If they attempted to do all of this, there would be zero time spent on patient care.Hmpf! Okay, I've got that off my chest.Gregory House (Hugh Laurie) is who this series is about. He's a doc with a keen sense for disease. And he's also damaged goods. Years before the series even begins (and as the story progresses) we learn why Doctor House hobbles around on a cane. One of his thigh muscles infarcted (died) due to ischemia (blood and oxygen deprivation) thus killing off a lot of muscle tissue. This has hardened him as well as causing a lot of pain, which he quells by popping Vicodin as if they were M & Ms.The head of the hospital where he works (Dr. Cuddy played by Lisa Edelstein) forces Houseto work in the hospital clinic; something he loathes ("Oh look! A runny nose. How exciting!") Obviously House feels this is beneath his skills as a disease specialist and this is very insightful into his character. Not only does it show the audience his uppity attitude but it also shows his amazing diagnostic abilities. He figures out pregnancies, sexually transmitted diseases, niacin toxicity, and even paranoid delusions in the blink of the proverbial medical eye. This might sound as if it would come off as completely ridiculous, but the writers of this show have given Doctor House such an excellent persona that it comes off being completely believable.Although I had problems with the glaring omission of ancillary staff, the producers of House made such a screwed up character with remarkable brainpower that I found myself completely engaged in the series. And although there are several holes in how things "really happen" in hospitals, I found myself sitting on the edge of my seat, waiting to see what barbed comments doctor House would throw out next at the clinic, at his staff, or at the hospital administrator ("I don't have a pain management problem. I have pain issues. Or maybe I do have pain management problems but I'm just too stoned not to realize it" or "She just ran six miles for the first time in years and her legs hurt. Hmm. I wonder what's causing that?") As mentioned earlier, I work in the medical profession and part of the appeal of this series is that doctor House holds back nothing. He's completely, brutally, honest, which makes him both rare and unsettling. We in the medical profession would often LOVE to say some of the caustic things that come out of his mouth, but we hold back for fear of a) losing our job, and b) being sued back to the stone age.Even so, the writers of this excellent series have created a great character who makes us both cringe and laugh.


                
I find the characters a little too type-casted and a little to stereotyped. Those negative aspects of the show are far outweighed by the positive. House is a brilliant character, who's brilliance makes House a loner for he is 2 steps ahead of everyone else, and is annoyed by others. Do other doctors fight and have personality conflicts with each other in such tense situations while having to rely on each other. The producers could be creating more drama than reality. The story stimulates the reader with interesting plot twists and medical problems. My wife wishes her doctor was just as thorough as House. He is a gem even though he is rough. He expects the best from his staff.
This is the top FOX series but the straw that stirs the drink is Hugh Laurie. He plays Dr. House with an enthusiasm that is biting with sarcasm. In fact, he has some very good support in the series, but he carries the show on his back. It doesn't matter how absurd the situation is - how House reacts is why you watch the show. The viewer is always wondering just what House will do next. Dr. House is the most annoying person on television since Peter Faulk's Lt. Columbo. In fact, Dr House wins my vote as being the most annoying man on television. He annoys everyone including sometimes, himself. This is great character development.One hallmark of great TV shows this follows- it moves the main characters plot lines for more than one episode. This is the hallmark of a great TV show. It keeps the viewers interested in how House's character evolves as this is the main way this show hooks viewers.House is usually observant in deducing what is wrong with many cases quickly as a diagnostician. Because of the pain in his gimpy leg, he is always in a pain-killing drug induced picture of reality. The drugs contribute to a warped view of reality he is seeing. House has a team of doctors to help him with severe cases. In many episodes, they are brain storming about what is going on in a difficult case. House battles everybody in every episode. He battles his own team, Cuddy & her overzealous administration of the hospital, most of the patients he sees, & his own warped view of reality. This gives this show it's comic/dramatic edge. House always looks for cases when he feels something strange is going on. He hates his mundane work & loves challenges. They brainstorm for possible diagnosis of the patient House often stays above the case pondering while the team works on doing the tests & telling the patient everything. What brings this off every week is the acting. The characters are well drawn & the story lines are well written for comedic & dramatic effect. In the extras from the first season, they mention script development. They basically take a dictionary of Medical Diseases & go out, find a rare one & then take the script from there. The scripts do come off sounding smart & producing good drama which is the intention of the show. Sometimes they try & base scripts on actually things which happened, but from what I have seen so far, the Doctor working closely with the program leaves the real world out. Operations & procedures & tests which are not being properly done. Drugs are not controlled at all & always right next to the bed when a patient has a seizure. Doctors are very often with their patient when a dramatic things happen. This allows the show to make great drama & drama doesn't need a medical license. House is a show you watch to be entertained. In this way, it is a tremendous success. I am always waiting for him to find another creative thing to do with his cane. The humor in this show is dark, House is always annoying & very tongue in cheek.


                
First things first: if you are looking for a medically accurate show, forget this one. Watch something else. While there is some truth to some of the scenarios presented, most of it is bull. These guys' approach to medicine is like they've stuck all the pages of a medicine textbook, and are throwing darts at them and seeing what comes up. They'd be lucky if ONE of their patients lived though HALF of what they put him through... And they'd be fired by then.Having said that, it's still a terrific show - if fun is all you're looking for! And fun it provides. Forget about everything else. Laurie is brilliant, he could be acting with a bunch of donkeys and it'd still be funny. His character is the most lovingly obnoxious TV person I can remember. Enjoy the one-man show. If the others provide something, well, that's gravy! All you need is a little suspension of disbelief. It's worth it!


                
Dr. House is a juvenile egomaniac who is permanently scarred and depressed. He doesn't care who knows it. He acts out like a genius 5 year old and is both vicious and caring while detached. His victims are his boss Dr. Cuddy who is a sort of JAP executive with a degree in medicine who enjoys controlling him and might even love him. Dr. Foreman is the token Black doctor under House's authority who is mostoffensive and unlikable for all the usual reasons associated with men in this profession--misogyny, bravado and strange adolescent naivete. He has NO humor. Dr. Cameron is the token female under House. She grew up believing all the fairy tales were true and finds real life oddly perverse. However, she has a perverse love for the man who tortures her. Dr. Chase is the token rich boy foreigner who was added to the cast for his sex appeal. He's generally boring and gets most cases wrong. Dr. Wilson is House's only friend, his Dr. Watson. He's a nice guy who should be in love with Dr. Cameron because she's his female doppelganger but he is really too involved in House's life to have time for a woman. They are basically closet homosexuals. They enjoy their own company much more than the company of women who they generally distrust and demean. All in all, very watchable, entertaining if not frustrating at times because we'd like to think our real life doctors are paying more attention to ourselves as people rather than objects in their menagerie.


                
I just picked this up at the local library and fell in love with it immediately when I found myself actually laughing out loud nearly every time Hugh Laurie opened his mouth. Very few programs have the ability to make me do that.My only objection to "House" is the same one I have for most popular television dramas: the writers seem to want to "teach" the audience something, and it's usually cynical and amoral. Everybody lies. Everybody has casual sex. Everybody cheats when they can get away with it. It's a subtle undertone but nonetheless harmful and pervasive.That overlooked, "House" can be thoroughly enjoyed simply for the incredible writing, the amazing delivery by Hugh Laurie, and the sheer political incorrectness of it all. Very refreshing.


                
As one person already said: perhaps the best crafted medical show on television. It is indeed a cross between "24" and "ER." Mr. Laurie plays the role so well, it does indeed suspend your disbelief. Something that is indeed rare in television today.Well sometimes predictable, (some are derivative plots), the story unfolds at a quick pace -- enough to keep you interested, but not so slow as to bore you. The writers do a good job for a change."ER" cast change has resulted in a mis-mash of who did what do whom, that it just became untenable. So this is a refreshing change for those of us who dumped "ER" after Noah Wyle left.Wayno


                
The show is great if you like the sarcastic and satirical tone of it. There is no plot twist or back-story whatsoever. Only thing that keeps the show on track is Hugh Laurie's quick-witted one-liners.This would have been a lot better if the show would focus on making it a little more realistic, and maybe make the other characters a little more prominent.Overall, this was a great watch for my taste.


                
As my very first review on IMDb, I didn't choose movies that I recently viewed nor those classical TV series. why " House" ? Because it is misery because you can't use a simple world to describe this role, this doctor, knows everything but social relations, he is lucky, he has willson and cuddy who can stand his unexpected annoyed logic. well, I have to admit the fact I am not interested in those cases, majority. But what this show wanted to show is not how "House" and his team finally solved the case, but how every role came through and reflect their lives and lies through those cases and House's strange temper. They are not like those cases that either you have an answer or not, in the real life, it may not acts like this way. sometimes you have answer but still no "treatment". I don't know how to describe House, good doctor? Evil Man? probably not, even though sometimes I hate him so much but still want to see his reactions, I love Chase, I love Cameron, until now I still can't figure out why he fired Chase? I tried to stopped watching at the end of season three because I assumed the team was gone and I don't want to see new people come to that special circle that only his team and few other people can understand and stand House. But I still kept watching until I realized those cases, colleges are like a mirror, it only reflects what is real and the real only, no lies no madness, no cover. This review may not good,but just tried to write it down and express some kinds of my points. Thanks


                
First of all... Hugh Laurie rocks the show. He is absolutely great portraying Gregory House. The quick wits and the sarcasm.... Superb.. The show is also pretty great. Although towards the latter seasons the show becomes more centered around House rather than wierd and twisted cases. What I really loved about the show was how they cracked their cases. I wasn't really interested when episodes were about House's personal life and issues (Personal opinion). In spite of that it is still a great show.


                
My latest medical show was ´ER´ where I was following many characters, so to me, House M.D. was a bit ´restrictive´ at first. However, Hugh Laurie is simply perfect in the role of this Doctor whose motivation is only to prove that he is cleverer than everyone around him. Contrary to many series, the ´secondary ´characters are not in his shadow at all and, on the contrary, are showing how lonely House actually is. 
I do must say that my main interest (apart from the cases) was the relationship between House and Cuddy so, without wanting to give spoilers, I lost interest in the last season(s).


                
Doctor Gregory House is the Head of Diagnostic Medicine at Princeton-Plainsboro Hospital in New Jersey. His, and his team's, job is to solve extreme cases, where the cause of the patient's symptoms has eluded other doctors. He is a genius, with a rare gift for deduction and diagnosis, and a love for solving puzzles. He is also a very unorthodox, obnoxious man, a man who deliberately and successfully puts people off-side.Interesting and, initially, highly novel series. The idea of a patient diagnosis as a puzzle, with information to be gathered, sifted through and collated and from it deductions to be made is ably demonstrated, time and time again. I have no medical background and very limited medical knowledge and found the process, and the knowledge required and reasoning behind it, fascinating.It does get quite formulaic after a while though. You know just how the episode is going to go: patient comes in with one symptom, they treat it and the patient starts to recover. Just as they are patting themselves on the back, the patient develops another symptom, often one that is very deadly and highly theatrical, e.g. coughing up blood (probably the most common example). Then it becomes a back-and-forth between different attempts at cures (usually a prescription medication) and worsening, or at least changing, symptoms. Then, just when everyone is about to give up on ever figuring it out, House has a revelation due to a throw-away line in a conversation, often with Wilson. Case solved.Keeping it from becoming totally predictable is the human drama running parallel to the medical drama. The human drama often involves House's personal life, though it could be other characters' lives too. This usually plays out over an entire series, so you have a bit more long-term engagement.The patients also have interesting backstories and issues and these often provide good philosophical themes.In addition, the ending is not always a happy one, or, at least, not always the expected Hollywood-type ending, so there is some variety in that respect.As with many TV series, House ultimately suffered from overstaying its welcome. By about halfway through Season 7, you could see the writers had run out of ideas. The personal side, involving House and Cuddy, was unnecessarily complex and didn't have any momentum. It just seemed like complexity and circular plots for the sake of them, with the results feeling quite implausible. Plus, we have the annoying Dr. Masters and her bizarre fire-rehire loop with House.Season 8, the final season, was easily the worst season: no Cuddy, Dr Chi Park was probably the most irritating recurring character on the show (though she became more bearable as the season went on) and the elevation of Foreman to House's boss seemed implausible, and merely a dramatical device. It has its moments but Season 8 felt more like a chore than entertainment.The long-term negative is House's personality. The curmudgeonliness was entertaining for a while but every now and again you want some positivity and niceness, but they never come.Overall, a great medical drama. However, not perfect.
We follow Gregory House (main lead doctor) as he takes a team of doctors through a difficult career path, with them facing sexist, racist and downright rude treatment. As the characters grow, so did our interest in where it was going. There are only so many time you can hear 'get me a CT scan, STAT' and 'MIR and get me the results now' that sometimes it did feel a little two static. This is overcome with the clever use of CGI to show the patients problems, with a continual guessing game to see what the cure will be. The writers did not shelter the main characters, which opened the doors for more talent to join the cast. There are a number of story slides that keeps interest up, and you just love to hate and hate to love House's character. Having watched all seasons, the experience was enjoyable with a satisfactory conclusion. Well worth a watch.


                
The first time I watched an episode of House, M.D. I was amused by the central character... an ego-centric professional regarded as a necessary evil in an environment where emotions run high and his disregard for emotions, including his own, run even higher.The show is engaging, it stimulates emotions in situations where we wouldn't want to be, but are all candidates to be in. The tag line (maybe conceived at the inception of the series), could use some rework... Genius has side effects ? It's too centric to the character and takes away from the "what's best for you is not necessarily pleasant" theme across all the episodes.At the risk of sounding redundant, I would recast the opening of this review as : Dr. House's character embodies a pragmatic approach to life: "tough, I have problems, so do you." Yet, we are all attracted to the ferocious, heart-warming, unorthodox and shotgun approach Dr. House uses to identify any rare malady. And I say rare malady because today Dr. House (in subliminal reality) has not been nominated for any Nobel Prize in medicine and has not discovered any new diseases. That's not the central plot and it works well without it... Dr. House simply identifies rare medical events. No new viruses, no follow-ups that will required the CDC to launch its mighty battle plan. House scripts are generally a long streak of less-than-accurate diagnostics rushed against an artificial time flow and followed by a keystone finding that sets the climax and decay of the whole story in orchestrated but definitive fashion....together, with rare exceptions where the solution creates a secondary plot line, never to develop beyond the grip of the primary plot, yet engaging. What really makes it shine, in my view, is the ability to portray the Dr./patient relationship as consequential...eventually we all could be there... what's good for you, it not necessarily pleasant.


                
Although I do believe House is a great TV series, 10 would be too much. Hugh Laurie and everyone are just great, but sometimes the story repeats itself a little and tends to become a little tiresome. Every episode there is this patient with some crazy disease and then they have to figure out what's wrong. In the end, they always do, and in some crazy sort of way, and that's kinda bad because when you start watching the show and you see some guy almost dying you'll know he'll survive. People should die sometimes!! Aside from that, it's a wonderful show that you will love because of House's personality which tends to become comic or you are just like him and will just love the plot which is wonderfully written.


                
