The show is about a famous washed-up actor that just so happens to be a horse blah blah blah...This show is not about BoJack Horseman, it's not about the film industry, it's not about L.A., it's not about depression, it's not about loneliness. It's about you. It's about you, and the happy bubble you lived/live in. What is a happy bubble you say? Your lucky day! You found a great show to watch. Go ahead, it's on Netflix. Are you capable of thinking? I am sorry, this show is not for you.Although I am rating it a 1 star out of 10, I am not really sure if this show is genius or... the complete opposite of genius. This is because I cannot tell if the show is made for an audience that are the complete opposite of geniuses, or if it is made by the complete opposite of geniuses. The show is written in a way that is supposed to make us reflect on happiness. Its use of music, montages, and monologues through the episode tell us that when the episode ends, we should feel completely "mind blown". But nothing we are shown is actually "mind-blowing". It's repetitive, boring, and predictable. This is because the creators appear to be stuck in a creative loop: take a quality that people think makes you happy (fame/luck/love), then twist it so that it does not bring happiness to the characters in the show. MIND BLOWN! This show is not supposed to be a sitcom and yet, this is basically how all sitcoms are written. The only difference between this show and any other sitcom is that sitcoms are generally funny. BoJack Horseman just fetishizes sadness.No matter where you believe happiness comes from: fame (BoJack Horseman), intelligence (Diane Nguyen), hard work (Princess Carolyn), luck (Mr. Peanutbutter), drugs (Sarah Lynn), reconciling with friends (Herb Kazzaz), confessing your love (Charlotte Moore), reconnecting with your abusive mother and/or father (Beatrice Horseman & Butterscotch Horseman), trying to help someone achieve their dreams (Gina Cazador & Kelsey Jannings), naively following your own dreams (Todd Chavez), nothing will ever make you happy. Nothing will make you fully happy, because nothing is fully perfect. Substitute humans with some crazy wacky animals. Sprinkle a few unfunny jokes on top: the BoJack Horseman show.Sadness is part of life. BoJack knows this, I know this, you know this. It's not news that everyone is sometimes sad and/or, even depressed. We, unfortunately, have so many examples of people "having it all", and yet, deciding that life is not worth living. The most depressing part about this show for me is how many people actually found this show "deep". Are people so empty that they need a pretentious show to tell them that life is not easy? Is this show a necessary evil? Or is it the symptom of a rotting society? I like to think people are better than this. I like to think that people can, and do, think for themselves. I like to think that for a show to be called "deep", it takes more than putting a horse mask on and saying "no one is 100% happy".


                
Could only bare to watch a few episodes of this. Thought it was rubbish. Not funny, weird that the characters are a combo of human and animal (bit beastiality-esque). So many of the jokes are at the expense of the female characters. All characters are so stereotyped and boring. Just stupid all round really


                
A drinking talking horse, worst show I've ever seen... and people call wrestling fake! Also Paul Adam Lynch needs to stop whacking off to cartoons in his mum's attic


                
It's just OK...literally just okay. Maybe not my cup of tea


                
