I want more.See, the pilot is incredibly mediocre and, as others have pointed out, leverages the joke format of other tried and true animated shows. But this is business as usual, really. Animated pilots are typically sub- par. I LOVE Bob's Burgers, but man, that show's pilot was a mess.What's important is that Bojack does find itself as the season progresses, and there's something really new and interesting here. I think the writers started out thinking they were writing a comedy with dramatic elements. Somewhere along the way, they realized it was the reverse. The majority of the scripts are dedicated to pursuing the internal foibles of the characters, and if a joke wanders in at the edge of the screen, all the better for a bit of levity amidst the existential darkness.And then there's the Netflix money. Now, sequestering a bunch of celebrities in one place does not guarantee success (something I wish Stallone would figure out). However, there's a pretty rich voice cast here, and once the show hits its stride, Will Arnett, Amy Sedaris, Alison Brie, Aaron Paul, Paul F. Tompkins, Kristen Schaal, and others give the material it's due. Arnett, in particular, as Bojack manages to take on equine form and make me forget Arrested Development's Gob almost entirely; no mean feat.By the end of season 1, the five principal characters are pretty well- drawn and acted- fully fleshed beings. What's more, the world finally lives up to the glorious surrealism of the opening sequence, throwing some very human failings in stark relief with a world bizarrely populated by anthropomorphic animals. Give Bojack some space, and you'll find one of the freshest shows of the year. Here's hoping for season 2, because I'm fairly certain the best of Bojack is yet to come.


                
I've been a little bored with Netflix recently as there were few shows left to watch. Yesterday i noticed this on the homepage of Netflix, i clicked on it and i was instantly hooked! This series is very well animated, the voice acting is fantastic even though they do use some of the same actors twice. It's got a lot of good plots and good jokes and it's very enjoyable. If you enjoy shows like Family guy, Rick and Morty or Regular show i guarantee you'll like this. This is as icing on the cake a Netflix exclusive, so for once an animated show will only be available at Netflix, IT WAS ABOUT TIME, i really hope Netflix will continue this series and everyone with the time on their hands should really watch the hole series in a mind-blowing hilarious marathon like i did.


                
The opening of the show is a succinct depiction of the general feeling expressed in every episode. I have frankly been tiring of the increasing" anti hero" complex penetrating the mainstream surface. I am sick of being tricked into feeling sorry for asshole characters who create their own problems, probably because I, too, am an asshole, but I enjoyed this show. The contrast of the anti-hero in the character of BoJack to the every-hero in the character of Mr. Peanutbutter was interesting enough to keep me watching, and didn't leave me irritated.I had initial doubts, because in the first few episodes, the humor seemed a bit contrived and the jokes are presumably directed at the Family Guy demographic, in the form of long, awkward moments of characters holding a word for extended periods of time, outlandish cutscenes, exaggerated newscaster asides, and rips on Dane Cook. I should probably add that I am not particularly a fan of Family Guy. There were other jokes/story lines that seemed a bit borrowed from other comedy television hits(Louie, Arrested Development). However, when the show finds its stride, about halfway through the season, and emulates other popular TV shows less, is when I really enjoyed it -enough to binge watch it until its end, enough to recommend it to friends, and enough to leave it a good review and rating here. The jokes become smarter as the season progresses. If you're looking for an uproarious and constant, laugh- out-loud comedy, this is not it. The humor can be subtle at times, chuckle and smirk worthy, with short bursts of humorous rants regarding real issues in the media, the entertainment business,and the human psyche. The Buzzfeed jokes were brilliant, there were great backdrop jokes that I had fun spotting (Mr. Penguin's mug reading, "World's Third Greatest Dad", for example), some unique and well-placed physical comedy courtesy of the animal characters, and a few decent puns. The animation and voice acting are both excellent. The characters have depth and are likable, and they seem to grow as the season progresses. The only static character is Mr. Peanutbutter, which is intentional. There's SOME confrontation between the characters, but in a humorous way, and there's not so much that it seems like the writers are intentionally pandering to a human sense of drama- voyeurism to get views without offering much else. (Girls, Orange is the New Black)Overall, when the show concerns itself less with what people will like, and gets to the meat of all the unique intellect, comedy, and heart it as to offer, it's very special. 8 out of 10. P.S. When the credits roll and the closing song is swapped out with another song, it really irritate me and I feel like it kind of takes away some of the feeling you're left with at the end of the episode, especially with the season finale closing with that irrelevant dance bullshit. It reminded of Girls, and God I hate Girls. Sorry if this review seemed bitter, with too many references to the other series. The reviewer is on summer break, and has had ample time to waste. Did you know that how depressed you are is inversely proportional to how many cheese sticks you eat, and how many episodes of Golden Girls you watch? BoJack probably does. And this is why the reviewer loves BoJack. Can't wait for the second season.


                
When I initially read the summary of what the series was I was excited because of my love for 90's style cartoons and I thought that it was a strange enough concept that might just work. When I started watching it I thought it was a tad slow but I guess they have to establish which character is which and give a little personality of each character so I'll forgive it for that but when the series got going I couldn't stop laughing. It uses the typical comedy formula that is used in a lot of comedies now which is escalation. Things keep on escalating till they are ridiculous and that teamed with Bojack's ability to say the wrong thing is a winning combo in my book. Although it does have many laughs through the series it still has serious moments and some sad moments too which I thought gave Bojack more depth as a character. The character manages to not be at all like the viewer but also very relatable to the same time in the observations he makes about life. Overall I thought that the series is defiantly worth watching, especially for fans of comedies such as It's Always Sunny In Philadelphia. Very good stuff and glad its been renewed for a second series.


                
It's another emotionally brutal season for Netflix's animated sitcom about the perils and pressures of Hollywood. The show has been extraordinarily layered in its exploration of the pressures of the entertainment industry and has managed to balance dark material thanks to a litany of genuinely hilarious jokes and interesting subplots, but here the cracks starting to show. The supporting characters have stagnated and the show's structure is becoming predictable and repetitive in its apparent effort to never let any positivity or hope come through, and it's starting to be punishing and tiresome. On the plus side, the voice work is just as strong as ever before, in particular Will Arnett in the titular role, who continues to imbue the character with equal parts tragedy and buffoonery, and series newcomer Stephanie Beatriz, who acclimatizes herself very well. A change in the show's emotional DNA may be necessary if Bojack's story will continue for more seasons, and while it may be the weakest season so far, it's still pretty good.


                
It's back with its self deprecating wit and charm with a main character that's painfully easy to project your bad feeling onto. i can only fault it for once again asking the big questions about depression and self destructive natures, only to not offer any real answers. That however doesn't make it any less enjoyable to watch in the moment


                
Dark humor for sure. This is the best depiction of mental health I have ever seen on TV. I think it is funny that an adult cartoon with humans and animals people living together is the best portal of mental health on TV but it just is an I love it. I can not watch it too long because I sink into my feelings too much and get too depressed but it feels good to see


                
This is one of the best Netflix adult comedy series.


                
If you decide to watch "BoJack Horseman", just be sure NOT to watch it along with your kids. That's because unlike most cartoons, it's a rather adult one at times and is not intended for younger audiences.The story is about a loser ex-TV star, BoJack Horseman. Like many characters in this cartoon, the is an anthropomorphic animal--in this case a horse with a human body and voice. Most of the schtick is about how terrible BoJack is as a person(?) and how although he might appear to be growing in awareness and personality, he's still essentially a big, rich jerk.The show's biggest strength is that the plots are all very unusual and very easy to like. It's also rather clever and worth seeing...providing you don't mind the crude references as well as a leading character you really CAN'T like.


                
First of all Bojack is one of my favourite shows in Netflix. Loved the balance between drama and comedy. Its comedy is fancy and similar to south park like its social commentary. I also enjoy character moments and almost everything Todd says. Its drama and character arcd have been quite satisfying for many characters like princess carolyn, mr peanutbutter and even todd had some. I know Bojack is the lead and most of the series has been about him and his relationships. I beleive his arcs' repetition started to wear out. I mean every penultimate episode we continue to see bojack's lowest and it doesn't still get better. Is it the direction we were being directed? Are we watching Bojack's demise in a sugarcoated way? These are the questions i have been asking since i finished watching season 5. This is not a very serious criticism and i will not stop watching but since the beginning we witnessed the lives of actors and their sidekicks in a glamorous yet cruel background. We also see similar stories in entertainment news etc. And i beleive we have been quite fed up to stories of actors or actressed failed to keep it together. This show gave me the impression that they will explore rhis situation and maybe find a way to turn around this pessimistic, downward way. But now, i am not sure this is the thing they want to tell or maybe the impact of many dramatic moments in the show were more satisfying to the viewers but i think doing this over and over again will be just exploitation and wear out the impact on the viewer.


                
In it's fifth season BoJack Horseman remains one of the best shows on TV, and arguably Netflix best show. It arguably doesn't quite hit the highest heights of season four but the "show about a talking horse" yet again delivers real drama and character development amongst all the jokes


                
It is a great show with lessons and it shows that not all rich people are happy


                
'Bojack Horseman' is a unique TV show. I haven't seen anything like it. It's a dark comedy that goes really dark, plumbs the depths of human misery, but still remains a comedy, and that subject matter is very incongruous with the visual style: it's a colorful cartoon and the protagonist has a horse's head. This really striking combination makes an intriguing watch.The story follows Bojack Horseman, a washed-up actor who is still wealthy and connected but much past his peak popularity. He is surrounded by ex-girlfriend/agent Princess Carolyn (a cat), a friend/rival Mr. Peanutbutter (a dog), a social media expert doing a book on him, Diane (a human), and Todd, a freeloader who has no business living with a celebrity. The show chronicles Bojack's ups and downs, but mostly downs. The opening credits show him drunk at a Hollywood house party, overcome by an anxiety attack and almost drowning in a pool.Both the opening and ending credits songs are really great, too. I actually hated the ending credits song at first, but after a few episodes I started to get used to it, and a little later I realized its brilliance.
Netflix's deeply peculiar, depressing animated sitcom continues along with this equally tragi-comic season, which continues its deconstruction of Hollywood with all the savage wit of a Robert Altman movie. The voice work is on point as usual, with Will Arnett proving entirely believable in a surprisingly compelling vocal performance, with superb support from everyone - in particular, Amy Sedaris imbues Princess Caroline with a desperate and broken edge, which stands out even among consistently excellent voice work. Highly recommended for fans of "The Larry Sanders Show" and "The Comeback."


                
What can I say about Bojack Horseman? It's such an interesting way of Netflix to define what adult animation can really do, and have such a lasting appeal to its adult audiences. I love just about everything about how a former washed-up actor can deliver such raunchy adult humor, and surprisingly, the jokes throughout the series does such an amazing job, you'll totally get the jokes and have a joy with the show's way of amusing you. Also, love how the cast has human and animals throughout, which kinda makes the show all the more reason to laugh and smile at how much fun the writers have and get away with a lot of things you can accomplish in an adult-oriented animated series, more so than live-action. Overall, Bojack Horseman is an interesting series to get into animation and have loads of fun-fueled entertainment that will surely be watchable again and again.


                
This is a Netflix original staring Will Arnett,Alison Brie and Aaron Paul. It's a alright animated series with it's good parts and slow parts. It does have a nice change of pace from most TV shows on Netflix. The humour isn't for everyone but it has some points where it really works and it pays off. Seeing all the different celebrity cameos they have in the show is a nice touch to. This show did have some points where I broke down in laughter and loved it. But at the same time I felt like I sitting through mediocre filler.Overall it's a decent 12 Episode show and worth watching if you are a fan of the voice actors and off beat humour.


                
Probably the best cartoon i've watched.
pretty raw, funny and very nice cast.


                
