This movie is total flash with absolutely no substance.  Potato Chips for couch potatos.  The stylization is flat.  It would seem from the other reviewers that if you find a bunch of 1930's outfits and cars that your movie is now "stylized".  And what's with Kim Basinger?  The big shoker is that we see a photo of the detective kissing a prostitute on the floor with all her clothes on?  Oh my god!  I can overlook a few plot and motivation flaws (there were many in this move), but what's the big payoff here?  An ending riddled in cliches.  This movie has all the empty calories of a can of Pringles.  I'm mystified at positive response people gave this one.


                
I'm sorry to say this, but this movie lost me after 10-20 minutes, and it never caught my attention again. I see alot of ppl like this movie, but I found it really boring. For me it didn't have anything. It didn't have good action scenes, interesting story, and besides I don't like the 1950-style. If it only had some underlying symbolism or something like that... I think that symbolism in a movie should strike u clearly; u shall feel there is something more. But no, it didn't have a striking symbolism either. Just a straight forward story about some dirty cops catching some very dirty cops (all the cops in this movie I would say was dirty).The only reason I watched the whole movie, and didn't stop watching after 10-20 minutes, was that a pal of mine told me that it was not a movie with "brainless action" that one should stop watching after merely 20 minutes just because I didn't like it. So i had a real boring time forcing me to watch it almost to the end. I skipped the last 10 minutes; it was not like anything supprising would happen that made up for the past 2 hours of bordome.I would give this movie 1.5 on a scale from 0 to 10.


                
When I first saw the commercial for this movie, I was interested to see it. When people were buzzing about how good it was, I was really interested.
After seeing it, I simply shrugged. I thought it was very boring and I didn't think Kim Basinger was that great. Although I liked Crowe and Spacey in this, I didn't like any of the others like Divito and Guy Pearce. After all the oscar stuff, I even saw it again and still nothing.
To this day I still can't think what is so great about it or remember any scenes that really stick out. It reminds me of another really dumb and idiotic movie called Forrest Gump. I am glad Titanic beat this pile of rubbish.0/10


                
More powdered up garbage type movie. The acting is silly at best. I would grade this movie a C-, despite having some great actors. I don't know what happened to them in this film, but it's straight garbage so don't waste your time.


                
Better to watch Chinatown again than this overrated junk. The story was too contrived and needlessly complicated. Kim Basinger is no Faye Dunaway. The period music was applied with a trowel, and I never believed any of the characters was a real 'tough guy'. A bunch of Hollywood types pretending to be rough characters. And it never established a real period feel. By the way, having Danny Devito in this movie made it a total joke. We're supposed to take The Penguin seriously as a character in a major film? And his voice-over was a cliché, something I would expect in a satirical film.I'm mystified that so many people think this movie is great.


                
I don't see what the appeal of this movie is for so many people. I didn't think there was any chemistry at all between Kim Basinger and the detective, whose name slipped my mind. There were a few good performances, but not enough to make this movie a classic. For real chemistry, watch "Sea of Love," "The Big Easy" or even "Body Heat."


                
I have to thank this movie for helping me with my studies! After my fiancée put it on believing it to be a classic, I blanked out after 15 minutes and chose to write an essay instead (that says something)! I can't fault the acting, but my God the story line was dull. The plot felt really clunky and jumped all over the place. For example, a 20 second scene of a politician being blackmailed to change his vote, with no explanation or mention of it again. Then the twist at the end is that a cop is corrupt, even though he admits to being dirty in Scene #1 - literally.. I'm dumbfounded by the praise on here; it was like a boring version of Black Dahlia.
I didn't even wait until the movie was over. I took it out in the middle. This movie is boring and filled with tripe. I love Russell Crowe but not in this movie. I know it won a lot of awards but ugh I just couldn't take it. The plot is so boring. I hate the old school look, I know its set in the 1940s/1950s or whatever and because its old, I just couldn't relate to it and sit through it.I don't like Kevin Spacey and the tall old guy either. Kevin Spacey is so boring. He has no charisma. He always acts the same in every movie too. I don't even know why he even made this movie. Why Hollywood made this movie? Its so horrible, and boring. I thought I would die of boredom towards the end.
