For starters - I'm sorry to say, but I did not immediately fall in love with Kim Basinger (as I know I was expected to) the very second she first stepped into the camera's view.Nor did I ever warm-up to Basinger's whore-with-a-heart-of-gold character as this film's story boldly forged ahead towards its cornball and clichéd "happy" ending.The thing with Basinger was that she was 44 years old at the time of this picture and no matter how much the camera (and the make-up artists) tried to hide this fact - Let's face it, Basinger was about 20 years too old for her part as a high-class hooker who didn't (but was supposed to) resemble 1950's movie-actress, Veronica Lake.And then there was Russell Crowe's character, Bud White, the tough-as-nails, no-nonsense cop (with a hair-trigger temper) whose modus operandi was to kick, punch, (and/or) shoot the suspect(s) first, then ask questions later.What really killed me about Bud was how he fancied himself to be a gallant crusader for battered women, yet, when it came right down to it, he was just as prone to punch and slap a woman around, just like any other hot-blooded, hypocritical, all-American male.L.A. Confidential's biggest downfall was apparent in the way that its story clearly lacked an essential, underlying tightness. It continually showed absolutely no restraint, at all, when it came to the unbelievable corruption, brutality (and whatever) that prevailed in L.A.'s police force (in the 1950s) that went all the way up to the District Attorney.With one bare-faced lie being recklessly heaped upon another, L.A. Confidential's story got itself so bogged down with inane double-crosses, forced confessions and treacherous finger-pointing that, before long, it gave me one helluva splitting headache.At 2 hours and 20 minutes this Film Noir "wannabe" seriously cried out for some immediate attention in the editing department.
I think this movie deserves at least one negative comment. This movie is so much Hollywood, it follows the template just fine. It's predictable; during the action scenes it's easy to tell who's going to survive, who's going to get a scratch, and who's going to fall. I have seen it before and it seems like I have to see it again. The script and acting during the first hour is not realistic, but standard Hollywood; so common everybody else finds it natural. I didn't find convincing, though I liked some scenes, I wasn't hooked all through. A mere 5/10.


                
I had a bad feeling about this one. Something told me I wasn't going to like it. And after 60 seconds it started my feelings were right. The movie starts with a narration. There is narrator speaking and I didn't understand anything. After 40 minutes I still had no idea what was going on. That is bad. It is not my fault if the storyline isn't well exposed. Ask Martin Scorsese how to keep a viewer glued to his seat with a narration (CASINO). So the story is either weak or non-existing. I hate movies that take place during the fifties because the actors in their swanky suits feel authorized to overact. I said actors? Who are they? How much charisma do they have? If we take Spacey, Crowe, Pearce and Basinger and put them all together we don't reach 20% of Jack Nicholson alone. This movie is a bad imitation of CHINATOWN.


                
When I first heard that LA Confidential was being made into a movie, I was at first excited, so I re-read James Ellroy's book. Then I was depressed that a movie was being made, because I knew it wouldn't even come close to the epic novel. Yeah...yeah... I know, don't say it. "The book is always better than the movie." Well then, forget the movie and read the book! I sat dumbfounded watching this movie trying to figure if the characters on the screen were supposed to be the same ones  adapted from the book. The ONLY character who even remotely the same was Ed Exley played by Russell Crowe, and any similarity between Jack Vinsenze in print and on film is purely coincidental. The only people who think that this movie is any good, are those that haven't read the book. Take my advice boys and girls, read the book, you'll have no desire to watch this film ever again.


                
After hearing and reading the endless hype about the classic greatness of this film, I was really let down. The plot was impossible to follow, the characters were flat and devoid of any depth or interest . . . I was sound asleep on the couch after 40 minutes.  It must be a "guy thing," because most other women I spoke to also found it interminably boring.  I got my money back from Blockbuster!


                
There're rumors flying around that guys like this film... well, I for one am a guy, and this I "do not" like! The plot cruises at 2 mph for most of he film, many of the  characters are sooo wooden you could chop them in two--note: with the exceptions of Kevin Spacey, Danny DeVito, and the rookie who could pass for 15 (that's not a complement by the way). Plus the film exploits minorities as the typical one dimensional mindless thugs as there're portrayed in most cop flicks; but what could you expect from 1950's LA, or Hollywood for that matter?Rating:  4


                
Incredibly predictable and ridiculous. Feels like it was written by a 12 year old.


                
This movie suffers from an overly convoluted and unfocused plot (going after one group of criminals then the big cliche crime boss the next. Having multiple antagonists is fine, but the problem was it felt like two different stories that were weakly connected), characters that would like us to believe they are much more complex than the are (the white knight cop, Bud, who turns out to be a hypocrite. Some might take this cotradiction as character complexity, but the flaws of this character are never acknowledged in the form of facing consequences for you actions, bc in the end he gets the girl), and failure to address the theme of police corruption that it presents (Again, Bud is a thug of a cop, a dispicable person who is only ever rewarded by the film. Lieutenant Exley supposedly represents a moral reformer in the LAPD, but in the end he doesn't significantly change anything or really openly challenge the corrupt LAPD besides at the beginning when he testifies against a fellow cop for their violation of practice. He is also an unsavory person whose moral hypocrisy is never acknowledged). This isn't even to mention the cringey ass dialogue that is trying to hard to sound 1950s and the fact that the only black people in this film are criminals and rapists, and that things seemed to be easily achieved by all the "protagonists" with minimal effort put forth.
