I just saw this movie for the second time the other night, and enjoyed it MUCH more than the first time.  There were plot and character subtleties that were much easier to appreciate, without having to concentrate as much on what was going on (following the film noir guideline of having a complicated story line).  This movie successfully avoided stereotypical characters; each character had many motivations, some sympathetic, some not. Loved Kevin Spacey's performance (not unusual), and Guy Pearce was really good as Exley.  The thing that most surprised me, however, was finding that James Cromwell who so wonderfully played the heavy, Dudley Smith, is the same James Cromwell that played the wonderful farmer Hoggett in "Babe". Talk about different characters.


                
What I love about this movie is the film noir quality that keeps you wanting more. Each body in this film is not just a person, they're a character. They each have something to gain, whether noble or not, and that is what makes this film interesting. The shootouts are fun, but the plot and characters are what drives this movie. My one criticism is the length. There were parts where the movie just seemed to drag a bit. In my opinion, the "Bloody Christmas" bit could have been cut altogether, or, if they needed a way for Guy Pearce's character to get his Detective badge, it could have started with him as detective and then been mentioned in passing. It wasn't really necessary to the rest of the plot. Other than that, however, this movie is excellent. Read my original review of this movie at http://themoviemistress.blogspot.com/
Hard to imagine now but in 1997 many of the cast in LA CONFIDENTIAL weren`t well known . Kevin Spacey had an Oscar under his belt but hadn`t appeared in many starring roles , Guy Pearce was known only to NEIGHBOURS  fans while Russell Crowe was remembered only for his powerhouse performance in ROMPER STOMPER . In fact it sounds ridiculous in 2003 but the two best known members of the cast when this was released were Danny DeVito and Kim Basinger The real star of LA CONFIDENTIAL is the script . I`ve never read the novel but I`ve often heard it`s unfilmable . Never once did I get the feeling this was true while watching the film adaption because the only thing to strike me about the script was its intelligence , yes you`ve read that right an intelligent Hollywood script complete with violence , wit and a couple of shocking twists and turns . The only criticism about the story is the old cliche of one of the cops being a naive idealist while the other cop is a violent fascist thug . LA CONFIDENTIAL was stuffed at the Oscars by TITANIC but that`s not surprising . How many academy voters are going to love a film about corruption , vice and murder set in Hollywood ?


                
Much as I love reading I'm not into fictional novels as I've given up on people taking 12 pages to get down the stairs or 2 page descriptions of a biro. The benefit is being able to watch a film (a) without comparing it to the book, thus risking being disappointed & (b) not knowing how it ends, so I've no comment on the adaptation.As for the film, yes it was fairly good, but no classic & certainly overated. I've seen very little film noir but what I have are predominately modern day attempts (Man Who Wasn't There) and I've yet to really enjoy one, as the cinematography & mood often seem more important than a plot, and that happened here to a degree.The story was really hard work to follow. Not through being complicated but that you had to focus on every word & if you missed a single second you were lost. I don't mind corruption in police storylines even though it's been flogged about for years now, but I've seen it done better & more interestingly than here.There were plusses though. Great acting from Crowe & DeVito with Spacey & Pearce in good performances. But the less said about Basinger the better. I'm staggered she won an oscar. She wasn't in it a great deal, had very few lines and when you did see her she was shagging or being slapped. You can fast forward her scenes.Once the film gets going it's one of the most realistic portrayals of a decade from a Hollywood movie, ever. There's also a few thought provoking social issues thrown up, one or two excellently done, violent scenes, a great intro and some good all round action but sadly interspersed with a handful of meaningless & dull scenes that make the plot a bit stop-start.I just couldn't ever fully connect with any of the characters to love this film, which I never seem to be able to do with the darkness of Film Noir.A low 7/10


                
The GOOD - Interesting, start-to-finish and a real visual treat if you like to see the 1940s on film. This has the gloss of "Chinatown," cinematography-wise with nice period detail. It also had the advantage of modern-day surround sound. Meanwhile, the cast does an outstanding job with such modern-day stalwarts as Kevin Spacey, Russell Crowe, Kim Bassinger, Danny DeVito, Guy Pearce, David Strathairn and James Cromwell. All of them played interesting characters. As a fan of the '40s Veronica Lake. I enjoyed Bassinger's impersonation of her. Veronica should have looked this good!The BAD - A sordid feel to this film almost all the way through, from the tabloid mentality-narrative by Danny DeVito through all the various creeps and corrupt cops. Speaking of the latter, I just get so tired of filmmakers' almost always making the police look bad. In this film, everyone is dirty, even the only supposed "clean cop" (Pearce) who compromises his integrity in the end, too. They make the cops look even worse than normal by showing them blaming a black person who is really innocent. That's fine for To Kill A Mockingbird in 1962 but by this time all it demonstrates is Hollywood Liberals playing the race card again. Also, the story is a bit too mean-edged for me, with too many usages of the Lord's name in vain.OVERALL - There is no denying this is an intriguing film, glossy and slick with just one short lull and one that keeps you involved for almost two hours. So, for the entertainment value, even with the negatives, this is worth checking out, especially if you are a fan of film noir.


                
Just watched this movie again last night. Thirteen yrs ago this picture received - across the board - the best set of reviews of ANY movie ever released in the history of Warner Brothers.Today, it doesn't deserve that kind of hype. The list of reservations runs remarkably deep in hindsight. The script feels rushed and underdeveloped at key plot points (What does it represent, three novels boiled into one screenplay?) The romantic (triangle) subplot comprised of Russell Crowe, Kim Bassinger and Guy Pearce is grotesquely handled (compare it to the languorous sparring of Mel Gibson, Michelle Pfeiffer and Kurt Russell in the underrated "guilty pleasure," TEQUILA SUNRISE) Bassinger's performance is arguably the lamest one to ever be awarded a supporting Oscar. The love scenes between her and Crowe are written in the form of a fervent adolescent's sincerest wet dream. Psychological explanations are purest pulp. The mise-en-scene, which I thought was a tad overrated even at the time, now looks to be exclusively the work of the production research department. Visually, its actually pretty flat, playing like a solid cable series with some key episodes missing. Yet having said that much, L.A. CONFIDENTIAL benefits mightily from having a spectacular, cunningly sinister villain in James Cromwell. He is as good as one's memory of him. The climax of the picture, where his wickedness appears well-nigh omnipotent (Noah Cross with a badge)and, in classic melodramatic fashion, one fears for the lives of the two righteous detectives who are out to crack the case - yes, this last section still holds up and delivers the goods.So in retrospect, I remain charitable and credit it a 7 out of 10 because so few melodramas have heart these days and this far-fetched conspiracy tale does reflect the convictions of its author, James Ellroy - even if what those convictions add up to is less than meets the eye.Was this review useful to you?
In 1950's LA a set of cops - good, bad and everything in-between - solve crime against the background of show biz and political sleaze.One of those movies that you almost  want to throw money against the pay-window to see and yet walk out feeling that you have been short changed. Maybe what people are praising is not the production - but the ideas and background. The age when gossip magazines threw back the covers of Hollywood (for the first time) to reveal actors and players as they really were. Sadly this just a bit of window dressing to tart up a tired old good-cop-bad-cop police drama.Forget the rave reviews: There is nothing new going on in the foreground. Indeed it works it way to a climax so utterly predictable and shop-worn that it is almost unbelievable. After having some originality and vitality it comes down to a climax that would make a B movie western writer blush!Stacey is cool, Crowe is mad as hell (and not going to take it), Pierce is the college boy that does everything by the book. The guilty and the half guilty and the guilty-by-association get mixed up, but what the hell, they only get pushed up against a wall and have dirty tricks played on them. Probably how it was way back then.Bassinger gets an Oscar for doing nothing but looking sexy. I mean what does she do by way of acting? Look like an expensive hooker? Speak like she is jaded and embittered? Sharon Stone was better in Basic Instinct (and others!) and didn't get a mention for that. Even stranger still she seems to be barely in the movie (a glorified extra even?) and had to talked in to taking the role in the first place. Talk about right place and right place!The trouble with the film is that is gets its novel ideas over too quick and all it has left is to try and bring a bit of poetic justice to a scene where poetic justice was probably very much absent.Sorry, this  a bit of a fraud on the audience, it pretends to be different, pretends to be brave, but in truth it doesn't have to courage of its own convictions. Looking at 1950's Hollywood sleaze on its own might have made a good movie, but this is too frightened of leaving the mainstream to be that film.


                
All things considered, this film is actually quite palatable: I never once thought "dear lord, when will this thing end?" But having now watched it twice I still fail to comprehend why anyone would consider it great. Three stereotypical characters in search of an overarching theme lurch from one pretty set-piece to the next, eventually reaching a conclusion that would have been screamingly inappropriate, had what preceded been in the least cohesive.Good accompaniment to a nice bowl of popcorn, but cinematic genius? No.


                
A sleek thriller! The strength of the movie isn't it's plot but the actors who build the characters throughout the plot - a fame-hungry cop(Spacey), a reckless but righteous cop(Crowe), a political but upright cop(Pearce) and others who represent a slick, corrupt system. The movie takes off after it has progressed to almost 75% of it's length so you gotta be patient. The plot has aplenty loose ends which make it seem illogical and predictive. The director seems to have rushed to wind-up the movie after stretching it a bit farther than required. The background score is average.
Definitely a must-watch.P.S: The entire plot twist hinges on a two events which amount for less than 5 minutes of the movie time.
"L.A. Confidential" tells the story of the Los Angeles Police Department back in the days, when officers were hugely involved in crime. When a new officer enters the department, some of the long hidden deals come to light and cause big trouble.What you see is what you get in this film. It convinces with a prominent cast, solid filmmaking and a good look, however it is rather a solid police tale than it is a groundbreaking story. In the tradition of well-known mafia movies, it tells the same story from a different perspective. Entertaining but not breathtaking.All in all this is a very solid crime movie, focussing on a corrupt police. The heart of this movie are the actors themselves, otherwise this is a solid Hollywood Blockbuster.
A really good detective movie with some really good twists


                
Even after twenty years the movie holds up well. It's entertaining with lots of action and the usual necessary plot twists. Russell Crowe and Kevin Spacey deliver outstanding performances well suited to their acting personas. As do Guy Pearce (Ed Exley) and James Cromwell (Captain Dudley Smith). The movie starts off slow and threatens to become just a glamorous 'film noire.' However, make it through the first hour and the plot develops well with plenty of action to keep one interested. (Yes, it's a long movie with a running time of two hours and twenty minutes!)Through a well crafted plot the film touches upon racism, corruption, politics and even gender issues. Characters develop well along with the plot; none can be judged on first impressions. If for no other reason, the movie is watchable simply for the shootout scene which comes late in the film. A masterful piece of filmwork to rival the best of spaghetti Westerns! A good film which has aged well. A special treat for detective film fans.


                
--Spoilers Included-- Overrated.Not layered.A straight forward and superficial narrative masquerading poorly as noir.Worthwhile viewing for entertainment value, but little else.Producers capitalize on Kevin Spacey's popularity at the time, but he is poorly used and he does little here to add to the fanfare that surrounded him after his previous breakout in Fincher's 1994 work.Fans of simple narrative and one dimensional characters will enjoy this immensely. It has some interesting elements, but isn't about anything more than what it appears to be on the surface. Comparisons made to the film Chinatown are thinly supported and the only real link is that both films take place in and around Los Angeles.
LA Confidential is a good satire on the Glamorous Hollywood/California image, if that's what it's meant to be. But although I liked some old film noir, nothing in this movie appealed to me except making fun of what is seemed so "glamorous" about these places in California. Especially at the end, it goes from bearable to horrible. It turns into one of those movies where everyone dies instantly from one gunshot except the main characters who get shot multiple times and take forever to die, if they do at all. Suddenly someone has to satirize the satire.


                
The first thing I thought when I turned off the video was "Wow! What a movie!" Very rarely I get as absorbed as this when I watch a film. The story-line is great, and the acting is brilliant! Kevin Spacey has to be one of the greatest actors ever, and Kim Basinger was a worthy Academy Award winner. I want to see more movies like this; intelligent, intense, brilliant, and entertaining.I'd give it an 8 out of 10.


                
I found it overrated! I think there are many other movies that should be in top 250 list. Probably three great actors starred in this film that is why it is in the list. Kevin did a very good work though I must admit. But Russel was not suitable for the role I guess. People might have different opinion. But honestly I didn't think it is a great movie. The story was a bit shaky. I saw in the reviews that many people found this movie fantastic. I don't think it is THAT great. It is an average movie. I expected more from this film. I love Guy Pearce. He is a very good actor. He did a great job I must say! I loved his acting here. He was totally into the character. The only thing I loved about this movie was Guy Pearce.
Los Angeles in the 1950's. A classic crime story. Three LAPD detectives does their own investigations of a mass murder at a diner. Turns out it all runs deeper than at first sight. This is a classic film-noir kind of crime story. It has the elements, but a bit different wrapping. A good wrapping that is and a good story.The script is good. You have one main character, Exley, and two other part main characters Vincennes and White. There are no pointed out villain, witch sets your own mind to work, trying to figure out who the bad guy is. You get to know all three characters. You get their background and you realize why they act like they do. There are a lot of work put down in all the characters and they all work well independently, but the chemistry between them is great! The story and plot is also good. It may be a little complicated at times, but nothing you can't handle. There are always something happening and the story is always twisting. It keeps you on your toes at all times.The actors are great. There are some arsenal they've got and they use it wisely. Kevin Spacey does a really good cool, classic, Hollywood-style cop and Guy Pearce is great as the 2nd generation by-the-book-cop. Russell Crowe delivers and so does James Cromwell while Kim Basinger makes a elegant femme-fatal. Danny DeVito, you know, is Danny DeVito.Jerry Goldsmith did it for Chinatown and does it again for this one. The score is great. It sets the mood and the era and builds up the action just as it should. It's cool and classic detective style. Much the same style as in Chinatown.The cinematography is nice. The lightening and composition is good and it captures the mood very well. The decorations, sets and costumes are really 50's style and good looking. The over all look of the film is just very good.L.A. Confidential is a nice film-noir style of movie, yet it is so in it's own way. It does things it's own ways and don't end up being a bad copy. It's a good movie with a strong story. You'll most likely find this to be a very good and thrilling film with action on many levels. Recommended.


                
kim bassinger  gets an oscar  for what  ? certainly not her acting . give me a break !!


                
I want to say that L.A. Confidential is a movie that I (somehow) had never heard of nor had any interest in seeing. I'm pretty sure I had seen the poster before, but that was all I knew of it. So even though I am reviewing this movie 20 years after its release, I have not had the plot spoiled to me (though I'm sure I've seen movie that were influenced by it). I'm going to try and avoid spending too much time on the positives of this film because I think there are some pretty glaring issues with this film that have gone unnoticed.That being said, the vast majority of this film is a blast to watch. Most of the characters are very interesting, unique, and well thought out which was probably the most important aspect of the film to get right (next to the story). Exley was my personal favorite because you could tell he genuinely cared about justice and keeping the law in order. He wins his fights by being smarter than everyone else and this makes him an interesting character. The main mystery of the movie is a little incoherent at times, but it was still rather engaging for me and I was invested in seeing where it would go. The strongest elements of this movie have to be the action and the character interaction. Almost all of the dialogue is sharp and entertaining to watch.
Now, onto the aspects of this film that I thought almost broke it: Bud White... my goodness is this character hard to watch. Russel Crowe does a great job portraying him, so it is not the fault of the actor, but the character himself is insufferable. Granted, my view on this is probably different than those who saw this movie in the 90s because the whole political climate as of late is different, but this guy is just an awful "white knight". Essentially, he is a ball of murderous rage 24/7 and is constantly looking for an excuse to save women who don't need saving. Oh, there is a woman with several men, how about I go over there and beat them up and then figure out if there is an issue. What makes him even worse is that he breaks the law and even plants evidence/lies on multiple occasions just to satisfy himself. For example, why didn't he tell the woman that there was a dead body under he house? It turns out that his reason for being a murderous killing machine against anyone who mistreats women is because his mom was abused to the point of death and he had to watch. Great, that kind of makes sense, but it doesn't excuse him pulling guns on people, starting fights, and grabbing people's crotches to torture them.Now, this is just one character, but unfortunately his "romantic subplot" is another big issue with this film.The romance in this movie sucks. It just does. It doesn't feel natural and it is entirely forced. Bud White somehow falls in love with a prostitute, but it is never explained WHY they fall in love. For instance, the prostitute says really cliche stupid stuff like, "You're special" or "you're different" but the only thing different about him is that "he doesn't hide his emotions" which is an incredibly stupid line because she HAS NEVER INTERACTED WITH HIM OUTSIDE OF HER HOUSE (except for them going to the movie on an occasion). Their romance is so forced that I was legitimately surprised when they started to make out, because there was no build-up to it.Fine, one bad romantic relationship, but this movie has TWO! WITH THE SAME GIRL!Exley goes to the prostitutes house to investigate her because he thinks the relationship between her and Bud White is false and that she was paid off to do it... and then he rapes/has sex with her?!?!?! It's really confusing because he has been established to be the brains of the team and is vastly smarter than everyone else, yet when he is prying for information from someone who he think is manipulating them he then decides to have sex with that said person and assumes that he is not being manipulated... by a prostitute.Really. A prostitute manipulating someone into sex? THAT IS LITERALLY THE FIRST THING THAT SHOULD COME INTO HIS MIND! What makes this plot point even worse is that it was a set-up and now Bud White tries to murder Exley in an attempt to get back at him for having sex with HIS prostitute (again, she is a prostitute. She is having sex with tons of people. Chillax). What makes things really odd is that the other cops in station don't seem to mind the fact that Bud White is murdering Exley? Someone walks into the room, Bud White pushes them out, and then no other cops investigate. Seriously? Long story short, all of this was the bad guy's plan (who was quite obviously the bad guy from the moment we saw him, so it wasn't really a plot-twist). The final action sequence was fantastic and really well set-up, and it was nice to see Exley and Bud White work together instead of at each other's throats. While I did enjoy the villain, his plan was super contrived and required a myriad of coincidences to actually work. Again, it's just a movie, but it is a little troublesome.The main theme of this movie seems to be that following the law completely doesn't always work but breaking the law constantly for the sake of justice isn't the best either. It's a compromise movie. However, the issue with this is that Exley pretty much got everything he wanted through brains and I don't think that he ever really needed Bud White... at all. I honestly can't think of a situation where Bud White's viciousness got him something that he couldn't have gotten himself. On the other end, I don't think Bud White ever learned to not be vicious. The only thing he possibly learned was to maybe not let his emotions get the best of him because he nearly killed Exley (and he hits the prostitute which makes him like his father), but then he goes back to being a psychopath right after that so I don't think he learned anything. This is a fairly big issue with the movie's message, because it doesn't really work. None of the characters (who are alive by the end of the movie) really change except for Exley, who allows more illegal activity to happen... yay?While I think the vast majority of this film is great, I think the biggest issue this movie has is the character drama and the movie's message. The character drama feels so forced and fake that I almost stopped watching the movie because I realized that the established traits of the characters didn't ultimately matter. Anyone could break character to make the plot go in a certain direction, which then cuts out any real sense of tension.Good movie, great acting, great action, okay mystery, bad drama, awful romance. That's my take on it, at least.
The story sure took its time in establishing the initial relationship between the three main characters. And seeing this movie now with knowledge of the cast's reputation beforehand just makes their performance here seem even nicer, except for Kim Basinger's which felt like just an okay acting. I really like how the story weave in and out through the perspective of the the three main characters alternately. And the eventual tie in to the entire story is very good. The revelation of the true traitor in this movie has now became somewhat a classic for the other cop movies where the true bad guy is already there all the time. the acting overall is a great one. I really like how Kevin Spacey, Russell Crowe and Guy Pearce played their respective usual characters. James Cromwell and Danny DeVito did great also in balancing their performances.


                
Crime ala 50's is stylishly done by scripters, director and production designer alike. The flick looks great! Dante Spinotti's camera captures the action, sets and dapper outfits well.The story is an involving, multi-layered one about an unexplained gangland killing, and two young cops who approach their jobs in very different ways. Scripters Brian Helgeland, Curtis Hanson and James Ellroy (from his novel) show skill in the way they unfold the plot and simultaneously introduce us to the principal characters, explaining their motivations along the way.Hanson brings everything together very effectively, allowing the storyline to do most of the legwork, while using the intelligent players to full effect. He also gives the film a pleasing pace, and a near perfect length. Jerry Goldsmith adds a strong score.An excellent cast put the icing on the cake. It's great to see Aussies Guy Pearce and Russell Crowe carrying a pic like this. Pearce is strong in bringing to the screen Ed Exley, the good cop whose incorruptible stance is much akin to Kevin Costner's "Eliot Ness" and Willem Dafoe's "Special Agent Ward" from "Mississippi Burning". Crowe is perhaps even better as rough house cop Wendell "Bud" White, who wholly convinces us he is a dangerous guy with a painful past. For mine, Crowe is the new Mel Gibson. Kevin Spacey is a delight as social climbing old boy Seargeant Jack Vincennes, and it's refreshing to see him in a more friendly role. Notable in support are James Cromwell as hardened Police Captain Dudley Smith and David Strathairn as a suspect entrepreneur. Good turns also from Danny De Vito and Kim Basinger.Saturday, November 8, 1997 - Knox District CentreClass act from director Hanson and a brilliant cast who all gobble each of their scenes with relish. Aussies Pearce and Crowe are both fantastic, and, at the risk of repeating myself, its great to see two lads from down under taking Hollywood by storm. Kevin Spacey is marvellous as the morally dubious Sargeant Jack Vincennes, and James Cromwell is a delight as the wise old captain to whom everybody looks for support. Kim Basinger and Danny De Vito are perfectly cast, while there is support from David Strathairn.Jerry Goldsmith adds a score that solidifies the plot, which was creatively adapted from James Ellroy's novel by Brian Helgeland, director Curtis Hanson and Ellroy himself.A real treat!Saturday, August 22, 1998 - Video
This was a good movie, but extremely overrated. it was predictable in a lot of ways. although the cast was excellent, the story was very film noire. I liked it, but i knew half way through it was the chief of police. my guess is they did a really good job hyping this movie up, but to be as high as it is on the Top 250 is kind of unwarranted to me. I would hardly call this movie "epic" which is the rating it has gotten. There are far better movies that are rated much lower than this. If it were a bit more suspenseful then maybe I could see the high rating, but there were really not many twists that couldn't easily be seen. The Usual Suspects was much better.
Had heard of this film for ages but never actually watched it. Looked at the cast list, recently and thought: "I should really have seen this....".I thought it was quite good, quite intricate and it's testing to keep up with all the different characters at times... Crowe isn't my favourite actor, but I thought Spacey was his shmarmy best. It gave an insight to how corrupt the LAPD was/is... probably even more corrupt back in the time the movie was set.I would definatly recommend people to watch this and make up their own minds but it's not one I'm going to rush out and buy.7 out of 10.


                
LA Confidential is more than a drama or a thriller, it is probably a material showing the existing level of corruption in LA during the 50-60s. This time I saw the film carefully, and certainly its main actors, Spacey, Crowe and Guy Pearce did an excellent work as policemen and detectives also corrupted or each with his own ambitions. I cannot assert that everything shown there is real, but some facts may have encouraged James Ellroy to write the novel and Curtis Hanson to make such a film. The plot is a bit complicated to be told by me here, but I may assert that it is a very well done film, with all necessary ingredients. However, I must also say that although Kim Basinger acted very well, I did not find her acting worth of an OSCAR as the best supporting actress.


                
L.A. Confidential is a thoroughly entertaining movie with great performances from all - especially the two "unknown" leads. However, it was certainly not the best movie of 1997 (that was The Sweet Hereafter), and it was not as good as some people claimed. It is definitely not another Chinatown. Compare the endings of these two films and you will see the big difference. If L.A. Confidential had not ended in such a contrived, Hollywood fashion, it may have been one of the great films of recent years.


                
