Well as a media student myself , i have come across this question many times in books and during lectures. There are simply 3 reasons the film, which was considered as the "Mona Lisa of all films" , created such a legendary appeal upon release in 1941: 1) This was Orson Welles first cinematic debut , even though he had been a huge star in theater , he was given an opportunity few first time directors were permitted to having. He had full artistic freedom and above all power, to direct , produce, write and even star in his own picture. Therefore the film industry and RKO pictures had absolutely no influence in the making of the film and were not to know what was happening on set .Of course this was bound to generate a number of problems as businessmen were curious about the nature and plot of the film , which takes us to the second reason the film caused controversy.2)One of the main reasons the film posed contentions was because the main character , Charles Foster Kane(Orson Welles), featured a range of similarities with real media mogul and newspaper journalist William Randolph Hurst . Therefore the film was seen as depicting the life , problems and personal relationships of a real person thus fictionalizing his life. Some of the similarities between the two persona's are:KANE: newspaper tycoon , worked for New York Inquirer , known as the Kubla Khan of Xanadu ,married talentless singer Susan Alexander Kane, he was a political aspirant to presidency by campaigning for governor, bought his wife the Municipal Opera House, Financier Thatcher, and threat Getty's. Hurst: yellow journalist , worked for New York Journal, political aspirant to presidency by becoming governor, married acress Marion Davies, bought his wife Cosmopolitan Pictures, financier JP Morgan , and threat Tammany Hall.-differences: Susan Alexander Kane( Dorothy Comingdore) leaves Kane later in their life however there was no marriage breakdown for Hurst and Marion.3) The last reason and most pivotal of all to why the film was regarded the way it was , was due to its technical and stylistic innovations . The film upon its release was misunderstood and unappreciated by critics as they couldn't comprehend many of its elements and were too concerned with its dark and mysterious nature which is one of Welles's characteristics in his films. The film after all was 20 years ahead of its time and was only regarded as a triumphant success upon its second release after the American Film Noir era in the 1950's. His most prominent artistic inventions were: -the low angled camera movements -extreme facial closeups -long uninterrupted shots -chiaroscuro lighting -overlapping dialogue , giving a realistic effect to conversations -subjective camera angles -deep focus shots and depth of field -flashbacks that make up most of the film All the above and more constitute to why the film is so influential to all would be film directors and for why many people regard it as the best film of all time. Lastly we musnt forget the exceptional score by Bernard Herrmann who had collaborated also with the best known director of all time, Alfred Hitchcock , and made him the chillin sounds of strings in Psycho and Vertigo to name a few . In addition the superb photography of Gregg Toland in regards to Welles's unique eye on details. After all he wanted to put in each shot everything the human eye can see if they were present.There are many areas of the film which are crucial , these are some of the most important , and as you can see there is never too little or too much that you can add to this masterpiece .


                
Orson Welles' CITIZEN KANE (1941)was perhaps the first American film since the silent era to fully demonstrate the possibilities of the film medium, and the role of the camera. Welles' camera is mobile, no longer the static device used to merely show faces, and Toland's deep-focus cinematography revolutionary. Welles tinkers with traditional filmic narrative conventions to craft a work that is now often termed a 'textbook' of the cinema.Welles himself plays Kane in a remarkable acting performance that requires him to age progressively (which Welles does very convincingly) over the decades. Welles draws significant parallels between Kane and media mogul William Hearst in a statement that probes wealth, power figures and what we perceive as 'truth'.Kane is presented to the audience as an enigma- we never do get a full-bodied portrait of the man, only snippets of highly subjective memories from those who say they "knew him". In the newsreel, a montage of images that details Kane's life and eventual decline, a variety of viewpoints are established. He could be both a Fascist and a Communist- a megalomaniac manipulating power to his advantage or, indeed, being manipulated himself. It is ironic that the true meaning of 'Rosebud' is never discovered by the on-screen reporters, just as the true essence of the man Kane is never fully revealed to the audience. What is Kane searching for? Is it the untouched youth and innocence symbolized in 'Rosebud', or something he himself is not aware of? Kane is never truly sympathetic, yet he is wholly fascinating. He seems to lament the status and power that wealth has given him ("If I hadn't been very rich than I may have been a very great man"), then buys another load of cold statues and ornaments. His cruel treatment of second wife Susan Alexander in his insistence that she train as an opera singer suggest his unwavering persistence, and unwillingness to accept defeat. Kane is willing to stand alone ("I am Charles Foster Kane!") yet seems to crave a filler to his loneliness ("I know too many people. I guess we're both lonely"). Kane is ultimately indefinable; a jigsaw puzzle that both Susan and the audience struggle to piece together into anything whole or real.Welles used actors from his Mercury Theatre to populate this story of greed, corruption and vanity. Friend and close confidant Joseph Cotten becomes friend and observer Jebediah, who is a witness to Kane's slide into moral decay. Dorothy Cormingmore portrays Susan Alexander, a thinly veiled take on Hearst's real-life mistress Marion Davies. She possesses a similar honking Bronx whine and limited talent in her master's chosen area of success (For Davies this was dramatic roles in films; her talent lay in comedy). Distinguished actors Moorehead, Sanford and Sloane also feature in support.One aspect that is perhaps ignored in favor of focusing on the technical innovations is the truly amazing screenplay, one which offers just as many quotable snippets of dialogue as a 'CASABLANCA' or 'ALL ABOUT EVE'. Welles' understanding of the soundtrack is often overlooked. A memorable scene involves a bored Susan Alexander whining to Kane that she "never gets any fun" because they "live in a castle". The visual portrait is fascinating, with Alexander perched on a seat as a princess, complete with tiara in her hair. The echo of her words and Kane's mechanical replies in the huge, yet empty, room speaks volumes for Welles' understanding of the film as a sum of all parts. Here, the sum adds up to perfect- direction, acting, writing, photography and music.The imposing, haunting Xanadu is similar to Hitchcock's Manderlay in REBECCA (filmed the previous year) in that the mansion operates as a both a character and a symbol of the protagonist. Kane's half-finished palace seems to come the closest to suggesting his character- grandiose, larger than life, powerful...yet strangely empty and unfulfilled.
Anyone who sees "Citizen Kane" (1941) for the first time today does so because he or she has heard that it is the greatest film ever made. One simply doesn't come across the film by accident on TV, watching it "for what it is," so to speak. The common approach of seeing it to believe it can be at best exhilarating and at worst hostile. Unfortunately, the latter is usually, although quite understandably, the case. For how can one do anything but look down at a film that elitist snobs have praised for years and years? One simply must prove oneself right by falsifying the critics' claims, leaving the theater or the living room with a shrug and a condescending comment: "it was okay." This will not do. It is a great tragedy if "Citizen Kane" suffers from these kinds of incidents since it ought to be treated with the same kind of respect as Shakespeare's "Hamlet" or Beethoven's "9th Symphony". In order to make this happen, or perhaps enhance someone's viewing experience, I would like to try and explain not why "Citizen Kane" necessarily is the best film, but rather why people have considered it to be. There are over a thousand reviews of the film on this site, and mine will probably drown in the vast sea with them, but hey what can I lose, and who doesn't love talking about Welles and "Citizen Kane"?One might begin with the basic fact that "Citizen Kane" wasn't immediately praised and considered the best film that has blessed the silver screen. It was a financial risk for the RKO studios to give free hands to the novice prodigy Orson Welles, who had gained quite a reputation with the radio show of H. G. Wells' "War of the Worlds", and not surprisingly it didn't pay off. Despite the praises of a few critics, "Citizen Kane" was soon forgotten, and the film wasn't, for example, screened at American cinemas during the late 1940's and early 50's. In France, however, the film was just discovered after the war, and the leading critic of the country, André Bazin hailed it as a masterpiece of the postwar stylistic tendency he characterized as spatial realism. Bazin's disciples, who we all know now as the nouvelle vague directors, followed and adored Welles' masterpiece. François Truffaut proclaimed that "everything that matters in cinema after 1940 has been influenced by 'Citizen Kane'." Thus the film's reputation grew and its new found reputation slowly found the other side of the Atlantic as well. But why did this happen? Why wasn't "Citizen Kane" forgotten, and why, for one, did it arouse the interest of Bazin?First, it ought to be highlighted that the story of "Citizen Kane" is excellent. Loosely based on the life and times of media mogul William Hearst, "Citizen Kane" tells the story about a lonely giant who conquered the American media. It's a story about a man who dedicated his life to possession, but tragically became to be possessed by it himself. As one might have noticed, I am using the past tense, and such is the nature of Welles' narrative in "Citizen Kane". The film begins with the protagonist's death, and then portrays the attempts of a journalist trying to figure out the meaning of his last words -- "Rosebud" -- by interviewing people who knew the man. "It will probably turn out to be a very simple thing," he supposes. This kind of structure was not considered the done thing back in the day. Although the basic structure of finding out a person's past goes back to Sophocles' "Oedipus Rex" as well as numerous detective stories, the uniqueness of "Citizen Kane" lies in the use of different perspectives, creating a non-linear narrative that has echoes from ancient drama and epistolary novels. Yet it wasn't really the intricate story that most fascinated Bazin. What Bazin emphasized was the film's style. Although all scholars have given up on the phoenix myth of "Citizen Kane" and its innovative use of various cinematic means, it is simply a fact that the film made the style public, thus standardizing it for Hollywood. The aesthetic features of the so-called spatial realism, which Bazin adored, supported by the technological innovation of the BNC camera, include deep-focus cinematography, sequence shots, and deep-space composition. These had been used before, but hardly with similar, dare I say, philosophic unity. This stylistic tendency is enhanced by Welles' relentless use of heavy low-angle shots and dynamic montage sequences. There are innovative cuts that spark imagination and soundtrack solutions that open the story and its characters to new dimensions. "Citizen Kane" is often celebrated as a bravura of the art of mise-en-scène since it puts a lot of emphasis on pre-filmic elements such as setting and lighting, but the real gist of the film's brilliance lies in the unity of these together with cinematographic and post-filmic elements.More remains to be said, but space is running out. The end of the matter is, I guess, that none of the individual elements of "Citizen Kane" are, precisely, individual. They have not been distinguished from one another, but rather resonate luminously together in a unique fashion. Technological innovation goes hand in hand with aesthetic inspiration and both support the whole of story, theme, and style. Such unity may not have been present in Hollywood before 1941. From the groundbreaking use of the BNC camera to themes of power, loneliness, and defeat, which are reflected on the level of style, using setting and editing, for one, to reflect the emotional distances between the characters or their existential experience of emptiness, "Citizen Kane" remains a gem to any lover of cinema. It's up there with immortal works of art from poetry, music, and painting. It is, like all great art, a tightly and beautifully sealed original whole which is why (instead of one big nameable innovation) the film has been considered to be of such magnificent proportions.


                
I've heard so much told about Citizen Kane and Orson Welles, so I finally decided to get the film, and find out if it really is all that it's cracked up to be... I must say, it's great. The plot is great, and the way it's told is amazing. The story is first summed up in a matter of minutes, about 15, to be more accurate, and then the rest of the film has characters telling the story through flashbacks and retelling. We hear just about every opinion about Charles Foster Kane, apart from his own. The story is told after his death, and we see everything important that leads up to it, and only in the very end do we understand him, only then do we fully understand who he was, and what made him so. The ending also reveals one of the very most important things in any man or woman... one thing that everyone needs and knows of. I won't reveal it here, as it would almost be a crime to spoil the experience of this film to anyone. The acting is excellent; Welles himself is stellar as Kane, and his impressive appearance, along with his commanding voice, makes the character a forceful sight, nay, experience. The characters are well-written and credible. The character of Kane is probably the most well-rounded and perfectly built up I've seen in a movie, ever. The cinematography is excellent... the editing is great. I can't praise the angles, pans, zooms and transitions enough... it just has to be experienced. Now, for the one thing I can criticize in the film; the pacing. It's only two hours long, but it feels like much, much more. There were portions of the film where it felt like it didn't move at all. When there weren't great dialog or something equally as good in the film, it dragged terribly. There were too many scenes where the dialog seemed pointless, as well, I think. It didn't seem to be leading to anything. However, this criticism is so minor, due to the ending more than making up for it, that I still give this film a perfect score. I can't do anything but agree with its placing at the top of the top #250 films of all time, here on IMDb. As I'm writing this, it's #11. That's pretty much what it deserves, in my opinion. Not higher, not lower. Not the greatest film of all time(that pretty much still belongs to The Godfather, I think... at least, I haven't seen a better film than that, yet), but definitely far up there. I recommend this to any fan of film in general, and anyone who thinks they can understand it; it has a truly profound point that any man(and woman) should know of(preferably through seeing the film for themselves). Don't let the fact that it's old and black & white deter you from seeing this masterpiece. A true cinematic masterpiece, in every sense of the word. 10/10


                
Citizen Kane is probably the best that American Cinema has ever offered, nigh perfect from the start till the end. Often competing with The Godfather, to be numero uno, Citizen Kane is in a league of its own and nonpareil on countless number of fronts. The creative innovation and the technical advancements implemented, can be least regarded as incredible and astonishing, for a 1941 movie. The movie pioneered the phenomena of time switching and special effects in the world of cinema.Citizen Kane has stood the test of time for well over six decades, serving as a benchmark and source of inspiration to the film-makers of different era. Citizen Kane is an obituary about a fictitious Charles Foster Kane, a business magnate and a newspaper tycoon. Through this movie, Orson Welles, not only immortalized Charles Foster Kane but also proved his mettle, as a writer, director, actor and most importantly as an auteur. The scenes presented as flashbacks, not only display his versatility as an actor (taking care of the nuances and the subtleties needed to portray the different stages and aspects of Kane's life), but also his story-telling brilliance. Kane's murmuring of the word 'rosebud' at the time of his death and him publicly annihilating his election opponent, Jim Getys, represent the two extremes of human life, the very low and the very high, respectively.The scenes between Welles and Joseph Cotton are an absolute treat to watch, the latter being at his sarcastic best, depicting contrasting emotions of sympathy and disgust towards his childhood friend, owing to the dichotomy that he suffered, simultaneously taking care of his duties as a journalist, and his friendship with Kane. The movie is studded with numerous mesmerizing and unforgettable scenes and moments, which immensely contribute to the apotheosis that it so deservedly enjoys. A true cinematic magnum opus, without an iota of a doubt and a must for every cinema lover.


                
One commentator made the original point that Kane may have uttered "Rosebud" as his dying word not because he was nostalgic about his childhood but rather as a symbol of sheer chance in affecting and changing his life. As the commentator pointed out, Kane would never have met Susan Alexander, his mistress and later his second wife, if he hadn't been at a warehouse looking over things from his childhood home. If Kane hadn't met Susan, his life would have turned out quite differently. Indeed, if one looks carefully at the childhood scenes of Kane's life, one would see little that Kane, as an adult, would be nostalgic about. There are strong suggestions his father beat him and that, however caring about Kane's welfare his mother was, she seemed emotionally cold and distant. Indeed, Kane's association of his sled Rosebed with the role of chance in his life would be reinforced by the fact that he was interrupted playing on Rosebud and told by his mother and Mr. Thatcher about the radically different turn his life was taking from that of a poor boy to a quite wealthy one really overnight. Indeed, by subtly showing the decisive role of chance in Kane's life, the filmmakers were undermining the powerful American myth of the self-made man. Hard work didn't make Kane's fortune, it was the result of his mother inheriting the title to a mine thought to be worthless but wasn't.
More movie review lists have awarded "Citizen Kane" the honor of being the best film ever made than any other film whatsoever..Deservedly so!! Why?... The superb character portrayals... Charles Foster Kane (based on William Randolph Hearst) was a character which sparked a lot of controversy in the movie industry back in 1941!! This film did not even win best picture that year, that award was given to "How Green was My Valley". Reluctance to allow a film like "Citizen Kane" to be released, evoked a formidable indication that people had a perception of the silver screen as the purveyor of the stilted panacea which provided glossy entertainment for the movie audience!! The ugly depiction of abhorrent human nature that "Citizen Kane" so succinctly illustrated, left a scar on the manufactured illusions of movies during this era!! So many film's entertainment agenda during the '30's and '40's were fortified by high budget fantasy!! These illusions orchestrated a premise of escapism that the moviegoers grew accustomed to!! (Wizard of Oz is a stellar example)...Nevertheless, "Citizen Kane" hit the big screen, and from there, received unprecedented critical acclaim!!What was the attraction?.... Charles Foster Kane was a neglected and irascible man who concocted a myriad of avoidable vulnerabilities in his life. His childhood became a pitfall of doom and despair which left an indelible mark on him!! His empathy for the working class people inevitably translated to his perception of them as chattel, and that he must be the ameliorated recipient of their gratitude!! His fame and fortune was predicated on the idea that the banal proletariat be relegated to the pathetic plight of a marketable commodity!! So many concepts were avant-gard in this movie, this is why they were widely unacceptable!! Concepts such as: The life of a corporate mogul being the culprit to making Charles Foster Kane fall prey to vanity and social entitlement!! He became a victim of megalomania, this was his ultimate downfall!! The dark human emotions and vindictiveness of politicians seeking election and/or re-election manifested themselves through very authentic reactions from the characters in this film!! The perennial egocentric demeanor which afflicted Charles Foster Kane throughout the entire movie, signified a pejorative compassion which was totally self centered!!!The character portrayal of Charles Foster Kane by Orson Wells was outstanding..Genuine feelings that were related to selfishness and avarice in this movie simply astounded me!! People have to consider the year this movie was made (1941) to fully appreciate the ideas which were thrown out at the movie audience!! No matter how reprehensible Charles Foster Kane was, he was also NEWS!!! This will always be the way of the world!! This newspaper king wound up being utterly thwarted by a form of convoluted justice!!! Leaving a largess of artwork behind, merely pointed out to everyone that his priorities purported a horrid arrogance!! The onus was on the movie audience to get acquainted with the despicable aspects of negative emotional qualities that Charles Foster Kane masqueraded around like coveted trophies!! Ultimately, his childhood put a lethal spin on his adverse reactions to everything, and played a significant role in this movie!! I strongly recommend to anyone who is interested in movies, that they see this film!! "Godfather" "Shawshank Redemption" "Lord of the Rings" (Fellowship of the Ring) and "Gold Rush" have all been selected as the greatest movie ever made by one critic's list or another, but, not nearly as often as "Citizen Kane" though!!! "Citizen Kane" is an absolutely remarkable movie!!


                
"Citizen Kane" was a dazzling movie debut for Welles, a twenty-four-year-old infant terrible whose brilliant work for stage and radio had already made him famous<U+0085> RKO had given him carte blanche, and with the collaboration of writer Herman Mankiewicz and photographer Gregg Toland, he had produced a masterpiece<U+0085> "Citizen Kane" is the story of Charles Foster Kane, a rich young man who decides to build a newspaper empire and in doing so sacrifices his professed high ideals on the altar of yellow journalism<U+0085> His personal, political ambitions are ruined when his extramarital liaison with a young singer becomes public knowledge and his efforts to make her an international opera star bring him nothing but ridicule<U+0085> Having alienated his friends and wives and lost a good part of his fortune, Kane spends his last years alone in the enormous art-filled palace he has had created in Florida<U+0085>Told primarily in flashbacks, the film begins with Kane's death: after dropping a paperweight that simulates a snowfall when it is turned upside down, the old man whispers a single word, "Rosebud," and dies<U+0085> Immediately a strident Mach-of-Time newsreel begins, reviewing the highlights of Kane's career as the camera had recorded them over the years<U+0085> It is, however, an unsatisfactory record of a man's life, and a group of journalists decide to probe deeper in an attempt to discover the truth about Kane<U+0085> Perhaps, they speculate, the word "Rosebud" offers a clue... Then ensues a series of interviews with the key people in Kane's life, each of whom relates the man's story as he or she knew it... The portrait that eventually emerges is one of a grasping, vain, selfish, and ambitious man... "He never gave you anything," an old friend recalls bitterly, "he just left you a tip." In the film's final moments, workmen in Kane's palace are seen destroying unwanted junk<U+0085> One of the items they toss into the furnace is a child's sled; as it burns, the word "Rosebud" can be seen painted on it<U+0085>The story of Charles Foster Kane is engrossing but not particularly profound<U+0085> The movie is a superb piece of film-making, nonetheless, because the techniques employed, although not necessarily new, had never before been used together to such startling effect<U+0085> Welles and Toland made brilliant use of deep-focus photography and of an arsenal of lighting effects<U+0085> In the course of the film, flashbulbs pop, spotlights play, the sun's rays pour down into darkened rooms, beams of light are emitted by a movie projector, lightning flashes, and smoke, fog shadows, rain, and snow all contribute to the almost tangible atmosphere<U+0085> Quick, dramatic cuts occur throughout<U+0085> In one famous sequence, Welles employs six fast scenes to portray the disintegration of Kane's first marriage: each shot shows Kane and his wife at the breakfast table, but in each they are clearly more estranged until, in the final shot, they sit in silence as she reads a rival newspaper<U+0085>Toland's constantly moving camera is somewhat obtrusive, but it is nevertheless mesmerizing<U+0085> In the famous sequence at the opera house<U+0097>the occasion of the second Mrs. Kane's disastrous debut<U+0097>the camera shows the anguished vocal coach in the conductor's box and then moves upward to the flies, where one stagehand expresses his critical opinion of the performance by holding his nose<U+0085> Welles' use of sound, ranging from thunder to a cockatoo's screech, reflects his experience in radio<U+0085>There had never been a picture like "Citizen Kane." It openly satirized a wealthy and powerful living American, it deliberately antagonized Hollywood's ruling elite, and it bravely ignored conventional cinema technique<U+0085> Innovative, aggressive, and fascinating, "Citizen Kane" electrified a complacent industry<U+0085> Welles dominated Kane<U+0085> He had become, in a single stroke, the most admired, envied, praised and detested man in Hollywood<U+0085> Unhappily, the movie industry never learned to utilize Welles' quixotic genius, and his career never rescaled the heights it had reached in 1941<U+0085>
Citizen Kane, the film, is many things.  It is a brilliantly crafted series of flashbacks and remembrances.  It is an engaging story of a dynamic man in a dynamic world.  It is a remarkable statement for the wide range of time periods that it covers.  It is a deceptively simple story centering on perhaps the most meaningful word in all of moviedom.  Behind all that, Citizen Kane is the American cinema.  There is not a major director today who has not been influenced by the genius Orson Welles put forth in his debut masterpiece.  The film centers around a group of reporters investigating the origin of the dying newspaper tycoon (loosely based on William Randolph Hearst), Charles Foster Kane's last word: Rosebud.  The movie begins with an unforgettable newsreel montage summarizing the man's life.From there on, the viewer is thrown into a gloriously chaotic world of flashbacks upon flashbacks, in which the viewer slowly learns just about everything about Charles Foster Kane's enthralling life.  From his trying childhood to his rise to power to the pinnacle of his success to his marital difficulties to his fall from grace, the story of Charles Foster Kane is presented for the viewer in a way that few other movies can offer: magically.  Citizen Kane, undeniably, is THE triumph of the American cinema, and one of the greatest films every created.


                
In order to survive the passing years, a film must be able to transcend the limitations of the era in which it was made. This is a difficult test, particularly for films that largely rely upon new technology and innovative technique for impact: as these new effects are seen more often in other films, we come to accept them as standard, and in consequence the film that introduced them no longer has same the freshness as once it did.To a certain extent CITIZEN KANE faces precisely this problem. A pioneer in the use of deep focus photography and in innovative editing, KANE stunned audiences of its day with a powerful visual and aural montage. Some forty years later, however, most filmgoers have had at least some opportunity to see other and later films that at least approximate KANE's effects; consequently, these elements lack the same impact they once had, and the film must increasingly rely upon story, script, and performances for continued appeal. And it is here that KANE runs into a bit of trouble.The story KANE tells is quite cold, and although the script has incredible precision, bite, and complexity, it ultimately presents its characters as second-rate personalities who prove unable to transform their lives into anything beyond the pathos they so deplore. They are not likable enough to be sympathetic, they are not dark enough to fully stir our curiosity, and for all Charles Foster Kane's millions they ultimately emerge as merely so many opportunity-squandering unfortunates. As such, while they certainly engage the viewer in an intellectual sense, they seldom engage the viewer in an emotional one; this coupled with the fact that the film's technique no longer offers quite the same shock-of-the-new as once it did makes CITIZEN KANE increasingly problematic with the passage of time.There is a tremendous amount to admire in CITIZEN KANE, but with each passing year it becomes more and more of a historian's darling and less and less of a film that remains able to engage a purely casual viewer at all levels. Even so, it is (and will no doubt for the foreseeable future remain) a landmark film, one that will be worthy of considerable reverence for many years to come.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer


                
I was wrong in seeing the film for the first time as a teenager (14-15). I wasn't mature enough to grasp the meaning of the movie and the entire plot. Because of that first view, I've been under the impression that the film is strange and alienated.Yesterday I decided that it deserves a second view, now that I'm a little bit older (22) and have seen more than enough films, compared to when I was younger.I just finished watching it and it left me with teary eyes and a lump in my throat. I was moved - and didn't even see it coming.When I first saw the film I couldn't relate to Charles Foster Kane, and it wrecked the film for me - until I decided to watch it again.In my opinion, the early and final years of Charles are those that make the film get under your skin and into your heart.


                
Ease the tension. Give it a 10-rating. I'm not sure if I could pick any movie and claim it was the Best Movie of All Time. That's a great deal of pressure. So I ignore such a label, and I watch the film."Citizen Kane" is powerful, but it's so well constructed as to give you multiple impressions of Kane that it's hard to realize how emotionally charged this movie is. I love it for lines such as Kane's explanation of what he would've been if he hadn't have been rich: "Everything you hate," he says. And I love the movie because of Welles's voice. You could look at this movie a hundred different ways, and the details would still remain to support you.It's perhaps one of the most intricately-constructed films I've ever seen, and the honesty in the film is magnificent. This movie does make me sad, because among other questions, it asks this: "If you're remembered after you die for what you did, what you will it be?" And, to me, that's a very sad question to want to ask. A feeling that there is no absolute understanding between people. That it's all skewed by our own personalities. That who you are depends on the paper you chose to read.How could anyone not think this movie is great? Best film of all time, whatever. The movie is brilliant, one way or another.


                
I'm not in the habit of granting gold, silver and bronze. In this case I'll make an exception for this is an exceptional experience. I watched this film many times. Lately, I found myself crying for no apparent reason while watching it. It must be the Stendhal syndrome has dawn on me I guess. There are two periods of film history: Before-CK and After-CK.
My guess is it still is ahead of its time just as Van Gogh was 100 years ahead of his time. Nowadays, his painting he could never sell himself are breaking record prices at auctions.Years from now, the general public will demand to be taken beyond this milestone. As of now, it still is "art-house" stuff for students and intellectuals.


                
I rented this movie almost accidentally on the route back from shooting pool, without any preconceptions of what it was about, although I was very aware it had been dubbed "the greatest film ever" by many.Basically, the film asks a highly abstract question of whether we can reconstruct a puzzle from a set of available pieces: are the pieces independent or can there be a piece which fundamentally affects the reconstruction? It also presents a very specific example of how this kind of projection applies to human psychology: can there be a single event or item, a "rosebud", such that a man's life cannot be wholly understood without it? We all project our persona every day to our fellow human beings, but no one else really knows what's running in our minds as we lay in bed in the evening: the portions of our minds with no trespassing.I especially like how this theme is shown on so many levels at once. At the bottom, the reporter is trying to reconstruct Kane's life by anecdotal evidence; Kane's readers are trying to reconstruct the world state by Kane's newspaper; and finally, we the viewers are trying to reconstruct the meaning of the film by watching it. The film was based on the media mogul William Randolph Hearst, whose persona the writers first shattered to pieces and then reconstructed to form Charles Foster Kane.An interesting add to the interpretation (forgot the name of the critic behind it) is that the whole movie is imagination, or self-inspection, by Kane himself in seek of his rosebud. In this case, the unseen Thompson could be seen as Kane himself, trying to find his lost childhood innocence from the inner depths of his mind.
A word of warning: The following review and critique contains "spoilers" (dialog and plot-points which may - and in this instance - will give away scenes and surprises in the film), but it is unlikely that this will be the first time you have read or heard this information. After all, what can really be said or written about this film that hasn't be said or written before? Everyone who writes about film (from it's release in 1941, to me tonight, to someone else tomorrow) has written something either about or in reference to "Citizen Kane". It is a true classic. "Citizen Kane" is not only one of the most talked about films ever, it is also one of the most influential films ever. And, perhaps, singularly the best film American cinema has ever produced. Art is a very subjective thing, and this film is clearly filled with it. Only great art or great tragedy can produce such lengthy and long-term discussion. So what can be said that has not been said previously? Let me start by saying I did not like Charles Foster Kane, nor do I believe I was meant to. I do not take for granted that characters must be sympathetic. They do not. There is such a thing as the dark and mysterious (sometimes dangerous) character; someone who, simultaneously, will shock and infuriate us, yet from whom (for some reason) we can not turn away. In other words, it is possible to care about and become involved in the life stories of less than idyllic people. This is especially true with regards to Charles Foster Kane. Mr. Kane is a tyrant. He's as hated as he is feared. By the second act we see Kane as a hostile, detached and driven man. But time offers the unique gift of insight to those who are willing to wait for it. Something did not occur to me until recently (I did not see or hear it in any speech or interview, nor have I read of it in any of the too-numerous-to-count reviews, write-ups and critiques of the film): Charles Kane is not a man at all. He is still the same scared little boy taken away from his home and his family, lost in the wilderness, scarred for life and seemingly irreversible damaged. Now, I am positive that I am not the first to come to this conclusion (simply based on my personal knowledge that I am not that bright), but I am the first (that I know of) to write it down tonight. What do we see in the beginning of the picture (which we don't realize until the end)? The end of innocence. Lost youth. Separation. These are the things that plague Kane as an adult and shape the broken soul who tried to purchase virtue, marry youth and fight for any kind of connection throughout his "adult" life. He needed a connection. To anyone. Or anything. Do you remember in the beginning of "Citizen Kane" when he says "Rosebud" and then drops the snow globe? The butler tells the reporter at the end of the film that Mr. Kane said it twice. You only hear him say it once in the beginning. But at the end of the film, when he tears apart the room after his wife walks out, destroying practically everything, he picks up the snow globe, and is about to break it, but notices the sled encased in it. He is crying and says "Rosebud". He then walks past several employees, including the butler (who clearly heard him) and then lies down, says it again, drops the globe and dies. Here is my point: He is redeemed. Regret equals redemption. Kane regrets everything. Susan Alexander, this wife that left him (whom he left his first wife and son for); Kane met her while on the way to the warehouse that contained his youth (including his childhood sled "Rosebud" which was his last physical bit of material possession that held any connection to his long-deceased mother). He never made it to that warehouse (that night or any other) because he met Susan. Because of this he never regained, retained or made peace with that lost youth. So instead he tried to buy happiness and marry the youthful Ms. Alexander, in an attempt to hold onto some sort of ideological notion of what childhood could have been. Only after the second Mrs. Kane walks out, and he sees that sled in that snow globe, does he recall what he would have or could have been had he never accepted that "hot water" that Susan Alexander offered him on that sidewalk that first night they met. He becomes a man in that instant. Charles regrets everything. Then, he makes peace with everything by remembering everything. And he dies with redemption.
There is a telling moment in CITIZEN KANE that quietly reveals a lot about what makes the film great. It is a scene set in the dark days of the Great Depression, where Kane is turning over much of his empire to his arch-nemesis, Thatcher. As they talk, Kane casually walks away from the camera and we suddenly discover that the room the men are in is an illusion. The background wall that looks to be right behind the them is actually twenty or thirty feet away, the window sill isn't at waist height, but actually is over Kane's head. The room is huge and Kane is dwarfed by his surroundings. Kane than walks back toward the camera and perspective again creates an illusionary intimate image.It is a neat camera trick and KANE is full of neat camera tricks. It discretely plays with our perception of reality, just as the story does. Through out, Charles Foster Kane is at a distance and slightly out of focus and then he is up close and personal; he is larger than life and suddenly small and petty; he is always at the center of the picture, yet concedes the foreground to the various witnesses who tell his story. CITIZEN KANE is a treasure chest of cinematic gadgets and gizmos; yet as deliciously stylized as KANE is, the style meshes perfectly with the content. CITIZEN KANE is a story of illusions and perceptions told through illusions and perceptions. Before KANE, and for the most part afterward, no film has quite taken hold of the medium of film and done so much with it. Other directors have tried to dazzle us with how cleverly stylish they can make their films, but usually the effect is self-consciously arty: Every rabbit pulled out of a hat is greeted with a drum roll and a fanfare. The beauty of KANE and the reason director Orson Welles remains an artist of awed respect, arise from the casual grace with which he performed his magic tricks. His rabbits are in themselves so fascinating that how he produces them is only of secondary interest. Yet for a film obsessed with stylistic trickery, CITIZEN KANE still manages to be an incredibly personal story.To say a film is efficient may seem like a backhanded compliment, but part of the wonder of KANE is that it tells so much story and covers so much territory on a B-movie budget. It is an epic created on sound stages and with editorial mosaics. Welles begins his film with a mock newsreel obituary announcing Kane's passing, then basically repeats aspects of that same story several times over from different perspectives, maintaining a vague chronology, but jumping around in time to let us know that there is more to a life than the mere passage of time. Welles tells us who Kane was to the world, then who he was to the people who actually knew him -- suggesting that who we are is defined not by what we have done but by who we have touched. It is one of the most effective and insightful film biographies that was ever made. The fact that it is a biography of a fictional character is totally irrelevant.The essence of CITIZEN KANE is the fable of the blind men and the elephant. Like the blind men, who, upon examining only a part of the beast, assume that the elephant is a rope (the tail), a tree (a leg), a sword (a tusk), etc., the witnesses to Kane's life see him as a spoiled child, an idealist, a hypocrite, a monster and so on and so forth. All are correct, yet all are wrong, only seeing in Kane what they want to see. We never meet Kane the man, only Kane the illusion, yet we end up with a vague grasp of who he must have been. If CITIZEN KANE offers any universal truth it is that a life -- or a movie -- is more than the sum of the parts.Even given all the well-deserved praise proffered to Welles as a director, he never seems to get his due as an actor. His embodiment of Charles Foster Kane is, simply put, one of the great screen performances of all time. We remember that KANE saw Welles as a first time director, but it was also his first time on screen professionally and he gives a performance that is both self-assured and subtle, bold and bemused. Taking Kane from his twenties to his sunset years without a false note, giving a performance that combines gentle humor with grandiose theatrics, Welles creates a character of shifting moods and conflicting motives, yet always consistently believable. In later years, Welles perfected his persona of larger-than-life bluster and wounded arrogance, on screen and off, but he never again got a chance to play a character of such complexity and nuance.KANE's status as "the greatest film ever made" is always being challenged, defended and debated, yet it is remarkable how seldom the film itself is imitated. Despite being given this perfect blueprint for how to film a biography, it is rare that any film attempts to break free of the this-happened-that-happened style of storytelling. It is as if the legendary stature of the film intimidates others.Hitchcock once said that film is life with all the dull parts edited out. Welles adheres to this and goes one better: CITIZEN KANE is all highlights and underlined passages, a Cliff Notes biography of sorts. Does this allow us to get to know the real Charles Foster Kane? Well, yes, and no. We are allowed to solve the mystery of "Rosebud," but Kane the man remains just out of our reach. We never really meet Charles Foster Kane, only his shadows. Welles and screenwriter Herman J. Mankiewicz give us pieces of a puzzle, but the pieces are not all from the same puzzle.


                
The problem with writing about a film like Citizen Kane is that with 809 previous comments on the boards here, there is little that hasn't been said already. The best you can do is not look at any others and express your own thoughts your own way.I've always felt the real reason that William Randolph Hearst so bitterly resented Orson Welles's masterpiece is that it got really too close to his own soul for him to be easy. Most folks who talk about Citizen Kane go for the obvious target, Welles's depiction of Marion Davies (Susan Alexander) as a no talent gold digger. In fact Welles himself in later years said he thought he was unfair to Davies then in Dorothy Comingore's performance. What Welles showed in Charles Foster Kane was the insincerity of his beliefs. The key line in Citizen Kane I've always thought was what Joseph Cotten said that his friend Charlie Kane had a lot of opinions, but didn't believe any of them. To this day serious biographers of Hearst still wonder exactly what he did believe when the day was done.Citizen Kane came up with a host of Oscar nominations, but only took home one award for original screenplay for Welles and Herman Mankiewicz. Original it certainly was in concept and execution.The role that was written by Welles and Mankiewicz and directed by Welles for Welles is one of the greatest roles ever written for any film actor. The technique of Citizen Kane is always discussed, the flashbacks told from many points of view for the audience to get a grasp of what the title character was all about. What's not discussed is Welles himself.What he does in fact is give several performances of the same man in one film. Welles reinterprets Kane five or six times depending on whose flashback we're seeing. He's a scared child being taken from his parents, he's a rich frat boy and incorrigible scamp as seen by George Couloris the J.P. Morgan like banker, he's an idealist and crusader as seen by his business manager Everette Sloane, a man with no core set of beliefs who will do anything to bend the public to approval by his closest and maybe his only real friend Joseph Cotten, a lonely man with a compulsion for real love by Dorothy Comingore, and as an aging tyrant by butler Paul Stewart. Welles makes every one of these Kanes come alive and each relates to the other.The names of all those I've mentioned in the cast before were from Welles's Mercury Theater Company, nearly all went on to substantial movie careers. Others from the cast who did are Ray Collins, Agnes Moorehead, Ruth Warrick, and Erskine Sanford. I don't think any other film comes close to introducing so many talented players to the screen.The film begins with the aged Kane's death and that single word 'Rosebud' which sends everyone scrambling to find out just what he had on his mind in his final moments on earth. Those searching never do find out, but you the audience does and the unveiling of Charles Foster Kane's inner soul is something once seen and never forgotten.


                
I went into this knowing of its great reputation, but fearing it would be very slow and boring with a lot of dialogue and a heavy 'moral message'. Although it did have an underlying message (and a very strong and well made one too), the film wasn't at all what I expected; the camera work and music in particular livened it up, and at times it was quite light hearted. I think this helped make the emotional scenes all the more powerful. It kept me gripped all the way, and I don't have a long attention span. The acting throughout is superb, with very little of the overacting that you might expect from this period, with Welles in particular giving an outstanding performance in the lead role. My advice is give it a try, even if you think it's not your type of film.


                
MINOR SPOILER IN SECOND PARAGRAPH."Citizen Kane" is, without a doubt, one of the greatest American films ever made. Orson Welles was basically handed the keys to the city - he had everything he wanted and complete control over budget, actors, script, and more.He plays Charles Foster Kane, who dies at the beginning of the film while uttering the immortal words "Rosebud." So the film starts off by searching for what "rosebud" really means. We see countless relations of Kane interviewed. None of them know what "rosebud" really means. But as the film goes on we see glimpses of Kane's life, and eventually the mystery unfolds itself.Like Akira Kurosawa's "Ikiru," "Citizen Kane" is a glance at a man's life and what has driven him to bitterness. Kurosawa claims he never saw "Citizen Kane" before making his film, but nevertheless they form a nice back-to-back viewing."Citizen Kane" has, perhaps, some of the best makeup ever seen on film. A twenty-four-year-old Orson Welles is easily disguised as a sixty-something, overweight man. (And this was before he actually WAS overweight later in his life.) I recently bought the Special Edition DVD with a commentary by Roger Ebert, who said in his commentary that there are probably more special effects in "Citizen Kane" than in the "Star Wars" films.Though subtle, I have to agree that there truly are many special effects used in the film. They're so flawless it's hard to even notice.Another thing Ebert pointed out is how low the ceilings are, which creates a feeling of paranoia. All these things work on a subconscious level that you don't really pick up on the first time.And if you want symbolism, this film is for you. As Kane hands over his empire in one scene, he walks over to a window, which to the naked eye looks normal-sized. But as Kane nears the window, guess what? Turns out the window is very, very high. It makes Kane look small. Think about it. He's handing over his empire and growing smaller in his wealth. It's all very symbolic.I recommend picking up the DVD; it also contains a two-hour documentary called "The Battle Over Citizen Kane," plus many, many more tidbits, including the original theatrical trailer (which is very odd and original).All in all, "Citizen Kane" is a classic of epic proportions. One of the very greatest American films out there.
Citizen Kane (according to the American Film Institute) is the greatest film ever made. Though I cannot comment fairly on that (I haven't even seen half of the nominated 100) I can assure any readers one thing: Citizen Kane is marvellous. I am not simply following the crowd, as I thought one to many official movie reviewers were doing. I agree with them; Citizen Kane lives up to the hype, just about.I heard from a few average (but movie-loving) people that they thought Citizen Kane was good, but not superb or as good as it was supposed to be. I read so many great reviews, and really did think the reviewers were simply afraid to put this historic film out of place. I apologise: Citizen Kane is nearly perfect, and were it not for some small details in the second half of the film, it would be.Nearly everything is spot on. The musical score, in particular, is the best I've ever seen. The film has charisma, charm. The acting is impeccable. The script fantastic. It's epic. And all done by a 25-year-old, which really gives it full marks.And especially for the time, it must have been incredible. The cinematography, the landmark qualities, everything was so original and new. But in the final half hour, deeper insight is necessary. We are left hanging on a thread, wondering especially after some incidents how the newsroom is going. We know little of Kane newspapers, though the dilemmas in his personal life are particularly well played out.Top banana, this is.**** out of **** (4 out of 4)


                
We are talking about a movie that can't be described fairly enough with words. A movie that gave the lead in cinema to Americans. Very well high effects that were very superior at the 40s. the scripts remains as one of the best ever (if not the best already) it is the only Oscar the movie won after all . When I first seen that masterpiece I didn't expect anything out of it .. because a dear friend warned me and told me not trouble myself seeing a such a crap film. Well, one day I told myself that I have to see it, at least to see what's wrong with it .. and I did see it twice after the 1st time .. and frankly every time I see the movie it proves without a doubt that ethier: it is the best American movie or the best movie of all-time. Orson Welles did a hell of a job directing, producing and acting .. even, the way he talks as old Charles Kane sounds so realistic, Orson Welles without a doubt captures even the soul of the character of Charles Kane. It is a shame not to give the movie its all eleven deserved Oscars .. but when we know that the multi-billionaire William H. fought so hard to prevent people of seeing this film which touches his life somehow, I say we will be glad that we had a chance to see such a movie, aren't we?It is a movie that lost prizes but definitely won our interests of a fine piece of art.
The fascinating mystery drama, the most ambitious and boldest debut film, with time he got labeled as one of the best and most innovative. I will not engage in, nor even parody comparisons. I am only interested in the "rosebud". The relentless pursuit of power, empathy and proving are not the essence. Things that no one pays attention are the essence. CITIZEN KANE is a dramatic and narrative masterpiece. The work in which all details of biographical mosaic of one man. A man who is after all a "big" except in being true to himself. The man can not be explained in one word, but to man one word can mean almost anything.The press magnate's only means of stories through which the director demonstrates extremely fresh, innovative and secure access, skillfully guiding the story and the actors, playing with light and shadow, deep personnel and other plans, and creating a whole that attracts maturity. I am delighted by the fact that each average viewer of the film can compose and reconstruct the story of the main character as he wants. The man and the emergence in society. Not many people will find some sort of fund, mainly to raising story to a multitude of disagreements, search and conflict. Man until deep talk with himself will not be able to talk to the world.Although Kane is incredibly rich and powerful, failing to take advantage of this wealth and power in order to win the election for governor, to promote his second wife as an opera star, or have the love and loyalty of those who surround him. At the end is shown as a lonely old man, imprisoned in his castle, ornate palace which was built to satisfy his ego. His precious things can not replace the emotional loss to the in your life.The acting is pretty good. I think that . Joseph Cotten (Jedediah Leland), garnered the sympathy of the majority. Kane is people generally was good fun. Loneliness, visible at the end of the film fulfills the main character throughout his life.


                
and how do I end a review of this film? Well bear with me while I try.Why is Citizen Kane a great film and yet so hard to review? Because it is like a big ball of yarn with the ends of many threads sticking out. You can just yank on any thread, start writing, and go on forever. Let me start with its style, which is discussed in great detail in the late Roger Ebert's excellent commentary on the DVD of the film. Its unusual photography, editing, scene transitions, etc. are why it is shown in film school.For example, the lap dissolves in the scene with Joseph Cotten in the old-folks home were very unusual. The scene of Cotten talking dissolves into a flashback scene with Kane, and half-way through the dissolve, we see Cotton on the left side of the screen and the Kane flashback on the right side, and that is held for several seconds. It is a dissolve into a split screen by means of very clever lighting. The lights fade out on the right side of the Cotten scene, and they fade up on the right side of the Kane scene. That technique had never been done before, and I've seen it in only one or two movies made after that.Then there is the story, the theme of which seems to be uttered by the reporters near the end of the film, as they give up searching for the meaning of Kane's last word - "Rosebud". They say Kane was a man who, though one of the wealthiest men in the world ,lost everything he ever had, even though he died rich. And so the story we have been watching is, on the surface, just that. The final scene showing you Kane's possessions that are considered of no value by auditors being tossed into the flames of an incinerator - one happening to be a sled with the name "Rosebud" on it, the sled Kane was playing on the day he became a rich man - as a child through a quirk of fate.I used to be in the camp that believed that the snow globe was representational of Kane's nostalgia for his boyhood home and maybe for the sled. I no longer believe his attachment to the piece has anything to do with his pre-wealth youth. I think it reminds him of a time much later than that. That snow globe actually was a possession belonging to Susan Alexander before Kane ever met her, sitting on her dressing table in her small apartment. Kane picked up the globe during his rampage in her bedroom in Xanadu when she left him. Holding that globe abruptly put an end to his destruction of her bedroom. Why? I think it links back to the evening when they met and Alexander had no idea who he was. That night Charles Foster Kane was just a "schoolboy" who could wiggle his ears and do shadow puppets to impress a thoughtful and attractive young lady. This courtship was a period in their relationship that we can assume was not influenced by his money. For that one evening, he wasn't the richest man in the country. No other relationship that Kane had, once he was wrested from his sled as a child, began in that same manner. All the other people surrounding Kane as an adult were near him because of, or with full knowledge of, his wealth and power. Jed Leland was a friend from his college days. Mr. Bernstein was an employee. The first wife, who was met and courted on a buying tour of Europe, would know who Charles Foster Kane was when they met. Only Susan Alexander came into his life completely carefree of his wealth. And she brought with her that snow globe.While holding the snow globe as he lay dying, Kane isn't thinking about the cabin in Colorado or his sled - even if that is the scene depicted in the snow globe. (What an odd coincidence that she would own a snow globe with a cabin and sled in it when they met. That is a bigger "huh?" than who heard Kane's last words.) Kane is thinking about this very personal artifact that belonged to Susan Alexander, the woman who, in spite of a toothache, offered some kind assistance to a stranger one night long ago.Why does Kane whisper "Rosebud" on his death bead and not "Susan."? I don't know. Perhaps it is just where his mind wandered while reminiscing about that evening in a young woman's apartment when he was detoured from going to the warehouse that stored the artifacts of his youth.What are the other threads you could pull on and write paragraphs about? Kane's parents and why his mother did what she did, apparently never seeing her son again once she turned him over to be raised by bankers, somehow seeing this as an act of love. Then there is the issue of memory and how people are not what they seem to be - the apparent sycophant Mr. Bernstein seeming to have a great deal of wisdom and depth in his old age that you would not have foreseen when he was young - he talks about a girl he saw on a ferry 40 years before and how a day hasn't passed that he hasn't thought of her. How Kane liked being "the voice and defender of the masses" but maybe didn't like the idea that maybe someday those masses would organize and demand their rights, as Jed Leland had said on his way out of Kane's life. And on it goes.I'm sorry if this review is a bit disorganized, but "Citizen Kane" is not linear storytelling, or any other kind that I can identify with one word, yet it is storytelling at its best.
Mysterious - art house classic. The idea of Citizen Kane is interesting in itself, but the presentation exceeds the idea. Citizen Kane perfectly presents flashbacks, witnessing Charles Foster Kane's childhood, his rise and fall from power, the more time passes through the film,the more depth is added, a circular structure. Citizen Kane is surrounded by a cloud of mystery, the mystery seemingly building up to something great. Citizen Kane is mostly told visually, doing so, better than words ever could. Citizen Kane is a rich experience, and all its detail adds up to what Welles is succeeding in telling you about themes of the movie: power, human frailty, the circumstances that make a mere man into something bigger, the men who shapes their own times, and the problems that men like this will have in life as they interact with normal mortals.Visually impressive, still to this day. It has plenty of exceedingly long takes, making it much more immersive. Citizen Kane was innovative, such as, it didn't go in for close ups on characters' faces to show emotion, Orson Welles allows the audience to choose what they want to watch within the frame. With this kind of filmmaking, it's very clear what the characters are thinking and feeling as it's being shown right in front of you, doing so, Orson Welles chose to give the audience more freedom - he respected the audiences' intelligence. Citizen Kane is one of the most effective films when it comes to film studies, as it's pretty much an entire film studies course in the space of 2 hours. Citizen Kane has a lot of visual symbolism, much of its visual symbolism has been for me quite enjoyable analysing. It doesn't depend on the visual symbolism, rather its visual storytelling, every shot is filled with all these little meaningful stylistic touches that add to the story, ''telling more than a thousand words.''Bernard Herrmann's score is in my opinion, not anything special, though it still fits the mystery and pace of Citizen Kane. Welles, himself, would often edit the film to fit the rhythm or length of Herrmann's compositions, which can be seen in such scenes as background music whilst Thompson reads the Thatcher papers is reminiscent of the slow unrelenting tick of a clock.Orson Welles perfectly portrays and captures the spirit of Charles Foster Kane, as a young man, and he even delivers a convincing performance as an old empty man. The rest of the cast are passable, as there are no other stand out performances than Orson Welles' character, Kane.Recommended for both film buffs and the mainstream movie goer, even people whom like classic theatre or great novels of high rank. The story's pace is pretty fast forward, though some scenes may feel slow compared to modern movies. Some may find it boring, a lot of mixed thoughts on it, from my friends, whom I've seen it with. I, myself love this movie, it has this mystery laying around it, where the end, at first viewing left me silent, thinking over it - I love such endings!


                
The BFI top 50 films list was dominated by one film for 50 years. That film, was "Citizen Kane". Any film that tops a critically acclaimed list, deserves a watch. I can say without a doubt that this film is one of the most compelling and stylishly executed motion pictures I have ever viewed.As for my title, "The Best Film Ever?", I truly believe if there is one film that rises above the others I have viewed it must be this one, there is something so unique and tidy about the way this film has been put together and shot, it is full of iconic shot's that when you watch them you will want to pause the film and just stop and stare with delight at the beauty of the camera work and the perfect acting that is being displayed within the shot.The plot of Citizen Kane consists of a young boy, Charles Foster Kane, who has been rejected by his parents and is given away to live with a rich, money grabbing politician who is very wealthy. Charles runs into this wealth and also becomes the head of a newspaper company named, "The Inquirer". Charles changes the whole system of the newspaper and how they fill their papers. Charles transforms the paper and makes it much more politically competitive with the other papers, this draws attention to the Inquirer as well as drawing attention to Charles himself. Charles then runs for governor and displays a powerful speech which consists of some tremendous acting and is surrounded by some iconic scenery which is lead by a large poster of Kane which stuck in my mind because of its wonderful vastness. Everything looks good for Kane until his affair, (so to speak), is discovered by an opposing governor candidate. When this story gets out, Kane's chances of becoming governor deteriorate and this starts Kane's spiral of self destruction and in time drives him into his grief hole which he calls "Xanadu". He goes to live there with his wife who he lost his chances of governor for and slowly becomes a more miserable weaker man.The second side of the plot is a lot shorter but is a key part of the film. It starts when there is a shot of Kane, (At this point we do not know who Kane is), drops a snow globe whilst delivering the words, "Rosebud", and then the snow globe rolls down some steps and smashes on the wood floor and Kane dies. Then after his death a newspaper journalist is sent around to talk to Kane's acquaintances to find out what rosebud could possibly mean, the conversation's between the journalist and Kane's acquaintances turn into flashbacks which structure the whole film wonderfully and create an entertaining unpredictable story that it would be almost impossible to appreciate if not enjoy immensely.My verdict on this film is pretty much summed up by the title, the film is structured unlike any other films in its time period and is assisted superbly by consistent, powerful and distinct acting that when viewed will impress anybody who is a lover of films and also appeals to people who are used to watching films that maybe are not so acclaimed, I am instructing you now, do not be hesitant to watch this film, it is almost impeccable and thoroughly entertaining."Whatever I do, I do because I love you", from me, Kane receives a 10.


                
