On the Criterion Collection DVD of Orson Welles' classic "Citizen Kane" there is an original theatrical trailer where Welles cleverly advertises the film by introducing us to the cast including the chorus girls, whom he refers to as some nice ballyhoo. That pretty much sums up my opinion of the often over analyzed film that always shows up at the top of the list of greatest films ever made. Even though this was the first time I sat down to watch the film as a whole, I knew everything about it from studying it in film class and from the countless number of essays, homages, and parodies that have come down the pike over the years. It seems impossible now to judge the film against a blank slate, but with great ballyhoo comes great scrutiny.Released in 1941 by RKO as a Mercury Theater Production, "Citizen Kane" is the tale of an influential and shockingly wealthy newspaper tycoon (Welles) inspired by the life of William Randolph Hearst. The story follows the investigation into the origins of "Rosebud"-the mysterious word Kane utters on his deathbed. Following newsreel footage announcing Kane's death, we are then thrust into a series of flashbacks through interviews with various people who knew Kane that reveal the nature of his character.From a technical standpoint, Welles' film is as innovative and engrossing today as it was yesterday. Every single piece of cinematic trickery, every dissolve, every long tracking shot, every seamless edit, every play with chronology, every special effect is perfect. Welles was audacious and inventive with his art, and it is for these technical aspects that "Citizen Kane" will always stand the test of time.However, the story of "Citizen Kane" remains cold and distant. I didn't instantly connect with the characters and the plot the way I did with other classics from the period like "Casablanca" or "The Third Man" or even more recently, "There Will Be Blood." Often, the supporting players over-act, and the flashbacks are tedious (especially the one detailing Kane's second marriage) or emotionless (like the scene showing Kane's snow covered childhood). There's a certain smug arrogance to the whole production that makes it seem like perhaps Welles was secretly making a comedy. It leaves one wondering how it would've come across had Welles actually been allowed to do a straight up biopic of Hearst.Is it any wonder that so many critics today hail this as THE all time great? Much of today's cinema is geared towards style and technique over substance, and way back in 1941, Welles was the first to author this very modern brand of cinema where the art is not in the story but how it is told and shown to the audience. His "Citizen Kane" is technically rich, layered, and enthralling but narratively vapid. Did I ever really care about Kane or Rosebud? No, but it was fascinating to watch. It's some very nice ballyhoo indeed.


                
Hey, make no mistake: this film does deserve lofty status. It is a good film, fantastically photographed.....but the greatest of all time? I question that, but that kind of question - Who's number one? - is impossible to answer. I would think to be number one you would have to have a great technical film, great story, great acting, great camera-work as this has, AND have it generally loved by the public. Then you have a true number one picture of all time. I'm not a fan of "Gone With The Wind," but that was a technical marvel, too, for its day and was universally loved by millions of people....so I can see that being listed number over Citizen Kane. The same goes for Casablanca, Ben-Hur and a number of wonderful films.Anway, concerning this movie, I enjoyed it best for the cinematography. Orson Welles, the "genius" behind this film, was ahead of his time with his inventive camera-work. The acting is good and it's interesting to note that this was Welles' first acting role. Yes, he was an amazing talent, behind or in front of the camera. The story is pretty unlikable and, in this day and age would be too boring for most people under 50, sad to say. However, even older, more "mature" folks find this hard to get through sometimes from what I have read.The unlikable part mainly comes from the lead character, "Charles Foster Kane," played by Welles. He is simply a selfish egomaniac. Other unpleasant parts of the story include several scenes with his second wife, in which she berates him in this shrill hysterical voice; the fact there is very little humor in here and the ending is anything but uplifting. For those who find this a confusing story, I suggest giving it another chance. I found this film better the more chances I gave it. It also looks fabulous on the latest special-edition DVD. In summary, it was a great technical achievement but remember professional critics usually have the same mindset and are afraid to be their own person, so don't feel stupid or inadequate if this film doesn't do it for you. You are hardly alone. But, yet, that camera-work has to be seen and appreciated if you really love movies.


                
It is not hard to see why this is considered to be one of cinema's greatest movies ever made as this movie hits every element perfectly.After a wealthy newspaper tycoon dies, journalists scramble to find out the meaning of his last word "Rosebud". Then we see the history of his life and everything he encountered throughout it.The acting is magnificent. Especially coming from Orson Welles who in my opinion gave one of the best performances ever put on screen. But every other actor offers something great to the movie and not a single one of the main actors did a weak job acting. They all gave strong performances.Wells direction is terrific and he is able to use basic elements to craft something truly brilliant with this picture. His work behind the camera is immaculate and it brings the viewer into a truly special experience.This movie is engaging from the very first scene. Some people may not like the talk heavy dialogue but if you like slow paced movies (which I usually do) then it shouldn't bother you.This movie has stood the test of time. It has aged well and it shows no sign of losing popularity. Is it one of my favorite movies of all time? No, but the reason it gets a 10/10 is because of its impact on cinema and how much it contributed to it. The only American film which comes close to topping this masterpiece is "The Godfather".


                
It's difficult criticizing a movie that's hailed as the greatest movie of all time. From the standpoint of cinematography, it might just deserve all the accolades that have been heaped upon it all these years. But my specific bone to pick with Citizen Kane is a story line that kind of runs out of gas. Orson Welles said that 'Kane' was not specifically about William Randolph Hearst but represents a sort of composite portrait of the rise and fall of a prominent American in the public eye. But one can see clearly that Welles had it in for Hearst. So much of the first half of the movie (up until the midpoint) is reminiscent of Hearst. And indeed it is the most compelling part of the picture. Up until half-way through Kane we feel that Welles is really being fair to his Kane-Hearst character who's depicted as charming but also capable of acts of megalomania. It's this multi-dimensional portrait throughout the first half that really grips our attention. Plot wise the stakes are raised until Kane's thunderous fall from grace when he's caught in a "love nest" with the "singer". This is the setup for the second half of Act 2 of the script leading to the 'point of no return' when Kane flips out after his second wife leaves him.Welles was faced with a big problem in the second half of his script—what to do with main character? The first half is so believable because it is based on the events of a real person's life. But when Welles looked to Hearst for inspiration for the second half of his movie, there really were few compelling conflicts LEFT for him to latch on to. In real life, Hearst continued to publish his newspaper, was sort of a recluse who didn't reveal much about his private life and did NOT have a bad relationship with the woman who he was involved with (in contrast to the relationship between the fictional Susan Alexander and Charles Foster Kane). So what did Welles do? He decided to create a false portrait of Hearst, a veritable straw man, which he could easily shoot down. Welles, the Hollywood 'progressive' now went into battle as the standard bearer, slaying the 'reactionary' Hearst. Kane-Hearst loses his charm and basically becomes almost completely unlikable in the second half of the movie. Welles grafts a 'character flaw' on to Kane-Hearst based on a man named McCormick, a Chicago heir who promoted the singing career of his no-talent mistress which is reflected in the Susan Alexander Kane story arc. By falsely depicting Kane-Hearst as a violent man obsessed with trivial pursuits, we no longer see a character who is multi-faceted. This is Welles deceiving himself that he's 'better' than William Randolph Hearst (despite Welles's disingenuous claims that the character was not really based on Hearst.)Citizen Kane is really the harbinger of things to come for Orson Welles's career—a career that ran the gamut from profound inspiration to adolescent narcissism. Technically Citizen Kane was probably the greatest film ever made and full of sensational performances. But at the same time Welles's elitist point of view and simple inability to follow through to complete a story full of great promise diminishes the overall impact of an American classic.
Citizen Kane is one of the great technical milestones in the history of film. It is also a rather dull film that fails to involve the viewer on any but a technical level. The innovative cinematography far outshines the ordinary subject matter and the viewer is never viscerally engaged. The movie is cold and slow. 1. The first flaw is Kane. The whole film is built around an examination of the life of this character, but he is neither very important nor very interesting. William Randolph Hearst, the inspiration for Kane, is a minor historical figure in retrospect, as even the movie makes clear. Comparisions to Kubla Khan and talk of an "empire upon an empire" ring hollow. Kane has some influence but no real power. He fails to secure high office. He pumps for the Spanish-American War but opposes American entry into World War I. In each case, the decision for war is made by others. Thirty-seven newspapers and a radio station is hardly an empire and Kane lacks even the muscle to put a singer over with a skeptical public.Nor is Kane an out-sized and fascinating character such as General Patton in the movie "Patton". Kane says early in the movie that he might have been great without money, but we see nothing to indicate that this assessment reflects anything but blind ego. It is only his inherited wealth which props him up at all. He is a failure as a politician. He is a failure as a businessman. He is a failure in his personal life. He is surrounded by talentless sycophants.2. Kane is never put into the context of his times. This is a major failing of the movie. What do we actually learn about the United States from the 1890's to 1941. Race is swept utterly under the rug. The only black faces to be seen are stereotypical servants and musicians. What about the social issues of the time? Did Kane support prohibition? Did he favor immigration? Oppose lynching? What about women's rights? We find out nothing about his views, other that in some way his political collapse set back the cause of reform, apparently because he ran against "corruption".3. The script leaves critical areas of Kane's life and character blank and unexplored. He becomes a father. The movie does not show us his response to the birth of a son, nor what sort of dreams and hopes he invests in the boy. We never see how he reacts to his son's death or the impact this tragedy has on him. The birth and death of an only child should be pivotal and life-altering events. They are thrown away in this movie.4. The acting is in and out. Agnes Moorehead, Ray Collins, Ruth Warrick, and Paul Stewart are excellent in small parts. Others, such as Erskine Sanford, overact. Everett Sloane is convincing as an old man. Joseph Cotton is not, and is poorly made up. Dorothy Comingore is strident and off-putting as Susan. Welles himself is often striking, but is undercut by poor makeup in some later scenes. Neither the characters, not the acting, except for Welles, linger in the memory.5. The character of Kane is pretty well-sketched in halfway or two- thirds of the way through the movie. We know all we are going to know or perhaps care to know, but the movie lumbers on, with Kane sinking from merely arrogant to grotesque. The transition from the bright, promising, if perhaps unexceptional, young man, to the bizarre old recluse in a marble palace is shown, but not explained, and frankly, I thought the scenes at Xanadu were over-the-top.All in all, a masterpiece of technique that deserves credit for striving for a more adult spin than most movies of its era, but a movie, which, ironically, has dated more than the less ambitious, accomplished, or artistic, rivals from that era.
Citizen Kane is one of the most important films in cinema history, if it is not the most important, the script is amazing, the film has excellent dialogues, the acting is very good, the pace depends on the person who likes to film that has enough dialogues, will enjoy much more already who do not have patience, Citizen Kane not anger please, I liked the movie, the more I found the pace more or less time was tiring, plus the excellent script and good dialogues made me continue with the film, photography is good, the film is black and white, the soundtrack is good too, the costumes are great, and the film great time, Citizen Kane is very important to the movies film, and deserves to be seen for all lovers of the seventh art. Note 8.0


                
Lauded as America's greatest motion picture of all time, Orson Welles succeeded in utilizing advanced techniques in cinematography, storytelling, and especially lighting and camera angles. Citizen Kane represents the pinnacle of Welles's film-making career despite the surrounding controversy during its time of release. The film had parallels between the eponymous character, Charles Foster Kane, and William Randolph Hearst, who was an American newspaper magnate. Welles combined innovative techniques of deep focus shots along with a kaleidoscope of angles. Different types of angles were utilized in order for the audience to deepen their understanding of each character. Despite the film's confusing newsreel sequence, Welles succeeds in utilizing unique camera angles and advanced cinematography in a perfect manner.Released in 1941, the film became subject of controversy for the brutal portrait of Hearst's life. Citizen Kane also revolutionized how cinematography, a non-linear storyline, and a kaleidoscope of angles were used effectively. The famous eerily opening featuring a shot of the eponymous character's (Orson Welles) mansion, Xanadu. The camera depicts a foggy and murky atmosphere with a deep focus shot of Xanadu atop of the hill. The scene then cuts to a room with a dying Kane, holding a snow globe as he mutters "Rosebud." The camera focuses on the globe as it rolled out of his left hand and broke.Welles employs different a non-linear storytelling which features the death of the main character in the beginning of the movie. As the news unfolds of his death, the famous newsreel sequence unfolds on screen. It presents a brief of narrative events in roughly the same order as the movie as a whole. The editing of the sequence was well-done as the narrator of the newsreel points out that "Kane helped to change the world, but Kane's world now is history. The great yellow journalist himself lived to be history. Outlived his power to make it<U+0085>" Reporter Jerry Thompson (William Alland) was determined to find out the meaning of Kane's last word "Rosebud." He was assigned to discuss with Kane's former associates in an attempt to uncover the meaning of Rosebud. Different camera angles allow the audience to understand the character emotions and tensions within a scene. For example, there was a scene that involves using a low-angle technique when Kane was having a discussion with his friend, Jedediah Leland (Joseph Cotten). He confronts him after his defeat in the election for governor against Jim W. Gettys (Ray Collins). In the office, where the discussion took place; Leland commented that "(Kane doesn't) care about anything except (himself)." As Kane walks closer to the camera, Leland said to him, "You just want to persuade people that you love 'em so much that they ought to love you back. Only you want love on your own terms." The low angle emphasizes Leland trying to assure his moral superiority to Kane.Citizen Kane made advances in cinematographic advances. Cinematographer Gregg Toland made a significant contribution to the style of the film through the use of deep focus. It refers to having everything within the frame, even the background, focused at the same time. There is a famous scene, involving Kane's mother, Mary Kane (Agnes Moorehead), having a conversation with his father, Jim Kane (Harry Shannon). Deep focus shot was effective in depicting the Kane family, discussing with Walter Parks Thatcher at the table. She figured out that she was given a stock in order to be given ownership of the Colorado Lode, a working gold mine. She signed an agreement to transfer $50,000 per year given to both to her and her husband. Charles Kane eventually owned all possessions by the time he reached the age of 25. The deep focus shot allowed the background which is inside Mary Kane's boarding house to be focused. We see Kane's parents signing the agreement and the distance of a young Kane outside, playing in the snow.In spite of the movie's age and its confusing opening sequence, Citizen Kane has attained its status as "the greatest film ever made." The American Film Institute has ranked the film number 1 in the first top- 100 ranking in 1998. Using deep focus shots allow the characters' emotions to be understood through Gregg Toland's extensive use of back-lighting. What matters is to understand Charles Kane's ruthless rise of acquiring wealth, as he enters the newspaper business. The difficulty to interpret Kane's life has become apparent as reporters attempted to decipher his last word "Rosebud." This word was a clue that Kane was not just a mere symbol of his public accomplishments. Who, really, was Charles Foster Kane?


                
At the peak of the debt bubble last decade, David Siegel, CEO and owner of the world's largest time share developer, leveraged his already leveraged fortune to build America's largest house. Dubbed un-ironically "Versailles," the 90,000 square-foot monstrosity started to take root in the Florida Everglades. When the bubble popped, so did Siegel's fortune and family, and the home, half-finished, went to foreclosure.Remarkably, documentarian Lauren Greenfield captured the rise and fall of this modern day Xanadu--gaudy enough to make Donald Trump blush--in "Queen of Versailles" (2012), which took top directing honors at the Sundance Film Festival. The comparisons it begs to Orson Welles' "Citizen Kane" (1941), itself an untouchable fortress, are inescapable. Like Charles Foster Kane (Welles), Siegel used the scalability of market capitalism to accumulate unwieldy millions and then sought to sequester it, and himself, in a monument down in that state that Civilized people consider barely worthy of citizenship. And so each of these two men was first among their equals--but not quite even equal himself.We watch Kane and Siegel grow fat, hubristic, and surly while they lose their wealth, reputation and family. But Kane has been remembered for 72 years, whereas Siegel will soon be forgotten. Why did we care so much to decipher Kane's Rosebud while we couldn't care less about Siegel's? Is it that Kane's life's work was vindicating our core value of freedom of the press, whereas Siegel's was indulging our ego, groupthink, and materialism with the thought that we could and should own a second home?To see that it isn't, return to the news room debate that follows the screening of an obit of Kane at the beginning of that film. The editors query: What matters more?: What he did or who he was? Our quest as citizen journalists--proxied by Jerry Thompson (William Alland), whose back is almost always to the camera--resolves that the answer is the latter. To write the definitive Kane obit, we need to know who this love interest Rosebud is, Thompson presumes. We discover Rosebud was no woman, but rather the symbol of the last moment of fun, family and autonomy in Kane's life.Money wrecks all that, and Kane's last-ditch effort to wreck the wrecker by tearing his love nest to tatters is too little, too late. Greenfield's film, on the other hand, never gives us a sympathetic, pre-wealth Siegel whom we might root for, or at least be curious about. We know only what he did, rather than who he was, and so it is mostly with schadenfreude that we witness his implosion.Queen of Versailles isn't the only current release inviting parallels to Welles' chef d'oeuvre. Carl Deal and Tia Lessin's "Citizen Koch" (forthcoming 2013) digs into the funding of the modern Republican Party by plutocrats, including the Koch brothers. The doc is set against the backdrop of the aptly captioned Citizens United v. Federal Election Commission, 559 U.S. 310 (2010), which held that citizens do not lose their First Amendment protections merely because they channel their voice through corporations. Indeed, was Kane's constitutionally-protected yellow journalism any nobler than the Hillary Clinton hit job cooked up by Citizens United?What these films and this case share in common is the question of what we may and should do with accumulated wealth. Ironically, that's a question that newspaper moguls have to worry less and less about these days. Just visit Sam Simeon, whose 90,000 square feet Siegel was likely trying to best. William Randolph Hearst's real-life Xanadu, overlooking the Pacific from its perch on the bluffs just north of San Luis Obispo, stands as a monument to the value that could once be extracted by controlling mass media. Perhaps motivated by Welles' film, the Hearst Corporation secured a more sympathetic legacy for Hearst Castle than Kane did for Xanadu by donating it to the state of California to be used as a state park. We'll see whether the ongoing decline of print journalism will force the corporation (which also owns various non-print traditional and new media assets) to sell the grounds near the Castle that, according to a state park tour guide in 2010, it still owns.The less newspaper publishers have to worry about what to do with wealth, the more we newspaper readers have to worry about where to get the news. Part of the answer will be finding it ourselves, as citizen journalists. Traditional media, from CNN (iReport) to the TriBeCa Film Festival (Vine competition categories), will try to channel and co-opt that trend, but they can't put this genie back in the bottle. And so technology, which globalized us in the 20th century, will re-localize us after all.
Throughout the late 19th and creeping into the 20th century, there were great men and powerful individuals. Some were discovered great after their death, others proclaimed it for themselves and a few were humble enough to accept the results of their labors. Here is " Citzen Kane " which many loyal fans claim was the finest movie ever made. I watched with avid interest reasoning it was a good film and a grand testimony to the late William Randolph Hearst. Despite his annoyance with it, Hearst tried unsuccessfully to have it destroyed. Within the length of this movie is the story of Charles Foster Kane (Orsen Wells) who with a sizable legacy rose from obscurity to the richest man in America. With the aid of his closest friend Jedediah Leland (Joseph Cotten) and the often irritated Mr. Bernstein (Everett Sloane) he gallivanted from one lively pursuit to another, having fun with his wealth often at the expense of others. Believing he is incapable of failure, he runs for Governor and attempts a high profile marriage. Despite power and position, Caine learns first hand there are some things money can't buy. The movie itself is a Black and White study in human nature and we should remember the adage, 'the bigger one gets in life, the smaller he becomes.' The magnificent cast includes Ray Collins, Dorothy Comingore and Agnes Moorehead, all of which earned the highest praise from the industry and audiences across the country. The result was the creation of a true Classic. ****


                
If you know anything at all about film criticism then you probably know that "Citizen Kane" is widely hailed as the greatest film of all time. However, I think I can safely say that this film's high stature is due more to it's enduring influence than to it's particular merits.Of course, I don't mean to imply that the film is poorly made, even by today's standards. Welles's direction can only be described as visionary. Combined with Gregg Toland's cinematography & Robert Wise's editing, the film has a look that's light-years ahead of it's time. And let's not forget Bernard Herrmann's fine score.The story is an engrossing one. The enigmatic Charles Foster Kane's last word, "Rosebud", sets a reporter on a search to unearth the meaning of this cryptic final statement. We are whisked thru different periods in the man's life, piecing the puzzle together through the remembrances of others. The ending does not disappoint, elucidating the mystery with a subtlety rarely seen on the big screen.The acting is well-handled throughout, particularly Welles as he portrays Kane from age 25 to death with the help of ingenious makeup artists. I do wish, however, that a few of the other performances had been more subdued and less overtly theatrical.While I believe that there are later films that supercede "Citizen Kane" in terms of quality I will concede that there may be no more important film. Needless to say, this film is required viewing for anyone who purports to know anything at all about motion pictures.


                
The way the story was told was quite interesting to me with each person adding their side of the story as the reporter met them. It's fun to watch the life of Kane change drastically whenever someone talks to him, continually changing your perspective of him.Citizen Kane is also a spectacle with great lighting and imaginatively grandiose set designs. A great example of how the lighting is artfully done is how you never see the reporters face throughout the movie. You clearly see the characters faces the reporter is interviewing, highlighting the importance of them to the story. The set designs gave the feeling of a larger than life personality to Charles Foster Kane which which portrayed his importance to the world he's in.


                
Often rated the greatest of all films Citizen Kane is a towering piece of work made by then wunderkind Orson Welles. The cinematography is an inspiration to every director and DOP- the lighting and framing is astounding, and the black n white only enhances the aspects of lights and shadows. The script is well written and of course every principal actor is fit for their part. Which brings me to Orson Welles. It is staggering to think that he was barely 26 when the film was released. He is the anchor- the director of the film and its voice. His reputation was built on this movie and he certainly delivered later as well. Having said all of this there are people who get bored with Citizen Kane. So the choice is yours but for me this is a masterpiece.


                
What can I say about Citizen Kane that hasn't been said already? Often named the greatest film of all time- this is a subjective opinion of course but there is no denying the impact Citizen Kane had on cinema. The cinematography is an inspiration to every director and DOP- the lighting and framing is astounding, and the black n white only enhances the aspects of lights and shadows. The script is well written and of course every principal actor is fit for their part. Which brings me to Orson Welles. It is staggering to think that he was barely 26 when the film was released. He is the anchor- the director of the film and its voice. His reputation was built on this movie and he certainly delivered later as well. Having said all of this there are people who get bored with Citizen Kane. So the choice is yours but for me this is a masterpiece.


                
Citizen Kane is acclaimed by most as the best American made movie of all time. This had my expectations quite high going into the film. The movie starts off really interesting as it appears you are just watching a news reel, which were commonly shown before movies in that time. The way the movie is made is just beautiful from the beautiful sets to the amazing camera-work. This film was honestly difficult for me to hold my attention at times, as to me the stakes were never that high. Even though i think the movie struggles from that it is still a fantastic movie, the ending was a surprise to me as I was clueless about what "rosebud" had meant until the big reveal


                
An unquestioned masterpiece of its time Citizen Kane holds up pretty well decades later. While some may find it a little slow by modern standards all in all it is easy to see why it is among the most celebrated films of all time. It is a fascinating story brilliantly told. It is also a film which was innovative on so many levels, most notably for its stunning cinematography. Brilliantly conceived and brilliantly executed by Orson Welles, Citizen Kane was a true triumph.Citizen Kane is the life story of Charles Foster Kane, rather obviously based on real-life newspaper mogul William Randolph Hearst. In a rather unique twist the film begins with Kane's death. Through the use of a newsreel obituary we are then told Kane's entire life story in the span of just a few minutes. But we will soon see there is so much more to this story. For a man who lived so much of his life in the public eye, Kane was in fact quite a mystery. One mystery he leaves behind is the meaning of his dying word, "Rosebud." A reporter is sent on a mission to find the meaning of that last word. Through interviews with those who knew him and flashbacks which tell the story behind the story we will follow the fascinating life of Charles Foster Kane. And perhaps if we can discover the meaning of "Rosebud" we can unravel the mystery of exactly who this man was.From beginning to end this is Orson Welles' film. His performance as Kane, spanning an entire lifetime from idealistic young man to bitter, old recluse is simply stunning. The film soars whenever Welles is on screen, especially in Kane's vibrant youth. When the film stops to let others tell Kane's story some of the magic is lost. All of the other performances, from a cast of mostly unknowns, are commendable. But this is Kane's, and by extension Welles' movie. Welles is a commanding presence and the film suffers for his periodic absences. Kane's story is a fascinating one and the circular manner in which it was told makes it even more thrilling. With each succeeding flashback another layer is peeled away and we learn more about who Charles Foster Kane really was. It is a life of tremendous peaks and mortifying valleys. For the viewer it is a thrilling journey to follow. It really is one of the great character studies of all time as we see Kane evolve over time and see what drives this extraordinarily successful yet seemingly unfulfilled man. And of course there is "Rosebud." Can a man of the stature of Charles Foster Kane really be explained in one word? That is the film's great mystery and it is a fascinating one. Put it all together and Citizen Kane gives you a truly unique and memorable experience.


                
Good Writing 3
An epic story that spans the life of a rich tycoon. A little long winded in its exposition as 90% of the movie is exposition and flash backs but the characters and dialogue are well developed and believable.Superb Production 5 StarsArt department is Superb
Cinematography is superb
Acting/Direction is great
Sound/Track is great


                
A film that broke all the rules and invented some new ones. The cinematography, music, and Oscar winning screenplay by Orson Welles and Herman J. Mankiewicz are all first rate. I would recommend it to people of all genders and races!


                
Finally, I got to watch Citizen Kane, and there is no confusion about why this is commonly considered one of the greatest films of all-time. I watched many movies that have been described as "Revolutionary" and "Game-changing". But besides that Citizen Kane really deserve to be called so more than any movie I've watched in my life, it's could be the oldest movie that is as influential as it is timeless. I felt I was watching a movie the has been released couple years ago, except it's shot in black and white. An ecstasy of light and shadow, of clashing textures and graphic forms. A haunting cinematography that makes Citizen Kane one of the best-looking movies to date. an exuberant use of camera placement and movement and inventive lighting. Yes, it's above all a visual achievement. But all these innovative techniques shouldn't be questioned whether they still hold up or not. Because they don't just hold up to this day, but they are as fresh and contemporary as they were in 1941. But all that is from the technical standpoint, so what about the screenplay, the narrative, the story?As Orson Welles took many risks directing Citizen Kane he also took risks writing it's Oscar-winning script with Herman J. Mankiewicz. And of course by risks I mean the unprecedented use of flashbacks, and the non-linear storytelling. And While I can't say this way of storytelling paid off perfectly, I have to admit that this structure has changes the game forever in film-making. It took me a while to be engaged with the characters, and the story itself. That's because the pacing was confusingly fast at the beginning, and some important aspects and details in the story needed to be more focused on. It also dragged, and almost lost me a couple of times. As I mentioned above, the build up for the titular character could've been way better, at least to make me invested in the character from the start.With that being said, the more the time goes, the more I became engaged with the story, and invested in all the characters, not only Charles Kane. And I couldn't help but hope for some explanation about the fate of Kane. After some more minutes, I realized that Citizen Kane is a character study, actually, a very complex and compelling one. The story became more poignant and moving. By the way, if you still haven't watched Citizen Kane because you think it's a pretty serious and bleak film, you better watch it ASAP. Because it's actually funny! Yes, sometimes it's funny in a cynical way, but it is always a light-hearted movie, and easy to watch. But that doesn't mean it's a feel-good movie at all. As I mentioned, it the story becomes more touching and emotional as it proceeds, and it's represented in a flashback structure to reveal some mysteries about a publishing tycoon's rise and fall who dies corrupt and alone. So I think you get the point.All the performances are impeccable, and Orson Welles' performance is as terrific as his direction. Also, Joseph Cotten is great as always. 
Also, the dialogue is so clever, and there are a fair share of very subtle lines.Citizen Kane is far from perfect, IMO. Nevertheless, it somehow lives up to its reputation as a landmark achievement in film. But what's striking now is how utterly modern it is in direction. (8/10)


                
This is a film revolving around the life of a popular business tycoon, Charles Foster Kane whose life ends with the mystery word 'rosebud.' While the newspaper attempt to solve the mystery film takes us back into the life of Kane- to struggle of his mother, his rising as a business tycoon and his tense relations with his two wives. 
The film revolves on the entangled life of a rich person who tries to win over everything with his money and influence. Susan Alexandar's (Dorothy Comingore) entry is pleasant but gradually Kane's monopoly and her monotony makes things worse into her leaving Kane. 
The movie has many literary satires expressed smartly through the cinematography and direction like false journalism and reputation. Overall the movie is a testimony of the extra weightage given to money makes a man poor- emotionally and socially. This was less of entertainer and more of learning stuff that gives it a classic element.
"The greatest film of all time". "The most influential piece of cinema ever". "Orson Welles is the best actor to have ever lived". "Technically flawless". Can we just take the time to appreciate the praise this film has acquired since 1941. It is undeniably rare for a silver screen picture to stand the test of time, but Citizen Kane has. However, the monumental rave for this classic naturally heightened my expectations to astronomical heights. Chronicling the life of the fictitious tycoonist Charles Foster Kane, a journalist attempts to uncover the meaning of his last word "Rosebud". There's so much to admire about Orson Welles. To have the audacity and confidence to direct, produce, co-write and act in his first motion picture is impressive to say the least. His transition from theatre to screen felt seamless. Technically, this film is masterful. Welles' use of lighting to create shadows, symmetry, long takes and innovative tracking shots have clearly influenced many films since its release. The flashback narrative structure was pristinely incorporated to create a cohesive story about a man who slowly becomes corrupted with money and power. Acting was superb, particularly from Welles, considering this was a screen debut for the majority of cast members. There's nothing much I can add that every critic hasn't already raved about. But. I must profess. I personally do not think this is perfect. The story, for me, just didn't keep me engaged consistently. Several scenes dragged on forever to a point where I started becoming distracted by my own surroundings. The showgirl dance scene, Susan's singing rehearsals and even the introduction which simply slowly zooms in on Xanadu. Maybe it's because I'm fairly new to classic films, or maybe I just found Kane to be an uninteresting character. We could all endlessly dissect this piece of art and write a dissertation on how perfect it is, and it is without a doubt technically perfect. But I shan't give it full marks just because every film critic has.


                
Now, here's a film that truly was ahead of its time. Orson Welles' passion project, on which he had the coveted 'final cut', could easily pass as much more modern fare thanks to some frenetic, unique camera-work and effective scene transitions. The plot of 'Citizen Kane (1941)' is compelling, told using longer takes that really give the excellent actors room to flex their proverbial muscles, and the flash-back based narrative does a good job of keeping you invested in the life of a man you know already to be dead. Yet, the mystery at the centre of it all, the iconic 'rosebud', comes to a close with a lack of proper resolution. It does shed some light on the motives of the central character and isn't meant to be the main focus of the feature, though. There's more in the craft of the piece than in the narrative, especially on re-watch, but the story and characters are compelling enough that the experience is an enjoyable one, all the same. 8/10


                
NO TRESPASSINGA ne pas douter, Citizen Kane est une <U+009C>uvre cinématographique majeure et encore plus si on replace bien le film à son époque.C'est un film très moderne notamment par son langage, son approche et sa conception scénaristique. Avec l'appui d'une forte intrigue qui nous tient littéralement en haleine jusqu'aux dernières images et une construction de l'histoire basé sur un petit documentaire et des flashbacks, la structure du film est très bien faite et même innovante. Et ceux malgré que l'on puisse un peu par moment s'enliser dans les relations de Mr Kane comme par exemple celle avec sa femme cantatrice, mais ceci nous rapproche finalement du personnage de Mr Kane, de son monde qu'il s'est construit, symbolisé par son palace inachevé Xanadu, de son isolement et finalement de sa descente.Une distribution méritante et originale d'acteurs novice devant une caméra sert agréablement et remarquablement toutes les ficelles et les différents points de vue de l'intrigue.De plus, pour accompagner cette histoire et ces acteurs, la réalisation du film est très bonne, techniquement maîtrisée et intelligente, appuyée par des jeux d'ombres et des détails symboliques et évocateurs de l'histoire.Nous avons donc une intrigue des plus captivantes, une belle et habile narration, une efficace distribution et une irréprochable réalisation. Par ces seuls points il existe une seule conclusion : si vous ne l'avait pas encore visionné, Procurez-vous Citizen Kane ! Ce film est absolument à voir. Et d'autant plus, que pour tous les amoureux du cinéma, même si vous l'appréciez avec moins d'enthousiasme que témoignent ces lignes, c'est une <U+009C>uvre qui a marqué et marque encore l'histoire du cinéma.Et attention n'oubliez pas<U+0085>NO TREPASSINGNB: à voir: citzezn welles RKO 281 (1999), un film très intéréssant et plutôt bien fait sur la construction et l'environnement politique et social du film.jeliosjelios@hotmail.fr


                
This must be one of the most influential films of all time..melodrama at its best. The newsreel at the start is especially powerful as are the opera scenes towards the end. It set new standards in movie-making....but at one level it is curiously uninvolving. It lacks a truly sympathetic character.Orson Welles is magnificent in the title role, but many of the other leads are rather colourless. Joseph Cotton would be MUCH better in The Third Man.The air of gloom in the latter part of the film is particularly powerful, but the final ending is rather weak and contrived. Overall, still a great movie, but the lack of s sympathetic character is a weakness for me.


                
First movie for Welles, the man who revolutioned cinema. This movie is praised to such a point that I suspect that many people give it credit out of mere conformism, I mean you sound uneducated in Cinema if you don't praise "Citizen Kane". So you just go with the bunch...This very interesting work, though, is obviously not a success in filmmaking for anyone who really knows about cinema, and tries to be honest. Nevetheless it's a great premise, and changed the face of cinema for the years to come, because of its mindblowing invention, complexity and artistic values."Citizen Kane" opened doors to previously unknown ways of filming.. Visually, without Welle's work, we would probably have lived without the great cinematic visuals of Losey, Gilliam, Kurosawa, Greenaway and some others.But to rate this movie so high, despite the fact that Welles achieved much better movies with "The Lady from Shangaï", "Le Procès" or "Tragedy of Othello", is a matter of fashion, a snobby cultural phenomenon that is rather funny when you think about it. If you want to be taken seriously when talking about films with "cinephiles", and someone mouths the title "Citizen Kane", you HAVE to go "Aaaaaaahhh" and make a meaningful nod... very funny. Even more funny when you ask those people about "Le Procès" or "Tragedy of Othello", because generally... they don't even know these, or even never heard about them! *LOL*Well it' still a remarkable work, well worth watching, even with its flaws.


                
This film oozes old Hollywood glamour Orson welles is great as the lead and it leaves you with that great message that money cannot buy you love


                
