I signed up just to review this show, but not to review it so much as to respond to another review who commented "THIS IS HOW THE NEWS SHOULD BE DONE!!!" (Not really a quote, but pretty close.) I felt exactly as this reviewer did after the first episode and a half. The opening scene was outstanding. The seen where Mac is laying out the new format and rules had me cheering.One of the worker bees responds to a story idea with, "Jon Stewart had a *some guy* on last night. We could book him." To which Mac replies, "Were you listening to what I said just now or were you distracted by a bumble bee?" And she proceeded to repeat one of her main rules: "Is this the best form of the argument?" I almost rose from my seat and cheered I was so ecstatic. Finally, we're going to have a program that doesn't see the news as entertainment, treats opposing views respectfully and only is concerned about getting the facts out to viewers.I was betrayed. Aaron Sorkin betrayed me. He pretends to portray a newscast that is serious, respectful of opponents and focused only on what is true ("only the facts"), but instead, the newscast he portrays is every bit as malicious and rhetorical as Glenn Beck, Rush Limbaugh, Jon Stewart, Al Franken, Keith Olbermann or anyone else. He pretends to be "fair" by having the protagonist portrayed as a Republican. Opponents, however, are caricatured. As someone I read said, Sorkin is noted for setting up his opponents in his shows so that his liberal position can win. That is plainly evident here. We get the same inflammatory rhetoric we see all throughout the media. An example: at one point the main character says, "I only appear liberal because I believe hurricanes are caused by high barometric pressure and not gay marriage." Great, Aaron. I know of no conservative who thinks hurricanes are caused by gay marriage (and I know many ultra conservatives). What a ridiculous and childish statement. This is exactly the kind of rhetoric the show bemoans in the first episode and a half, and it becomes more and more evident as the show goes on. At least, as far as I watched (3.5 episodes).I would not be so upset, but I am really sick and tired of the ad hominem, rhetorical attacks both sides of the political spectrum launch against each other, and I thought, I THOUGHT, I had found a show that recognized this travesty within society and was going to address it. But, as noted above, I was betrayed. Aaron Sorkin betrayed me. Instead of recognizing the problem and offering a solution, this shows contributes to the problem. What a shame.


                
I was really excited when I heard about this show. First off, I must state that I believe the cable news industry has been been in steady decline and is completely out of control today. The various news programs and "personalities" remind me more of "All Star Wrestling" than anything else. I am exposed to a 24 hour news cycle that includes more theater and bombast than insight. From the previews for the Newsroom I expected an expose of our news industry. For the first twenty minutes of the first episode, it looked like this show would deliver. Instead it spiraled down quickly. In the remainder of that first episode it had morphed into a sickening conglomeration of "sermon-preachiness" and "people-I-don't-care-about" melodrama. I continued watching for the entire first season. It always seemed to me like they were just on the verge of turn this thing around and making it relevant. It never happened. In fact it was much worse by the last episode. The fact that it sucked me in like this and never improved makes me dislike it all the more. Looking back, I can't remember anything original in any of the episodes. Nothing feels authentic. If anything, it seems to loosely resemble the real life career of Keith Olbermann. In that the anchor had a nice cable gig which is in jeopardy.The character of the whiny news director is most unbelievable. The office relationships fall somewhere between sickening and silly.I can't think of anything I liked about the execution. This is a really good concept gone horribly wrong. I'd advise all potential Newsroom viewers to rent a copy of Network instead.


                
I really expected better. They took West Wing, moved it to a newsroom, made it preachier, made the characters one dimensional, and dumbed down the issues.The show is hamstrung by using news that was current at the time of the writing but is now sadly outdated (e.g the Gulf Oil Spill and bashing Sarah Palin). Clearly it is just a vehicle for the creators to express their idealist, simplistic, anti-corporate viewpoints on U.S. politics. OK, I get that corporations are greedy, self-serving organizations, but they don't get that the government is flawed as well.In a show that is supposed to be about a press that is fair, balanced, provides facts and lets the viewer make up their own mind, all issues are examined from a purely left wing viewpoint. Which I wouldn't mind if it was done intelligently. A high school student knows more about the issues they purportedly report.Shows like this provide even more evidence that the U.S. is no longer the best country in the world.


                
Sadly, this show is getting old very fast. Do they really think speed-talking makes this show more hip? Half the characters in Newsroom sound like outtakes from The Social Network. Rapid-fire banter does not a His Girl Friday make. More like Social Network meets Broadcast News.What's with the network soap subplots of office gossip on which boss cheated on whom. Who cares in this day & age? Only the chemistry between Will & Charlie (Sam Waterston) works at this point. When either or both characters are not on-screen, the dialog sounds like tweet rehashes of NY Times front page clichés (student debt, high rent housing for 20-somethings) better handled in Girls. Maggie's goofy self-righteous quirkiness competes with Mac's whininess for irritation points.Come on, what topics could be more tedious for a prime-time HBO show than how a network newsroom covers the BP spill (last year's news) or Will & Mac's (surrogate mom & dad of the newsroom crew) sexual history? Jokes (comedy situations) dependent on educated adults in a high-tech media organization incapable of correctly typing & sending e-mails? Excuse me? Too bad Julia Louis-Dreyfus was committed to Veep. She might have given this series the humor & nuance it sorely lacks. Plus her chemistry with Jeff Daniels could have been terrific.ADDENDUM - 7/17/2012I have had it with this inexcusably derivative series. It's funny to read the reviews claiming how fresh this show is because it deals with "contemporary" issues when the "issues" are actually 2+ years old which in TV news years is about 30-something.The cutesy stuff between 50+ sad-sack Daniels & whiny (& strangely humorless) Mortimer only gets more grating in each episode. But the worst part is the dialog tossed about by the newsroom crew, standard & very tired baggage of adolescent misunderstandings, unrequited love & goofy non-sequiturs.The humor on this show sounds & feels like out-takes from early 1960s Beach party movies. If Bud Lite is your favorite drink, you'll love this show. Personally, I'm tired of the dumbing down.


                
I wanted to like this show. I really cannot stand it!. Over acting and left leaning politics crap!. The scenes that go on and on with the back and forth thing that is meant to be smart and witty, are just dull and poorly written. Great actors in a bad show. it was truly a big mistake for any of the bigger actors that got involved with this project. I cannot find anything about it to keep my interest. I wanted to like this, because I am a big Jeff Daniels fan. Not this time though.I hope this show does not come back next year. I cannot imagine that it would be picked up again. If it does please keep it off Sunday nights. This show ruins the entire night on HBO.


                
I had big expectations for this series. West Wing is one of my very favorite series and I thought this new series from Aaron Sorkin would also fall into that category. Well, I was wrong. Sure, the West Wing was a bit preachy but the Newsroom goes to a whole another level and then some. It's unbearable and eye-roll inducing. I actually really like the fast-talking dialogue of Sorkin if it's done well like in the West Wing and Social Network. Sorkin can write some good stuff when he stays within his limits. He went over them in this show.The characters are over-acted, hysterical, unaware of their surroundings and just not suitable for a team which is supposed to be doing "the news as it should be done". The discussions between the characters try to be smart, funny and witty but they're really not. Something is just "off" with this writing and it shows. Many of the characters are way too annoying and seem to have an utter lack of self-awareness. Alison Pill (Maggie) and Emily Mortimer (MacKenzie) are clear examples of this. I mean, accidentally texting the entire corporation about your previous relationship with Daniels (Will McAvoy)? How the hell did she survive years and years as a foreign war correspondent when she's this clumsy? Also, she's yelling all the time. Calm down. Then Maggie not mentioning that she had a personal relationship that went bad with someone she was supposed to get to be interviewed? You'd get fired for that kind of incompetence in the local news let alone in a national show like this. In the fourth episode, Dev Patel (Neal) just kept on going about the Bigfoot over and over again after everyone had shot him down. He even tried to talk about it to McAvoy during a live show. I mean come on. There's more of this kind of ridiculousness in every episode but I don't have the patience to recount it all. The only thing that seems to be working dialogue-wise is between Will and Charlie (Sam Waterston). All in all, the characters don't feel real. They're just delivery devices for whatever Sorkin thought to be ridiculous or wrong in the world the day he was writing this stuff and it shows.The show has an interesting and timely subject which could be made into great TV. Sadly, this is not it.
The first episode is the one that most people are excited about (and so was I), and it's mostly because of the first 8 minutes of the episode in which Jeff Daniel's character, Will McAvoy is in the middle of a debate sitting on a stage between left wing and right wing candidates, and while they're arguing back and forth you can tell McAvoy is losing interest in the pathetic rhetoric that comes out of both of them. It's at this moment that I think most people felt really connected to the character because I think a lot of us find ourselves in between two extreme points of view trying to be moderate and bring everyone back to reality. Unfortunately my connection with the character and his connection with independents and moderates deteriorated over the next 3 episodes.Will McAvoy calls himself a republican in the show but I have yet to hear him say anything remotely right wing other than "I'm a registered republican". In the first four episodes he and his writers do a LOT of generalizing tea party bashing during the 2010 primaries. Still haven't heard any criticisms of the Obama administration even though there is plenty to criticize... I don't mind criticisms of anyone as long as it has legitimacy, but this is called the NEWSroom, not the confirmation bias network. There was a lot of talk about integrity in this show, so isn't the news supposed to be fair & balanced? Well so far it is not even close. The republican point of view of all the issues they talk about goes completely unrepresented because the only republicans they talk about are Rush Limbaugh, Glenn Beck, Sarah Palin, and all those other nut-jobs put in the spotlight to discredit legitimate republican viewpoints. It's like watching an old lady beat up a cripple. There is so much to make fun of on BOTH sides of the political spectrum but it feels like the writers have never actually challenged their own beliefs which makes for a pretty dry, one sided story.I was really hoping for a great show for the more moderate viewer which has NEVER been done as far as I know, but so far I'm sad to say it's starting to look more like a mockumentary of the development of MSNBC, and with Aaron Sorkin holding the reins I doubt the political agenda of this show will change. I'll watch the rest of the first season hoping for redemption and I was intrigued to hear that he is going to have a new writing staff for the second season, but honestly I'm not holding my breath.


                
I watched the first episode 3 times just because I liked it so much. But as the show goes on, the boring personal relationships, and the progressive liberal propaganda just get old. You hope that the next episode it will be better, but its getting worse. The main character is supposedly a republican... yea, right.I loved The West wing because it was brilliant and somehow balanced. Even though the government was a liberal one, they still gave the republican views a fair an intelligent voice. But In this case, they ridicule everything that is republican and glorify everything that is a democrat. Of course, they ignoring everything embarrassing that the current administration did.


                
As others have pointed out, this series became a train wreck after the first five minutes into the pilot. Those first five minutes actually gave me a boner and the hopes that I could do something worthy with my time while waiting for season 7 of Mad Men. What followed after that orgasmic opening was the most cruel and unusual display of soap-worthy nonsense that is light years removed from what Sorkin did in the past on numerous projects in the realm of films and series.Every character is completely overdone and the avalanche of verbal diarrhea in every scene is just grating if not embarrassing to watch. Was there even a basic idea behind this crap? I truly hope some hack took Sorkin's name and got himself a deal with HBO to produce this nonsense. I know we all have our less than shining moments, but this is just unbecoming of the talent Sorkin possesses.1/10


                
This show is total and unmitigated left wing propaganda. The anchor moving from the right to the "center" is the premise of stating the "real truth" for the new revised news broadcast. Only Karl Marx is more left wing than Daniels becomes and not by much. They set up straw man opposition just to shut them down. Disgusting. Self righteous pontificating ad nausea. The duologue is filled with "witty" and "meaningful" speeches that are just so self centered and boring that only someone high mind altering chemicals would appreciate. I really had high hopes for this show and watched all three episodes that aired so far. I will not watch any more. I am sure that this show will win a ton of Emmys as Hollywood is being fed back the crap that they themselves like to spew so much.


                
I had originally given the show ten stars after watching two shows. First two shows were awesome! Finally an intellectual show blending drama, romance, politics, news, great acting, and great scripts. Having watched another two shows it is obvious, however, that the show is turning into another slew of liberal propaganda. It's still a good show. If you are liberal, you should love it! And I can really recommend it. However, if you are conservative, probably not so much, as the show uses every opportunity to present everything from a liberal perspective. I had to readjust my 10 to a 7. Still hoping for the best. I have the feeling I will be adjusting it again later in the season...Edit: I have now watched as far as episode 6, an I am sad to say that I will not be watching any more episodes. 6 shows of one-sided liberal propaganda. I had expected more from the show. I started at ten, then seven. Seeing as this show is the optimal display of hypocrisy, I will ajust it to a four. Too bad. The first episode was so great, and promised so much. I sort of feel like I have been Obamad. Was promised change, but was given more of the same.


                
God what a simpleton show! It doesn't take much imagination to write a story on a story (BP..oil spill) that's been written about ad nauseam; and what's with all those children running around the newsroom..it looks like a high school cafeteria; why have this immigrant Brit wanna be (Emily Mortimer) as a lead..can't understand her and she speaks too fast<U+0085>finally, Waterson is way over his head. He adds nothing to the scene. We deserve better.Why has Sorkin made this feeble attempt at producing when we all know he's capable of better work. I cannot figure what got into him..the casting is bush league as well as the writing. I'm embarrassed to watch it. Yes I keep watching and hoping it improves to no avail.


                
I have to come clean here and admit to only watching the first 2 episodes. It occurred to me that the feelings I was having were decidedly negative, and I thought to myself, "I'll read some reviews, perhaps others are having a similar rough on boarding, maybe the show rights itself". Well quite the opposite was the message, picking up three reviews. According to those reviews all the negative elements I saw in the first 2 episodes get worse. That was the general gist of it. Maybe people think that only watching 2 episodes isn't enough to leave a 1 star rating, and write a review. Well I beg to differ, rubbish like this needs to be called out for what it is, and put back in the trash can as soon as one realises they are holding it.Right from the opening moments this show feels wrong! It feels like the bad show Sorkin created before he realised he couldn't just jam his ideals down our throats, he also needed to create people we respect, and created West Wing, and before he realised that the internet existed and created the Social Network. But it's not, it painfully is not the truth, this is his latest creation. Oh dear.The 100 minutes of TV I just watched was not funky. Even the look of the show, feels like an awful place to work. How any of those blundering drama queens managed to produce an episode of TV in all that mess, they can't even use e-mail or a whiteboard. And as someone who is not American, the opening salvo is painful. That the young lady who suggests that America was the best country in the world, in any normal environment would have been brushed aside with a few laughs, and perhaps smiled on for her naive goodness, but instead she is taken so seriously by everyone, including Will (& he outrageously abuses her), who is equally addicted to America, he's just angry cause it really should be the best country in the world but it isn't, and it used to be of course. America, America, America, I can't live with or without you sort of thing, oh the drama of a love hate relationship with ones own country....it's a problem... what else is on.....Then unbelievably the show wants to expose us to the news of 4 years ago all over again. We'd be mildly interested in the news of 50 years ago cause we'd have forgotten about it, but news from 4 years ago is not going to be gripping TV. My prediction is that it will only accentuate how unreal this show is, being forced to place it in the context of the real world.And what about these characters? Daniels is a good actor I guess, but I felt myself recoiling from him with the rest of them, and I don't like recoiling in my own lounge room. And the others, well you can see that they are going to be full of lessons for us all, both entertaining and informative. Spare me the edutainment, I really don't like being spoon-fed by people like Sorkin, you can see it coming 6 miles off.Sorkin has really been left behind now, 1 star. You know I don't know why I even tried, cause I had a premonition it was bad. Going to listen to that more from now on.


                
It's obvious from all of the June 26th glowing reviews that IMDb had been compromised by studio plants once again. This is the dreadful "Dark Shadows" scenario all over again.It should be apparent to anyone with a brain that from here on out whenever some crap gets forced upon the unwitting viewer it will be accompanied by a plethora of 10 star reviews right out of the gate.This show is just more of HBO's grotesque left-leaning drivel that wants the youth of America to think like the ultra-liberal Hollywood power-players want them to think. America is bad! The political right is comprised of evil, corporate America shills that don't care about the poor, the old and the down-trodden.This show is just like all of Sorkin's other one-sided, preachy offerings. Skip this garbage and watch a good action flick - it'll do you just as much intellectual good!
So once you get past all the reviews written by employees of HBO, then you can start thinking for yourself. If you do not feel physically dumber after watching this show, I'm sorry for you and yours. Dumb and Dumber will be the height of your theatrical flight. I have to write ten lines for IMDb to submit. This will be difficult. If they made a recurring show of arachnophobia, I'm in. If this show lasts another year, I give up hope for the future of this country. And possibly all of humanity, I know these last few we're not actually complete sentences, but I have a void to fill. This show is almost as bad as Honey boo boo. Almost.


                
Began watching this show and thought episode one was amazing. Given that it's by the same people who brought us the excellent West Wing, I thought I was in for another good show but I was so wrong. Every other word in following episodes is the F word, I mean seriously, it's every other word and it's wearing, it is annoying me because it's lazy writing. Yes OK the F word probably is used in newsrooms but every other word by every person? I don't think so. I have now stopped watching it, I'm sure it's a good show and all but I can't get past the F word so often that it is distracting. Are we given to believe in the UK that America likes the use of this word over and over ad infinitum? I wonder, I really do because we are led to believe that America does not like the F Bomb being dropped as they call it, so often and just as they don't like nudity in their programmes, they don't like the F word being used (in my view to compensate for lazy writing).Wonder if it's turned anyone else off watching.
Has Sorkin ever written a proper play? He comes across as a TV hack with a thesaurus. His characters are caricatures. Unlikeable types spouting Sorkin's particular biased opinions on every liberal talking point imaginable. No one resembles a real person you would want to spend any amount of time with. It helps to have good actors but they can only do so much. HBO has high production values but the source material is just plain awful. The Social Network and The West Wing suffered similar protracted endless verbose scenes. Imagine being trapped at a cocktail party forced to listen to Chis Mathews' unending stories of Tip O'Neil and you will get the picture.


                
Ever since the pilot, Jeff Daniel's monologue on how much America sucks has repeatedly showed up on YouTube, Facebook etc. Every other fact and statistic he listed was wrong or entirely made up, but nobody will accept that even when you force them to look at real charts and graphs. I mean who are you going to believe Jeff Daniels or your own lying eyes? So many people were convinced by that clip that America was circling the drain that America elected Donald Trump to "Make it Great Again." I hope that fact haunts Sorkin's statistically illiterate mind until the day he dies.


                
Maybe the worst series in TV history. When it isn't preaching, it is preening. The characters are smug and and arrogant. The plots are predictable and boring. The men are, generally, misogynists. A really horrible TV show. The writing is interesting as long as you don't actually process the words. Jeff Daniels is supposed to be "the conservative" on the show. Really? He's slightly to the left of Nancy Pelosi. I used to like Sam Waterston as an actor - here, he plays everything way over-the-top like he just got out of acting school. How could HBO ever decide to broadcast this? Smug - superficial - pretentious - and that describes the good parts of The Newsroom.


                
I have had enough of this soap-opera scrap after the second episode. I can not say how awkward the acting is and how bad Sorkin has written this horseshit. I mean you should literally flush it down the toilet. It is so bad. I have tortured myself through the first season and the second and the third season until episode five. The episode was horrible, traumatic, aids-bad experience. I mean the plot can not be worse. The series had a good potential, but water-butted it after the second episode. On the other hand, the episode got 9,4 in rating. I have now began to question future human existence.-Stayzors out


                
....and hence this show. But I absolutely adore Jane Fonda and that's the only reason I can tolerate it. And thanks to Comcast X1 platform, I can look at cast & crew to see whether or not she's in an episode. I usually hope she isn't so I can skip to the next. But in her brief occasional appearances she always rises above the material and somehow makes it her own; I don't see any other cast member able to do this, least of all veterans like Waterston & Daniels. If the show was still in current production, even for the love of Jane, I wouldn't be able to continue watching. But knowing there is an end in sight makes it somewhat more tolerable. I find the dialogue, if you can even call it that, pretentious and overbearingly self-conscious. My first exposure to Sorkin was Sports Night many years ago. I enjoyed the show at the time because I was actually charmed by the snappy, witty banter, and being younger, didn't know any better. Now i find it really tiresome. I remember when everyone was raving about The West Wing, so I tried watching an episode. I hated it immediately without even realizing it was Sorkin. So glad this show went off.


                
I cannot believe that Sam Waterston,oops, me bad. Seriously , Sam was was born and raised in Cambridge, MA. He had to know how to say "Watertown". How could he allow this to happen? Not tell the cast that It is pronounced WaterTOWN.Every newsroom in this country got it right the first time on the air and live. This show that had months to prepare for it's grand opening could blow it so badly is what is wrong with it to all Bostonians and New Englanders. Shame. It was the biggest story since 9/11.Jeers to you. Ido not think that I can write for 10 lines so if you do not want this review , then do not use it.


                
A "republican" reporter which is BS real stories that aren't real most of you probably believe.


                
Let me sum it up for you: Republican news anchor has steady stream of conservative guests and the news is bland and boring. Anchor's uber liberal ex-girfriend (who cheated on anchor) is brought in to "right the ship". Cheating ex-girlfriend is, of course, enlightened and within three episodes has turned the evening news into a consistent bully pulpit to bash any conservative values or beliefs. I must thank them for bringing the media antics to light and giving us president Trump in 2016. Make America Great Again!


                
