I have never felt as driven to make sure other people understood just how perfect a show was. Not for Game of Thrones, Firefly, Sopranos or any of the other shows I obsess about. But this show changed that! This show boils down everything that is wrong with America and puts out a simple answer to solving that. DO THE BLOODY NEWS LIKE IT'S NEWS NOT A HIGH SCHOOL PROM ELECTION! Jeff Daniels is perfect in his role as the tired beaten down journalist that just doesn't give a damn about anything anymore, but used too. And we can see the spark that ignites him to become great again. Why aren't real reporters like this? Why oh why? If this show get's cancelled I will camp out in front of HBO HQ and not leave till the last Game of Thrones series comes out (because I have to get on with my life at some point). This was my first review ever on IMDb, all because of this amazing show! You better watch it as well!


                
I've been watching television for all of my 57 years on the planet. It is a rare thing when I see a show that grabs me from the first moments and holds me to my chair until the very last, but this just happened tonight as I watched the first episode of The Newsroom. Brilliant writing, terrific characters, excellent dialog, smooth and sexy directing that organically brought all the pieces together, and there couldn't have been better casting. Every character just felt exactly right. When it was over, I said this will be the new West Wing. Jeff Daniels shines in this role and what a great opportunity to showcase his effortless acting. I can easily see major Hollywood "A" listers grabbing their telephone's right now making late Sunday night calls to their agents demanding they get a guest appearance on The Newsroom. I was hoping for good when I heard about this show last winter, but what was delivered was excellence. Well done HBO. You've got me hooked. Well done!


                
In the tradition of his earlier 'behind-the-scenes of TV' shows, Aaron Sorkin's The Newsroom takes a hard (and witty) look at the behind the scenes of cable news. And like all his other shows, The Newsroom deals as much with themes of honour, ethics, loyalty, idealism and love, as it does with the news. It's also written in Sorkinese – Aaron Sorkin's fast-paced, back-and-forth, sing-song dialogue that'll leave you heady on a good day but with a headache on a bad one. So, like critics have lambasted, is it "weighted too heavily toward sermonizing diatribes (LA Times)?" Maybe. Does it "choke on its own sanctimony (NY Times)?" Perhaps. Is it "yet another platform in which to Set the People Straight is a worthwhile purpose (Huffington Post)?" Most definitely yes. But is this all really so horribly, terribly bad? NO! The main bone of contention for critics for this show seems to be that it tries too hard to be good, do good and instill good, just like all of Sorkin's earlier work. But when did that become a crime, in times of shows about becoming the next scrawniest supermodel, douchiest reality housemate or Tim Allen's 30th comeback? What's wrong with a show fantasizing about a world upheld by a long-forgotten morality in a time infested with shows that fall over each other to portray stark, grim realities and apocalyptic futures? The Newsroom's got a fantastic cast with enough charm to last you till the next Woody Allen movie. Emily Mortimer's already got me falling in love with her, Jeff Daniel makes you really root for him, John Gallagher Jr and Alison Pill have an instant chemistry and Sam Waterson's singularly enough to bring you back every week. Yes, it's longer than it needed to be, and yes, it could have done with a little more Noam Chomsky and a little less Don Quixote. But really, as long as it does what so few show can ever claim to together – rouse you, make you think and ENTERTAIN, bloody well at that – who's complaining? Admittedly, I'm a fan of Aaron Sorkin. I've seen (repeatedly) and LOVED Sports Night and The West Wing, and I think Studio 60 on the Sunset Strip is one of the best shows ever made. His writing has inspired me in the past, and after watching The Newsroom, I have all reasons to believe that it will continue to, well into the future. Critics be damned, watch this show simply because it's good television. It may not change the world, but at least it's trying to.


                
Maybe I am just coming into adulthood after my 45 years, but The Newsroom has always been food for thought. The pace, direction and writing has been excellent. I have watched and re-watched every episode over the past 3 seasons and really can't understand why they would cancel this show for the ages. First I was not a person that watched West Wing. I was younger and dumber for the show to stick. this show grabbed me from the get go and I have never been more surprised with it's greatness.HBO - why oh why are buying into the big network belief that the public is not getting what you bring us. This show is why I subscribe to your network and seeing it leave is a shame. The past episode "Oh Shenandoah" was brilliant is so many ways. It left me thinking about my father and how we can challenge ourselves in moments of being tested. I came here to tell everyone I will watch the last episode with sadness and wish I could continue this great program going forward, but it's over. I will save these three seasons and remember every episode with fondness and hope to see these great actors, directors and writers in the future where they can continue to express themselves without worrying about ratings or money driven desires.Thank you for 3 great seasons!


                
A new series launched on HBO with a star-spangled episode 'We just decided to'. As conceived and written by Aaron Sorkin it is a timely, incredibly intelligently written show populated with some of our best seasoned actors as well as some very fine actors on the way up. This is the kind of television that reminds us that at one time the news programs informed us about current events and ran a continuing commentary on the development of events in this country and around the world in a manner that kept us alerted of why we as a nation needed to remain alert to both good and bad events, to celebrate when indicated and to fight back when injustices were occurring. This direction is indicated in the background imagery for the titles – running glimpses of the likes of Walter Cronkite, Edward R Murrow, Huntley/Brinkley etc who were responsible news anchors instead of the flippant celebrities more concerned with ratings of their show than the news we see today.The first episode opens with popular news anchor Will McAvoy (Jeff Daniels who proves his acting chops here) being interviewed on a college campus and responds to a student question 'Why is America the greatest country' by answering 'We're not. We used to be' and then runs us past our history of reportage on television that proves that the country has fallen in world view because we no longer care about our initial basic rites an freedoms and concern for humanity. It is a powerful start with some of the most gut-wrenching insightful history of this country that has been written for television.From there, McAvoy returns to his station to find a support team missing and a replacement named. But enter an old flame, the war correspondent fatigued Mackenzie MacHale (Emily Mortimer, never more brilliant) who has been assigned Will's new Executive Producer and in the midst of many changes the new arrangement (not a popular one for Will) evolves into a return to actual news reporting of the significant type – all over the 2010 BP oil explosion and spill that threatened the Gulf of Mexico. It is raw, real, factual, and immediate news delivered with veracity and commitment.Greg Mottola directs with keen precision, allowing moments of comic relief to be present if subtle and keeps the momentum of the show propelling smoothly. The cast of superb actors includes John Gallagher, Jr. (brilliant), Dev Patel, Allison Pill, Sam Waterston (never better), Thomas Sadoski, Chris Chalk, Trieu Tran, Charlie Weirauch, Margaret Judson, Olivia Munn, Adina Porter – and more. A more talented and committed cast would be hard to imagine. THIS is the kind of television series we so very sorely need right now. It is refreshingly free of the usual clatter and gimmicks that clutter the airways, and it s full of information and food for thought delivered in an entertaining manner. And this is only Episode 1! Grady Harp


                
I've been waiting for what seems like forever for a top notch show to present itself, and I truly feel this is it. To say the first show was riveting is a gross understatement. As a news show, this fictitious newsroom had me planted on the edge of my seat, and when things finally got going, I found myself fidgeting and wide-eyed waiting for what came next. I have to say the leads in this show have amazing chemistry, the sort of chemistry that usually takes several shows to develop, yet here it was, in spades no less. It's easy to believe that I'm overstating this, but I truly believe this show has the potential for greatness, and believe me, I'm normally a fairly harsh critic, but in this case I feel completely justified in touting this as the next great show. There's some great social commentary on offer here, while not exactly new, it's offered up in a far more palatable fashion than the usual polarised and emotional manner. Needless to say, I implore all to watch this first episode, as it was so good, it could have been stretched another 30 minutes to become a great movie. The fact that we get more, is the icing on the cake. I can only hope the writers can keep producing scripts near the same level as this one. 5 stars, or 10 out of 10. Watch it!


                
I watch a lot of TV shows and I have to say that The Newroom has impressed. Quick witted, fast paced and dealing with issues that exist in American news coverage and to some extent beyond. The main characters were engaging and their interactions into the future will be interesting to see as well. What I really enjoyed was the exploration of what news reporting really is and how reporters should act when in the pursuit of a story, as well as what stories are relevant. Though not explicitly stated it brings to mind the image of a reporter who is actually unbiased and unafraid to go after the truth. The first episode covered the events of the BP oil spill in 2010. I look forward to the coverage of other major news events from this inside perspective as well.Definitely recommend it as a show to see. I hope it continues on in the same vein.


                
THIS IS THE MOST EXCITING SHOW I HAVE SEEN ON T.V. SINCE "THE WEST WING."I used TWW because, yes, this too is an Aaron Sorkin tour-de-force.Imagine your most idealized concept of how news SHOULD be reported. Now, imagine any news service (network or cable) who would actually report the news. Now, put someone in charge who will clean house and hire people who will actually do their jobs, without regard to ratings or demographics.Aw, forget it. That only happens on T.V. Usually HBO. Wait!! This IS HBO!! And, when that oil rig in the gulf blows out, only a couple of people see the true potential of the consequences of that explosion. And they just happen to be well-connected enough to get on-the-record statements from people who are in positions to know what they're talking about. Like the people who would become known to all of us soon while the greatest oil spill in history gets out of control, but also gets spun to everyone's benefit.But this show is NOT about the spill. It's about a group of highly- qualified people coming together to produce a news show that actually dispenses NEWS. I have great hope for future episodes. I even watched this first episode twice. Great show.


                
I love this show. I watch a lot of TV, not all good, but this is far and away my favourite. From the beginning with Will's speech, to the American Taliban the Tea Party, to Genoa, to the story that took Will to Jail, this show is incredibly well written. The full on dialogue means you have to pay attention but is gripping, clever and often funny. Implausible, silly and regularly controversial, its very Aaron Sorkin, it was fantastic. The story lines are varied yet consistent and leave you thinking about the problems the characters face and how you would deal in the same situation.I wish more people watched the show so I could talk about it more, and wholeheartedly recommend it. I am gutted that it is over so soon!
In the nature of entertainment on television, In that it must somehow appeal to the masses and also must inexorably fail to put those people with half a brain asleep, this show failed miserably.I can safely say that it was the only HBO show that I ever watched that didn't feel it had to sling boobs and ass at the screen, in a vainglorious attempt to keep people watching. The fact that it was also engaging enough that I could spend any time watching, without feeling that the entire planet was populated by brainless alien robots, was also quite attractive to me! Needless to say, all of the above was more than enough to make sure that the program would fail, as indeed it did!I do not agree with some that this was Sorken's last ditch effort to try and tell America just how f'ng stupid and isolated from reality it is... I think even he has given up on that failed plan of attack.What I do think he was trying to say is that the best and brightest of the brains and the brawn of America has been outsourced to roof jumpers in China, and that something should be done about it, before this country falls in on itself like an acid etched house of cards!


                
So when I heard about The Newsroom I was kind of skeptical, especially because it seems a lot of people aren't interested in political programs, or news shows...well the great thing about The Newsroom is that it seems more realistic then FOX news! I absolutely adored Jeff Daniels who knew how good of a mean guy he could play, and just the acting is amazing. I loved this show and was so happy to have started recording it after True Blood. I hope we see more seasons of this show because it is definitely up there. I love the fact that the first episode threw you right into the situation, and that the news story they covered...actually happened! The BP oil spill was huge and to watch it develop in the show knowing that it becomes a huge deal was even more amazing!


                
I'm sorry to sound as if I'm preaching, but here goes anyway. The Newsroom is meant to be extremely idealistic because Sorkin was inspired by the story of Don Quixote. Basically he wants to hold the heroes (and heroines) of the show to the highest possible standard. If one works that hard for that long on improving one's self in certain ways, and indeed is successful in achieving the goals along the way then I don't think that others are really in a position to judge. Despite people who sit around saying 'Isn't life mysterious' the whole damn time and thinking it passes for intelligence, there are people who seem to be taking themselves only just seriously enough. I guess it helps me being so young and knowing that what I think about anything and everything may well be total rubbish and as a result I can not take my own beliefs so seriously and just listen and try to understand the arguments, ideas, and themes Sorkin's trying to make with the dialogue. In my opinion, The Newsroom is a triumph of storytelling in at least a few key, and in my opinion rather magnificent, ways. Firstly it is political - many have said that Sorkin (who is a devout..if devout the word I'm looking for...liberal) has made the protagonist (Will McEvoy) a Republican, i.e. Conservative, because he is under the impression that it gives a (false) sense of balance. This concept is actually mentioned on the show, and because of this I am fairly sure he realised this aspect of the character but dismissed it because the real reason that McEvoy is a Republican is that Sorkin wanted to display another, and very real, side of Conservative parties, in which there are in fact reasonable, respectable, and intelligent people. In my opinion it is somewhat understandable to take this point and make the argument that Sorkin isn't doing a good enough job to explain himself, but on the other hand do we criticise Shakespeare or Wilde for writing in such an intricate and cerebral way? The point is that one should be looking for a broader meaning amongst things you understood explicitly, as well as subtext and things you may have missed. That's totally my opinion though, and it should be noted that I am one for really enjoying reading something which is fantastically complicated and seemingly convoluted purely for the joy of the way in which it's portrayed. Working toward something isn't a trait I've always been able to value in myself, but it certainly is now. I have found it makes the fruit all the sweeter. My second reason is the element of human emotion based drama. The scientific community can often be found knocking drama TV series and alike for focussing on the lives of the characters themselves in a very spectral sense as opposed to making any kind of perspicuous point. Again, however, I feel it's much more about the delivery. While the story will need some sort of 'point' in order to develop, the journey itself should also be enjoyed. I mean, I wouldn't want to go on a holiday to the best location in the world with people I find repulsive, would you? In my opinion, Sorkin is a master of political based argument, as well as emotional and dramatic storytelling. He seems to be able to tie the two together very admirably by showing how the characters are affected by their job, and how their job is affected by the news they report and the world in which we live. To summarise, this program does take itself very seriously, but only to the point at which it can still prove itself. I think that in order to make the arguments it does it needs to take itself this seriously, and in any case as far as I'm concerned the show is certainly well deserving of this attitude. I mean, the opening scene alone - I'm not from the US, nor have I been (as far as I'm aware), and yet he's selling the original American Dream, or at least one of the American Dreams - really struck a chord with me in that he is describing something we should all be striving towards and something which should constantly be in the back of our minds making sure what we do is in some way worthwhile. (Doing things purely for enjoyment IS worthwhile, depending of course on the thing. Who am I to say what's worthwhile, I don't know anything? That part is totally up to you). Probably not everyone's cup of tea, some of the reasons for this are explained briefly within my review, but if you try to put yourself into the right state of mind (if you're not already in it!) then I think you'll really enjoy and understand this program as a whole. 5* - 10/10 (Not quite as good as The West Wing, but that's for some really rather obvious reasons.)


                
Aaron Sorkin has a new fan & that's me. I liked Social Network, Few Good Men & Moneyball but this time I m in awe.This is a possibly the best written show on TV and I salute Aaron for finally giving a show that this generation needs badly. Its amazing to see how he connects facts & fiction without tampering with the integrity of the facts. Very commendable job by a modern-day writer on using such impeccable language and trying to bring a change in these times. Its okay if an F-word erupts occasionally as expression anger or sarcasm but the rest of the work is quite fluent.Its a great relief to see a writer who shows concern for real issues & not girly gossips or f**k & f**rt jokes. A good honest expression of opinions & inspiring work, isn't it just what the writers need to do to make world a better place? The best thing is that it is not boring at all, its a fast paced show and the conversation is exciting. Although IMO, it is little difficult show to watch on TV without subtitles as the characters speak too fast & if you are not from US of A, you may not be able to co-relate the facts without googling them. But that's just my opinion.Acting is OK. For me, Jeff Daniels is definitely the most underrated actor in Hollywood & deserved an academy award for the Squid & the Whale. Hope he gets more powerful roles after this show. Emily Mortimer is good. Olivia Munn is one actor that I never heard of or maybe never noticed but this time she has my attention, in fact she's fantastic. Dev Patel gets it right for the first time. Rest could have been better. Although it has not been that great after 1st episode but still it is one of the best. Hope this show doesn't get canceled or loose its intensity like the other shows that started off well but couldn't make their mark.& yes I m with Will McAvoy. This is definitely a mission to support.
No spoilers, no new information, but I simply have to say that this is the best cast, best written, best directed, and best executed piece of screen art ever produced. This show contained the best actors of our time in their segments, and the scripts were all written perfectly for them. The actors' understanding of their respective characters, the circumstances of each scene, and their relationships to the other characters were all beyond brilliant. One warning: don't watch this show with your brain uninstalled. It's quite cerebral, and may require some instant replays at times. You'll get even more out of it with subtitles, because by watching at the same time as actually reading the words of dialogue, you'll get even more out of it. I hope that they reconsider it's permanent cancellation. If they can bring back X-Files after all these years, they can change their minds and do a fourth, 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th season of The Newsroom. Of course, the stars like Jeff Daniels, Sam Waterston, and Jane Fonda were brilliant, but there were just incredible breakout performances by all the supporting players, particularly Olivia Munn. She is simply one of the funniest females to have ever walked the earth. It's hard to hear her utter ANY of her lines without being brought to laughter culminating in tears. Her character, Sloan, was certainly superbly written, but, as Brando once intimated, nothing's been written until she acted it. Simply genius. After watching all 3 seasons, I'm just so happy I spent my time in this way. Mr.Sorkin, and crew, thank you ever so much for the amazing work.


                
it's really rare to find a show that clicks from the get go and stays good throughout its run. The Newsroom did it.from the first monologue you can see how good the show will be, that opening scene is right up there with the opening scene from House of Cards. for a long time I was skeptical about a show focusing on a newsroom and what goes behind the curtain until I watched the first episode, and god damn was it good!it feels like you are watching a combination of Parks and Recreation, House of Cards, and Mad men.. or at least that how I felt, the realistic events -and usually actually true-, the work atmosphere, the relationship, and the comedic timing, especially the comedic timing, it was spot on. drama when it needed to be, and hilarious exactly at the right moments.and you gotta say it again, HBO never fail to do a finale its justice. and they really know when to end a show. I binge watched the whole thing the last two days, and it was awesome.


                
This is one of the best television programmes I've ever seen. Mr. Sorkin needs to be lauded for the brilliance of the subject matter and the style used to convey it! This series ranks with Yes Prime Minister and The West Wing. Only David Kelly's Boston Legal comes close. He singles out both of the political parties using current events and dissects the crux of the underlying problems. It appears one sided against the GOP but they do have more loonies. They also have far more entertaining characters than the Democrats. I find it amazing that it it only has one more season and scary, that viewers aren't clamoring that such excellent telly can be finished. This is Jeremy Paxman good! What an amazing country America is, that can have such contrasting television. Jerry Springer, Kardashians and programmes like The Newsroom. I looked at the Wikipedia reviews from the critics and it always baffles me, that such obviously inferior intelligences, have the gall to criticize someone like Sorkin. It's impossible for brilliant people like Sorkin to include Springer intellectual themes, but that is exactly what some of the critics are suggesting. Surely, they are aware of the show's subject matter and the audience aimed at, who would balk at such paltry programming? I have no criticisms and I am immensely grateful to be both educated and entertained and can only wish for more television of this nature!Sorkin's perspectives and passion are what makes these shows so utterly fascinating. Americans are not familiar with Jeremy Paxman so are really unaware what brilliant broadcasting is and also what truly intelligent people crave. Sorkin delivers in spades. These are the intellects that dissect mass media and show what's relevant. Ignorant people need this as importantly as good role models are to children. Thinking has to be directed or ultra right wing perspectives will flourish. It's such a pity this series will be ending, he will be sorely missed and television will be a much more diminished forum!I'm currently watching the third series and it just gets better with every episode. I think based on humanitarian reasons, Mr. Sorkin needs to reconsider. America desperately needs you. You never sell out and you address pertinent issues like no one can. So many are imbeciles and need your educational entertainment to flourish. You need to think of the youth of America and not just yourself Mr. Sorkin. They need you and so does America!


                
Critics be damned! Brilliant, Briskly Intelligent Writing. 25 Episodes of Awesomeness In a sea of crap T.V. this is entertaining. Believe me I have never felt as driven to make sure other people understood just how perfect a show was. Not for FRIENDS , Game of Thrones, House of Cards , Sopranos , True Detective or any of the other shows I obsess about. But this show changed that! This show boils down everything that is wrong with America and puts out a simple answer to solving that. DO THE BLOODY NEWS LIKE IT'S NEWS NOT A HIGH SCHOOL PROM ELECTION! Brilliant writing, terrific characters, excellent dialog, smooth and sexy directing that organically brought all the pieces together, and there couldn't have been better casting. Every character just felt exactly right. When it was over, I said this will be the new West Wing "Rarely does a television show come along and sweep you off your feet with brilliant writing, an amazing cast and an actual message that is relevant and inspirational. Aaron Sorkin has done it again with The Newsroom! This show is truly a display of what television can achieve if we have the right people who are willing to break the rules of the mundane drab to make an engaging and intelligent show. " <U+202A>#<U+200E>Goodbye<U+202C> <U+202A>#<U+200E>THENEWSROOM<U+202C>


                
This was an intelligent,thought provoking drama. Great characters and story lines. The dialog was smart, fast and bright. It had characters that you really cared about.It got us all watching by a really good monologue by Will McElvoy at Northwestern University about why "The US is NOT the greatest country in the world anymore". Catch it on HBO or HBOGO if you can. But it died because the under thirties MUST have explosions, vampires or the undead, but good dramas ? with good characters ?? Duh, can i tweet about that ?? It is a real shame that quality TV is doomed by youth ! Oh, and did I mention, youth did the same thing to movies. What no explosions, no CGI ?? Are you crazy ?


                
I believe The Newsroom is one of the best shows on television. The subject matter is current ,relevant and fascinating with just enough focus on the personal lives of the characters to give the audience a reason to feel like they are getting an insiders point of view. To say that the cast is perfection and that we are the beneficiaries of some of the best ensemble acting ever seen is probably an understatement. Let's not forget the writing that is provocative and stimulating. I can not begin to explain the loss that will be felt since this is the last season. This show will never get stale because given the premise there is a never ending source of material. The sheer chemistry of this show can never be duplicated ! Hopefully this show is saved because it is a work of art.


                
Sorkin almost invented a genre with the very fast paced, intelligent dialogue drama with real world issue relevance when he did The West Wing.....Once I got into The West Wing, all other TV Drama didn't quite seem to measure up.... sure there has been good stuff.... but nothing like the witty, snappy, engaging experience that show was capable of.Well, it's back.... a shining light in the world of 90% reality shows.... I now have something worth watching each week that I can't fast forward through 80% of the show and still get it.Thank God.


                
I didn't know what to expect when I sat down to watch the show. This being Jeff Daniels first foray on the not so small screen. I have seen Aaron Sorkin's writings before and was impressed by his talent. However, the opening salvo of the show blew me away. Sorkin's words and Daniel's deliverance of the state of this country was spot on. I only wish that all the people of America could have been on the receiving end of the dialogue. It would have been a great awakening.The new that we receive today is instantaneous by the likes of Twitter and other Internet and smart phone technology. But it only gives you bursts of what has been going on in the world. I miss the days of Cronkite and Murrow. A time when people stopped what they were doing to listen and watch what was unfolding in the world.The Newsroom brings you back to the times where the news on TV was the centerpiece of ones evening. The script is superb, the acting fantastic, and I for one could not keep my eyes from leaving the screen. I wish The Newsroom, all the best and a long life.


                
Not at all surprising that "critics" mostly don't like it. How often do you see them praise a show that so successfully presents such a bright, fast paced, thought provoking, and BI- PARTISAN message throughout? Ironic really, as one of the most "hmmmmmmmm producing" lines in the show was a facsimile of "the American people haven't been so polarized since the Civil War". The first premise made in the episode - "America needs to wake up, and acknowledge that we are no longer the greatest country in the world" - was really painful to process, but incredibly timely and accurate.The best endorsement I can give: after watching this incredible show, I no longer have just a TRIAL subscription. WELL DONE HBO!


                
Aaron Sorkin has owned Television for the past 15 years. He just never misses. I've been on a Sorkin set, the recipient of his quick wit, and a witness to his working with actors. His brilliance is legendary - when Aaron pulls up to the gas pump, there is a Sorkin octane choice...jet fuel. Spend even 5 minutes talking with him and you will be convinced of this. He is also radical, keenly focused, intensely in tuned to the nuances of others (picking up on voice inflection, body language, even physio clues), fiercely loyal, blatantly opinionated and quick barbed (he will call you out without hesitation and you best be on your A Game if you dare to engage), an optimist with a pragmatic foundation, a visionary and dreamer with chutzpah and a get-it-done (and done right) attitude, and as finely tuned no-fear mentality as I have ever witnessed. Sorkin clearly has a vision of the world where right has might, intellect the most valuable asset, the ethics compass has no ambiguity (save for the complex journey and angst one must sometimes endure in getting to the right decision), and those that care about what and how they do it, earn the front row view. When Sorkin arrives on set, his presence is immediately felt...even the most seasoned actors respond to his attention like an adoring offspring. I am certain Sorkin just being on set raises the level of every actor. His "hardware collection" (and that of actors and crew) is a testimony to his brilliance in bringing out the best in others. The Newsroom is a tour de Sorkin. Only a three year run, but that in itself is so Sorkin - do it right or not at all and get out on top. How many TV dramas get past three years without noticeable decay? This is my favorite of all Sorkin creations. Verbal excess has killed many a TV show. The Newsroom thrives on it. What could have been perceived as sanctimonious, is inspiring. The often frenetic pace (always under pressure and deadlines), gives the perception you've just watched a perfectly paced two-hour movie somehow shrunk to one hour, and you cannot wait to see the next episode. Watch this series from Episode one on. I've purposely NOT seen the extra behind the scenes bits or trailers. Maybe another time. The show is so good, I don't need reinforcement of it. This series sucks you in from the first episode and never lets you escape its gravity - HIGHLY recommended viewing. Bravo to the entire cast and crew, with obvious special acknowledgment to Jeff Daniels for his believable and inspirational portrayal of the ideal prime time news anchor. He brings the Sorkin vision and communication style to life, and his performances are brilliant and inspiring. Aaron, you're da-man. And HBO's The Newsroom a must-see TV series.
To be Quite honest, while watching it i just realized that we have been in a dark for a while. It is Absolutely captivating. It runs smooth like a knife on a butter. i didn't feel like it was an hour an twelve minute. The script has all the quality sings of Aaron Sorkins best materials. I almost felt like i saw Jed Bartlet on a Anchors chair. The cast needs no introduction for sure. It was The BEST PILOT i have seen for almost half a decade(Maybe more). I truly hope that they would get good ratings so that we would see more of it for a long time. This Start promises a lot and for that i would like to thank everybody on HBO for seeing the potential and Also to Aaron Sorkin who can write such a good quality scripts in especially such a delicate genre. Thank you Guys all


                
For 7 seasons, Sorkin brought us a compelling drama called The West Wing. The show, while having a decidedly liberal slant, was a hit even with conservatives such as myself. Why? Because despite the politics, the characters he created and brought to life were the type of principled people that all of us want to believe our politicians are in real life. Compelling people of conviction, who put what's right over ideology. In The Newsroom, he has once again brought the same dynamic into play. With characters who are every bit as compelling and believable as the ones he brought us in The West Wing, and with story lines that are engaging, torn from the headlines (quite literally), he has given us a new show where the kind of idealism and conviction to do what is right over what is expedient once again prevails. The show is not about the political leanings, just as The West Wing was not about them. And anyone who gets caught up in the fact that Sorkin is more comfortable coming at his productions from that angle is entirely missing the point. The program is about the people, and the conflicts, and decisions they have to make, and bring to the type of work they are doing. I am a Reagan conservative, and I have high praise for what Sorkin is doing with this program. After only 4 episodes, he has me hooked. It was his work on The West Wing that convinced me to give this program a shot, and I have not been disappointed.To anyone of my fellow conservatives who makes their criticism of this show about the left leanings of the story line, I say you've let yourself become blinded by the same ideological fanaticism that we accuse the likes of MSNBC of being guilty of.Jeff Daniels, Sam Waterston, Emily Mortimer, Olivia Munn, and all of this ensemble case deserve high marks for the compelling portrayals they give.Liberal, Moderate, or Conservative, give this program a chance, and don't get caught up in the fact that its coming from any particular political slant. A propaganda piece this show is not.


                
