The first 10 minutes in which we hear Daniel's speech about the US not being so great was super outstanding, because of what he said, not so much how he said it.After that, this show went downhill fast. By time we get into the second episode it was downright annoying. Especially Allison Pill and Emily Mortimer. They are unbearable to watch. "For one hour I own you," and "I hid under the bed," what crap! The old "we had a relationship" (what the hell is a relationship? doesn't anyone marry anymore?) stuff is so predictable. The sub-plot of the the jerk (Tom Sadowski) treating the intern (Allison Pill) horribly is so old and overdone, and the new producer (John Gallagher) being infatuated immediately with her is ridiculous - she is amazingly unattractive and extremely obnoxious. Two members of the team having inside information from BP, etc., is improbable. Waterston is fun and Daniels is good, but the writing is simply bad.The show is simply not very good at all. Wait until September and watch Homeland.


                
I have always liked Jeff Daniel's acting and it is top notch here as usual, however, the script is over the top much of the time.But more importantly, as good as all the acting is, and as seemingly concerned as the characters are portrayed to be by the scripts, this show is blatantly biased everywhere you turn. Here is an anchor who is portrayed to be right leaning when in reality he is very liberal as is nearly every other reporters personal views. It almost seems like a bunch of liberals held a meeting in Hollywood last year and hatched a plan to pretend to create a newsroom show while working hard to convince the viewing audience that they really were determined to be fair and unbiased in their reporting while actually attacking every single aspect of conservative viewpoints. Targets by this 'phoney news organization' include Big Business, Republican candidates, Arizona's attempt to stop illegal immigration, Oil companies, the sad news for them that so many conservatives were elected in the houses of congress, and more. They even promoted their views on illegal immigrants in their conversation and broadcast sympathetically while failing to mention any points from the other side like the fact that it is illegal, that they are jumping ahead of legal applicants who are waiting to immigrate to the US. They also conveniently ignore all the criminal stats related to illegals and fail to mention the federal government's failure to enforce our laws. They belittle opposing views in interviews while claiming to be fair. As usual, the Dimocrats on the left are counting on the uninformed public to view this and not realize the way they are being manipulated to form anti-conservative views. The real clincher is when they trot out Hanoi Jane as the big business owner who just wants ratings at all costs. Casting one of the biggest bleeding heart liberals in that spot is suppose to make us think producers are being as fair as possible...... I didn't like the promos I saw because of the apparent bias, but I sat and watched the first three episodes in full in the hopes I was wrong about this. The show does has moments that are really good. Too bad it is just another Hollywood trick by liberals to slam conservatives. Just another Dimocrat bag of dirty tricks as far as I am concerned.
I actually did sit through an entire episode of this show – and – yippee for me. I really would love to tear this show down, but I honestly can't. I think this is an accurate depiction of a newsroom, and it is well done. Is it left? Well, duh, aren't most of them? Yes. Do their political views compel many employees to downplay stories or even bury them altogether? Yes. Are they keen bootlickers? Yes. So all the bad things I want to say about this show is trumped by the fact that it is well executed. Does this mean I will watch it? No<U+0085>the ideological view of the show is tanked too far to the left for my liking. To be honest, to get the most accurate and honest US News is probably gotten from the B.B.C – they tend to be left – but still have some professional ethics. The show is well acted – I am always impressed with Jeff Daniels. The rest of the cast do a fine job being lefties as well - easy as it may be. A chill did run up my spine when I saw Jane Fonda though. Talented as she may be – I swore years ago I would never watch anything she was in<U+0085>so I lied<U+0085>this once. She did her normal professional job – still can't stand her – but she is very talented. Sam Waterson was no surprise – he is always brilliant. All these stars superbly depict the mind-numbing obedience with which many news outlets will go carrying water for 'their political guys' a frightening aspect of human nature I guess. That being said, I doubt I will watch this show - even if it pandered to my way of thinking. This is just not what I am looking for in a show.
Production, acting, writing is all great. The characters are memorable. Dialog is fast-paced and funny. That's why I gave 3 stars instead of less. I watched the first three episodes.The problem with this show is that it is the opposite of what it pretends to be. I was hesitant to start watching the show because I thought a "news" show from Aaron Sorkin and the company that produces the Bill Maher show would simply be a liberal sounding board. But then in the first episode we are introduced to the idea that The Newsroom will stop pandering to the ratings and start reporting the real news, the important political news, unbiased and with facts, to educate the uninformed voting public. In other words, what journalism is supposed to be. That is what caught my interest; I thought great, this will be different. A fictional show that can talk about politics without seeming to support one side or the other. Unfortunately by the third episode we have learned that the only people who seem to understand the politics of the day are the staff of The Newsroom, and their effort to inform the public consists of interviewing oblivious, moronic conservatives, catching them in 'fact traps', and generally presenting conservatives in general and the Tea Party in particular as ignorant, stupid, uninformed idiots who are ruining the country, all funded by the rich, evil Koch brothers. There are not really two sides to every story, we learn early on; only the facts. But in this show the facts seem to be only 'certain' facts.So it turns out that The Newsroom is a pretentious liberal sounding board after all. So if you are a fan of MSNBC, or get your news from John Stewart, or read the Huffington Post, or if you are a 'progressive' who simply wants to feel superior to the rest of the ignorant masses you will probably enjoy this show. Otherwise, if you are oblivious to contemporary politics you might enjoy it but don't feel as if you are learning anything of value. There are plenty of interesting conversations and funny moments but its way too heavy-handed to be enjoyable as a light-hearted TV show.So to sum up this show, I'd say its a well written story of what might happen if a CNN anchor show reinvents itself and begins reporting the news like an MSNBC opinion show. If you are a progressive or don't give a damn about politics at all, go for it. If you are not a progressive AND have at least half a brain, you will probably not like it.


                
There really isn't much to say about this show, but that it seriously reflects our overly sensationalistic society. It held much the same drama as you would find in any modern (painfully made) soap opera. Unfortunately, this isn't salvaged in any means by the acting. I've seen badly written scripts that done with good acting somehow saves a badly written story-line, but this tripe has no suck luck. With the overacting and horrible dialogue this series has all but died.If you're looking for a good series then try to find something in the lines of Dr. Who. It's far more believable and even though the acting isn't good, at least it has some redeeming factors.


                
Sorkin must be wired into the White House propaganda staff. I along with many others (as I look at the early reviews) thought this show was going to break some new ground. As a big fan of Sports Night, I know that Sorkin can build drama well. I even switched to HBO after the first episode. An episode that promised a level of intellectual integrity that's been completely lacking over the years in serial TV. Alas, from that point forward The Newsroom has been a revisionist history leftist propaganda piece that uses an agenda driven platform to attack the Republican and Tea Party members of America. I canceled HBO four episodes later. The "Aha" moments of the show range from humorous conjecture to pure fiction. It's a shame, I found most of the acting and characters good. I'm sorry the show changed direction so abruptly and completely and I'm more sorry that it feeds the misinformed bias and may in some small way influence some to vote for a Socialist future.


                
OK, i had to get it out. few days ago I casually started watching 'The Newsroom' Season 1. It was awesome from the beginning. from episode1 it was all about the tensed drama on how to bring back news journalism to its old glory, to make true ethical honest fact-based news, how determined they were to throw all the corporate & government fed lied as news to viewers. It seemed so much like the outstanding movies "Good Night, and Good Luck" (2005), "Network" (1976), and "State of Play" (Series & Movie).This went on till epi6; then in epi7 i saw one of the most mor*nic episodes seen in my whole life. from epi7, all their true honest journalism zeal just vanished; & all their portrayed honesty had been redefined being converted into bunch of horses**t lies. I was so pis*ed that i literally felt like to write down 'The Newsroom' on a toilet paper, may be i will, and....Sorry guys, I know there is high probability for me being bashed/disliked after this post; but, man, I felt soooo outraged from that episode that I had to write this out. this kind of series start off portraying so much honesty, and then after gaining viewers' trust they silently shift to the same loads of crap propaganda lies... it's intolerable!!! sorry


                
OK first off, he is not working with a whole new team. The majority of the main characters are his old staff. Even his old executive producer is still floating around in all these episodes "helping". Which is just weird and makes no sense. Poor reasons to connect these characters. The intern, the Indian guy, the black guy and lady. All part of the old team. You basically get Jim and the Mac as the "new team" Not that it really matters, but when they can't even describe it well, its a bad sign.Second, the whole "i'm a republican" thing. Please he is not. He doesn't even play one on TV. It's really bad. If you are going to write a script at least have it be believable. No one, not even a liberal will confuse this guy for being a republican, nor will we confuse him for a well written character. They are trying to make him look tougher in season 2 going after the OWS girl, but yeah that lasts all of 1 episode, and he barely goes after her. It's poor writing and a poorly developed character. He has done nothing, other than when he says he voted republican, that makes anyone believe he is republican. I think it's funny that they try to act like he has high ratings. When reality is, no liberal TV news station gets high ratings. If anything it's chris mathews as a inspiration for his character. Waiting for the funny feeling up his leg moment.The characters and plots in general are very poorly written. In a lot of cases, they don't even make sense. They also skip any opportunity to actually make it a real drama and go for it! Maggie is a good example. Much more could have happened in Africa, and her reaction to what happened is way over blown. Makes her character look like a straw man. Weak writing all around. No one wants to watch filler TV. No one will confuse this with Mad Men, although that is clearly what they are aiming for. The characters aren't well written enough nor does the writer understand what cutting edge TV is. If you have HBO and are bored waiting for Game of thrones or boardwalk empire I can understand. But this is not a HBO hit. Like a lot of HBO series, it's a flop.


                
Hooray, I get to be told by Aaron Sorkin what truth justice and morality is again.Super preachy. Just watch the YouTube clip of the interview in the first episode, it's the only good part. Or, like me, you can watch it for a bit, get less interested, and stop watching.By the same creator, I used to love West Wing , though each episode the White House staff pick 1 thing to care about for that episode, and tell you what your moral stance on that thing should be (basically Democrat = good guys, Republican = evil).
If you remember that Sorkin's next project after West Wing was the bad and boring Studio 60, you won't be too disappointed.


                
I wanted to like this show, I really did. But I noticed that with each episode, it became more and more clear that Aaron Sorkin thinks his audience is either extremely liberal or extremely naive.The show is supposed to be about a news program trying to reinvent itself by focusing on "truth" as opposed to "ratings." Then it proceeds to bash Republicans and the Tea Party throughout entire first season.I'm neither a Democrat nor Republican. But while watching the show, I get a sense that Aaron Sorkin is engaging in a very sad attempt to brainwash me, which kinda kills it...-- UPDATE --I decided to watch Season 2 and it seemed to be far better, until it was revealed that the entire Season 2 was merely a sad attempt by Aaron Sorkin to blame Benghazi on a fictional event he created as opposed to Hillary Clinton's failures as SOS.*sigh*


                
