The general idea of the show is easy to sum up: cable TV "news" shows have been doing a poor job educating the American electorate, focusing on ratings (which means focusing on entertainment). Sounds great.Also understand there is another premise: Liberal arguments are correct and factually based, Conservative arguments are incorrect, and only rely on emotion. Basically, FOX News, turned 180 degrees, and with as nasty attitude towards the opposition as Sean Hannity. Just as "Fair and Balanced". Stereotypes abound.A close examination of the personal stories will show the greatest weakness. Relationships are just too complicated for too long. And instead of getting resolution, you get more complications. And just like previous stated about the lone Republican doing nothing like a Republican, the one "Christian" has only gotten mad at other Christians, and never stood up for any "Christian value" that could be deemed controversial (between numerous drunken spells and booty calls).


                
I'm always on the look-out for new TV shows and daily I check TV calendars looking for any upcoming shows that might be coming out. Of course, whenever a new show from HBO is announced my interested is often peaked due to the countless number of quality series they have produced.The Newsroom. Perhaps for me, as someone who doesn't live in the US. A TV show about the news industry in America was not the most appealing of an idea. However I gave it a shot and was hooked instantly.The show is witty, humorous, interesting, well casted, decently paced and has an award worthy soundtrack. Every time I started a new episode the intro song sent goosebumps over me and really got me pumped up for the coming 50 minutes or so. The story moves at a good speed, not staying on any one thing too long yet not switching themes so fast that you feel unsatisfied.The characters are well written and charismatic with a few great performances that really bring them to life. Jeff Daniels, Emily Mortimer and Thomas Sadoski particularly impressed. Whilst Alison Pill for me was a miscast. If you look at how her character is written she should be very endearing, likable and interesting. Yet Alison somehow makes her come across as, for lack of a better word, nothing but annoying.My major issue with the show is the dialogue. Whilst the dialogue can almost be seen as the show's selling point and is mostly enjoyable to listen to. I felt slightly pulled out of the world I was being embraced into. Every single person in the show is unnaturally quick-witted and since they really give no characters to contrast that type of wit to. I ended up feeling like I was watching a sitcom and characters slowly became less and less relatable.I realise my last point won't be a major issue for most but for me it cheapened wwhat could have been a very deep and memorable experience.Overall it's worth watching. And I'm sure most people won't have as bigger an issue with the dialogue as I do. If you've read all this way then thank you, this is my first review on IMDb! :)


                
This is literally the best show ever..a masterpiece a brilliant and a thrilling writing...yes thrilling cause it gives a better adrenaline rush to me than a total action movie....the dialogues..and the way the words are arranged to give you the most and greatest impression is absolutely genius...but the only thing that's not really pleasant to me is why would this piece of art be so short? i mean..just 10 episodes? it's more beautiful than every crappy things on TV..it's a new way to civilize people and a new way to educate people...and a beautiful way to tell people the truth and show them the real stuff...so why is it too short? to me it should be on the air every single week of the year...


                
The show is well cast, well written and timely. It does however have a fatal flaw. Will McAvoy is a Republican? In what universe? Others have noted that Sorkin is noted for setting up his opponents in his shows so that his liberal position can win. Ya think? If this show did a 180 and McAvoy was a liberal host eviscerating Congressman Hank Johnson, Nancy "pass it before you read it" Pelosi, Barack "57 states visited" Obama and the brilliant humorist VP Joe Biden, few would believe McAvoy was batting from that side of the plate. If the show cast a wider net over all of the nitwits in DC, and condemned Soros in addition to the Koch brothers, it would be really entertaining. As it stands now, it is just another dollop of Hollywood left wing smarminess.


                
After a furious beginning, now this show is taking a turn for the worse and sometimes even a turn for the ridiculous.This is no way near the brilliance of West Wing. Aaron Sorkins drug abuse seems to show its effects. The reason why I still rate it 7/10 is because of the genius beginning and the first few episodes, which were good and sometimes, I might say, extraordinary.Sorkin doesn't seem to know a lot of things, especially when it comes to economy and fiscal policy. What? You say that he doesn't have to know? I agree, but then he should NOT present it in his show this way (this way:wants to lecture the Nation). This review is all comin from a real leftist. I would never vote for the Democrats, they are way too right and way too corrupt. For the Republicans I don't even have a word. Maybe lunatics or sth.


                
The pitch of the show is the opening speech made by Jeff Daniel's, and whether you agree with 'why he doesn't think America is the greatest country in the world' or not, this is a man fighting for what he believes in, which is more than I can say for politicians I've seen. Rather than having a high viewer count or making the big bucks, he's giving what the truth is to his viewpoint, and whether you, as a viewer, like it or not, it is one of the most relevant television show I have ever seen.Besides being relevant in news story, especially the uproar of political debate that has been taking place in the past two elections, the characters are completely refreshing, interesting, and unpredictable in a manner that most TV shows these days cannot grasp. Definitely worth a watch, not just because of whatever political statement you may have, but because it's mind-racing and makes you focus on what's important to yourself, not to other's, which is very important at a time like this because people have lost sight on the power they hold in themselves.


                
This is a great show with excellent acting from most of the cast, Maggie being the exception. Idk if it's the way the character is represented or if it was the writing. The show emphasizes that "THIS IS HOW THE NEWS SHOULD BE DONE" and I agree. I would love to see an actual news chanel use their show as a court session with Will as the judge and the audience as jury.Sadly the show is so biased towards bashing the Tea Party is becomes beyond repetitive. Preaching about how only real news will be reported but it's mostly about one group, the Tea Party. I don't disagree with anything said about the party but is the Tea Party the only guilty group or person? Sorkin tries to hide this biase by having Will claim he's a Republican. Never am I convinced that Will is a Republican at any point.The Newsroom is worth the watch and I love the show. The only hold back is this plot hole that makes me question the main premise of the show


                
By now, anyone who wants a plot summary can easily get it, so I'll dispense with that.I'm bingeing this for the 2nd time. I still love what I loved and hate what I hated. Another way to put it: I still rewind when I miss a word of dialogue, but I still FF when a character is getting on my nerves.Like almost everyone, I found Maggie offputting, but the performance I couldn't tolerate was Emily Mortimer as Mac. (I realize I'm out on a limb here, but so be it). Overact much?! In every scene, she's leaning forward, or leaning backward. Or she's standing tilted to the side. Arms are flaying everywhere. Oh, and does she own stock in Ugly Silk Blouse Ltd? This knocked it down to 8 out of 10, and I had to subtract another point for the ubiquitous office romance. Sure, it's fine to subtly hint at it, I guess, but when you have 2 main characters groping each other on a staircase in full view of the entire staff? C'mon, stay classy.With all this whining out of the way, I'm really sad it didn't hang in there. I can see why this was not an easy show to produce, but dang. It was good while it lasted.
HBO makes no effort to hide their political beliefs, something most the reviewers here don't mention because they happen to share the same views.Pity, that, because the few seconds of brilliance in each episode come from when Daniel's character has an epiphany about how idiotic both sides have become, and how big the lies from both have gotten.But you have to sit through 60 minutes of HBO insulting republicans, conservatives, and everything else they hate, and presenting all the hype, lies, opinions and pure bulls#!t of their side as "fact", for that brief few seconds of truth.Up to you if its worth it or not.


                
If you're a fan of Sorkin's previous works you will likely enjoy this show. The only way the writers know how to make you care about the characters is to have them run around their studio as if every crisis is a life and death situation but by the fourth episode this cheap trick runs its course. The characters spend 80% of their time shouting and speaking fast while the other 20% is dedicated to dismissing any genuine or authentic human interaction with terrible humor. This show glorifies a medium of journalism that is dying or dead and forgets that network journalism has lost nearly all credibility with people 30 and under. Of course I could just keep saying negative things about the show but all these negative things didn't stop me from watching all 10 episodes. It's very magnetic and I just couldn't stop watching it once I started so I had to give it a 7/10. I will pass on season 2.


                
I was hooked when the promo show Jeff Daniels rip into the sorority girl's question. The first episode was good (Daniels' rant was there but it was also a bit disappointing at how it was diffused so quickly).The writing is sharp and dialog is delivered at a rapid fire pace, which while good also acts as a deterrence as a reference or joke can take a while to understand. A lot is packed into each episode, which makes it a long watch and you have to pay attention. But that's a good thing.The stories center around a lot of political issues, taken from real life. Jeff Daniels, to me, feels like a news savvy House, and the rest of the newsroom team are his interns. Daniels is good as a gruff, no nonsense news anchor, while Emily Mortimer is called in to rein Daniel's character, Will, in the right reporting direction.The series has quite a few good things going for it: interesting stories, Jeff Daniels, Sam Waterson, Emily Mortimer (mostly, apart from that demonic and annoying outburst in the second last episode) Olivia Munn, and some decent dialog, no soap opera romance nonsense, apart from one slight hitch.There are some downsides: By the end of the show I disliked Maggie. A lot. She started out as an insecure, timid, intern who's trying to please her boss to becoming loud and brash and lots of over the top histrionics. The supposed romance that somehow blooms between her and Jim, for me, was cheesy, pointless, annoying and unnecessary. I was willing to eschew that for some sparks between Will and Mackenzie.The use of sharp wit and retorts, while fun to watch initially became annoying as it was continually repeated. A serious bit of dialog would be interrupted with a digressing comment or question, a gag that just wasn't funny after a while. The rest of the newsroom cast was so-so. Like Maggie, they were timid creatures to begin with but once they found their voices they transformed into arrogant characters. I didn't really care for most of the newsroom cast. Dev Patel's weirdness was funny and thankfully kept to a minimum so it was enjoyable when it occurred. Don Keefer not only looked like a weasel but acted like one too, and there was plenty of times I would have liked to have seen someone punch that smugness and ego from his face.Some of the dialog was delivered too fast and some plots, esp the phone hacking scandal was resolved too quickly and disappointingly.Despite these downsides, I still enjoyed the show. The last episode ended well and I'm interested to see what season 2 brings. Hopefully, with less cheesy moments a la Maggie and Jim and less arrogant characters (the young newsroom cast), and more interaction with the top brass of news studio.


                
