From IMDb: "A news anchor's life is stirred up when he's forced to work with a new team of colleagues". My first thoughts were that a show based on the media world, on HBO would be interesting the less. It even started so good that I wanted to rate it with 10 stars without even watching it. And by start, I mean Daniels's "breakdown" in the first 5 minutes. From there it went straight downhill... But let me explain what i mean.First of all we are talking about a multi-billion dollar worth corporation with a network channel. As seen from this point almost not a single character is believable. I mean c'mon... A producer considered "the best damn producer" who acts like a drama queen, never stops mixing her personal life with her job, her right hand, a promising young guy who gets bossed around by nearly everyone, even though he is their boss, a super hot and sexy economist who refuses to work as an actual economist for 4 million dollars more because she is loyal to the "news"... I mean seriously... The whole show is to me a high school drama parade, with a prime time news show as background. It may be well written, but it is more a romantic comedy to me than it is a drama set in the cruel and hard world of the media. Everyone is in love with everyone else and that gets more screen time than the actual processes involved in a "newsroom".I am not an American so I can't tell if they focus on some political aspects/parties more than others, although I get a strong pro-Obama vibe but I'll leave that to people who know better.To sum up I would say this is an easy to watch show, fun and entertaining, but not a "world of the media" dramatic series. It would be better off as a comedy.
The Newsroom is in his 3rd and last season.Aaron Sorkin, who created the Emmy Award–winning political drama The West Wing, is behind this, so you can expect some quality writing and high production values.This is supposed to be about a fictional TV network (ACN) and the team who is behind its evening news. The network tries to be different than its competitors and wants to present news that they deserve to be heard and seen. Not just the popular news without meaning that other networks think that people want to watch.This is an Aaron Sorkin's series so you must be prepared for fast talking dialogs and quick changing of the subject.The cast is very good, especially Jeff Daniels as the crusader anchorman.The plot of every episode is interesting, maybe even educational.Why aren't any more serious series like this? Why we have to tolerate so many pathetic comedies with a fake laugh track and we don't get more series like The newsroom or the west wing? Here you see interesting characters with integrity, professionalism, who want to make a difference. Isn't it better to watch these people than to see all these dreadful characters and criminals in you average TV show? Highly recommended. We need more like this.


                
Let me start by saying, I really love this show but fully acknowledge that season one had its fair share of flaws. But what show doesn't? I think they'll fix some of them in season 2, hopefully. Now, most of the criticism I've seen is because of one of two things, either the show being too left wing liberal/republican bashing or focusing too much on the character's relationships. The first of which I can understand, if you're a republican watching the show you can probably feel like you're being attacked or insulted. And I probably wouldn't want to watch a show that made me feel that way. But as for the second, since when is focusing on character development and relationships a bad thing in a TV show? Admittedly, the shining moments of season one were when it was focused on the news and not the characters but that's not to say I didn't enjoy the character heavy episodes as well. The further character development is actually a big part of my looking forward to season two.I still think it's a great show and that season one was well worth watching. And I'd recommend to anybody, it's smart, well written and exciting TV. Maybe the rest of the season didn't live up to the high expectations of the pilot episode but I still don't think it deserves the criticism it's getting.


                
For a few years, I've seen the opening scene from season 1, episode 1 showing up in my Facebook news feed every time someone was trying to justify a sociopolitical rant. I eventually got around to binge watching the first season while on a long train ride.The show started off seemingly a bit comedic with seriousness thrown in so that the show wasn't a one-hour comedy sketch every episode. I liked the character development. I did get tired of the monologues (oh, God, the monologues), forced interoffice romance between two of the characters, and the third wheel/love triangle interest, and one of the characters in the love triangle who was depicted as such a loser when he was a few notches past brilliant.The second season was better, albeit a bit darker, which gave me a better sense of really being in a newsroom that's dealing with major news items. There was less of interoffice romance, as that got broken off early in the season. However, there was the lingering loser character flaw that was written into one of the characters that felt almost like a back story was needed to flesh that out.I'm binge watching the third season and while the espionage plot seems interesting, I get the feeling the season will feel like Christmas came early: neatly wrapped up with a bow on top; everyone is happy in the end.Overall, I like the show. I loved the premise. I really, really appreciated the fact that they were depicting themselves as journalists with journalistic integrity, given our national journalistic atmosphere has let a bit of its integrity play second fiddle to bloggers and talking heads. Minus the monologues, the forced relationship tropes, and extremely complicated situations being handled with convenient threats (season 3 is heavy- handed with it), I recommend the series highly for viewing.


                
I'm going to give it an Eight, and I know someone somewhere is going to roll their eyes when they see this review, but, at its best is just my opinion, and at its worst, a bad one. This show has some of the best dialogue of any show I've ever watched, if not the best, and it has an ability to make a scene that many of us will never take part in (a newsroom) and make it come alive. You feel like you've done it before and you can't help but wake up in the morning wanting to do it again. It is so witty and so fast paced you're left waiting for the next social media esque quote you can post. I give them nothing but praise on a quality level, all the way around. I, however, had to stop watching when it become extremely clear this was another show trying to show how dumb republicans are and how the voters should be informed of their ignorance. In a show about media it, in my opinion, demonstrated exactly what's wrong with the media. It showed no mercy in showing its bias and who they they supported and why they felt that way. Like any other private business though, I said, "I respect your opinion but I will choose not to do business with you." However, if this show had been for "my team" I probably would have enjoyed it to no end. I simply could not stand behind the views of the writer. If you think along the same lines as him, hold on, 'cause it's going to be one hell of a show!


                
Despite the unexplained absence of spooks with heavy baggage, psycho killers, meth tycoons, degenerate 60s style-icons or edgy atmospherics of any kind, the second season of "The Newsroom" is pretty great. This "much maligned" series (sez the NY Times) is still a good old-fashioned Aaron Sorkin talkfest, to be sure, but now almost entirely in a good way. The first season had compelling characters and fast-paced dialogue to burn, but plot lines tended to be soapy (a vindictive gossip columnist causes trouble) or predictable (the sneering, cellphone-hacking network president butts heads with the high-minded newshounds). This season has a nice, juicy narrative arc, based on the Operation Tailwind scandal that cost Peter Arnett his job at CNN back in the 90s; each episode is a flashback, subtly and suspensefully dramatized, as sharp-edged defense lawyer Marcia Gay Harden sifts through the debris of a huge, seemingly well sourced story that blows up a few days after the broadcast. Last season's tonal excesses (smugness, pomposity) have been dialed back to tolerable levels, assuming you can accept the contrafactual premise that the staff of this cable news show, like the denizens of the West Wing and even the ill-fated Studio 60 before them, are uniformly attractive, all-knowing and impossibly glib. The zingy "His Girl Friday" chemistry between Jeff Daniels's prima donna anchorman and Emily Mortimer's harassed executive producer is still totally working, and there seem to be a few more thwarted or merely latent office romances this season, a subject Sorkin handles pretty well (cf. Josh and Donna on "WW"). Sam Waterston and Jane Fonda are cast enjoyably against type as a cuddly drunk and Ted Turner (more or less), respectively; Fonda can seem ill at ease with some of the flashbang dialogue she's called upon to deliver, but the rest of the cast is just about perfect—special mention to Alison Pill as a victim of job-related PTSD and Olivia Munn as a socially challenged financial reporter. Nice that they figured out after a couple of episodes that somebody as cool as Dev Patel's plummy-accented IT guy probably wouldn't be banging on about Bigfoot and extraterrestrials all the time. The short final season has way too much sermonizing about the evils of digital media (old-fashioned shoeleather reporting good, crowd-sourced rumormongering bad) but is otherwise quite watchable.


                
The Newsroom was always a really easy, fun watch for me. While it never blew me away, I always wanted to come back to it and think more about it. The characters are wonderful - the attachments I developed to Neal, Sloane, Don, Jim, etc were a testament to the great writing. The humor was very well done, and I did feel like it was just a show about real people and their day-to-day lives as news producers. The ending and third season in general did feel a little rushed. The acting is great and it's a show that can be enjoyed by almost anyone - the political insights were interesting, and the relationship dynamics were constantly relevant. The Newsroom is just a really enjoyable show.


                
As an addict to the news, I watched the first season with a great pleasure. However, as the criticts became a bit too demanding for season 2, Aaron Sorkin took a complete different turn, which I appreciated but did not quite expect. For season 3, he tried to finish the show in a proper way but was still under the pressure of the critics. So, overall, it seems to me that only season one reflect what the point of the series was: showing how hard the constant reporting of the news can be as it is always about reporting the information first, whichever the sources may be.


                
The series was awesome as far as the acting and the script, But it was easy to see that the show was created to push the agenda of the left. Much of the agenda is a matter of opinion, but when it got to the issue of global warming, it was so far off the real situation, that I wanted to stop watching it. The left still pushes the narrative that humans have been destroying the planet with CO2. But you can go to any web page and see that well over 90% of the greenhouse gases is water vapor, and the percentage caused by humans is less than 0.2 percent. The narrative is that the average temperature will increase 20 degrees in a few years. But even assuming it to be true, if you multiply 0.2 times 20 degrees, the result is that humans will have caused the average temperature to increase less than 4 degrees, which no-one would even notice.


                
Into the second season, and I think this is a show that people should definitely look into, but not one that can't be passed up. If you're into any type of dramas (especially political, crime or office related ones), then definitely give this a try. I think everyone else has done a great job at reviewing what makes this show great, and I agree with almost all of it. It has good writing, good acting, it's relevant, and the stories keep you engaged and caring about the news (who would have thought!). So instead I'll share my critique of the show. The biggest let-down of this show is that it often gets overly dramatic. Many times, the characters just start screaming at each other and they react more emotionally than an average person would. It's hard to believe that all the main characters in just happen to be so quick-tempered. I understand that some of these characters are emotionally-driven, but often even the more mellow/rational ones seem to start reacting like it's the end of the world at the smallest complication. I would have imagined by this time in their careers, they would have gotten used to hurdles and bad news, and wouldn't react so strongly at everything. Makes it harder for me to believe and relate to the story. This leads to my second discontent with the show. Both the News Night and the show itself let on as if they're deconstructing the dogmatic "America is the best darn thing in the world" belief people carry, yet neither have any plans to do so. I guess Will McAovy does this a little by questioning everything, but the show itself still treats America as the centre of the universe. I understand that Americans created this show and they can forget that they're doing this, but I still get a little exasperated.Honestly, my opinion might have been closer to a 7.5, but I really admired the way Sorkin approached season 2. I'm not a huge fan of flashbacks but I liked how season 2's two parallel timelines start converging into one and revealing the the gaps between. I think the reason for that is that this structure brings the right amount of suspense and drama into the show (and in a believable manner), and the episode-to-episode stories don't have to be overly dramatic. Either way, great job on keeping the show exciting and fresh. It's an accurate 8/10 on a scale where 10 is perfection.Lastly, this is more of a remark than a review but I believe I need to say this. Right from the start, I thought Sloan would be great match for Jim. This isn't a spoiler, but I don't see how Maggie is at all like Mac. Sloan and Jim's characters seem like they would be attracted to each other and be a really good couple, but I feel like the writer/directors just didn't consider that possibility. Not too enthusiastic about the relationships the show is hinting instead - except the main one of course!


                
Will and Mackenzie share a solid chemistry on screen which you can feel growing on you from the first episode itself. The Newsroom shows a somewhat exact portrayal of how media houses function today, with razor sharp journalists who need to be on their game all the time. This show has been compared to the counter part of Suits, but some can say that The Newsroom is even better than it. Olivia Munn and Jeff Daniels captivate us with their amazing performances, and they fit in the role just so well. If you were to find an issue with the show, it's only that some of the scenes can get really long and tedious and they can go off track sometimes with the story leading nowhere. However it's not a big deal, as this show is a must watch, especially for those people who are politically aware.


                
I don't know why everyone thinks that everything on TV or movie theaters has not to be biased or not to take sides. This show obviously is biased and takes sides and it is OK people calm down. Did Aaron Sorkin himself or anyone else responsible with The NR has ever promised to create a show that's fair to American politics? I guess not. It is a show. While you're watching something, try to pause it time to time and remind yourself - it is a form of art. It can be biased and it can take sides.I am not an American. So I am concern about its politics as much as American people are concerned about Turkish politics. Meaning: I don't care about American politics. What I care about is a good show though. Which I can say The Newsroom is one. It has a solid editing and from episode to episode it differs it ways of telling the storyline, it keeps you in the loop while surprise you by not giving you what you normally expected. It uses the right colors in the right places that makes you feel like you are in a real newsroom having an adrenalin ride with the rest of the crew and the lead actor Jeff Daniels is doing a really good job along with John Gallagher Jr. who from the first scene he appears convinces us that he is actually a good guy. But... There are a couple of downsides of the show though. First of all Emily Mortimer's and Allison Pills' acting is kind of shady sometimes. It is too much, too theatrical and I think bothers the audience. Also, it is too American. If you are the biggest guy in a room, you don't need to remind anyone of that fact, it is just being reminded simply with your presence. So when they start and finish the first season with establishing that "America is the greatest country in the world"; it just feels like the show is trying too hard to make a point hence loses credibility. So, should we watch the show? Yes. Should we believe what it is saying? Not quite sure. But I am sure of one thing that it kept me up until I finished the first season. So go ahead love or hate the show but give the show a try "as a show" first.
Maybe I should first concentrate on other things revolving the series than the characters and their relationships, but I cannot. I am always drawn to character-driven narratives; to stories which inspire me to think about myself and the world, which make me want to believe that there is something good in people. This great series is an ode to righteousness. It is exactly as impressive, daunting and patronizing as it sounds. And I really like it! From the very moment I read Aaron Sorkin's name on the screen during the opening scene I knew that is going to be an entrancing experience. The lines often reach perfection (they are extremely intelligent, humorous, bold, unapologetic - to quote Thomas Sadoki in an interview) and I am transfixed while watching them delivered by such good actors (in fact, I first heard about the series upon reading that Jeff Daniels received an Emmy this year for his role as James McAvoy - very much earned). I thoroughly enjoy the quick pace of the dialogues, the great characters (even the minor ones are outstanding, with special mention to Marcia Gay Harden as a cunning and surprisingly entertaining lawyer) and the way news is a dominant part of their interaction (informative and also creative). There are, however, a two important predicaments with this high standard of writing: the difficulty of making them sound authentic to all characters, every time; and the struggle of keeping the viewers' focus (this is not to say that I do not appreciate being intellectually stimulated, on the contrary, I partially watch this show for exactly this, but it can become strenuous to follow an hour of pedantic, albeit brilliant, rants). Moreover, there is also the risk of the discussion themes growing dull if constantly revisited (this is why I liked the end of season 2: even if it is a bit melodramatic or too crammed, it at least arrived to another level concerning the relationships in the office). But for some shortcomings this is a virtuous show, and I will definitely keep following.
PROS: Finally a show that shoots for idealism rather than cynicism! Instead of focusing on the dark side of journalism, this show challenges the status quo and recognizes that we can and should be doing better. It's a refreshingly positive show. I love all the characters for different reasons, but there isn't a single throw away- every single character in the show brings something to the table and makes me wish they had more screen time. The characters are off-beat and interesting, not necessarily realistic though- but that's why we watch TV and read books in the first place. The dialog is witty, the workplace romantic drama is present (with Jim Harper seemingly a stand in for The Office's Jim Halpert) and while the main character, Will McAvoy, at times seems like a pompous ass, he has his moments of redemption- which I'm hoping will be an overarching theme and progression throughout the series. CONS: The sheer hypocrisy of the show should be glaringly obvious to all. It sets out to push for higher standards in journalism in order to educate the American voters to elect the leaders America deserves. A noble goal that the writers somehow feel is achieved by simply bashing all things Republican or conservative. To mask the overt political bias, the writers made Will McAvoy a wolf in sheep's clothing by claiming he is a registered Republican and even pro-life. But Mr. McAvoy spends every minute on air criticizing Republicans, Republican politicians, candidates and legislature, conservative ideas and even Christianity- often via straw man arguments, extremely one sided monologues, character assassination and plain mischaracterization. All the while he gives Democrats, liberals and even Islam a free pass. Though McAvoy is supposed to be pro-life, he has a guest on his show who proposes abortion as a viable alternative and mercy act for children who would be born to "incapable parents" and he doesn't even engage his guest, let alone debate with her. So it is very disappointing for a show with such a challenging premise to see it fail so miserably in its goal. To properly educate American voters, you must think critically of ALL parties, politicians and ideologies, not just the ones the writers don't like. In the end, The Newsroom is certainly no better and possibly even worse than Fox News and MSNBC- entertaining, but so unbelievably biased that they're hard to take seriously. For a show that uses a critique of American journalism as its premise, it is either incredibly dense and ignorant of its hypocrisy, or worse, it is fully aware of it and is just another propaganda machine. Either way, the show challenges us to demand better and then settles for the very thing it claims to despise.As an Independent voter, I agree with the premise of this show- the press is supposed to keep the government in check, hold politicians accountable and educate the voters so that We the People can be best represented by our elected officials. Unfortunately the writers themselves seem incapable of rising to the occasion and envisioning even a fictional world with fictional characters that can achieve this goal. It's still a very enjoyable show however. If you're a staunch Democrat, you'll revel in McAvoy's religious zeal for destroying the Republican party and smirk and nod your head in agreement with him at every turn. If you're a Independent, a Libertarian or a Republican however, you may find yourself cringing from time to time and wondering how so much fuzzy logic can be passed off as intelligent writing. Putting aside the fundamentally flawed premise and execution, the show does make for darn good entertainment though. Just don't ever think it would be a good idea to parrot Will McAvoy's political arguments in the real world- they only work because they're scripted and therefore the writers can protect Mr. McAvoy from intelligent rebuttals.


                
A previous reviewer said he desperately needs TV like this. Despite him knowing what the reality is likely to be in a news room, or indeed in the White House, he needs to believe that there are people as intelligent and compassionate as this. I do to. Sorkin is an easy target for critics and his politics is still unpalatable to many. (I love that we have an alleged republican taking the shots.) If only the US had a political system that enabled real social change. Sorkin is writing another great series which keeps me engaged, stimulated, makes me laugh and cry. I like these people. I just hope, sitting in old Durham town, that I don't hear that some Chanel exec has decided to axe my evenings indulgence. There are people who think and live like this even if there lives don't make good TV and this is good TV even if it's just a fable. Thank you. We need at least 4 more series.


                
