Pretty cool cast, and interesting premise muddied by oddities, implausibilities, and a juvenile sense of story. Is this a film set in a world where crazy stuff happens as a matter of course, or a normal every day world where crazy stuff happens every now and then? In this film, I see pretty normal people doing normal things and having normal things happen to them, so why is it the writer/director chose to litter what could have been a very good film with SO much bizarro bs? And with literally ZERO character development? Three giant billboards THAT close to the road and THAT close together - I've driven all over the country and never saw that. Billboards in rural areas tend to be smaller and definitely not that close together for obvious reasons. WHO is this woman, Mildred? We know literally nothing about her beside the fact that her daughter was murdered. Eventually we find out she's divorced and has a son who lives with her, but if one is to care about the protagonist, character development is crucial. As it is, it's interesting to watch her do and say crazy stuff, but I couldn't care less about her.WHY is it, two male characters directly related to the protagonist have a girlfriend & wife 20+ years their junior? Do they live in a part of the country where such a thing is commonplace? What are the odds of that? Probably about the same as if your dentist won the lottery but then your mailman did also. Yes, possible, but very, very odd and distracting.Why does Willoughby's wife have an English accent? Was he in the military and met her while overseas? Is it common for a small town in Missouri to have British accented residents? If there was ANY character development, maybe we'd know these things. As it is, it's distracting and elicits questions that shouldn't have to be asked. $5000/month for three previously forgotten about, decrepit billboards on a road people don't use anymore? LOL. For someone who is supposed to be a savvy, tough, non-nonsense older lady with the wisdom of the Buddha, that's pretty dumb.A cop smashes office windows, assaults a man and throws him out a 2nd story window with no jail time. Really?! Why does Willoughby have fatal cancer? Seems as no more than a cheap device used to heap more disdain on Mildred. Yawn. Dixon ends up in the same hospital room as the man he assaulted? Is that supposed to be ironic? And again, what are the odds? Mildred firebombs the police station, nearly kills a cop, and then just says "I didn't do it" and that's the end of it?! Really? Some creepy stranger visits Mildred in her store and harasses her, THEN is overheard in a bar talking about committing a crime, maybe the crime in question, but alas even after Dixon cleverly retrieves dna from the guy, it turns out he's not even a local, and wasn't around when the crime occurred. Why then does the creepy guy know so much about the crime in question and WHY is he harassing Mildred!?!?!?! WHY?Then to top off ALL that nonsense, Dixon and Mildred decide to go murder the creepy guy anyway, LOL, how profound.
I can understand how one can adore this film. Of course it had some very interesting ideas and tried to make certain points, but in the end it was a tonally indecisive mess. Here are some of my main reservations: - The script is overexplanatory and relies too much on coincidence, while it plays down the consequences the main characters would have in real life, when acting nuts. I dare you to go burn a police station down, remain at the scene (regardless of the fact that you are virtually the only suspect) and tell me what happens afterwards. Yes, I know McDonagh would have argued that we shouldn't take the movie at face value, but there are too many -and too important- plot holes to forgive (and this is not a buddy cop comedy for god's sake). - In a cringeworthy flashback scene, we see the mother and daughter quarrel about Angela going out, only for them to prove their precognitive skills (Angela said she hoped she would get raped on the way, and Mildred agreed with her). Well, I'm positive there were more subtle ways to show why Mildred is filled with remorse. - I thought Rockwell's character to be too cartoonish at times. McDonagh said that they had to cut a lot of material because there were tons of moments with Rockwell's character that were too comedic, but there are still many way over the top moments left in the movie. - Willoughby is portrayed as a genuinely decent guy. Honestly, I don't get how can a Sheriff let his racist officers deal with black people the way they did and still qualify as a good person. Supposing he was an ignorant, illiterate redneck, I would be much more willing to excuse this kind of behaviour.
First, let's all just accept the premise that police beat up random black people for no reason whatsoever. Also, police are inept, because they can't find someone to arrest for the murder and rape of your daughter, even though there is zero forensic evidence. Next let's take a moment to reflect on the time you told your daughter "I hope you get raped on the way too". Now it's time to start lashing out at the world because you are angry. Start by committing 2 felonies against a dentist. It's also a good idea to go into a police station and tell them what horrible people they are. When your signs get set on fire, climb onto one of the burning signs and stand at the top of the flames. Next, fire-bomb a police station, because you are still mad, even though there is still no evidence or suspects. Finally, if you can't find the actual person who committed the crime, instead go murder a complete stranger on a hunch. This is all very profound and heart-wrenching...can't you tell by the music?The police chief isn't so bad though, because he has cancer and is spitting up blood. He thinks it's best to leave the hospital, because what do doctors know about dealing with cancer. He doesn't want his wife and kid's final memories of him to be slowly dying in a hospital, so instead their final memories will be of him blowing his own brains out in the barn. Thankfully, a streetwise black police chief came in to take over for the inept and racist white police officers. Now things will finally get done.
The good: performances by Caleb Landry Jones, Sam Rockwell, and Lucas Hedges (despite not having much screen time.) There were some moments that were pretty cool and did some new things, but overall this film isn't worth much. It is basically a string of mean people going along and doing mean things, to no end. Nobody learns anything, the little growth that does occur is quite forced, and a lot of it doesn't seem very grounded in reality. The tone is confused, bouncing back and forth between Nickelodeon comedy and a dark drama, making it hard to take seriously. Woody Harrelson seemed to care so little about his voice-over work in the middle of the film, but that's understandable when the writers didn't seem to care much either. The editing wasn't great and offered unclear communication at times. I don't know who picked Abbie Cornish for this, or anything, as she is an exceptionally poor actress. I think we're supposed to be emphasizing with the main character, but that's hard to do when she's a callous wrecking ball. Making a film about a parent dealing with trauma of this nature is a great premise, but there's a certain humanity lacking. I disconnected with this film when she didn't take the billboards down the moment her friend got arrested. I assumed it was a given- how could you let your friend rot away in jail while this futile ploy of yours is the single cause? And how was the friend OK with that upon being released? This is not a strong person, this is a petty and immature person who is seeking solace purely for selfish reasons. It is also completely overlooked that she is harming her still-alive son throughout the course of all this. Finally, we have one scene with Mildred's daughter, who is the cause of all events that take place in the film. Not only was the actress incapable of carrying this scene, but it was also hard to believe she was the daughter of Mildred. Overall, an unaware film that seemed to try to be catering to the current political climate.
I really wanted to like this film. But it has plot holes you could fly a 747 through. The characters do completely nonsensical things. And for the love of God, if you're going to make a place a character in your movie, at least actually film it in that state. Like maybe ... I don't know ... In Bruges?
Billboards set ablaze but apparently the only thing that burned were the plastic wraps.....silly.What was the purpose of the conversation with the priest? How did what happened to her daughter have anything to do with Catholic priests molesting alter boys? And in a small southern town, what was the likelihood the lead character was Catholic.....seemed agenda driven to me.A cop beats up an innocent citizen and throws him out a window yet his only punishment was losing his job? How was he not immediately arrested and thrown in jail.....mind boggling.A woman firebombs a police station and there is no investigation. The new cop sent to the town just accepts the statement of the local town dwarf and life goes on.....hard to believe.Why did the stranger go into her shop if he had nothing to do with the murder? If this man was out of the country and had no association with the Sheriff why would he care about the billboards?......Illogical.The movie was watchable until Woody Harrelson's character kills himself.....the movie dies at that point as well.
it's unfortunate to use the word comedy, dark or otherwise, with regard to this film. unpleasant would be a better adjective. if you've seen the trailer you know what the billboards are about. if not, you'll know when you see the movie. revenge and guilt are being served up cold. deep down, apparently, every one has a heart of gold. racists, wife beaters. whatever. I did not buy it. others have.
Disappointed. After seeing an 8.5 star rating I was so excited to see this movie.....and I wanted to see it quickly before I heard or read too many spoilers. In my opinion, ratings that high are reserved for movies like Forrest Gump, Titanic, Shawshank and Good Fellas so I really went into this with high expectations. This movie did proceed along quickly with enough twists and humor to keep you interested but it is so far fetched that it becomes stupid. The police are portrayed like characters from The Dukes of Hazzard so you just roll your eyes every time they talk. Then they get away with criminal acts with no recourse much like detectives in Lethal Weapon. Shoot your gun, kill people, break the law.....do what you want, after all, you're the police....right? This is truly a 4 star movie. You may not hate watching it but it is in no way a must see. As mentioned in many reviews the acting by Frances and Woody is very, very good and you can't help but love the resolve of the main character who is willing to stand up for what she is trying to accomplish as well as the pain Woody is going through in his life. But again, you just can't ignore the foolish scenes that occur. Ever seen a western where a guy shoots his gun 45 times without reloading? Or better yet a movie where the hero shoots 6 times and kills 6 bad guys all who had automatic weapons and were firing back at him.....Need a fire extinguisher?....Her's a 50 gallon one in the front seat of my car. It's those kind of occurrences that happen throughout the movie that make you say "oh come on" about 7-8 times throughout the movie. The most unfortunate thing about this movie is that those scenes were not necessary. It had enough going for it that a more realistic approach could have bumped this up to a much higher rating.


                
"Anger begets greater anger." says Penelope (Samara Weaving), Mildred's (Frances McDormand) ex-husband's totally non stereotypical nineteen year old new girlfriend, who delivers the film's theme in what is supposed to be another comedic moment where we are all supposed to laugh at this beautiful but shallow girl's attempt at sounding smart, and yet, it falls flat, like the vast majority of both dramatic and comedic moments.I just want to clarify before going any further that In Bruges, Martin McDonagh's directorial debut, is one of my absolute favorite films. One that navigates comedy and drama perfectly, brilliantly written and acted, I could go on for days on how perfect In Bruges is, in my humble opinion.Sadly, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri fails miserably where In Bruges succeeded. It constantly tries to navigate the difficult line between dark comedy and drama, and mostly, it falls flat on its head.The thematic thread may be to blame here. Without spoiling the plot, the setup is simple: Frances McDormand wants some form of justice for her daughter's brutal murder. She gets the local police department's attention by setting up three billboards complaining about their inability to solve the case. But her action only generates more conflict in town and while it does draw attention to her daughter's case, it leads to increasing tension between her and pretty much everyone else around her. Her anger literally begets more anger and, ultimately, solves nothing.This is a surprisingly simple moralistic viewpoint coming from the man whose first film was so morally complex and ambiguous and it results in the creation of equally shallow characters and a plot that desperately tries to make sense of its many pointless turns.To be fair, McDonagh attempts to humanize its more prominent characters: Mildred (McDormand), in spite of being a tough and wooden most of the time, shows deep vulnerability in an unfortunately insufferably cheesy monologue she gives to a deer. Meanwhile, Dixon (Sam Rockwell), the "black torturer," displays humanity later in the movie and tries really hard to find redemption when he is shown the way.Unfortunately those attempts are so sudden and awkward or poorly executed that they lack believability and feel like they were artificially implemented to make these characters seem deeper than they really are.Throughout the film, it feels like the filmmaker is more interested in hammering his simplistic viewpoint and using small town America as a perfect setting for it - even though it never feels like he has actually ever spent time there - than to craft a story with a coherent through line and inhabited by humane, relatable characters.There was so much talent involved in the making of this film - and in spite of everything, Sam Rockwell delivers a stellar performance - that it is truly frustrating that the end result be so mediocre. Hopefully, McDonagh will course correct on his next film.


                
I really don't see how this film is funny. It's beautifully shot and got great actors but really who cares about those if the basic plot doesn't make sense? It destroys the immersion and makes you wonder about the logic of the writers at times. I even suspect it is made just for the Oscars. I mean it's so similar to August osage county with the family theme and slow music etc.


                
Martin McDonagh is an exceptional writer - I will never forget seeing "Beauty Queen of Leenane" on Broadway many years ago. So it is not surprising that this film has some compelling characters and scenes to go along with its intriguing premise. However, it is surprising how RIDICULOUS everything else seems to be. As Wesley Morris pointed out in the NYT a while back, there's nothing "real" about Ebbing. At all. It is an ultra-unrealistic blend of Hollywood's many non-existent US small towns. And the cast of characters being drawn together there makes zero sense. Just like the wardrobe and the inexplicable choices and the way the characters talk to each other. Basically, it is kind of a mess. the cartoonish nature of it all makes caring pretty tough, despite some great performances. There's a lot of promise here (and even some comedy), but very little of it pays off.


                
A summary to save reading the full review:
A film with many subplots and setups that go nowhere, so much so that at the end if felt like a pilot episode for a TV series. Contrived jokes, most of the characters are idiots and everyone is seemingly able to commit serious crimes and get away with it.Brimming with unlikeable characters, the first hour of this film just annoyed me because it felt like every character was an idiot. Some were deliberate idiots (like Rockwell's character), some were accidental idiots - like Harrelson's character for example, who retained the racist, homophobic, unintelligent and aggressive, bullying Rockwell on his police force. Harrelson's character also commits an unexplainable act half way in. And no, his justifications did not make sense of it. It was, it seemed to me, a contrived effort to effect 'change' in the story and its characters. Tacky at best. Tsch!There were many more idiots and many more idiotic behaviours from characters who otherwise seemed 'normal' up to that point. Like the kid of McDormand. How old was he? 17? In a rather ridiculous breakfast scene he gets milk and cereal all over his head and when his wife-beating father turns up he giggles like a schoolgirl and goes dashing out of the house like a puppy, with said detritus all over his head. Was this idiotic behaviour supposed to be funny? It's a rather contrived joke isn't it? But hang on, then when his dad turns a bit aggressive, puppy dog turns superhero, bounding like a ninja and deftly swiping a knife which he then places around his father's neck. Yeah, whatever. One second he's "yay, yay, daddy", the next he's got a knife against his neck.This film is full of those contrived jokes ( as in the cereal-on-head one mentioned above). Rather pathetically and in what I would call a very low form of humour, several 'jokes' rely on idiotic behaviour by young women who are portrayed as being brainless imbeciles ("I learnt that phrase from a book I read about polio. Is it called polio? That game with horses?") There are few young women in this film but they are all portrayed in this manner, i.e. they're morons. Has the writer/director got a problem with young women?A film full of idiots is not necessarily a bad thing. I like Naked Gun. But put the idiots from Naked Gun into a 'serious' setting and it just doesn't work. The characters in this film aren't likeable or realistic idiots, they are either just vile or behave stupidly for comedy value. And that's pretty low brow humour. What you end up with is a bizarre mix of the serious and the stupid and it just doesn't work. Yes you can have black humour in serious films. Sometimes it can be unsettling, sometimes it can bring much needed tension relief. But in this film the comedy element is off and it just doesn't work.I found the first hour of the film unbearable. The last 45 minutes improved BUT only because it seemed like it was finally going somewhere and then...it didn't. Subplots came and went, as did characters who at first seemed significant then do little after a key scene (for example, the new Sheriff who replaces Woody Harrelson. He comes in bold as brass, kicks a few asses, gives you the impression things are about to happen in the film and then he practically disappears for the rest of it, popping up here and there in minor scenes!)Also annoying was the ludicrous ability for all characters to commit serious crimes and yet not get arrested. Rockwell beats up a guy and throws him out of a first-story window onto a main road, in broad daylight and directly opposite the police station AND observed by the new Sheriff. McDormand torches the police station and beats up high school kids. Her ex-husband burns down the billboards referred to in the title. No one gets done for anything. It's daft.At the end I really felt like I'd just watched a pilot episode to a TV show (one where most of the characters are unlikeable imbeciles and everyone is above the law BTW). It set up many things to be explored and then didn't explore them.Weird.
Great acting from the castsPutty the ending is crap


                
Does this review contain any spoiler? None at all. You can't spoil something that's this bad.


                
This movie had an interesting start, that hooked the audience. By 20 minutes in, that hook was dying a slow death from the sheer bordom a weak plot brings.


                
This movie had great potential and very good acting but the foul language was too much. Then the liberal biased BS started and never stopped. Why ruin a good movie with your biased opinions? When was this movie taking place? Newer type cell phone says at least 2000's but the police department was more like 1960's or earlier. I just felt this movie was all over the place and never figured out where it was going. But it is exactly what Hollywood likes so if you are into that.


                
I can't recall the last time I have disagreed so vigorously with critics. This isn't a great movie, or even a good movie. It's a modern-day minstrel show. This is a movie about small-town Missouri, made by (and for) people who clearly hold mid-western America in disdain. It doesn't look like Missouri, and it was in fact shot on the east coast. More distressingly, the characters act (and talk) nothing like small-town Americans. This is a deeply classist film, made in outright contempt of the very people it depicts. It seems to speak exclusively to those with a left-leaning political bias who who enjoy having their partisan delusions validated. To put it another way, this is a movie about Trump voters, made by a Brit who doesn't even understand Brexit voters.If this were strictly a comedy, it would simply be offensive. But this is a drama which purports to have a higher purpose than mere laughter, and worse, this is a film that feigns realism. For that reason, I consider this a blatant display of unforgivable bigotry.If you decide to watch this film, try imagining that the black characters are white and the white characters are black. What era would produce such a condescending piece of filth? Why would that kind of portrayal be acceptable in this day and age?


                
Director Martin McDonagh has impressed beyond measure in the past. "In Bruges" is a film that perfectly blends the dark, the hilarious, the perverse, and the utterly, utterly depressing.Going into "Three Billboards" I had high expectations, and I don't know if that coloured my final opinion or not, but all in all, I found it to be lukewarm at best. While there were impressive aspects of the film such as some beautiful shots, outstanding acting from Sam Rockwell, Peter Dinklage, and many, many of the side characters, and brilliant writing, at its core "Three Billboards" is missing something which can be summarised in three points.1. The DaughterThe core conflict of "Three Billboards" is that of Frances McDormand standing against the negligent police of Ebbing. The conflict is rooted in their inability to solve the rape and murder of her daughter. From the get go you are behind McDormand. There is no two ways about it. However, I found the impact of her plight diminished greatly as the film went on and on. Two moments that define that. One: The sole flashback to her and the daughter fighting, and Two: The death of Chief Willoughby. By only having one flashback I found it hard to connect with how important this fight was to McDormand. We didn't see her with her daughter, it's almost as though her daughter wasn't relevant and it was more of a criticism of negligent police in America. The death of Willoughby stalled the conflict in a major way in that when McDormand and Willoughby were in the same room, it felt like a battle between superpowers. The man who caused all this pain, and the woman who can't stand the pain anymore. They had chemistry, intensity, and both were understandable in their stances. Once Willoughby died, McDormand was forced to direct her anger onto Sam Rockwell's character, who did not have the same impact on the plot as Willoughby. His story was compelling all on its own. To put it simply, the conflict was dampened by a lack of context and the killing off of a core character with whom the tension was most palpable.2: It got lostAs previously mentioned Willoughby's death ended the most compelling conflict in the film. From that moment on, it becomes less about McDormand's daughter and her retribution, and more about how McDormand is affecting the town itself, which would be fine if the first act had framed it that way. All throughout the first act McDormand's struggle is at the forefront, she fights for justice and it's compelling, you feel her pain, you understand her. Once it turns to throwing molotovs and dating Peter Dinklage I can't help but feel that the direction of everything act 1 set up is tossed out the window (pun intended). Other characters are placed in the spotlight and because of that, McDormand's story is lost and we're left with what feels like an elongated episode of "Three Billboards: The Series". 3: The CGI DeerThis isn't a big complaint, but that deer killed that entire scene. The Ring 2 somehow managed to have CGI deer that were more tangible than that bizarre effect.3: McDormand and her characterFrances McDormand is a brilliant actress. There's a reason she is so well respected, admired, and placed on the pedestal that she stands on. As a person, I admire her, and her speech after receiving Best Actress was one that will be remembered.
All that said, her performance in "Three Billboards" was one of the most stale, unmoving, uninteresting performances I have seen. A stern glare can only work in so many scenes before it loses its shine, and "Three Billboards" had too many of those scenes. Her character's motivation was simple, and it's easy to get behind, but by the end of the film, her character has not changed. She is still the same stone faced woman that stared down the advertising salesman at the start of the film. Her story has not progressed, she has not gained or lost anything over the course of the film. Her actions appear to have no consequences in relation to her. Her billboards are set alight, but before long they're put back up. She can't pay for the billboards, so someone else pays for them. She throws molotov cocktails at the police station and she serves no time. Her actions have no tangible consequences and that only works to her detriment."Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri" could have been so much better. Aside from the three aspects I discussed above, I enjoyed what the film had to do. Caleb Landry Jones was wonderful as the advertising salesman and his arc in relation to Sam Rockwell's character was one of my favourite things in the film. Peter Dinklage was one of the funniest characters in the entire film. McDormand's ex-husband and his new girlfriend had some brilliant scenes, both dark and comic which started to come close to what "In Bruges" had done, it just never reached those heights and was dragged down by questionable choices in storytelling and character development.4/10
Cannot understand how Sam rockwell received an oscar for this, I know no one is taking oscars serious anymore but still he is wooden and can't act to save his life. Coming to the story, this is a poor film with an idea that the director thinks is greatest ever, not. The storyline is weak and inconclusive and it does not even know where it was going. Don't bother watching this and waste your time please!


                
I came in thinking it would be some sort of interesting whodunnit with an actual coherent plotline & that we'd get to the bottom of the murder of McDormand's daughter. Instead we're taken on this bizarre, tedious journey into the lives of the residents of a small town in Missouri. The deputy sheriff hates McDormand, then he's a racist, then he's not, then he's throwing a guy out a window. People are getting seriously assaulted and injured left right & centre but in Epping that hardly even raises an eyebrow from the local police. Some of the dialogue is frankly nuts, particularly the sequence where Woody Harrelson and his wife discuss Oscar Wilde & penises. At that stage I was looking at my watch and just hoping it would end soon. The only real noteworthy performance is from Rockwell but even his performance just does not fit in well with the overall aimless direction of the plot. Really disappointed after reading the reviews and seeing it nominated for all these awards.
This was a choppy film so I will give my opinions in a choppy format. 
Frances McDormand is Mildred whose daughter was raped and murdered 7 months earlier. She is the Five Stages of Grief writ large. She is angry, in denial, feels guilty, etc, etc. She excels in the role but I felt the character was too much like her famous role in Fargo. I didn't feel that she had to start from scratch in creating the persona of Mildred; it just wasn't that much of a reach.Woody Harrelson plays the police chief and again surprises me at how good an actor he can be. There wasn't much of a development arc here but he still was fun to watch. He reminded me of Andy Griffith; a good hearted sheriff surrounded by lesser men and who had more going on upstairs than he let on. Sam Rockwell was very good. I honestly did not realize it was him playing the drunk, racist cop until the credits rolled. Music. Sucked. OK I just don't like country music as a soundtrack, especially when sung by angst ridden women. This isn't really a movie, it's a series of scenes that somewhat flow from one to another. It's a Coen brothers movie under a different name. What's good? The casting and the writing. What's lacking? Coherence and a plot. Too many loose strings and "whatha?"
I cannot understand why the reviews are so good. Yes, the acting is very solid. Woody is his usual good, interesting and funny self. Both Frances McDormand and Sam Rockwell are good too. The story is unique too. So it drew me in. And then this is what killed it for me. There is NO ending whatsoever! Nada! Boo!
I enjoyed the last few minutes of this movie. Redeeming the irredeemable cop was quite a novel move, I thought. And given the entire rest of the movie followed a totally manipulative Hollywood agenda, it was the more remarkable for that. Hollywood, please, we get that all men are toxic rapists. We get that all women are strong heroes. Cops? All white supremacists. Blacks? All nobility. We GET it. Can't you just give it a rest and give us good movies? Entertainment? Sheesh. 
The irony is that the likes of McDormand and Harrelson would fly over a place like Billings with a shudder of relief that they don't have live in such a place. So both their performances came over to me as totally forced. 
And as to the ending... it actually made me laugh for audacity. You don't know how to untangle the web you've spun? Can't work out a resolution for the mystery? Oh, just cut the ending entirely. Let the audience think it's clever, artistic. 
If this film wins Oscars then there's no hope left. 4 stars for Sam Rockwell's performance alone. He steals every scene he's in and gives us at least one intriguing storyline.
A movie with a doomed concept - we know Frances' daughter isn't coming back - so what is it? A movie about the frustration of grief? What hope can we have for her character? Maybe dating Peter Dinklage? He's cool right? Sam Rockwell is an idiot who usually would get some redemption in a movie like this. Nope - he stays an idiot who thinks he's cracked the case cos he overheard some guy talking shit in a bar. Clarke Peters turns up and we think "Is this gonna turn into In The Heat Of The Night?" Nope - he does nothing. This movie is a series of left turns until you end up back at the beginning. Frances wants some payback for the death of her daughter. Does she get it?....Roll credits


                
"Three Billboards Outside of Ebbing, Missouri" is a flawed piece of work, and I say this as a fan of Martin McDonagh. The audiences watching this movie in 2016-2017 should experience palpable dissonance between how race and police relations are portrayed onscreen versus reality. The cast acquits themselves well. McDormand is laudable as is Harrelson (the movie is poorer after his exit). Rockwell is a capable player, but it is an ugly reality to see an actor inhabit such an ill-concieved role.Look around and you'll find explanations and plaudits for "Three Billboards" but I'm asking you to think, really think. I know it's a dark comedy, and I've enjoyed McDonough's past work. I also know that the film does a disservice to race. By intent, or not, disservice is the reality. I won't deny the catharsis I felt hearing McDormand's character roar at a local priest, having had a pedophile priest at my own school. There is emotional substance in the piece, although there are serious flaws regarding race. It's a conundrum to have an auteur channel a mother's rage so well and miss the mark so wide regarding police.Martin McDonough is an Irishman who lives in London. For my part as an American, this film might have well been written by an alien who had no concept of American history, our foundation upon the horrific institution of slavery, or our current political climate. It's the sort of creative effort that would have me responding with a contemporary dramatic reading list, which would start with "Blues for Mr. Charlie." So I beg you, if you see this film, and you haven't already read James Baldwin, please do so.
