Frances McDormand is a grieving mother who puts up "Three Billboards Outside of Ebbing, Missouri" in this 2017 black comedy directed by Martin McDonagh.Mildred Hayes (McDormand) is disgusted that the police haven't found her daughter's rapist and killer, so she takes out billboards asking why the chief of police, Willoughby (Woody Harrelson) hasn't done anything about the case.The billboards set off anger, violence, and revenge motifs in this small town. Things become worse when a pent-up police officer, Dixon (Sam Rockwell) becomes enraged and starts acting out.Lots of swearing, lots of violence, and lots of laughs to be had in this film. It was strange to watch as I had just seen another film, Past Life, that focused on the subject of anger and pain, and how it can eat a person up and destroy them. This film is yet another good illustration of that, as Mildred stops at nothing to make a point.The one-liners are amazing, and Mildred's speech to the priest who comes by to ask her to remove the billboards is hilarious. The movie is filled with strong performances and equally well-developed characters. We see all of their sides - violent, kind, vengeful, angry, sad; we finally realize they're just people driven in some cases to extremes.Harrelson's performance is touching -- we're prepared to dislike him but his sincerity and humanity come through. As Dixon, Rockwell seems like a monster, but once he acts out, he's able to focus his energy a little better.And then there's McDormand, a powerhouse. She's not good ol' Marge in Fargo. She's a tough woman with a broken heart who takes out her anger any way she can. It's a beautiful, multilayered performance. Highly recommended, asking the questions of where revenge and hatred can take us, and deciding when and if it stops.


                
Three Billboards is an immensely enjoyable viewing experience. The characters are carnivalesque, outrageous and troubling in one turn, heroic and inspiring at the next. McDonagh quite deliberately does not let you find a moral centre in his tale. There is a 'save the cat' moment very early in the film, a character helping an insect rather than crushing it, that is so mechanical that I flinched. Shame on me for falling so easily into McDonagh's trap. The plot zig-zags and leaves you breathless trying to process each new piece of information. The dialogue crackles with delicious insults. I laughed hard, and often. And then I cried. And winced. And laughed again. There is one scene of quite shocking violence. The performances have been lauded, and rightly so, as Frances McDormand, Caleb Landry Jones, Sam Rockwell , and Woody Harrelson bump and smack against each other tied to the roller-coaster plot. Peter Dinklage gets the chance to show his range. But while the praise for the acting is merited, the praise for the screenplay is more problematic. A huge coincidence in the final 20 minutes sets off a chain of events that leads to a redemption that is unearned, and a reconciliation that seems implausible. "Love," implores a missive from one character to another, and the moral turn that character takes on that one command is too abrupt and too unequivocal. It also asks for forgiveness of acts already witnessed, and implied, that are far too egregious to be forgotten. A flawed film then, but perhaps all the more interesting for those flaws. Don't make the mistake of seeing it alone like I did - you will definitely want to talk to someone straight after viewing.


                
To suggest Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri, is contrived is to ignore that the entire town is contrived. In fact, Ebbing, Missouri, does not exist, I know, because I looked for it on Google Maps, and if Google does not know where something is, it simply does not exist.It's no secret that Frances McDormand is quietly powerful and a top- notch performer. Sam Rockwell does his thing in a role that requires less, and Woody Harrelson offers us a rare moment: we almost forget he's Woody Harrelson, even if for a moment, despite his clangy drawl and lack of hair.I venture to guess this movie is about finding quiet power in a world where extroverts dominate. Being a woman, being a dwarf, being black, being poor, being sick, or possibly being gay, these are aspects we are told should be quiet, while others can be loud and yell and get what they want, because the early bird gets the worm, the squeaky wheel gets the grease, and hard work leads to promotions and a better life because Good Life Choices.Rectangular billboards are flat circles, time is a fleeting concept, and some problems cannot be solved now or ever, despite what we want or what we need.Buy some ad space and speak your minds!


                
Review:
Every now and again, a low budget movie comes along that exceeds expectation, which this movie certainly did. I personally found it entertaining throughout, and the performances from McDormand, Rockwell and Harrelson were brilliant. The storyline was also well put together but I was slightly disappointed with the ending. Although the subject matter was quite serious, the witty script made it a joy to watch, in a black comedy type of way, and it really does prove that you don't have to have a huge budget to make an entertaining movie. Anyway, the movie is about a mother, Mildred (Frances McDormand) who has become a recluse after her daughter is brutally murdered. After waiting 7 months for the police to come up with some results, she decides to take matters into her own hands by putting "RAPED WHILE DYING", "STILL NO ARRESTS" and "HOW COME, CHIEF WILLOUGHBY?" on three billboards, hence the title. The billboards upset a lot of people in her small town, including Chief Bill Willoughby (Woody Harrelson), and officer Jason Dixon who is a racist and a violent alcoholic. As Bill was unable to solve the case, he is pushed to investigate the murder again, after the billboards cause a huge impact in the town. Whilst suffering with pancreatic cancer, Bill decides to take his own life after finding out that the cancer has progressed, which leaves Mildred with no answers about her daughter. After another violent event, Jason is sacked from the police but he decides to look into the murder after reading a note that Bill left him before he committed suicide. Out of frustration, Mildred decides to burn down the police station, not knowing that Jason is inside but he manages to escape with severe burns around his body. Whilst in a bar, Jason hears a man bragging to his friend about being with a girl around the time Mildred's daughter was killed, so he gets into a fight with him to try and get his DNA. After finding out that the DNA didn't match, Mildred is left with no leads but she is still determined to find out what happened to her daughter, even though everyone is telling her to drop it. Frances McDormand was perfect for her role, along with Sam Rockwell who was funny throughout. The cinematography was also perfect for the movie and the various cameos were great additions to this unique movie. It could have easily been a depressing, downbeat film because of it's emotional backdrop, which is why I was surprised with the outcome. Because of the amount of awards that this movie received, I hope that other directors follow suit, especially in this day and age of loads of sequels and remakes. A great watch!Round-Up:
This movie was written and directed by Martin McDonagh, who also brought you In Bruges and Seven Psychopaths. Judging by his previous movies, Martin is definitely one for dark comedies but I doubt that he was expecting such a success with this movie. With Frances McDormand and Sam Rockwell winning Academy awards for there roles in this film, which they thoroughly deserved, I can't wait to see what this director will come up with next. Budget: $12million
Worldwide Gross: $158.6millionGenre: Crime, Drama
Cast: Frances McDormand, Sam Rockwell, Woody Harrelson, Abbie Cornish, Caleb Landry Jones, Kerry Condon, Alejandro Barrios, Zeljko Ivanek, Peter Dinklage, Amanda Warren, Sandy Martin, John Hawkes, Clarke Peters and Samara Weaving. 8/10
Rape, murder, cancer (and arson) - this movie pulls no punches. The billboards encourage a violent response and, as we know, violence begets violence. All the performances are gut-wrenchingly good, especially McDormand who wears her grief like an ever-present shroud. If I have one negative reaction it's my usual one to the relentless use of f-words (and even the c-word, although this is amusingly exchanged in one kitchen table scene between Mildred and her rebellious teenage son). The frequent shifts of tone from tragedy to comedy are brilliantly scripted.A tough film to watch, but a good one - even a great one. I'll be surprised if McDormand doesn't beat Meryl Streep to the podium at this year's Academy Awards. Mildred is one of those characters who will stay with you long after you leave the cinema.


                
The main thing I like are characters, they're very colorful and well acted. I enjoyed watching some of them change, and the others like the main character stay what she was and fight what she believes in. The plot was interesting to me. There wasn't a moment I would be bored. The ending may not be the best ending ever, but it was quite satisfying to me, and left some thing to thing through.


                
Arguably this film is one of the best films of 2017 the story line was so powerful and unique at the same time, and the three leading actors ( Frances McDormand, Sam Rockwell and Woody Harrelson )
 brought one of their best performances till date.Frances McDormand character is fantastic she shows her toughness having this strong character to all the people 
around her, like she is saying ( i don't care about what do u think, i'll do what i want no matter what),
but when she is by herself or a closer friend who knows her very well she shows us her feeling as a broken heart women and she is still have feelings and big heart
and the director gave us that in an early scene when she helps an insect that is on her back unable to walk.Woody Harrelson also gave us one of his best heartbreaking roles that is different from most of the characters that he usually plays.But the biggest surprise for me was Sam Rockwell, he was superb at his role and he brought to the screen a complected character
in a funny way, so yes the character is racist and have this a dark side, but at the same time funny and enjoyable to watch.
he is the kind of guy who can't do anything without asking his mother first, but he is uncomfortable with that and it showes very well in the way of pronouncing her name while someone mentioning her
 and making fun of him.( i couldn't stop laughing when his mother asked him : Do u want me to go to the police station asking them to bring you back!!!)As for the whole film the directing is very good not brilliant, but again it's so decent ,
and the story is so good and enjoyable except the last part because they gave us so much at the begging and the middle of film, but at the end they closed it in an open ending style,
which i didn't like.Final rate:8 out of 10
Saw 'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri' on the promise of one of the year's best trailers, the immensely talented cast, the intriguing subject matter, the receiving and pending of numerous accolades and being familiar with Martin McDonagh's previous work. On the most part 'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri' was incredibly well done. Understandably it is not for all. The film has already been criticised for implausibility, bigotry, the ending and its lack of character likeability and over-the-top actions, though often without acknowledging the film's many strengths and resorting to condescension (a big bugbear of mine) towards people who liked it let alone loved it. Did have a couple of issues with 'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri' myself. The ending is far too abrupt and without resolution in a film crying out for one. Epileptics should beware too of a dizzyingly edited attempted murder scene, understand why it was edited that way but will admit that it did make me feel ill watching it (luckily it quickly passed). Abbie Cornish felt out of place here, she doesn't have a lot to do (not enough to single handedly ruin the film, she would have to have a far more major role to do that) but everything about her just jarred. There are some implausible behaviours and consequences, Dixon's actions were more than just a sackable offense for instance.However, there is so much to like about 'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri'. With the sole exception of Cornish, who isn't in it enough to ruin the film, the acting is brilliant. Frances McDormand's performance is a career high and one of the year's best, very heartfelt and fiery, even if you don't condone some of her actions it is hard not to feel for her as she goes through every mother's worst nightmare. Woody Harrelson is heart-breaking and has the film's most sympathetic character perhaps (either he or Peter Dinklage's, although Dinklage doesn't have the film's most tragic scene). Sam Rockwell is similarly a revelation, you initially dislike his character but later on his 180 is incredibly moving and he is the character who changes and redeems the most. Peter Dinklage always makes anything better and it's the same here just by his presence alone and his performance is the most likeable one, especially towards the end where one actually feels sorry for him. Another standout is the writing, do not let the heavy use of profanity put you off. There are parts that are darkly comic and induce a number of chuckles and laugh out louds. The film also works as being one that is morally nuanced and complex, the characters are not "likeable" ones, neither were they intended to be, and make questionable decisions but they undergo changes that sees them in a different perspective (Dixon especially). A large part of me found it difficult to not relate to Mildred, her actions are extreme at times but there are parents in the same situation that feel similarly seeing as grief is an incredibly powerful and complex emotion. It's the tragic elements that resonate most though, with its heavy going themes handled very poignantly and harrowingly. 'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri' has a story that is deliberate but also gripping, with an adept balance of its varied tones. Which is why it is sad that it ends as unsatisfyingly as it does. With the exception of one scene, 'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri' is succinctly edited and grittily and beautifully shot. McDonagh directs very skilfully. Carter Burwell's music score fits perfectly and is a hypnotic, understated and melancholic score in its own right. Just as fitting in a somewhat ironic way is the use of the gorgeous "Last Rose of Summer" exquisitely sung by Renee Fleming, whose voice one familiar with and loves classical music and opera (like me) recognises from anywhere. Overall, gripping and very well done film if not perfect. The performances are among the best of the year especially but the film itself as an overall whole just falls a tad short of being one of the year's best films. 8/10 Bethany Cox


                
Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, MissouriSurprisingly, the music is amazing in it, all the tracks are perfect and encourages each and every scene especially when the billboards are burned down, there are couple other scenes too but don't wanna spoil it. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri has the perfect balance of character driven movie and script driven movie and addition to this, an unpredictable one. Martin McDonagh; the writer-director, brings out something new in this genre that has never been witnessed, he plays with his characters and tracks like he is juggling and even his short characters too will make you feel for them (Peter Dinklage and Caleb Landry Jones) which shows the range of the characters and the actors. Frances McDormand oozes power like never before; she is brutal, arrogant, sometimes wrong and surprisingly funny. Woody Harrelson is straight out stunning in it but the real trump card is Sam Rockwell; he almost has a parallel role to Frances and he justifies his presence till the last frame. Three Billboards Outside Ebbing Missouri stands out alone in its genre for its unpredictable script, brutal characters and amusing conversations.


                
I'm not really all that sure why I went and saw this film, but from the trailers it sounded interesting, and also somewhat dark, and funny, at the same time (a black comedy if you will). The first thing that I should mention is that I haven't seen a film like this for a while, where the ending is incredibly ambiguous (as it should be), and that it doesn't follow the average Hollywood cookie cutter format. Okay, while I'm not as much into independent films as I used to be, seeing something that is a little different once in a while does break the monotony of what happens to be a steadily degrading trend in modern movies.
 The film is about a mother who lost her daughter when she was raped and murdered on her way home. This is small town America in the deep south, so you could say that the average educational level of most people here is not very high, and it certain shows it. In fact, until another police officer arrives from out of town, you could say that the average intelligence of this place is not incredibly high. However, this isn't a film where we end up laughing at 'stupid' people because we happen to be intellectual snobs, but rather a film that takes us on a journey through their lives and discover that even though they may be nothing like us educated city dwellers, they are still humans with hurts and fears just like us.
 Frustrated as the fact that the police are doing very little to progress the case, our protagonist, Mildred, has an idea - she rents three billboards on the outskirts of the town along a stretch of road that basically only she uses. She then pastes some simple messages challenging the police as to why they haven't caught anybody yet. This, not surprisingly, causes a bit of a stir in the town, and in a way it seems that she is the only person who is frustrated by the lack of action, or convictions, because the town seems to be siding with the police. Well, once again not surprising considering the chief is not only well respected, but also dying of cancer.
 This film touches on few ideas, including the limits of police power and the desire of a victim or their relatives wanting to see justice down. As the police chief says: sometimes it is just impossible to find the culprit, and they may go for years not knowing anything until somebody over hears a braggart in a diner and the culprit is suddenly arrested. In a way this shows the dichotomy of humans, in that on one hand they want protections against police abusing their power, but for the police to have unlimited power when they become the victim. As long as it is somebody else that is being chased then that is okay.
 The other thing that struck me is the human element of the film. Sure, this is set in a very conservative part of the United States, a place where outsiders and people of colour are still treated with suspicion. Yet what we are struck with is the human side of these people, how they love and cry, how they hurt, and fight against each other. It is easy for us to simply write of this section of society as a bunch of idiots who have no idea about the problems that the world is facing, yet they are still human. In a way this film is attempting to bridge that gap between the left and the right, the intellectuals and the average Republican voter. It is easy for us to look down on them, and we certainly do, making accusations such as them voting against their own interests, and destroying the American state. Yet they are people, and it is easy for us to forget their humanity.
 One thing that stands out is their ability to forgive, and this is something that many of us on the left really don't know how do to. There are events in this film that would raise the ire of many, and leave to a long lasting split in friendships, yet it seems that the one thing that they seek is to mend those friendships. Somebody gets thrown out of a window in a fit on anger, yet the victim forgives the person who throws him out of the window, even though no apology was offered. In a way there is too much hate in this world, and not enough forgiveness. In one sense, by reaching out, offering a hand of friendship, and showing somebody that we forgive we can start to heal some of those wounds, and in turn seek a way forward.
British filmmaker Martin McDonagh's third feature, TBOEM whisks audience off to an American whistle stop of an unspecified time, possibly in the 90s, since the last client of the titular billboards was from 1986 until our protagonist, a grief-driven Mildred Hayes (McDormand), rents them with texts "Raped while dying", "And Still No Arrests?", and "How Come, Chief Willoughby?" painted in crimson red, as a vehement remonstrance to the slow-in-progress investigation of her murdered 20-year-old daughter Angela (Newton). The recipient Police Chief Willoughby (Harrelson, the real top-form supporting player here to spew blood and blow heads), on the other hand, is ailed by the impending mortality in the form of cancer, who is not a slouch professionally speaking, on the contrary, he is beloved by the populace, and expresses his resolution to track down the murderer, unfortunately Angela's case is in paucity of both evidence and witness, teetering on the edge of becoming a cold one, and when he is unable to carry on the investigation, the baton is taken up by Jason Dixon (Rockwell), a racist cop who undergoes a major redemptive turnabout thanks to a letter written by Willoughby. In this bifurcating narrative, one centers on Mildred's militant reactions in the face of the inconsolable bereavement, the ramifications of her contentious advertisement, which bear on the tension between her and her son Robbie (Hedges), ex-husband Charlie (Hawkes, exuding a piercing layer of panache against a formidable McDormand). Scourged by guilt, anguish and grievance, Ms. McDormand reincarnates herself with a tour-de-force seethed with belligerence and compassion, and these two facets' dichotomous incongruence is ambidextrously sublimed into a completely believable persona, a woman who is troublingly reckless, deeply mired in her personal crisis, yet, spurns any throwaway commiserations and homily with razor-sharp astuteness and holds onto the flickering hope of justice in a heartbroken hankering. Oscar No. 2 beckons for this hard-nosed leading lady, a no-bullshitting force of character that quite swims with the topical tide of women's ME TOO movement. Jason's plot is in no way less salient than Mildred (I will defend that he is a co-leading role up to my deathbed), but this less pathbreaking male-white-trash-goes-good thread feels self-pleasing in the milieu albeit Rockwell nails the character to the hilt with his indissoluble commitment, Jason's transmogrification is thematically satisfactory (although his closeted homosexuality doesn't get a bigger canvas to play betrays the film's conservative-pampering disposition, a wasted opportunity for the up-and-coming Caleb Landry Jones as the unbelievably congenial Red Welby, the manager in the advertise company who is unwarrantedly subjected to Jason's heinous physical abuse, the latter's underlying sexual frustration is left only faintly hinted), it almost renders its contrived sensation (Jason obliviously reading the letter when Mildred tossing Molotov cocktails to the police station where he is) extraneous, because we need someone to track down the killer so badly. Therefore, in the end of the day, it is Martin McDonagh's cracking facility of unorthodox storytelling that becomes the linchpin in luring a plethora of admirers (this reviewer included), his script flouts conventionalism (yes, pesky kids do need a good kicking!), larded with eccentricity and humor, often when one is least expected (Charlie's 19-year-old new girlfriend Penelope is a hoot, of course, in second-guessing, it is a common tack to find excuse for men in those May-December pairings), and tones down violence but ups his antes in laying bare the complex tie-ins throbbing under the bracket of humanity and morality, warts and all. The truly astonishing but also whip-smart ploy is the open-ended coda, just when we think a climax is in the offing, the film brings down its curtain roundly, what else can top that? As either outcome of Mildred and Jason's vigilante act will look less impactful in the aftermath, a substantial closure may or may not attainable, life can be as misty as the film's opening shots, the cardinal message is that both have found the right path to move on, one has to hand it to Martin McDonagh for its resultant brimming gratification left in its spectator's mind.


                
Great movie from start to end. I am trying really hard to understand some of the bad reviews. I guess cultural ignorance has hit globally. The problem is that people either want playstation movies (CGI, period) and just can no longer understand what cinema is (real story telling). The storie is great, the performances amazing, the depth and density of the plot is unreal. Well worth my two hours on a sunday afternoom. You will laugh, cry, be happy, sad... all the emotions in two hours and a lot of angles on todays conflicts. Go check it out.


                
Original, deep and thought provoking films like this one are hard to come by these days. 'Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri' takes a completely different approach to the conventional crime drama. Instead of detailing the story behind the missing girl, the focus is instead of the mother's way of dealing with the disappearance and how she handles her grief and anger towards the authorities.This film is excellent in just about every area. The script is intelligent and surprisingly funny, the storyline engaging and convincing, and the acting is first rate. Frances McDormand is outstanding in the lead and thoroughly deserved her Oscar. 'Three Billboards' is a unique and fascinating film, great filmmaking all round and highly recommended.


                
This is my more of a commentary on the movie rather than a review. 
Three Billboards is not about those billboards, murder of an innocent girl nor about all the mayhem we encounter throughout the movie. It is not a crime movie as IMDb tag suggests. It's a tragic drama with dark comedy elements which mainly come from one-liners. I think the way this movie ends is a witness to that. Questions like: Who was the culprit who tortured Mildred's daughter; How did Mildred's relationship with the rest of the city came to be; Did she and Dixon kill supposed rapist at the very end - this and similar question are simply of no importance. If Three Billboards had ended with bringing culprit to justice and delineated details regarding mutual detours from normal citizen relationships, we could have easily thought this was a crime movie about the torture and murder of an innocent girl. That's probably the reason why McDonagh decided to end it somewhat abruptly. I think this story is about lack of communication which can lead us to believe others are not in the same team as we are, even occupying enemy positions. Three Billboards in a funny and sad way at the same time shows how dangerous that thinking can be. Acting publicly while holding grudges cannot bring anything good. Hence I think Mildred shouldn't have put those billboards at that time - she was to hasty, not giving enough thought about the potential aftermath. Law enforcement responded to her decision to put those billboards very poorly and there you have it - havoc and anger. And we know that anger begets more anger. Despite enjoying the movie thoroughly, I think some of the scenes and profanities were a bit too quaint. I believe it could've been even better without being so overwhelmingly profane and if Mildred appeared at least a little more feminine. If you don't mind that, you're completely safe to giving it a go. ~ If you found screenwriting and dialogues interesting, check out Birdman if you haven't yet.
This movie has highs and lows for me. But waay more highs than lows.Let's start with the highs. I love almost every single performance on this movie. Everyone is simply great, with FANTASTIC performances especially from Frances McDormand and Sam Rockwell. They won the Golden Globe, and I wouldn't be surprised if they win the Oscar too. And, come on, it will be fair. Woody Harrelson, and Lucas Hedges (we need to look at this boy more, first Manchester by the Sea, he is on Lady Bird too - I didn't see that yet -, and now this one, the boy is good, has a big future ahead) are also very good on the movie.The storyline of the movie is intriguing, and keeps you at the edge of your sit almost the entire runtime. I love mainly the first half of the movie, was almost perfect to me, how we get to see how the billboards thing goes, how everyone reacts to it, fantastic. There are some scenes that I really blown away. When they show what's really the only glance of Mildred daughter, when both say "I hope that you/I are/am raped" (and this was probably the last time that they see each other) I said out loud "Holy shit!", like, my God, this is heavy, makes you think about the way that you might treat your parents (or any member of the family) when you're upset (I never gotten to this point, but ok), makes you think that today might be the last time that you see someone that you love, so those last word are truly important, they will be stuck in your head for the last of your life, and there is nothing that you can do about it.When Willoughby kills himself was also a shocking moment, I didn't see it coming. But, made sense, and also makes you think about this man life, like, how sad was that? What would have been worst? His daughters see he at the end weak and skinny, or they group up knowing that he kills himself? It's tough. And mainly, that is why I love the first half of the movie, it's perfect, powerful, surprising, amazing.Well, and we arrive at the part when the thinks starts to get a little bit worst. Don't get me wrong, it's not bad, awful or anything like that, it's just "less good", and there are some plot details that I was quite bothered about.
First, what a hell was that? How a guy throws another guy out of a WINDOW (ON THE FIRST FLOOR OF A BUILDING) IN FRONT OF THE CHIEF AND DOESN'T GET ARRESTED? What kind of city is that? Lol. Some other thing that I didn't bought was that people really make a "movement" around Mildred (defending the Chief), and one thing really made me confuse, the guy who goes bully Mildred at the store right before the Chief kills himself, was the same guy at the end? Like, wtf? He wasn't even from the Town, and still was friends of the Chief? I don't know, it might be, but is odd, isn't? It's a hell of a coincidence. I don't know if I like the end too, with a kind of "force" ambiguity, I don't think 
that Mildred would shy away from killing him.Oh, another thing that I almost forgot. The "zoo girlfriend", come on, she is in a completely different movie, both scene that he show up. Yes, the movie has a sense of humor, but it's a whole different kind, the girl it's almost in a parody trash movie. But the movie has a lot of other thing that I love, even through I think that makes no sense at all Dixon doesn't be arrested, I love the scene when they are in the hospital, and he realize what an asshole he was this whole time. Love the interrogation scene, the surprises of the script, and mainly the performances, this is really the great trump of the movie.In short, Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri it's a great film, that will probably win an Oscar or two (or even more). I have some issue with it, but in the big picture, I really liked.Edit: I forgot, the soundtrack is awesome too. Really good.
Three Billboards is rarely subtle, even though it gives that false sense that it may be. It is a film that feels both big and small at the same time, and as far as I'm concerned, that's an incredible achievement. Francis McDormand is once again utilized brilliantly, this time as an angst-filled, impatient mother willing to bulldoze a system she believes is not working on behalf of her family. It would behoove anyone watching the first minutes of this film not to be brought into a false sense of calm and believe you're watching something of a slow burn. Things happen fast, and it has a kind of intensity that one might not expect of a film like this. Sam Rockwell has always been a favorite of mine since Confessions of a Dangerous Mind, and rarely disappoints in the roles he chooses. It's no different here. A complicated man one could easily write off as an idiot, the arc of his character is breathtaking and nuanced. Almost poetic.Woody Harrelson is, to me, always at his best. He's easy to watch because he's an effortless actor. He knows his craft well, and he's given us a solid performance this film. The rest of the cast turn in fine performances (special kudos to Caleb Landry Jones), and don't detract in any way from the film. Everyone is watchable. The film is not perfect. There are times when I wondered why certain decisions were made, especially with the appearance of an ex relationship, a shocking end involving a character, an obvious insertion of a character to create more intrigue (however at the end one realizes it was totally unnecessary and not well thought out), and even a part where I nearly blurted out loud "oh come on! He had to have heard that!" Some of that was a little frustrating and seemed too contrived and unbelievable, but overall, this film it a good way to spend 115 minutes. It does not feel like a nearly two-hour movie. That's testament to its worth.All in all, it's a very good effort, and it stays with you. Not forgettable, and fun discussing over a drink afterward. Do I believe it deserved the Golden Globe last night? Well, it won. It was up against some very good films, and held its own. I've seen all but one of the nominated films, and I think it deserved the win. I think Frances deserved the win. I think Sam deserved the win. I don't think it should have won best screenplay over another contender. But... that's just my opinion. Such is life.


                
Humans are creatures that create value. One person may find throwing trash on the ground in a public place intolerable but have little problem treating an employee or co-worker as a means to their own advancement. Another may find fatherhood or motherhood their highest calling investing most of their life energy to the task but give little thought to being cruel to a server at a restaurant or a pet dog. Sometimes our values in one area of our lives seem entirely incongruous with the values we hold in another area and the incongruity can strike others as downright bizarre. This value incongruity is a theme in other writer/director Martin McDonagh's films but is a central focus in Three Billboards. The movie is about a distraught mother who works to "focus the mind" of what to her is a complacent police chief (played with vigor by Woody Harrelson) who has failed her. Mildred Hayes's (Frances McDormand) daughter has been raped and killed and after a year, no suspects have been arrested. In an act of desperation and anger, she pays to have two questions and a statement posted to three billboards near her home each implicating the Ebbing police department and it's chief of police in particular for inaction and perhaps incompetence. The billboards polarize the town and turn over rocks, as it were, causing all sorts of nefarious and violent things to crawl to the surface. McDonagh deals with themes of abuse, intolerance, bias, authority, revenge, and despair and while these certainly are present throughout the film, I never felt the film was really about these themes. Rather, these form the backdrop for a more dominant theme: the cognitive biases and dissonance we exhibit as humans that give our lives an incongruity about what we value and how we express those values.Mildred clearly is a mother experiencing despair and tremendous anger about her loss. And rightly so. A victim of an abusive husband who she divorced, Mildred works as a clerk in a trinket store trying to raise two kids on a meager wage. These circumstances certainly would be grounds for bitterness and anger though don't really explain the degree to which Mildred seems to possess them. Then in a single flashback we see Mildred's harshness and anger present in a conversation she has with her son and daughter ostensibly on the day her daughter is killed. "I hope I get raped on the way!" her daughter Angela (Kathryn Newton) screams after Mildred refuses to let her take the only family vehicle forcing her to walk to an undisclosed location. "I hope you get raped on the way too!" Mildred screams back as Angela walks out the door. This is not something we imagine even an angry mother would say on her worst day. She's vindictive, angry, and immature and yet at the same time, tough, determined and passionate. This is a woman we both deeply admire and pity. We want her to win yet we agonize over her loneliness and rage.(Incidentally, I asked an Irish friend of mine to give me feedback on this review. His comment after on the above paragraph is insightful. He said, "Ireland is full of hard/harsh loving mothers. The mother is also the center of Irish society and we would all believe in the unlimited tenacity of these crazy, ragged characters." This illustrated to me a deeper dichotomy in a character like Mildred than a simple caricature can and should portray and it's a helpful call out. The line between hard and tough or between obsessive and passionate can truly be thin and partly in the eye of the beholder.)McDonagh then presents a woman who values finding her daughter's killer at any cost. There is a shadow cast over her determination and mental and physical toughness: she thinks very little of being cruel to almost everyone, causing emotional and psychological harm to her son, endangering lives, damaging property, and becoming truly isolated even from those who wish to help and love her all for this single goal. Few have experienced loss of the type Mildred has experienced and while we might imagine the rage we would feel, it's not possible to know it truly. Mildred's dissonance is extreme and perhaps for good reason. But we all possess this type of incongruity. The result is the good that may come from upholding the single value becomes offset by the abuse of all other values. This is illustrated through the lives of principle characters in the film. Officer Jason Dixon (Sam Rockwell) gives very little thought to physically assaulting a citizen or verbally assaulting people of a different color (or size) in his duty to protect and serve the population of Ebbing. In a state of despair over the loss of a somewhat noble colleague, he says to himself "I know that the best thing, the only thing, to honor that man's memory right now, is to go to work; is to be a good cop. To walk in his shoes and do what he did every day of his life. Help people." He says this just before he walks out of the police department, proceeds across the street to beat up a completely innocent citizen and throw him out of a two-story window in a rage. In the scene that follows, he is shown bragging to other officers of his act as if he believes the act itself was an example of "being a good cop;" of "helping people." He has an extreme form of cognitive dissonance where the singular value of destroying those who he deems unworthy of his colleague's memory comes at the cost of actually protecting and serving those he vowed to protect and serve. The incongruity is at the same time humorous, shocking, and bizarre and we're made to feel it. McDonagh, though born in England, is a child of blue-collar, Irish parents who left Ireland to look for work and gave birth to Martin shortly after the start of the recent 30-year clash that pitted the Nationalists against the Unionists. While McDonagh himself most likely would not have experienced the conflict in Ireland directly, he no doubt would have felt the effects of The Troubles through his parents and frequent visits to his home country. A dual citizen of Ireland and England, it seems his heart belongs to Ireland. Many of his plays are set in Ireland and it appears he even took an artistic stand related to the effects of the conflict (read more about this in his biography here). I raise this only because I suspect that McDonagh's focus in this movie may partially be influenced (consciously or unconsciously) by hostilities that occurred in his home country during his formative years. The ideas that fuel conflicts like these are supposedly focused on making life better for the people involved but, in the process, tear those same lives apart. The focus on achieving an end regardless of the cost runs the risk of destroying the people who would benefit from the outcome. This is incongruous-as incongruous as the behavior of the principle characters in Three Billboards. (Of course, McDonagh wouldn't have to return to his Irish roots to easily find such incongruity. The country in which he now lives and works exhibit similar pathologies.)A scene in the movie might lend credence to my suspicions. Mildred returns home one day to find a Catholic priest sitting at her kitchen table talking to her son. The priest tries to tell Mildred that while the town is with her in her desire to find her daughter's killer, they are against her posting the billboards. Mildred's response is indicative of this meta-narrative I'm claiming exists in the movie.The movie isn't perfect. Some things happen too quickly. Dixon is beyond doubt a cruel and bigoted man. These are not surface qualities but deep-seated, ingrained character flaws. Towards the end of the film he appears to become virtuous in an instant based on a single word from the chief. Granted, Dixon is portrayed as simple but even (especially?) in the simple, character flaws take time to undo and Dixon's transformation doesn't fit the general narrative the film is trying to get us to believe. Typical of modern films, there are no true heroes. But Three Billboards goes further. Ebbing Missouri is depicted as a town full of complacency and inaction. Severe violence happens in the open street at mid-day and no one steps in to help or even seems to care. This is a bit much even for those steeped in cynicism about red states. Despite these minor flaws, the film is well made. It grinds some axes but not to the point of excess. This is a film that takes no sides and so ends up being a mirror into which we all can look and find ourselves even among the excess (I'm reminded here of Flannery O'Connor's phrase, "To the deaf you shout, and to the almost blind you draw large, startling figures."). It has the texture of Cohen brother's film--particularly No Country for Old Men and while it may not have quite the technical excellence in terms of pacing and direction, it's close enough to warrant the accolades its received.A couple of people have asked me about the ending. I'm not quite sure what to say. It seems to run tangential to the rest of the film. We seem to be looking at a "Bonnie and Clyde" moment but then Mildred raises an ethical question that casts doubt that this is what we're actually witnessing. Perhaps this is McDonagh's final play at incongruity. Or maybe it's a lot simpler than that. Maybe it's just a sign of hope that things can be better if we just stop, think, and talk. Yes, let's go with that.


                
In many ways, this film is about hate. But it's brutally honest, heartfelt and emotional. Francis McDormand and Sam Rockwell both nail this role. These are the roles they are both meant to play. Sam starts off playing a redneck hick police officer who doesn't hide his racist feelings in any way. But as time progresses, we see a change inside of him. Francis, on the hatred a mother feels towards the helplessness of the death of her child. What I really liked about this film is you never quite knew where this was going. It clearly steers you in various directions. While I love Peter Dinklage and he delivers a fine performance as always, I thought there were scenes such as the "dinner scene" that didn't really push the story forward and could have been edited out. But overall this film deserves all the praise it gets.


                
Great acting in this film about the mother of a murdered teen who tries to disgrace the local law into action by posting 3 large billboards calling them out for her daughter's unsolved rape/murder case. This act of rage, guilt, and desperation incites a domino effect in the people of the town, with innocent people caught up in the crossfire both physically and emotionally. This movie is dark, sad, and violent. Lots of profanity and prejudice in this hick town suffering from the violent murder of the local teen. The people of this town have a love-hate relationship with each other and they act out everything they feel. It makes you think about emotions, and reactions to emotions, and consequences for reactions to emotions. Three wrongs definitely don't make a right! In My Humble Opinion!


                
I was almost afraid from watching the trailer that this would be one of those overwhelming movies because it involved dark and serious subject matter. I was pleasantly surprised that it was actually enjoyable because of the way it dealt with all the serious subjects. The script mixed just the right about of comedic relief (no, it isn't a comedy though there are some laugh out loud moments) with a compelling story. Each and every actor's performance was spot on for their character which helped make it well worth seeing!


                
A bit disappointed with how the movie ends, but it conveys the message through strong performances and a well written screenplay.


                
Awarded: Countless awards, recognition and praise. Was it really that good?The short answer: YesThe long answer: Definitely. When I saw it in the cinema the audience would not stop laughing. Frances McDormand truly is a force of nature. The bad-ass female character most women have longed for. Sam Rockwell was the best part of that movie. Every time he appeared on screen he had the audience in tears, of laughter? Of sadness? A good mix of both. The angry fans of other movies who try accuse this film of racism are hilarious. This is one of those films that you NEED to watch. So, if for any reason you haven't seen it yet - Go and watch it.


                
The story is great and all characters in it. Everyone is briliant, especially Frances McDormand. She is good in every scene, in every word and in every reaction. Before watching the movie I had in my mind that my votes will go to W.Harrelson not to S.Rockwell, but after seeing it, it goes completely to Rockwell, although I am not his fan in any way. Why?! Because he is almost in every of his roles very negative from a bottom, but in here as a Dixon, he is everything in one and after all an honest guy. It is worth seeing, cause it is absolutely full of unexpected and expected things which can happen in someone's life and about the human reactions with which we have to find the way how to handle.


                
It's getting harder and harder to get a good movie coming from Hollywood, expectations are coming down and it's really good when you're surprised.
That was the case with Three Billboards Outside Ebbing, Missouri.It´s not a masterpiece, but a very good film, after reading some things about the film I was a little afraid of getting frustrated and the very beginning of the film gave me this idea, but giving an opportunity the movie itself can quickly convince and overcome all this.The film is getting better and better until the end that´s abrupt and something unexpected.
A plot that illustrates several dramas that can be combined in a small village 
like Ebbing.Very good performances, the casting was accurate and elevated this film to another level, at the end is the desire that extended a little more.
Which is always the best of the signs.A solid 8.


                
Don't believe the negative reviews. It's a beautiful film. Well acted by all. Slow, but gripping. Funny at moments. Well worth your time.


                
