Carl Th. Dreyer's The Passion of Joan of Arc was made, perhaps, years ahead of its time- my guess would be that if it wasn't burned after its initial release, it would've had as stunning an impact on the film world years down the line as Citizen Kane did. Though the use of close-ups and distorted angles were not completely new in this film, it felt like Dreyer was creating a new kind of cinema, one where reality, however cold and pitiful, was displayed with complete sincerity. There is also the editing (by Dreyer and Marguerite Beague), which has the timing that many directors/editors of the modern day could only hope to achieve (it has the influence of Eisenstein, only in a totally different historical context), and those moves with the camera by Rudolph Mate (who would go on to photograph Foreign Correspondent and Lady from Shanghai) that are precious- to call his work on the film extraordinary is an understatement.And it was crucial for Dreyer to use the close-ups and tilted angles and shots where you only see the eyes in the bottom of the frame, and so forth- he's developing the perfect atmosphere in regards to a trial set in 15th century France. It's all those eyes, all those faces, holding all those stolid mindsets that send Joan to her fate. Pretty soon a viewer feels these presences from all these people, so strong and uncompromising, and Dreyer does a miraculous thing- he makes it so that we forget about the time and place, and all of our attention is thrown onto those eyes of Joan, loaded to brim with a sorrow for where she is, but an un-questionable faith in what she feels about God. I wondered at one point whether Dreyer was making as much a point on people's faiths and prejudices in the almighty, or just one on basic humanity.There have been many before me who have praised Falconetti's performance to the heavens (Kael called it the finest performance in film), but in a way it almost can't be praised enough. What she achieves here is what Ebert must've felt watching Theron in the recent 'Monster'. I didn't even see her in a performance as Joan of Arc- I saw her as being the embodiment of it, as if Falconetti (with Dreyer's guidance) took Joan out of the pages of the trial transcript and her entire soul took over. There is something in an actor that has to be so compelling, so startling, and indeed so recognizable, that a person can feel empathy and/or sympathy for the person the actor's playing. All a viewer has to do is stare into Falconetti's eyes in any shot, close-up or not, and that viewer may get stirred to boiled-down emotion. For me, it was almost TOO over-whelming an emotional experience- when Joan is about to get tortured, for example, I found myself completely lost from where I was watching the film, everything in my soul and being was with Joan in that chamber, and for a minute I broke out in tears. That's the kind of effect that Dreyer's craft and all the acting work (including Eugene Sylvain as the Bishop Cauchon, and of course Artaud as Jean) can have on a viewer. I'm not saying it has to, yet The Passion of Joan of Arc could- and should- be considered a milestone in cinematic tragedy, where the images that come streaming forth never leave a viewer, and the detail for time and place becomes just that, a detail for the main stage. Love Joan or hate her, this is for keeps.


                
What can one say about this work of art that has not been said many times before by those far better qualified to explain both it's importance and place as cinema and art? I shall not comment on the greatness of the film's technical achievements; the stunning cinematography, the production design, the brilliance of the screenplay based on actual transcripts from the trial, or the perfection of Mr. Dreyer's direction. The performance of Falconetti as Jeanne d' Arc has a profundity and depth far beyond my ability to illuminate. I suppose the best I can hope to do is to share my feelings, however inadequately expressed, of the effect it had on me. To say that it may be the greatest film ever made is to sound both obvious and trite. That a work of such beauty and simplicity, made seventy-six years ago can still have the power to move audiences in an era of multi-million dollar, hi-tech, bombastic over-wrought cinematic drivel is in itself a testament to the vision and genius of Carl Theodor Dreyer, Maria Falconetti and their collaborators. It is nourishment for those that hunger for something more in cinema, a feast for the soul. It is a reminder that film can indeed be art, and this film like all great works of art, lifts and transports us from the routine of our work-a-day lives to enable us, if only for a moment to experience the sublime. When viewing it we look at it as looking in a mirror. That is to say we look into ourselves. We question ourselves as to our own beliefs, or the lack thereof and the strength of spirit that enables an individual to endure the unendurable. Viewing it is a profound experience the nature of which for myself is transcendent rather than religious, because I am not in the least a religious person. Transcendent because it evokes emotions and thoughts that I cannot wholly account for, or adequately explain."La Passion of Jeanne d'Arc" is stark, radiant, exalted, simple, (but never simplistic), and ultimately sublime. The rest is silence.


                
It so often happens that some films take the long way to achieve their status of classics and worthy of being studied, frame by frame, by movie lovers who believe in the power of raw performance and skilled direction of cameras to depict a powerful visual set of images. When one sees films like VERTIGO which barely registered with movie-going audiences at the time of their release but after restoration went on to become one of the best films of the last century, it only shows that film, as an art, doesn't need a golden statuette to have merit, and when it's done exceptionally well, it can be seen in any context and any time period beyond its release date and will still hold its audience in awe.Carl Theodore Dryer, to me, created what I believe is, alongside Orson Welles' CITIZEN KANE, the most powerful black and white film in cinema history. It would be difficult indeed to say which one is better since both films are landmark in their own cinematic styles and have been dissected frame by frame. Dryer's film has been criticized for either being a pretty collection of still images or being pure visual power: I choose the latter, because in watching THE PASSION OF JOAN OF ARC, I felt not only the extremely uncomfortable intimacy between Joan and her tormentors, but her sublime emotions as they pass through her face as she is mocked, cross-examined, humiliated, and burned at the cross. There is an unearthly beauty in Falconetti's face as she goes through the ringer of emotions not in the overacting style typical of the Twenties but in a completely modern way, as if she were living a reality so far removed from the corrupted priests who bash and condemn her, and her reality would therefore be dangerous to their own beliefs.And what a stroke of genius, I think, to have the lighting on her face be soft, gentle, in contrast to her detractors who are always lit in harsh light which exacerbates their ugliness and betrays their "devotion" to God as mere politics. Dryer's style of cutting from one actor to the other is also different, and makes this film a surrealist experience, an unsettling, abstract tour through transcendental suffering. There are no defining shots which tell us where exactly is the story taking place (although we don't need to know after reading the transcripts), but we never are allowed as viewers a moment of rest from this suffocating intimacy between Joan and her inquisitors. Some bizarre shots and camera angles give the ending an even more disturbing and horrifying element of what we perceive as a gross injustice to what was a person who held her own beliefs and did not need the Church to sustain it.Falconetti never did a film before this one and never returned to film acting after this. I have not read much about her, except that she lived in Argentina until her death in 1946. I sometimes wonder why she didn't act again (although she was known to be an accomplished theatre actress more known for comedies than drama) but those are the mysteries of actors who don't have the star ego and only make a few films. She came, only did this masterful performance, and left just as suddenly, and those who re-discovered this film and restored it to its full quality have to be commended for allowing us, who have come almost 80 years later, to experience the power of subtle acting.
It's easy to overlook this movie. For modern audience and especially my generation (I'm 21), this movie is just close-ups of a crying woman and grumpy old men. But of course that's like saying Mona Lisa is just a picture of a woman, or The Last Supper is dudes eating. If you experience it with open mind, The Passion of Joan of Arc will give you one of the most profound visions of devotion, faith and martyrdom.I must confess, even I thought the praise of The Passion was too good to be true when I began to watch it. But when the film ended, I wasn't just impressed, I was completely devastated. The Passion of Joan of Arc is a downright amazing realization of Joan's last moments. There's not a hint of sentimentality, and still I was in tears. Yep. Call me a pansy, but this is one of the very few movies that had that impact on me.I don't know what else to say about this movie, sorry. The Passion of Joan of Arc counts as the most upsetting movie experience I've ever had, but it's definitely a positive one. On the contrary to what the other commentators have said, you don't have to be religious to be receptive in front of this movie. Believe me, I'm a hardcore atheist. If you're going to see this film -- I sure hope you do -- make sure it's accompanied with the Voices of Light soundtrack, which doesn't just fit the film well, but is amazing as a standalone composition, too. I can guarantee you won't look cinema the same way again.


                
I saw this film for the very first time last week and was so tremendously captivated by it that I needed to share this rapture. The innovative camera-angles, the close-ups revealing pain and spirituality. It elevates the human condition and the Art of film. I would love to be able to go on into the whys or hows or technicalities. But my words couldn't do the film justice for the imagery still overwhelms me.


                
I saw this a few months ago on the big screen, just after Nosferatu, another silent classic. Both showings were supported by a live organ play, which has been composed directly for the movie, and which suited perfectly. I had seen Nosferatu before, but i didn´t know anything about `Jeanne`, and so i was in no way prepared for this overwhelming, soul-rapturing experience.My eyes were immediately glued to the screen. Unfortunately i had missed the first minutes, so it started for me with the first (?) court scene. The camera wandered through the faces of the court members, circled and focussed on Jeanne´s face. So beautiful, naked, strong and defenseless! I could rave on the technical perfection of this film, it´s clever editing, innovative and gorgeous cinematography, proper historical settings and pure storytelling. Carl Theodor Dreyer created a masterpiece. But the most outstanding feature of this silent are the performances; Maria Falconetti delivers simply the best performance of all times, and i can´t remember of any ´corny` overacting, which distracts most silent movies from the modern viewer, even the accepted classics. `La passion de Jeanne d´Arc´ is purest cinematic art, timeless in every sense.


                
A certain amount of credit must surely be paid to the director for the genius of 'La Passion de Jeanne d'Arc.' The daring camera angles, use of incessant close-ups and peculiar authenticity all may be attributed to Carl Th. Dryer. However, Renee Maria Falconetti is the reason this film indeed surpasses all attempts at reaching the Platonic form of brilliance. Her performance is breathtaking by all accounts. One can not help but remain mesmerized by her expressions. Yes Dryer's gift to us of so many wonderful close shots of Falconetti should be acknowledged. He must be praised for his relentless filming of scenes to produce the desired result. Yet to imagine anyone else in this timeless role (such as Lillian Gish who was said to have been considered) is to envision a less than perfect film. Unimpeded by the silent medium in which she worked, Falconetti's mere tilt of the head or gentle glance pierce the soul of the viewer. We see her speak in Jeanne's native tongue. We see her compelling portrayal of the anguish which the saint most certainly endured. It is almost as if we are watching what the director said he had found; the martyr's reincarnation! This actress presents to us her raw beauty unmarred by powders or makeup - thanks to a decision of Dryer. How bitter-sweet the fact that we have this once thought to be lost silent film and yet can not help now but to long for more Falconetti. And so we return to 'La Passion de Jeanne d'Arc' and with each of many tears and inaudible sighs marvel at the staggering accomplishment which is Renee Maria Falconetti's Jeanne.


                
This is the most fabulous movie I have ever seen.I like old and silent movies, but I was completely blown away with this movie. It is unlike any that you have ever seen.Joan's acting is the BEST I have ever seen. It is so superior to anything being made today. One does not need special effects and computers  to make a great movie.And if any movie deserves that title this one does.I couldn't praise it enough. The direction and camera work is perfection. The way it is filmed with mostly head shots and faces you would think it would be boring.But it is the most alive movie I have ever seen and probably ever made.You cannot take your eyes off of Joan. She is mesmerizing.


                
It's a true blessing that The Passion of Joan of Arc was not lost forever and was miraculously restored for the world to behold the incredible wonder this film is. The Passion of Joan of Arc is a French silent film based on the true story of the real woman by the same name who claims experiences of visions from God which angers the church. The film centers on the trial itself and ultimately her death at the stake. The story was wise to focus on only these events provided the documents available about the trial are public and regarded as definitive history. Furthermore, the filmmakers were wise to not explore her life or speculate on the truthfulness of her claims. Instead, the film is a powerful, relentless character study on a woman who stands by her convictions even if it costs her her life. This is executed spectacularly by our leading lady Maria Falconetti who delivers maybe the single best performance these eyes have personally witnessed in a silent film. Stellar performances aside, it's easy to understand why many considered this piece to be one of the first "artistic" films ever made. Cinematography reminds me of Tom Hooper style frame composition and its editing and lighting make some haunting and impactful moments. Despite not hearing any musical score for the film, it never feels slow or dragging. In fact, it's near impossible to take your eyes away from the screen. Every frame is a beautiful work of art that demonstrates Carl Theodor Dreyer's masterful hand with the camera. Everything about the production and narrative on The Passion of Joan of Arc is masterful. It's a fantastic film that comes recommended to anyone who loves precise storytelling. If it's available (especially with the Criterion release), give this a thorough watch. It's well worth it.
I was completely floored when I first saw this movie in the basement of the San Jose Main Library sometime in the early seventies. The mesmerizing performance of Maria (Renée) Falconetti, filmed primarily as a series of brutalizing close-ups, is still the main reason to revisit Carl Theodor Dreyer's austere and claustrophobic 1928 silent film classic about the trial and execution of Joan of Arc. There is little provided in the way of background or context, as Dreyer made an intentional decision to use the original trial records as the basis of his dialogue. Using a minimum of sets, almost abstract in orientation, he uses the camera frame as his canvas by showing the bullying interrogation of Joan by her inquisitors in a series of face shots against a white backdrop. The actors had to use their make-up-free faces as their sole means of expression. There are never any establishing shots, so the viewer never knows where the characters are in relationship to each other. Instead, Dreyer uses dramatic camera angles to convey people's position in the story. As the film builds to its climax, graphic footage of Joan being burned at the stake alternates with sequences of angry French peasants being brutally driven out of Rouen Castle by club-wielding English soldiers. Many of the shots feel abstract and out of proportion to convey a world turned upside down.The overall effect of these creative and daring techniques gives the film a more contemporary feeling than a standard silent, and luckily, adding to the freshness of the treatment is a pristine print found in Copenhagen, the basis of the transfer in this Criterion Collection DVD. An effectively stirring enhancement is Richard Einhorn's beautiful "Voices of Light", an oratorio specifically written to accompany the film decades after its release. Falconetti was 35 when she played the 19-year old peasant girl, but she is entirely convincing using her large eyes and facial plains to build her character's spirit as it dwindles under the pressure of the French clergymen who rule her fate. One truly believes her assertion that she is a messenger for God. Never to act on screen again, she gives a truly legendary performance deserving of the hosannas received over the years. The DVD contains an interesting commentary track on which Dreyer scholar Casper Tybjerg provides a wealth of information. It also contains features on the film's unusually stylized production design, Einhorn's music, and the checkered history of the many versions that "The Passion of Joan of Arc" has gone through over the years. In spite of its unrelenting tone and some scenes that will make you wince, it's a masterwork that still resonates 77 years later.


                
*Note: This a review of the Criterion Edition DVD with the "Voices of Light" accompaniment. Over the decades Dreyer's film was a victim of religious and politic censors, two fires that destroyed valuable prints, unauthorized cuts, and zealous editors working against his wishes to modernize the film. An original, uncensored cut was found miraculously in a Norwegian hospital for the mentally ill (ironic?) in 1981 and fully restored for the Criterion Collection. Famed composer Richard Einhorn created his libretto, "Voices of Light", in response to his own experiences viewing the film and researching the history of Joan of Arc. The film can be viewed with or without the accompaniment, though I can't imagine Dreyer would've objected as Einhorn with great care honored the spirit of the film and arguably of Saint Joan with his compositions.Carl Dreyer's silent film, "The Passion of Joan of Arc", is a shocking example of the potential of film as art. No amount of scholarly critique can account for the raw power in viewing the film. It's one of those rare experiences that can only be seen to be understood. Dreyer's meticulously crafted aesthetics (the film is almost entirely composed of close-ups of the actors' faces) are perfectly married to the gut wrenching performance of Maria Falconetti (a theater star who never acted in another film) in the lead role. I think Dreyer was most accurate in describing her performance as nothing short of "the martyr's reincarnation." One need not be religious to understand what is meant or to feel for Joan as portrayed so humanely and exquisitely by Falconetti. Her face is beyond the realm of haunting, and Dreyer seers it into the audience's memory along with other stunning imagery like a window frame's shadow turning into a cross on the floor, worms crawling through a skull unearthed from a freshly dug grave, or a bored executioner barely able to hold up his head in the company of his torture devices. And then there's the burning at the stake and the brutal suppression of the peasant riot--unimaginable horrors rendered so beautifully and hyper realized onto a series of moving images projected onto a blank screen.The genius of Dreyer's visuals and Falconetti's performance is that they create a deep psychological complexity that can engage a modern viewer on multiple levels. In their bold suggestions and through the artistic integrity of their respective crafts, Dreyer and Falconetti leave it to their audience (weather it be a French nation still celebrating and mythologizing their 15th century hero Joan a mere eight years after her canonization in 1920 or a more skeptical 21st scholar studying the history of film) to decide the veracity of Joan's convictions. Was Joan truly a mystic, a martyr, a saint? Or was she simply mad and the unfortunate victim of the time period in which she lived and died? Either way, she is presented here as human. And in relating to her, one thing is for sure: the mysticism of film was realized by the Dane Carl Dreyer and Maria Falconetti in the year 1928 with "The Passion of Joan of Arc."


                
I would be hardpressed to exclude this film from a list of the ten greatest films of all time. Every remaining frame of this once heavily censored film is perfect, and there are many shocking scenes of torture which are hard to watch even today. This should be required viewing for anyone interested in film history, and it's further proof of the superiority of European silent cinema over it's American counterpart.


                
Carl Dreyer is one of the first and true masters of the art. His direction is always exceptionally controlled and crafted and for me this film encapsulates succinctly his dual expressionistic and formalistic approach to cinema. Although Dreyer succeeds in creating an extremely credible depiction of the trial and tribulation of Joan of Arc, he knew the filmic medium was not, and never could be, knowledge, fact or reality, and so he presents experience, truth and authenticity.The film can be argued to be entirely shot from the mind's-eye view of Joan in relation to her locality to give the impression that we, as Roger Ebert said, are not watching a film but in fact watching "fragments from Joan's own experience". Hence, the reason why everything is filmed in either, close-ups or medium shots, the reason why there are no establishing shots and very few visual linkages. Filming in this way also created the intended affect of overwhelming claustrophobia and discomfort for the audience- a mediation of persecution one could say.A lot has been said on Dreyer's inspirational use of the facial close-up in this film. His attention to the details on his performers faces, such as lines, warts, freckles, sweat and hair, and even on two occasions a fly, are used as revelations to their character and personality. The insignificant is made significant. Their faces are filmed in such a purist, "microscopic" fashion (no make-up was permitted by Dreyer) that their features and expressions convey a deeper more profound understanding of their emotions and thinking than words ever could. Renee Falconetti's face is also almost always seen in isolated shots and often filmed from a height thus accentuating her spiritual solitude and physical defencelessness. In contrast the trial judges and their faces are often shot from below, accentuating their threat to Joan and their dominance over her. Also her face is never in shadow and often captured in grey whereas the judges are always shot in shadow and have a more defined black and white composure, emblematic I believe of their inner good and bad. The acting is superlative undoubtedly helped though by Dreyer's cruel and unrelenting treatment of his actors. Dreyer became a notoriously demanding and dictatorial director after this film. He reportedly drove its star Falconetti into a mental breakdown in order to get the right emotional intensity he desired for the film. His pursuit for total realism, or to be more exact total authenticity, knew no bounds. The scene were Joan suffers a bloodletting was in fact real, albeit from a stand-ins arm. Falconetti never made another film again, yet her performance, I among others, deem as being arguably the finest ever filmed. Everything about this film is manipulated to convey the mind-set of Joan, her disturbed emotions and confused thinking, as well as her physical vulnerability and spiritual purity. Also anything that is not important to the conveyance of Joan's condition and situation is not included, hence the massive and very expensive set that was built but very little of it used. All the images presented conceivably convey what she could have seen and the way she might have seen it. Hence, the reason I believe for the upside down and backward shot of the English soldiers entering the gates of the castle, possibly a symbolic reference to St. Peter being crucified upside down, as allegorical parallels can be drawn with the historical story of Joan and the Biblical one of St Peter. Also, the swinging camera that makes the tower appear to be moving while she is burning is I believe a subjective representation of Joan's mental and physical suffering and the fact that she is about to depart from the earth. Either way these are certainly not just stylistic flourishes. The angular composition of the trial judges in relation to Joan and her relation to them, the off-kilter framing showing sometimes only half a head or at least only the head, and the fact that the judges are filmed moving in to and out of the frame only enhance capturing Joan's mental state of mind and her sincerity and honesty in the face of her Pietistic and duplicitous accusers. Furthermore, the weird and bizarre set designs from Hermann Warm, famous for his expressionist sets for The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari, only add to the disillusioning and disturbing overall effect for the viewer.The themes of this film are also present in many of Dreyer's other works, namely his fascination with the incompatibility of institutionalised religion and individual faith, the physical dominance of the male over the female (somewhat dated now), and the power of the human soul over earthly ambitions and corruption. These themes appear to be of personal significance to Dreyer in nearly all his films. There is humanity and a desire to create sympathy, and not indifference, towards all his characters in his films.The Passion of Joan of Arc is an aesthetically austere yet serenely beautiful, psychologically uncompromising yet spiritually moving piece of work. The 15 hundred cuts and the way the film is structured, in clearly defined chapters, and, as already discussed, the way it is shot in close locality to Joan and always in relation to her immediate surroundings, gives the deceptive impression of simplicity and naturalness, whereas in fact the film is highly sophisticated and stylised. It also makes what Jean Cocteau said about the film even more true. That was, that it played like "an historical document from an era in which cinema didn't exist". Also, Richard Einhorn's 'Voices Of Light' musical score, first presented with the film in 1995, is an undeniably creative and truly inspired piece of work which adds to the intensely emotional, powerful and hypnotically engaging visuals of the film.


                
A truly beautiful and powerful film of such an influential and admirable status that not many films could ever achieve such praise. Dreyer's vision with The Passion Of Joan Of Arc is still recognised as one of the greatest pieces of filmmaking in existence.Falconetti's performance as Jeanne d'Arc is widely accepted as one of the greatest performances ever committed to film and it should be very clear as to why. Her performance is very restrained, subtle and mature, providing distinctive character development, understanding and empathy through only her facial expression. The silent era was one where over-acting had become common but her performance did not follow such a convention and even by today's standards it's still a beautifully restrained performance. Her face and eyes are so expressive and emotional that they speak louder than any dialogue ever could, and with the film's cinematography focusing on extreme close-ups of the characters' faces, it emphasises the power that Falconetti could harness through such acting. The close-ups also allow us, as viewers, to pay attention to every facial twitch of Jeanne d'Arc throughout the film, adding to the emotional torture that she must have faced.The film is beautiful in every respect, from its cinematography's focus on extreme close-ups, its supporting character performances and even the few moments you truly glance at the set design and decorations. It all contributes wonderfully to Dreyer's vision of the trial of Joan of Arc, but the highlight for me, along with many other viewers, is certainly Falconetti's performance. It's honestly heartbreaking when the inevitably tragic ending is portrayed as for the brief time we, as viewers, have been watching the film, it certainly feels like we have got to know who both Jeanne d'Arc and Falconetti are and that she has opened herself up to the world - her performance is one of the most genuine performances I've ever had the pleasure of viewing.I definitely recommend this film, whether you're curious about acting, cinematography or silent cinema, this should definitely be essential viewing.
It's Falconetti's face,somehow Dreyer managed to capture on film what seems impossible,such raw human emotion,a soul if you will,and the viewer is left drained at what they had just seen. I recommend the 24 frames a second with the 'Voices of Light' score,and watch it on the biggest screen you can find,because this is a life changing experience,transcendent even.Falconetti gives the greatest performance I've ever seen on film,and the director uses closeups for much of the movie,it's confrontational and brilliant,there is nowhere to look but at Joan,what she is going through,it's powerful stuff,your life will be elevated by just watching it.


                
"The Passion of Joan of Arc" (1928) by Carl Theodor Dreyer is simply one of the greatest films ever - silent or no silent and what considered by many critics, the greatest performance by any actress on the screen. Renee Maria Falconetti, a French stage performer, was persuaded by Dreyer to play the Maid of Orleans even though she had no film experience. From her very first shot, we can understand what a visionary Dreyer was. The director asked the actress to crop her hair and to strip her face of any makeup. Filmed mostly in close-up, the agonized face of Falconetti's Jean, free of all cosmetic artifice, appears more moving and human, and expresses so many emotions that it literally stays in a viewer's soul.A German designer Herman Warm ("The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari" and "The Tree Lights") constructed the austere sets for the film; the photography of Rudolph Mater also contributed to the films universal power. The composer Richard Einhorn wrote in 1989 the composition "Voices of Light" which is included in VHS that I saw and effectively enhances Dreyer's impressive images. With all that said, I couldn't help quoting Ingmar Bergman who said once, "The human face is the great subject of the cinema. Everything is there". Faces tell the tale of the Maid of Orleans in this movie, and above all, one unforgettable face - that of Renee Falconetti in her only film appearance.


                
Carl Dreyer presents us with one of the greatest tests of an audience in the history of the movies. He forces us to look at Joan's face in a hundred fragmented close-ups, gaze into her steely eyes permeated with God's destiny, never sure of our surroundings. He makes us those that would judge her, gawking at her facetiously. She's the greatest angel we've ever had, and Dreyer doesn't make the mistake of turning her into a device for sympathy: when she bends, it's not because she's weak, it's because she's overcome with God's power. As usual with Dreyer, his film is something that we reflect ourselves onto: are we Joan, or the onlookers? When Joan cries, do we blame ourselves?Individual scenes are captivating: the scene where Joan is tortured in order to confess to lying is one of the tensest in film, and when she gets her hair chopped off it's as if her soul is being hacked away. Dreyer never shows her as a warrior in battle; indeed, he just shows the chaos incited by her death. In terms of silent movie impressiveness, there's a cool scene with blood squirting out when Joan is bled due to her fever, and some jarring cuts to a mother milking her baby. There is a great sense of drama here, as well. The questioning of Joan is often brilliant: How do they know she wasn't hearing the voice of the Devil? She certainly looks possessed. All Joan can say is, "To make me suffer the Devil has sent you." Falconetti is magnetic, otherworldly, drained. You can see why she never acted again. Like all true artists, she lets us peer into her soul, and it's frightening. Dreyer uses her magnificently -- through each tear droplet, her soul pushes its way out of her physical body so we can see inside.I personally don't believe she was the daughter of God, or a clairvoyant; instead, I respect that she didn't question herself, only those around her. It's what makes her human: God told her what to do, and since you can't question God, she's not liable. It's that maddening sense of childishness and purity and stubbornness and hypocrisy and a million other things that makes her someone you can't understand, makes her human. It's not so much that we believe she's hearing God as it is we believe that she believes she is. That kind of assurance is, of course, wildly admirable, but at the same time offensive and incredibly dangerous. Worshipping at the altar of Joan is foolish, I think, except for what it represents: trial by fire, and mankind's cynical, relentless attitude, comprised mainly of jaded non-believers. Dreyer's film is great not because it presents Joan as the greatest of martyrs but because it has the courage to show her as simple and human -- and probably as loony as the rest of us. 10/10


                
I saw it at Cinemateket in Oslo once and I was so captivated by the film that I was stunned for days after I saw it. I saw it with no background music, but when I saw it, I didn't even notice that. The camera work was SO tremendously magnificent, the cutting so exciting and the acting so good, that it passes Sunrise as my favorite silent film, which also made a tremendous impact on me. The extreme close-ups of the faces in the courtroom, the cutting during the torture scene are just two of my personal favorite things about this movie Falconetti's portrait of the french heroine was some of the most wonderful acting in a silent film I've ever seen. It even compares to the great Lillian Gish. I haven't been able to get it on Laserdisc or DVD yet though, but I hope it will be issued.


                
This film is amazing on several counts. First, the cinematography is mind boggling: we've got tons of extreme closeups, lots of low angle shots, pans and swish pans, even upside down shots. Dreyer is using the camera to tell the story of Joan of Arc's trial for heresy and her being burned at the stake. Second, Dreyer wants the viewers to really become involved in the reality of the story. Like other films with unconventional takes on Jesus or other historical figures (such as by Martin Scorsese or Ken Russell), Carl Dreyer is really doing his own thing here, by telescoping her trial and execution into one day, without much referencing to her historical activities or character. In fact, Maria Falconetti portrays Joan as a naive, simple farm girl of deep faith, hardly conveying the image of someone capable of having led the French against the English. She spends most of her closeups either crying or saying "Oui," looking wide eyed like a deer caught in the headlights. Dreyer must have been saying here that Joan (actually Jeanne) was resigned to the inescapability of her situation. (The film is titled 'The Passion of Joan of Arc' not 'The History of Joan of Arc.')Dreyer's whole purpose is to make the experience of her trial and death have a strong impact on the viewer. To further the reality of this, no makeup was used on any person, and the sets (when seen beyond the close-ups) were spare and almost bare, so as to not to detract from the interactions of the characters. Again, to emphasizes its reality, Dreyer introduces the story by showing that the dialogue in the film was taken directly from the real transcript of Joan's 1431 trial.Dreyer's most formal contemporary critic complained that the 'irksome monotony' and 'maniacal' use of closeups resulted in a loss of spatial orientation for the characters, that is, you couldn't always tell who they were looking at or addressing. There was hardly any sense of the characters being in a room at all. In fact, Eisenstein's response on seeing the film was to call it 'a collection of pictures.' For Dreyer, however, his mostly all closeups approach was to show and emphasize the conflict between Joan and her interrogators.But here's the thing: the impact of this film is undeniable. The intensity of the closeups accomplishes Dreyer's stated goal to shake up the audience and have them feel the suffering. Her being burned at the stake is equally uncompromising. As the scholar on the commentary track noted, this film makes most other films seem trivial.The film is a compendium of French, German and Russian film making techniques. It gets a 10.Note: The cinematographer, Rudolph Mate, who had previously worked extensively with Karl Freund, went on to his own successful career in the United States, showcasing Rita Hayworth and her hair in both 'Gilda' (1946) and 'The Lady From Shanghai' (1947)-- yes! the movie with the great Fun House Mirror shots, and as a director for 'When Worlds Collide' (1951), and the noir films 'Union Station' (1950) and 'D.O.A.' (1950) among others.
I was completely overthrown watching this film. The music and the stills:everything was almost out of this world.For me it was and is a metaphysical experience and I cannot explain why this film made such an impact on me. I guess this is what art is about. The acting of Renee Faconetti is beyond any acting boundaries. She IS the film and I never saw such good acting before. She is my personal favorite non-film star.The camera-work is so good, there is no shot that is not in place and the recent composition which was felt by Richard Einhorn so makes the movie complete. He knows all the secrets the film has in it. The best silent film I ever saw. Dreyer really made a piece of art here that hopefully will last for centuries to come. Once again:this is what art is about. Irrational, religious and emotional.And thank god for the Norwegian mental institutions. Without them nobody would ever be able to watch this masterpiece


                
In "The Passion of Joan of Arc," Carl Theodor Dreyer elects to tell the story of Joan's trial not through action or dialogue (or title cards, as this a silent film), but through faces. His simple but mesmerizing technique is to place the actors in rooms with stark white walls, film them in extreme close-up, and assemble the film by alternating images of Joan with those of her interrogators. The bare white set contrasts with the actors' faces, which are filmed in such detail that their flesh almost becomes tangible, and reveals everything you need to know. The craggy, warty faces of Joan's interrogators suggest human menace and evil, without the actors ever assuming an overtly menacing expression.Renee Maria Falconetti, playing Joan, is required to go through the entire film with the camera focused tightly on her bare face as it registers all the infinite nuances of anguished but steadfast faith. Tears often roll down her cheeks, yet she never forces them out of her by sobbing, or tries to hold them back by closing her eyes. The openness of her face, the involuntary flow of her tears, help establish Joan's saintliness: it feels as though she suffers and weeps not for herself, but for the whole world. The moment when Joan, alone in her cell, realizes that she must become a martyr, is an extraordinary piece of acting.Famous theater director and theorist Antonin Artaud appears here as a young, compassionate monk. At first I thought it ironic that the founder of the "Theater of Cruelty" should play one of the least cruel characters in the movie; however, after doing a little research on Artaud, I noticed similarities between his theories and this film. Artaud wanted theater to be an intense, cathartic, spiritual experience, relying on emotion and gesture rather than text, using physical means to achieve a metaphysical purpose. I can think of no better summation of "The Passion of Joan of Arc," than to say that it is the cinematic equivalent of this. Its almost ritualistic evocation of pure suffering produces an emotional effect that few other films achieve.


                
The Passion of Joan of Arc is on a completely different level than other great films. It's haunting, terrifying and will break you down psychologically, the same way Joan of Arc was broken down during her trial. This is a masterpiece that breaks all sorts of filmmaking conventions that are rarely broken even today. In fact, the breaking those conventions are what make this film as great as it is.It must be stated the feat that Dreyer pulled off in a technical and story sense. The Passion of Joan of Arc solely centers around Joan of Arc's trial and execution, not the battles and wars, but the trial itself. It's a dialog-driven courtroom drama told without sound. It is almost nonstop talking and there are very few title cards, yet you completely follow everything that is going on and said, even if you can't read lips or don't know the language. It's almost all close-ups without any establishing shots of peoples' faces. On top of that, the only surviving version of this film was created from the film's outtakes by Dreyer because the original version was banned, and from the outtakes, it's STILL one of the greatest film ever made, arguably the greatest ever.This isn't just a movie, this is way beyond that. This is at such great heights that it transcends the medium itself.


                
Freshly re-mastered and restored by EUREKA in their collection Masters of Cinema, this film is phenomenal for a 1928 film and deserves our rediscovery of it. It is of course in black and white. But the camera still catches a rather circular image with shades in the corners. But the shooting and the acting, the editing and the text are first class.The movements of all the monks, priests and other church people always in a small crowd in a limited space is impressive in movement and composition to impress the audience of course, but to create an atmosphere in which the little and only woman of the whole film has to feel surrounded and is impressed and even psychologically pressurized, put under duress, manipulated into fear and angst. That gives Joan of Arc a tremendous power in her very unimpressionable lack of movement, frozen reactions, emotional restraint and yet constant suffering shown by the many tears she sheds.The camera of the time is better for close-up shots on one character, one face, one action or movement and Dreyer uses that camera to the utmost. No conventional emotional expressions. Everything has to look real and natural, even when it is the ferocious fierce authority of these doctors and higher-ups of the church. Most of them are grotesque older men who look absolutely devilish in their smiles, their laughter or their piercing looks trying to nail Joan of Arc on the spot.Dreyer thus can naturally avoid the real torture scenes and can deal with that sequence in an allusive and indirect mental way. We can see the machines but we do not see the real brutality imposed to Joan of Arc? Our imagination has to compensate. That is good because Dreyer's art is emotionally evocative when he is dealing with physical pain and torments. He can thus concentrate on the faces and their expressions. Dreyer is thus able to avoid the symbolism of silent films at the time, that symbolical acting that was so conventional and we can find a lot in Fritz Lang (though Fritz Lang also uses metaphorical symbolism) and in Hollywood that is producing at the time more comedies and comic farces than dramas and tragedies. The Russians are in another style with Eisenstein, more demonstrative, more political and ideological.And that's where Dreyer's film is slightly weak. The whole film is a miracle of human expressivity that builds up the real atmosphere in this old century when religion was the only reference, Jesus was a real being you could talk to, God was another real character you could easily see in your sleep. The whole social life was dictated by this clerical catholic faith. The film shows marvellously how the faith of one can become the heresy of the other, not because the other is necessarily vicious, but just because the one used the wrong word, a word that means the devil in the language of the church. The church and its official beliefs at any time (and these beliefs can change with time) are the only yardstick everyone uses, Joan of Arc as well as the church officials in Rouen. But her declared faith in Jesus and God becomes for the priests and the monks, the abbots and the bishops the evidence she is possessed because she uses a direct address to Jesus or God and pretends she can communicate with them, which is not possible in this church at the time since communication with God and Jesus could only come through the priest and mostly from the top to the bottom, from God to the people, but through the priest.Was Joan of Arc announcing the coming of the Reformation and the Protestant faith? Probably. The Middle Ages were coming to an end and the new spirit that gave the individual a tremendously more important role to play was already coming up.But at the end of the film Dreyer falls in the trap of a popular upheaval against the English and a political conclusion about Joan of Arc and the French. Joan of Arc started something important in Europe and not only in France. She announces, represents the birth of nations which are going to bring in due time the end of feudalism. In this case, the birth of a French national feeling that will take two centuries to become something stable and real. The defeat of the English on the continent with their defeat in the One-Hundred-Year war is going to push England back into its borders and the national feeling is going to develop there faster because it is an island and because the last feudal entity, the Holy Roman Empire of Charles Quint and Philip II of Spain will make the mistake of attacking England that had been the first country to nationalize their church and religion in the European world at the time, more than two centuries before the French Revolution does the same in, France.That complexity is not captured by Dreyer in his conclusion though he shows marvellously well how the feudal absolute control of the church on the people is coming to an end because individuals do not follow rules but follow their conscience, their intimate conviction. That is new indeed.Spend some time on this brand new restored version of the film. If you get the Masters of Cinema version, you will have a second version edited after Dreyer and you will have an important booklet explaining a lot of things about Dreyer and his films, and the cinema at the time.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU
If there really was a camera at the trials of Joan of Arc, it would have looked like this movie.  I cannot even believe this movie, its so great and Maria Falconetti is amazing.  It deserves the place in movie history it has and Falconetti is unforgettable.  When I think of the intensity of the movie, I almost blush.  I couldn't even watch the whole thing is one sitting but I will remember this movie as long as I live.


                
I had never watched a silent movie before today but when I saw this movie listed on cable and saw how old it was, I just had to check it out. I was not disappointed. This film had me hooked. It really showed the ordeal Joan must have gone through and also showed how, in all likelihood, no matter what she said, she was not going to be found innocent. Without one word, and only music in the background, this movie conveyed more feelings than alot of regular movies I have seen. I would recommend this film to anyone who wishes to understand her life, her faith and her amazing courage in the face of such adversity and the obvious hopelessness of her being found innocent. I would definitely watch this again, and again.


                
