After years of hearing this film praised to the skies, I finally got to see this last night, thanks to our buddies at TCM.For the benefit of you budding actors, the following is a blow-by-blow account of Maria Falconetti's portrayal of Joan of Arc, considered by many critics to be the greatest performance in the history of film:Goes into Pop-My-Eyes-Out-of-My-Sockets Mode. Then cries.Goes into I'm-Feeling-Sorry-for-Myself Mode. Then cries.Goes into Lomotomized Zombie Mode. Then cries.Goes into Bobbing Head Doll Mode. Then cries.Repeats modes like a broken record. Then cries. A lot.Joan of Arc was a female George Patton, someone who knew how to kick ass and take names. Falconetti's Joan is a blubbering wack job no one would follow into a pillow fight! Oddly, the only time Falconetti stops the blubbering wack job bit is when Joan is about to be burnt to a crisp.The ending is a stupefying orgy of violence and bizarre camera angles. There is even a shot of a baby nursing, complete with full-frontal boobie! And the guy in the Mountie get-up lording over Joan's execution is a hoot! Where I can score some of that crack Carl Theodor Dreyer was smoking?
For most of it's length, this is a magnificently dull film. It has literally nothing to recommend it at first to anyone who actually expects entertainment from it. Jeanne of Arc is a fascinating character, but, frankly, showing a lot of pompous jurors and other court officals asking her questions and her just staring forward like a deer in headlights just doesn't work. It is true that some skill emerges if you wait long enough(The torture device, the revolt) but, frankly, I think it is a big mark against this film that we never see Joan doing any of the things that made her the important figure she is (lifting the siege at Orleans would have been nice, even if just in flashback for a few seconds)An insane person no doubt would be able to stand up to torture if they think they are in the right, so it weakens the image of Jeanne. I am not altogether sure that the revolt at the end was even real, and I am dead sure there are a lot of acronisms in it. That, to me, means the movie is tarnishing Jeanne's name with a propaganda slant.
