TPOJOA. What can I say. I saw this movie back in the summer of 1990 and I hate to sound like one of those people that always say a movie is boring unless there are lots of special effects, or predictable action every ten minutes, or if it was made before 1990.  But I'm not going to say it's boring - it's not -, to me it's something else: It's DEPRESSING!I remember reading all the positive write ups about this film before I saw it. I must've looked for it for probably 5 years before I finally found it and rented it from an out of state video distributor.  I can't believe someone could make a depressing silent film, but they did! When it was over I couldn't wait to mail it back to the video distributor. I can't imagine any part of a sunny day that I would want to give up to see this movie. Or any part of a rainy day for that matter.And I'm not saying the people who like this movie are depressed individuals, on the contrary I admire them for taking the initiative to see and appreciate a "difficult" film like this.Don't get me wrong, it's a extremely well made film and some of my favorite films can be considered to be "sad films", but sad can be surrounded by beauty (Read: "It's a sad and beautiful world"), but depressing is beyond sad, it's hopelessness, there isn't any beauty around that.See the odd camera angle as the English soldier reaches back for his weapons to be later used to beat the heck out of the peasants who support Joan. See the English soldiers beat the heck out of the charging peasants. See the birds fly from the trees as Joan is about to burn. Hear the hectic staccato organ music as she burns.It's also amazing but after seeing this film I have less respect for Joan than before. Is she truly a Saint? I don't know this film doesn't help. And to make matters worse, after I viewed this film I went to bed and had the strangest nightmare I've ever had.There is one interesting line in the film. As one of the peasants in the film says as they're about to torch Joan: "If they're not crucifying 'em, they're burning 'em!"If you want to see something a little more uplifting by Carl Dreyer I recommend you check out "Ordet" (1955) instead. It's a much better movie and it's not depressing, just puzzling. I finally saw it about 3 months ago and I didn't have any bad dreams after viewing it!If you want to see another depressing film like this one then you may want to check out "The Devils" (1971). It has sound, is in color and leaves one with the same empty wasted feeling at the end!


                
Silent film about the trial of Joan of Arc. The film begins with the description of the discovery of the records of her trial affirming that it is based on these. From there we are transported directly to the trial, from the trial to the torture and from there to the bonfire. In between we have many facial expressions close-ups from the various protagonists involved in the process, from the glumness and fury of the clerics who accuse her of heresy and witchcraft, to the passivity and lack of presence of mind from one or another monk and Joan herself. Scenarios and environment are relegated to a secondary plan practically nonexistent. At the end of the film, the population at first anxious for the inquisition circus, only and just after Joan is burned, begins a riot of redemption against the guard, a historically fantastical event without any source that proves it.The film, in cinematic terms, is very crude, with nothing innovative at the technical level. However, it achieves its goal of managing to transmit the unfairness of the trial and conveying Joana's sense of connection to God, especially in the accompanying music version that nicely complements the expressions of actress Maria Falconetti throughout the process, making the viewing experience a little more sentimental. But the history of this martyr goes far beyond a trial that here represented does not capture the essence of her personality or the remarkable achievements that led her to this fateful point of her life. Assuming that the spectator is already familiar with the story of Joan of Arc, it lacks the character development in the historical context so that we can identify with it properly, which portrays a trial purely for rancorous and patriarchal reasons, and although this is true, there were also political interests that are never mentioned, revealing an obviously biased work that tries to acerbate dogmatic religious fervor even more. Therefore, this film fulfills its tendentious goal in a very crude way but nothing more than that, leaving much to be desired, and only out of respect for this historical figure I do not score it less than 4/10.
