I've heard that this film is notoriously unwatchable; I've heard that it is one of the greatest moving pictures of all time. Given my negative experience of other 'great experimental' classics -- "Napoleon", "Metropolis", "Greed" -- I had a suspicion that my own reaction might lie on the former end of the scale: but when the chance to see it presented itself, I felt I ought to take the opportunity. To further my cinematic education, if nothing else.Oddly enough, while it seems to be a film that normally evokes a violent response in one direction or the other, I found myself left floating mildly in the middle. I didn't think it was the greatest film ever made, but I didn't find it unwatchable either.On the most basic level, I can't help feeling that Dreyer picked one of the most unsuitable subjects for a silent film possible: a dramatization of a verbal transcript! I can see the trial of Joan of Arc being presented as an effective radio drama, along the lines of Dorothy L. Sayers' Christ-play, "The Man Born to be King", but trying to make a silent movie out of it produces a horribly forced format: the courtroom scenes consist entirely of mouthed dialogue shown on transcribed title cards, followed by incredibly prolonged reaction shots. The (no doubt unintended) impression given was that the reaction shots were only there to break up what would otherwise be an unbroken series of intertitles, rather than being an active artistic choice: certainly Joan must have been an incredibly uncooperative witness if it really took her that long to answer each question. The format just doesn't seem to fit the content: 'talky' silent films are generally a mistake, and this section was nothing *but* talk.And tears. I've never encountered a Joan who cried so much -- I was left wondering if that was why Falconetti was cast, since she seems to have a decided talent for it. The endless weeping didn't actually seem in character for a girl who produces the sort of smart comebacks quoted in the script, and the director seemed to be wallowing in tormenting both star and audience. I was aware of my neighbours fidgeting.But it picks up, unsurprisingly, when it shifts into more natural silent territory and actually allows the characters to move. The sets appear to be cardboard in the most literal sense of the term (the painted-on arrow-slits are particularly obvious), but I couldn't tell if that was a deliberate gesture at modernism or simply the result of budgetary limitations; it gave the whole thing a certain stage play air, but when we actually see the soldiers tormenting Joan rather than watching characters mouth words for the camera, the style becomes more fluid.One technical device I found irritating was the repeated choice to film faces in three-quarter-length, with their foreheads cut off at the eyebrows. This is a mannerism I associate with the misuse of widescreen (which seems to have inherent problems with the fact that humans, unlike landscapes, aren't actually constructed in a letter-box shape), and the 'low-brow' result annoys me just as much coming from 1927 as it does in 2004. But that's just a personal quirk...More audience reaction as we got to the blood-letting: there were audible groans and ughs, and I couldn't help wondering how this was done! Presumably they didn't *really* stick a scalpel into someone's artery, let alone Miss Falconetti's? I noticed that the whole thing was shot in tight close-up with no glimpse of Joan's face.The finale, on the other hand, was more than gruesome enough for anybody, and the contrast to the unmoving opening scenes is stark: Dreyer seems to have gone into Mel-Gibson mode with full gore, writhing flames, etc. Perhaps the only common factor with the courtroom sequence is that it goes on and on: there was certainly no fidgeting at this point, or if there was I myself was too horrified and riveted to be aware of it.But even here there were some consciously arty moments to break the spell: the repeated cut-aways from the bound Joan to free-flying birds were less than subtle, and I can see why the use of the 'pendulum shot' didn't catch on... However, it is certainly convincing, probably too much so to pass for a PG certificate in the modern world: the shots of the charred body slumping into the rising flames are particularly explicit. One is left with the impression of having seen someone burned to death.I don't think I was impressed by the bits that I was probably intended to be impressed by, and I spent a lot of the trial being haunted by echoes of Bernard Shaw's play "St Joan", written a few years before this film came out: presumably both authors were quoting from the same sources, although it was distracting to recognise the retorts of Shaw's combative peasant girl while simultaneously presented with a visual of Dreyer's tortured saint. On the other hand, I wasn't nearly as bored as I might have expected to be. The experimental features either passed me by or were actively off-putting, but the film didn't lose my interest.
It is often said that Maria Falconetti gave the greatest performance in the history of film acting in this movie. That's nonsense. First off, I don't believe anyone can be said to be the single best artist in any pursuit. Shakespeare is not really the greatest playwright to ever live. But now that people keep saying he's the greatest playwright ever no one has the nerve to suggest perhaps he's just one of many brilliant playwrights.As for Falconetti, she gives a rather stylized performance in a very stylized, visually striking, very artsy movie. Her performance consists of a couple of looks, suffering and rapture, and in both she looks a little nuts, although I was never clear if she was supposed to seem nuts.The main power of her performance comes from a sense of pure exhaustion, and from what I hear the directory did everything he could to wear her down, so it may be less a great performance than just watching someone suffer on screen.The movie itself is cool looking but artificial and not that convincing. Those looking to see a truly great performance in a truly great silent movie should check out Emil Jannings in The Last Laugh.


                
This movie, restored for the present day, is visually appealing to the modern viewer. The portrayal of Joan with bright, open eyes stirs up a variety of feelings. It also gives off the vibe of mystique and wisdom well beyond her years, a girl ground in her conviction, always cornered by dark forces in the room, yet remains a light.It is rather confusing with no back-story,as not everyone grantedly knows the story of Joan of Arc. But like any passion play, the purpose is not so much the circumstances to the setting, but the actions and reactions of the people in the moment.I found the film very ahead of its time in many aspects. Then dark tone in soon time became the staple of this director. The imagery of death and torture, though not graphic, seems graphic, and gives an illusion of terror in a way that may have seemed taboo in the more conservative 30's,40's, and 50's film making. The age old battle of clericalism vs. authentic faith and the centuries old account of Joan of Arc, are told through this near-90 year old movie that has a very modern feel. It has a timeless quality rare for an old movie. I do not think it ranks as high as the historians and students of film proclaim it. But is a must-must-see for any appreciator of film and arts.


                
The Passion of Joan of Arc is a deeply moving story about the last vindictive trial of Joan's life before her martyrdom at the stake. Joan's story is uncannily similar to the story of Christ<U+0097>both were viewed as extremists; both were thought to be a threat to political power; both were told to deny their beliefs by a group of tyrannical clergymen; and both were ultimately murdered for their convictions. Joan, like Christ, becomes more and more at a loss of words as she is vehemently interrogated, knowing full well that her words are futile and that death awaits her. Her silence, in many instances, parallels the silence of Christ and is perhaps the most powerful testimony she gives against the brooding Englishmen who enslaved her.Her story is also strangely similar to Joseph Smith<U+0097>for why else would such a seemingly insignificant character as nineteen-year old girl, Joan, attract the attention of the great ones of the most popular sects of the day, and in them a spirit of the most bitter persecution and reviling? Some would argue that it was due to Joan's military status in the French army, and though indeed that might be partly true, I don't believe it's the full truth. There must have been something more in Joan's testimony that caused such "great ones" to behold her as a threat to the entire English government. I mean, why would a mere denial of her "vision of God" be enough to satiate these blood-thirsty hypocrites? There must have been something else driving their motives. Nevertheless, I find it very peculiar that she was greatly feared amongst such "powerful men." Extreme close-ups are used quite abundantly throughout the entirety of the film to help show the exhaustion of Joan. I believe this technique was used to capture how violated she must have felt: nothing but angry faces ranting and railing up-close against her, as if Dreyer was purposely trying to attack the audience so that they could live vicariously through her torment. One close-up after the next, we see the deterioration of Joan as her life is fed to entropy<U+0097>the audience feels equally as deteriorated by the end too. I think the use of close-ups was incredibly powerful. They allowed for a type of transcendence to occur. This transcendence takes the form of seeing the life in Joan's face fade more and more; concurrently the audience prays for her spirit to transcend the pangs of her body and be freed from the hell she experiences on earth.The film, in this sense, has a very transcendental quality. Though the audience may never have to experience a martyrdom like Joan or Christ, they will feel the desire to want to be freed from their own physical bondage, pain and suffering. The film is silent, and as such, creates a sparse-style of transcendence<U+0097>something that speaks softly to the soul, unlike DeMille's abundant-style in The Ten Commandments. It offers a lot of room for reflection as we sit there beholding these intense images in holy silence.Having mentioned transcendence, I believe the film has much to say about the relationship between salvation and man. As Joan is being savagely questioned about her "vision of God," the clergy keep reminding her that her sins can be forgiven in and through the Church. Never once do they mention that salvation comes through Christ, let alone God<U+0097>it's always through the authority of the Church. I think Dreyer is merely trying to remind the viewer what history books have already enlightened the world with: that there is something strange about salvation coming from a "learned" group of men who appear pious and holy devout to the Divine, but who lack inner-conviction and act as wolves dressed in sheep's clothing. "By their fruits ye shall know them," seems to be the underlying theme to this film. These men do not emit the qualities of goodness<U+0097>they are depicted as fearful and angry; they stop at nothing to force Joan to confess a false testimony. They are like the Pharisees of old who attacked and stoned the prophets all to maintain and secure the appearance of godliness. Their fruits, however, reveal who they really are: tyrants of a brute nature.One quality I really respected and identified in Joan was her humanity. She wasn't depicted as some sinless warrior, let alone saint who was constantly in God's good standing, but at one moment succumbed to the frailty of her mortal condition and fell before God to preserve her life. In this moment, she renounced her vision in order to acquiesce to the Englishmen's desires. It was contrived though, and she knew it. Feeling the pangs of a guilty conscience, she immediately called back the guards and repented of her sin. I loved seeing this character arc in her because it made her even more real; more relatable; more human. This sequence demonstrated the power of repentance, and how even the noblest of God's children are not immune to the temptations of the body. All must immerse their lives in the principle of repentance (i.e. change from man's will to God's will). Though God's will is often very personal and nebulous, it is not to be determined by the will of "learned, erudite scholars," but from careful adherence to what one considers is the right path.
Watching The Passion of Joan of Arc without any musical score to accompany its drama really makes you see the true potential of images like never before, and the emotional impact it can have on the audience when done right. Widely considered as a cinematic landmark, this French silent classic still retains a mystical power.Set in 15th century France during the Hundred Years' War, the story of The Passion of Joan of Arc chronicles the trial of Jeanne d'Arc following her arrest. Charged with heresy, she is interrogated by French clergymen loyal to the English who attempt to force her to recant her claims of holy visions, and ultimately execute her when she refuses.Written & directed by Carl Theodor Dreyer, the film employs a number of filmmaking techniques that were unconventional for its time and the script itself is adapted from the original transcripts of Joan's infamous trial. Dreyer narrates the plot with minimal dialogues, utilising the intertitles only when it's a necessity, and sustains our interest with inventive camerawork.By employing extreme close-ups of the characters' faces shot from low angles, the camera manages to properly convey the mood of the ongoing trial while the minute details & varying expressions on characters' faces only adds to the unfolding drama. Editing provides a steady pace to its set of events though there are times when the scenes feel somewhat repetitive.Coming to the performances, The Passion of Joan of Arc is Maria Falconetti's show all the way. Playing the role of Jeanne d'Arc from inside out, Falconetti delivers what may as well be the pinnacle of expressionistic acting, for she illustrates Joan's inner turmoil with such authenticity as if she herself was on brink of emotional collapse. It is a truly unforgettable performance that's finely supported by the rest of the cast.On an overall scale, The Passion of Joan of Arc is a powerfully moving & thoroughly compelling picture that uses the human face as its storytelling device and succeeds amazingly well. Despite being 90 years old, it packs a strength that's highly evident when you are watching it while Maria Falconetti's emotionally resonant performance is a stuff of legends in itself. The absence of score may make its 82 minutes runtime a tough sit for some but this silent classic is every bit worthy of its legendary status.


                
Here is a film which is easier to understand if you bring some prior knowledge to the viewing; most obviously, it helps if you know who "Jeanne d'Arc" (aka "Joan of Arc") was, because the film really only shows the last part of her story. It's like watching a stretched out final act of a movie; probably, the intended audience knew about the events preceding the drama. For film viewers not interested in doing homework, but possessing some familiarity with Christianity, it shouldn't be too hard to figure out what is happening. Think of it as a "second coming" Jesus Christ story, "updated" to a woman in France.The film picks up with Maria Falconetti (as Jeanne d'Arc) on trial for her crimes. Ms. Falconetti is teased and tortured. She is not able to read, and provides little information to the wicked judges. She says she is nineteen years old, "Je pense," elle dit, but looks older. Director Carl Theodor Dreyer films Falconetti almost entirely in close-up. She widens her eyes, and emotes fiercely. It almost looks like a close-up screen test. Falconetti suffers well, responding to the director's commands. But it's hard to tell what she is emoting about; at times, she could be sitting on her toilet. Since she brushes a fly away from her face once or twice; it is likely true this film was made from originally rejected footage, after the original Dreyer edit was "accidentally destroyed".That this film is a compilation of outtakes explains (in part?) its flaws in style and storytelling. Although no substitute for the supposedly superior original, this "La Passion de Jeanne d'Arc" is worth a look. The director, star, and photographer Rudolph Maté demonstrate some courage and creativity in film-making.******* La Passion de Jeanne d'Arc (4/21/28) Carl Theodor Dreyer ~ Maria Falconetti, Eugene Silvain, André Berley


                
I watched the Criterion Collection from an original found in a Norwegian mental institution in 1981. The condition of the film looks crisp and perfect. It is based on the trial transcript of Joan of Arc. The film starts with Joan in prison. The religious authorities question and berate the young girl. They bring her to the torture chamber. At the breaking point, the priest guide her hand in signing a confession. She is eventually burnt at the stake. Renée Jeanne Falconetti stars as Joan. Her big eyes glow with passion. She is a bit old to play the teen martyr. Otherwise, this is an impressive acting performance from the silent era. The constant use of closeups is quite compelling. It's almost a piece of painting or art.


                
It's a fact that, out of necessity, because he had no way of putting sound in the movie, at the time Carl Dreyer achieved a masterpiece, or better saying "a tour de force".This is perhaps the most talkative of the silent films. The plot is "Le Procés de Jeanne d'Arc" . It is a trial, and a trial is a battle of words.Trying to convey the force of words with images and expressions on the actor's faces is about the same as a deaf person going to see "King Lear".To paraphrase the Bard "It is a serious tale full of fury and no sound and signifying many things".One of those things is that the British were perfidious before Elisabeth I, and that goes on till tomorrow, to be kind...


                
WOW! What a fantastic movie. This is truly one of the great pieces of silent cinema. Maria Falconetti is amazing as Joan of Arc. Flawless direction from Danish director Carl Th. Dreyer. A must-see motion picture from the silent era of film.


                
This is a very brief review of Carl Theodor Dreyer's "The Passion of Joan of Arc" and Robert Bresson's "The Trial of Joan of Arc".Some thoughts...1. What's immediately apparent when comparing these two films, is how focused Dreyer is on showing the opposing forces present at Joan's trial. Who was the chief architect of her martyrdom? The English invaders who imprisoned her? The French clergy who tried and condemned her? God? The girl herself? The people who identified with her and gave her martyrdom political purpose? 2. Dreyer always keeps Joan isolated within the frame, plumbing a solitary soul's duress under persecution. Elsewhere he deftly shows the transformation of the witnessing masses from a crazy mob into a responsible voice of moral protest.3. Maria Falconetti, who plays Joan in Dreyer's film, is given some of the most celebrated close ups in cinema history. What became of her? One legend claims that she so identified with her one major film role that she ended up in an insane asylum, convinced she was Joan.4. Unlike Dreyer's film, Bresson's is filled with non professional actors. His is a dry, almost distant film.5. Whilst Dreyer's film oozes grand emotions, Bresson's is modern, minimalist and existentially blunt.6. Bresson avoids the circus and stresses Joan's solitude. His Joan is defiant in court, but privately she is at a loss, constantly praying for answers.7. Dreyer's Joan (a kind of instinctual folk hero) acts according to her feelings, while Bresson's acts according to her conscience, which fluctuate as she broods.8. Bresson's Joan is actually reluctant to embrace martyrdom. She's in over her head, unsure, confused.9. In Dreyer's film, the audience becomes both Joan and the masses supporting her. In Bresson's, however, the audience is positioned as an outsider. We're the prison guards, the jailers, the priests, always "seperated" from Joan (by holes, by walls, by bars). The poor girl's kept at a distance.10. Bresson's film is filled with visual echoes. Joan's hands, chained across a bible, resemble a pair of wings. At her execution, her hands, now tied behind her back, reappear in closeup. When doves appear, shot from below, we are reminded of Joan's "winged" hands to haunting effect. The point: an image of confinement has become one of ultimate liberation.11. Bresson's film begins with two sounds: the ringing of church bells, followed by a drum roll. It ends only with a drum roll. Joan silences the Church that has put her to death.12. Bresson has criticised Dreyer's film on numerous occasions, stating that he found the acting "grotesque". He's right. Joan was a hardened warrior who fought with men. Why then does Dreyer portray her in such a melodramatic fashion? On the flip side, Dreyer's images do tap into something almost primal.13. Bresson's film abounds with delicious ambiguities. Was Joan really receiving messages from God? Is she deluded? Was she a crazy freedom fighter or holy saint? Was she simply a 15th century terrorist, opposing the English occupying army and the tents of the Catholic Church? 8.9/10 - "The Trial of Joan of Arc"8/10 - "The Passion of Joan of Arc" Both masterpieces, though I personally prefer Bresson's austere approach. Worth one viewing.
My Rating : 7/10It's a silent film. It's a slow film. It's repetitive.You just have to watch it to judge it for yourself. An important part of world cinema and a true work of art.


                
