One of the last great silent films made during the advent of sound, Carl-Theodor Dreyer's The Passion of Joan of Arc is a haunting, riveting portrait of the historical martyr based on documentation from the original trial.  Focusing primarily on the series of courtroom examinations that doomed the young warrior, the film gloriously employs vivid close-ups to accentuate the ordinariness (while at the same time exaggerating the most grotesque qualities) of Joan's inquisitors.  Maria Falconetti is unforgettable as Joan, perfectly distilling the pain, terror, and saintliness required by what is probably one of the most demanding roles an actor could attempt.  The consequence of Joan's conviction -- her burning at the stake -- allows Dreyer to hammer home his exquisite visual motif balancing erotic corporeality with transcendent spirituality.


                
Watching Carl Theodor Dreyer's silent film masterpiece, "The Passion of Joan of Arc", is one of the most powerful cinematic experiences you will ever have.  Amazing direction by Dreyer, with extraordinary acting by Maria Falconetti as Joan, enable the viewer to sense every nuance of Joan's ordeal throughout her trial and eventual execution.  The experience is so realistic and overpowering that by the time the fire is lit under her stake, you can practically smell the burning wood.Almost the whole film is a carefully filmed and edited sequence of close-up shots that emphasize every aspect of Joan's plight, and that enable us to share in the deepest of her feelings.  The masterful shot selection takes full advantage of Falconetti's unparalleled performance as she shows us who Joan was.  By keeping everything in close, we never take our attention off of what Joan is enduring, and the intensity of the experience is never allowed to dissipate.After following Joan's lengthy trial and interrogation, the film climaxes with a phenomenal look at her execution.  It cycles through shots of Joan, the stake, her tormentors, and the crowd, and occasionally a shot of birds flying gracefully overhead, overwhelming us with moving sensations.To be sure, this is not the kind of film that casual audiences would necessarily enjoy.  What Joan of Arc endured was an unspeakable combination of systematic humiliation and physical agony, and Dreyer's film makes us feel every bit of it.  And to appreciate fully some of the details in the film, it probably helps to have some basic historical knowledge of Joan's life - the film starts immediately at the trial, with little or no explanation of prior events.  But even if you had no idea who Joan was, watching this account of her would still move you, and you would still come away amazed at her great inner strength - the film is that effective.If you appreciate dramatic cinema, whether you usually like silents or not, make sure to see this masterpiece when you can.


                
022.1: Passion of Joan of Arc (1928) - released in Denmark 4/21/1928, viewed previously.DOUG: We watched this silent classic a couple of years ago when we became interested in how historical figures, warriors in particular, are portrayed in the movies. This entry was part of a trio of films featuring Joan of Arc (the others starring Ingrid Bergman in 1948 and Leelee Sobieski in 1999). We watched this one last, and it's definitely the best of the three. Those wondering about the title may assume correctly: Mel Gibson took the same approach to Christ in his film Passion of the Christ as this film takes to Joan: The last part of their life leading up to their famous public execution. When one talks about this film, the discussion really has little to do with what happened to Joan herself; it's more about the unique, disorienting way the film is shot, lit, edited, and acted. The director isn't really interested in teaching the audience about Joan; her trial is just the setting for this little head trip. The whole thing is very disorienting; in the courtroom scene, you're not allowed a sense of where each character is sitting or how the room is laid out. Dreayer wants to immerse you in what's happening. Much of the film's strength also lies in the performances of the cast, particularly Maria Falconetti in her only film role. This is an essential piece of silent film history, which was winding down at this point in time.Last film chronologically: Speedy (1928). Next film chronologically: Steamboat Bill, Jr. (1928).The Movie Odyssey is an exhaustive, chronological project where we watch as many milestone films as possible, starting with D.W. Griffith's Intolerance in 1916 and working our way through, year by year, one film at a time. We also write a short review for each and every film. In this project, we hope to gain a deeper understanding of the time period, the films of the era, and each film in context, while at the same time just watching a lot of great movies, most of which we never would have watched otherwise.


                
As Carl T. Dreyer said the whole picture was made under old manuscript that was found in France, so Dreyer makes a detailed planning over it, even the sets were builded over some pictures as states in this files, Dryer also used a white color to suggest a Joan's pureness, l had many movies from Joan of Arc, this apart to be a silent movie was stunningly made by the old master, a remarkable performance of Maria Falconetti was another highlight, a timeless movie suitable for both kind of people as study process for believers and materialist, a true gem to mankind!!!Resume:First watch: 2018 / How many: 1 / Source: DVD / Rating: 9.25


                
Everything is well done, but the most remarkable thing, doubtlessly, is Renée Falconetti's performance.


                
this movie's drawback is that it gives no background. We are thrown right in the middle of the action. Perhaps the director wanted the public to take its autonomous stance, but when you start watching, you must either like/believe Joan or not. The quality of the film is excellent; by all means it might have been shot in the 1950s. Acting is very good for what it is (EG no outside action but a young woman tortured and then burnt alive ): the first few seconds hinted at Falconetti being a very brilliant actress; perhaps not the best of all times ever, but let's compare a few recent Hollywood big budget junk thrillers or psycho-movies to boot and this ages-old movie ends up winning. Scenes are careful and camera work innovative. ONE BIG GOOF: around the time Joan is taken out to be burnt, we see a priest WITH GLASSES. Now spectacles were centuries ahead of Joan's time. I tend to regard this movie as high theater on film, rather than a "movie". THE MESSENGER tries to psychoanalyze Joan too much, making her look like a complete fool. But face it, after all these centuries she is still a hero not because she might have (or have not ) heard god's voice (plenty of charlatans and hallucinating faddists claim they do everyday right now ), but because a young, illiterate peasant virgin could actually kick the enemy's hides and give her king a crown, being ready to die burnt alive to stand for her ideals. I wish I had a fraction of the balls she had, period. One might or might not sympathize with France, but her lesson is a lesson for everyone.
I watched this movie for a class, and while it was a bit much the first time I watched it, it got better after I thought about it and watched it again. You know how a lot of difficult movies are like that?  If you are really into film, do not let this one go by without checking it out.


                
For those who have seen Ingrid Bergman and later on Jean Seberg play the maid of Orleans in other interpretations of the Joan Of Arc story you might well do to take a look at what the French themselves have with their national heroine. The Passion Of Joan Of Arc made at the tail end of silent films give an actress normally associated with comedy a chance to give an astonishing interpretation of the maid. It also gives us the only recorded performance of Maria Falconetti to treasure.Directed and written by Carl Dreyer, the sets are a bare basic item in this film, there only to establish a time and place. We see none of Joan's deeds of heroism, this film only concerns us with her trial and execution. And in an interesting and successful technique the entire film is told in closeups, more closeups than I've ever seen used before in any film. As she's interrogated by the Bishop of Cauchon who was in the pay of England's ally the Duke of Burgundy. The film cuts back and forth to closeup shots of the interrogators and then to Falconetti. Her expressions and her tears even without dialog create the image of the frightened and pure saint like girl just trying to do the right thing and stand by her conviction that she's been singled out to save France.At least to my eye Falconetti bore more than a slight resemblance to Anna Magnani and I'm betting if talkies had been available she would have sounded like her as well.There have been modern interpretations that Joan Of Arc might well have been a lesbian. What was really bothering her accusers was the fact that she was in male attire. Now leaving the question of sexual orientation aside, even if all that Joan was, was a symbol just getting around a battlefield might require the clothing that a soldier might wear. It wouldn't be practical to be wearing a farm dress. And certainly if one was participating in the battle it would be foolish.But the male attire seemed to be what got the accusers going. They harped on it constantly during the interrogation. If this was proof that the Maid was a lesbian, than surely she was in league with satanic forces.Depending on your point of view it could range from Joan actually hearing the voice of God to some hallucinatory ramblings from some kind of native intoxicant. Whatever it was she was convinced they came from heaven and more importantly she convinced others. It's why she remains France's national heroine and why she's such a challenging role for so many actresses. Maybe Meryl Streep will try that one next.Until then Maria Falconetti takes her place alongside Ingrid Bergman and Jean Seberg. Watch them all and compare.


                
Part of what makes The Passion of Joan of Arc so bold and unflinching, for its time and its current state in cinema, is, much like its titular subject, how battered, beaten, and kicked around it has been in order to get where it is today. This is a film that, from its very inception, was a controversial subject that clerical authorities didn't want to be seen by a wide audience, for its portrayal of religion and politics. Nonetheless, writer/director Carl Theodor Dreyer pushed forward in a direction for a film on Joan of Arc that detailed the gap between religion and politics, in addition to insights into the complex of the fragile male ego that boasts assimilation and manipulation. After the completed and finalized print was lost in a fire, it was doubtful that a print even close to the original would ever resurface until one was discovered in a mental institution in Oslo, Norway in the 1980's. After some cleaning up and polish was added, the film was restored into an eighty-one minute cut, which is said to be very close to the original film's length and structure.Dreyer's focus in The Passion of Joan of Arc was precisely what the title suggests; an intimate and often harrowing portrayal of the agony the French heroine (played ever-so tenderly by Renée Jeanne Falconetti) endured following her unfair trial after the Hundred Years' War. Dreyer sees no point or purpose in showcasing sweeping battle sequences nor does he see it fit to detail Joan of Arc's story in a series of "greatest hits" moments that ultimately ends in a corrupt sentencing. Instead, Dreyer places us, the audience, in an awkward position throughout; we are practically voyeurs into the trial and sentencing of Joan of Arc, who we witness subjected to enough physical and mental torment to shatter one's entire self-worth. As she takes a stand for her faith and her beliefs of her own personal sainthood and relationship with God, she is bludgeoned and abused by an all-male jury and various authorities before being sentenced to death by being consumed by fire.The Passion of Joan of Arc can be viewed in two basic forms; in its original form, with no dialog, or a modified, Criterion Collection version that adds accompanying orchestration from Richard Einhorn called "Voices of Light" (which was my audio-track companion) throughout the film. Einhorn's score provides well-timed parallels in sound and musicality to events transpired on-screen, and the symphonic blend of instruments at various times adds to the cacophony of emotions and tones throughout the picture in a way that wouldn't be as impacting, I feel, with an empty audio-track. Dreyer's film has far too much potential for impact to be viewed in complete and utter silence.Dreyer's decision to focus largely on facial expressions and the facial personalities of characters almost overshadows the complex work of his and Rudolph Maté's in the cinematography department. At the time of its release, The Passion of Joan of Arc erected one of the most expensive and immaculately detailed film sets in the history of cinema, with its construction of the famous Rouen Castle taking most of Dreyer's seven million franc budget on the film. Having said that, the detail in the background of the film is almost as important as the detail in the foreground, with hulking walls and set architecture towering over the characters in the film like a bitter and obvious presence. The walls are nothing more than helpless witnesses to the atrocious treatment of a very confident woman; so confident she makes her male counterparts squirm with inferiority and fear.Out of eighty-one minutes, probably a good forty or forty-five are Dreyer's camera lingering and depicting the facial and emotional reactions of Joan of Arc. Dreyer allows us to zero in on Joan of Arc's emotional responses as a way of peeling back the events of this film and revealing a tender, more human side that can often get lost in the shuffle. This is also likely why Dreyer forgoes the conventional battle sequences the Hundred Years' War practically loans itself to on film; it doesn't work to detail the kind of grounded human interest in the film.Finally, there's the concept of male ego that Dreyer subtly explores here. Consider how manipulated Joan of Arc becomes shortly after allowing herself to be tried for blasphemous remarks about her alleged sainthood and her relationship with God. Her trial was never intended to be fair, but instead, a circus for masculinity to triumph over a defenseless woman who was never going to be heard out on anything she had to say. As a result, the males of the court room decide to shame her, cutting off all her hair and physically and mentally abusing her in a barbaric manner that shows little else besides dominance over the meek and powerless in a cruel situation.The result is a heartbreaking film that grabs you with an all-too-real depiction of a time period frequently obscured by the lingo of textbooks and droll college lectures thanks to Dreyer's human approach and intimate focus on facial expressions and steadfast realism. It's only fitting that The Passion of Joan of Arc endured such a brutal life trying to gets its message out to a wide audience; it perfectly replicates the struggle and fight of its titular character.Starring: Renée Jeanne Falconetti. Directed by: Carl Theodor Dreyer.


                
Carl Dreyer's "The Passion of Joan of Arc" is a film that feels light years ahead of its time. Lean and mean, focusing its entire narrative on the interrogation of Joan that inevitably lead to her execution by burning at the stake, the film is kinetic in ways that most films even now aren't. Composed almost completely of tight close ups, Dreyer and crew cut rapidly between disconcerting, asymmetrical shots, giving the film a breathless, anxious, nearly frenzied pace.Maria Falconetti gives an almost unbelievably intense performance as the title heroine. Her performance, and the film in general, does get a bit monotonous -- it exists primarily of impassioned gazes into the middle distance, giant, tearing eyes opened wide, an expression of passionate, nearly demented religious fervor on her face. It's not a film that concerns itself with characters and plot, so we don't get to know Joan as a person. It's difficult to care for her particular plight and we instead feel compassion for her as one human being feeling compassion for another. For that reason, the film left me remembering its striking images and formal style more than any emotions I might have felt while watching it. But it's no less of a remarkable cinematic achievement for that.Grade: A


                
Know that this movie is a cinematic triumph, for it portrays a human being suffering for her Faith. Know that Faith is difficult to portray in motion pictures, however this film does many things right including:Portraying as accurately as possible what it must have been like during Joan of Arc's trial.Symbolizing the Passion in the sense of the Holy Spirit talking.Portraying God as Love. Please enjoy this rare cinematographic opportunity. You won't be very disappointed. I enjoyed most of the scenes very much, especially Joan testifying about God, however there is some disturbing content toward the end of the film which may not be watched. Close your eyes during the disturbing scenes and you will appreciate these scenes more.I recommend watching this film during a time of meditation, devotion, and peace, as you will greatly appreciate its themes of Love, Conviction, and Eternal Life.


                
Watching a silent film made in the 1920s could be a jaded adjustment for people that are used to the storytelling methods of today, let alone one that abandons a score to aid the visuals. The Passion of Joan of Arc does exactly that, but with a purpose; the filmmakers want to explore a play by play of Joan of Arc's trial without inflicting their opinion onto the film. They urge us to draw our on conclusions on the happenings of the events. In their attempts of doing this, trying to connect with the character of Joan as a protagonist is difficult.The film may have troubles identifying its heroine to the audience, however, the actress portraying the religious figure, Maria Falconetti, bares her soul through the eyes of the character. Never has authentic emotion been more present in a character than in it is Joan. Falconetti creates a stabbing ache in your stomach as you see the pain Joan has survived though and the state of fear she currently lives in.Her performance is most famous for her glaring eyes that stare into space in what feels like every scene. My explanation for Falconetti's exaggeration is Joan's interaction with God (unseen in the film) was so overwhelming, it clouded her view of the world. Now every minute of her life, she sees those images of Him. It's a breathtaking performance that deserves to rank among the best in film history. Carl Theodor Dreyer's mission to create something with is personal stamp of originality is found with The Passion of Joan of Arc's jumbled camera angles. He has thought up each cut, where the camera is placed, and how it contributes to telling this story. We, the audience, are just around to observe what's happening, we're not supposed to feel like a part of the history being told. It's usual editing for such a film.The Passion of Joan of Arc is a religious-based film with a performance that will live on with Joan of Arc's legacy. The Passion of Joan of Arc is uncommon, and should be experienced. It gives Joan of Arc the credit as a Jesus-counterpart in the eyes of God, something that may not be understood to even deeply religious people prior to seeing the film.Rating: AGrade: 9


                
A chronicle of the trial of Jeanne d'Arc (Maria Falconetti) on charges of heresy, and the efforts of her ecclesiastical jurists to force Jeanne to recant her claims of holy visions.Dreyer really loves his close-ups in this picture, stressing the rough humanity of the faces -- they are not pretty, but full of emotion and contour. I can see why it was a commercial flop, as it is not terribly entertaining... but the pure genius of the film can be appreciated from a critical point of view.Mordaunt Hall said "as a film work of art this takes precedence over anything that has so far been produced. It makes worthy pictures of the past look like tinsel shams. It fills one with such intense admiration that other pictures appear but trivial in comparison." That might be a bit of a stretch, but I can hardly disagree too strongly. My only real complaint is that Joan of Arc was 19 at the time of trial... and Falconetti was 35 or 36. But I cannot fault her acting.The Criterion Collection comes with Richard Einhorn's "Voices of Light" as an optional score to the film. I strongly recommend this. While the film is powerful even silent, Einhorn nailed the feeling and more... I cannot imagine a better musical attachment to such a film.


                
Carl Dreyer's skill in weaving this intense, abstract work, telling a story with a flow of images is genius. The towering figures of the priests, elongated by sharp camera angles evoke the works of El Greco. Renée Jeanne Falconetti's performance is of sublime power, her great eyes expressing so many emotions throughout the movie, we are simply hypnotised by those deep pools.The film's editing creates great rhythm within the movie as it builds our sympathy, our emotions, and keeps us hypnotised by the visuals. The composition of his images is remarkable and his evocation of the period outstanding. The movie is both a historical document, and an artistic statement on the power of film.This film is a towering artistic achievement.


                
The  Masters of Cinema series released their long-awaited restoration of Dreyer's "La passion de Jeanne d'Arc" (1928) on Blu-ray last November. It includes the "Oslo print" in two different projection speeds, both 20fps and 24fps, as well as the "Lo Duca" bastardization. Highly recommended not only for the beautiful 1080p presentation but also for the booklet that comes with it.It's been some 10 years since I last saw this, and intriguingly divergent films and memories have superseded Dreyer's film in the memory. I couldn't remember the stylized movement of the camera and the imaginative camera angles, and how they have likely inspired Eisenstein's "Ivan Groznyi" (1944) and Welles' "Othello" (1952). Dreyer's unflinching nerve, his clear vision, and the unity of that vision. Someone somewhere has called this the ultimate close-up, and it most certainly is. Nick Wrigley, formerly of the Masters of Cinema team, describes the release on Twitter as "a magic death-defying fever dream. I can't imagine a luckier Blu-ray on earth. 20fps pure joy". I really like the phrasing in "death-defying fever dream"; this is exactly that, a fervent, dreamlike, atmospheric, never-consumed – much like his later masterpiece and for me his apotheosis, "Vampyr" (1932), his subsequent film.And if you've never tried it, it's one of the most intimate experiences one can have, watching a silent film completely silent, without any music. I did this with the silent comedies of Ozu, released by the BFI on DVD, mainly because I didn't like the new scores they recorded for them. The experience is otherworldly.The "Lo Duca" version now seems like a bad joke in its emotional manipulativeness. If you want to find out how to mistreat the beautiful passages of Bach and Albinoni, look no further and give the "Lo Duca" a spin.I prefer the 20fps version, and I really have no interest in going back to 24fps unless for comparative purposes. It flows more naturally (to my eyes) and viewed silent has more flair to it (to my tastes).I'm looking forward to many high definition fever dreams to come.


                
This is indeed one of the great movies of all time.  I can't add much to what has already been commented upon, but no one has mentioned the incredible score, titled "Voices of Light", written for the movie by Richard Einhorn.  (Sony COL 0062006, Netherlands Radio Philharmonic and Chorus and the Anonymous Four)  The music by itself is mesmerizing, but if you ever have an opportunity to hear it performed with the movie, go to any lengths to do so.  The Denver Symphony performed it last season.The CD notes describe Einhorn's reaction to having seen the movie.  The score was the direct result.


                
I am very impressed with the excellence of this 75 year old film. It is very well directed by Carl Theodor Dreyer and extremely well acted. Maria Falconetti, as Joan of Arc, was superb. This was a silent movie, but her expressions and haunting eyes speak volumes as she reacts to her inquisition. This film has holds up and is extremely powerful telling the story of the trial of Joan of Arc. This film was thought lost as the original prints were burned in a fire. Fortunately for us, a great copy was found in a mental hospital in Norway in 1981. It was restored in 1985 and looks incredible for such an old movie. In 1988, Richard Einhorn, saw this movie and fell in love with this movie. He composed an excellent musical score, Voices of Light. He wrote it as a stand alone piece, but luckily we have the option of having it play along while watching the DVD. It perfectly accentuates the movie and makes it an even more powerful experience.***1/2 (Out of 4)


                
This movie hangs primarily on the eyes of Maria Falconetti, who is able to reflect emotions successfully in this manner.  Carl Dreyer's direction heightens this transfer with thoughtful camera angles and character placement.  If one is to experience the best of the silent films, this movie provides one of the best examples.


                
This movie is definitely worthy of appreciation in terms of the novelty of its movie making technique of its time. I would say it is a difficult movie to make since there is really not much to a story, so Dreyer had to refer to camera angles and closed up shots to evoke emotion.Facial expression of the actors were essential to make it work. Maria Falconetti did a fantastic job in that regard. Even nowadays, I don't think many movies use the camera technique used in this movie. Because of the effectiveness, much of the movie is quite self-explanatory.Although I do appreciate of its artistic quality and like it very much, it is still not one of my top favorite since I am more driven by the literary side of a movie than the photographic side.I saw it only once at this time and much effort were exerted doing so because I wanted to pay close attention to the detail, especially for a silent film in the form of expressiveness instead of storytelling. I'm sure there is strong literary side to it as well. I can feel there are a lot more to this movie than I saw and that requires a multiple viewing, except that I am not ready for a second viewing yet. Still, a must see for at least once.


                
