The best film ever made, period! Allow me to take a contrary view. Not the best film ever made (Les Enfants du Paradis, The Godfather, The Bicycle Thief). Not the best science fiction film (2001, Bladerunner, Gattaca, Code 46) Not even the best film about periods (Carrie).Star Wars brought two things to the audience for the first time; decent sound and visual production and mass marketed toy tie-ins. The first is laudable; the second is where you suspect George Lucus' real talent lies.Like most adults in their early thirties, I got my first taste of Star Wars when I was too young to know better. We were too poor to afford the cinema then, so I watched it on the small screen and still liked it. But now I know better. Star Wars contains some of the hammiest, crummiest dialogue ever uttered by respectable actors. "Feel the force, Luke!" Yeah, whatever. If that wasn't enough, Lucas then went back and mucked up that tiny amount character consistency which made it out of the first cut.Star Wars, made at the height of the Cold War and the nadir of American foreign policy, is the good ole story of good ole America spreading its good ole values against a dark, satanic empire. Sound familiar? It's also the story of a poor orphan boy who runs away, rescues a beautiful princess and saves a kingdom from an oppressive tyranny. Sound familiar? Oh yes, and on the way he meets an old man with strange powers, an untrustworthy adventurer and a band of rebels hiding in a forest. Sound familiar? Of course, there is a reason for this. A simple reason. A long time ago in, well, America, Mr Lucas picked up a copy of Campbell's A Hero with a Thousand Faces. This book outlines the fact that all stories have a core of elements in common. Indeed, at a plot level, most stories are essentially the same. Excellent, thinks Lucas, that means I can legitimately rip off better films like the Hidden Fortress and the Dam Busters, better stories like Hamlet and Robin Hood and bastardise Buddhism and Confucianism into the bargain. No need for any original thought whatever, in fact.And thus it was to prove. From the ghostly mentor to the father bearing a terrible secret, Star Wars rehearses every conceivable cinematic (and indeed sub-literary) cliché. Along the way, it inflicts upon us some truly awful dialogue and a paper-thin plot.But these are not the biggest crimes of the film. The worst is that Lucas did not even copy effectively. He forgets, for example, that perfect characters are uninteresting. Mark Hamill may be a fine actor, but his goody-goody clean-cut character grates after just a few minutes of screen time. Harrison Ford fares rather better as Han Solo <U+0096> so why does Lucas go back and make him fire second in the space bar? It's not just petty, it's puerile.Possibly I should relax, hang loose, go with the flow and not get so uptight. But I just can't help getting irritated. Star Wars is puerile nonsense of the worst kind. The best you can say of it is that it brings the McDonalds experience into the cinema. The worst it is a borderline insult to everyone's intelligence.


                
This movie has, possibly, the worst script I've ever come across in a film.So, we meet Luke. He lives with his aunt and uncle in some sort of extraterrestrial farming. The get killed, we never hear from them again. A passing shot is it. Luke never even recalls them once.He meets a strange man, this man he has been told is crazy and possibly senile. The man tells him about a mystical "force" that lives in everything and without any demonstration of it, or the man's sanity, Luke declares he wants to leave everything behind and follow this man and learn about the force. What?! We meet Darth, a man portrayed to be villainous by the mere fact we're told he's supposed to be and that he dresses in all black and wears a cape. The story never builds on him at all, and I was left wondering why I should I even care about him.The characters are all shockingly two dimensional, with little to no back story and nothing else ever added to them.The only thing that salvaged my viewing of this was the relationship between C3PO and R2D2.


                
Basically, this is a dull remake of a 1950s western but with spaceships as horses.


                
The special effects don't look nearly as impressive, or hold up as well, as those in Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey.  The story is nothing more than a bad Western set in space.  The acting is suspect and the dialogue is hokey. Get over it, it's not that good a movie, especially not deserving of #3 in the IMDB rankings.


                
This film with its campaign of spin-off toys, T-shirts, mugs etc created hype as we know it and set the pattern for the hype surrounding Teenage Mutant Hero Turtles and He-Man. No wonder Mel Brooks spoofed it in Spaceballs ("Spaceballs, the flame thrower"!) It's one of the most overrated films ever made. It came top in Channel 4's list of the 100 greatest films but frankly Star Wars coming top in that poll and The Godfather coming No2 is a bit like Joe Dolce's Shaddapayourface beating Ultravox's Vienna to No1 in the UK music charts in 1981. It is not that great a film and the people who let it take over their lives and boast about having seen it tens of thousands of times are very sad. As Carrie Fisher says "It's a great movie, but get a life". George Lucas said he was wanting to recreate the spirit of the old Flash Gordon serials and he did to a degree succeed. Looking at it now, it looks as dated as Flash Gordon. The art deco spaceships in Flash Gordon exude the air of the 1930s and there are some hairstyles and clothes in this film that are very reminiscent of the awful fashions of the 1970s.The scene where Luke and Han Solo are shooting at the enemy spaceships has the look of a 1970s arcade game. Like Flash Gordon a lot of the dialogue is very corny (in fact it dismayed Harrison Ford when he read the script). The cheesiest line has to be when Luke Skywalker sees the hologram of Princess Leia and says "Who is she? She's beautiful.".It is so overpoweringly cheesy it is like having your nose shoved in Stilton. OK, there's no denying Carrie Fisher is a very nice looking woman but "beautiful" is a bit extreme. Mind you I think if the film was being made nowadays Luke would say "Who is she? She's hot". Sir Alec Guinness didn't like this film either despite receiving a sizeable chunk of the profits. He would discard any fan letters he received that made mention of Star Wars. There must have been lorryloads of discarded letters leaving his house every day when the film first came out1


                
Most people give this movie a 10 out of 10 because they don't consider the movie but rather how happy they were to discover it as a child but now, in 2005, it has become obviously outdated, the script is quite bad and the acting is even worse. Alec Guinness himself asked Lucas to get killed at the end in order to get rid of the awful dialogs and the bad acting. I am sorry I cannot just keep on lying about this movie: this is for your kids but in now way should it be put among masterpieces. IMDb is a web site about movies, not about cult and self-proclaimed nerds or geeks. You have to determine how good is a movie according to artistical criteria, neither to your gregarious instinct nor to your "attitude".


                
First off, Star Wars is completely overrated. Then again, that's just my opinion, but please - the movie manages to make it to number one in various 'top 100 films of all time' polls. Why?! Secondly, it's just a jaded sci-fi movie with a simple story of good vs. evil. That's all well and good but (for me anyway), the thing just seemed to drag on and on. Mr. Lucas & Mr. Spielberg have a habit of putting young, promising actors into their films who go on to do nothing (see Jurassic Park, Indiana Jones, E.T. etc). I'm pretty sure Mark Hamill though Hollywood was his to command after this. Oh how the mighty have fallen...Anyway, if your a Star Wars virgin, save your time and money.


                
always thought of the original 3 star wars movies as great entertainment until the re-release in 1997, and then my opinion changed 180.  The acting in the movie is terrible in fact so bad that there are many cinemax movies that are better acted.  I did not care for any of the characters save han solo and that is only because of Harrison Fords natural charisma.  I wonder if that is why he was the only of the actors to go on with any major non-star wars


                
I've never understood the fascination with this film.  The special effects aren't that impressive (simple mat-shots done on black-screen with inanimate objects) even by 70s standards (Superman's were far superior as they required matting a moving person).  The story is practically plaguiarized from Kurosawa's "The Hidden Fortress".  The characters play like a cheesy soap opera, with bad dialogue to match.  The only person in the film with onscreen charisma is Harrison Ford (which explains the directions of careers after the SW films).  The fascination that "Warmongers" have had with this series of movies (this one, in particular)is beyond my meager understanding: It's obvious to anyone who isn't a sick freak obsessed with these movies that Lucas & co. made it all up as they went along (no epic master plotline as many mongers wish to believe--Lucas was on a journey with no destination), which left them with each successive production to try and write their way out of the box they'd previously written themselves into (luke i am your father-but you killed my father-only in a manner of speaking--what nonsense is that?).Sorry, gang.  I'm not drinking Lucas's KoolAid anytime soon.


                
I mean... it is fashionable to like this, right? Im 31, born in 1987. Not young, but not old enough to catch this one "at the moment". I decided to watch these movies (all the Star Wars) when the New Gen of Star Wars movies were announced. 
And oh boy, it was hard to finish!Im not a space/laser beams wars kind of movie fan anyway. So you aren't winning me over with "special effects". You have to have a great story and characters... AND OH MY GOD!Oh my freaking god.The dialogue is VOMITIVE. The acting is VOMITIVE.Now: You could say "Its for all ages, including little kids!".Soooooo. I have to love this movie because it was made in ways that a slowly developing 7 years old kid could understand it?What kind of reasoning is that?


                
I grew up a massive fan of Star Wars. I've seen every movie dozens of times and I will forever be a fan.....of the memories.Unfortunately, the original triology has aged like milk. This movie, along with the other two, will always be a cherished memory for me, but I can't in good conscience bring myself to still consider this a good film. The dialogue, graphics (yes, I know), and narrative just don't stand the test of time.As much as it pains me to say it, the original trilogy is outdated.


                
Sure, it gave the ILM, and it has a certain charm, but... Watch this after seeing the later The Last Starfighter.Sure, similarities they tried to avoid, but George Lucas showed the world that he shouldn't be let anywhere near a script or a studio in the capacities here... He's a fantastic producer, a brilliant 'creator' who could.plot the thing, but dialogue with heart? Beats you could care about?George doesn't do that.R2D2 and C3PO were fresh at the time, but always were annoying.Remake this, dial back the bloody robots and let's get some consistency


                
More than 30 years and probably 10 watchings (this time blu-ray) I can say - boy, what a crap! Even three stars are too much now. I know, being much younger and all in those times this movie was like "end of the world". I didn't notice incredible stupidity lines (yes, Sir Alec was right; see trivia), horrible (if any at all) acting and lame sfx (some of them were quite good, though - x wings for instance). Also, if you watch this movie now after first three parts, it's even worse. "Old friends" Obi Van and Anakin behave almost like they've never met before. Luke and Lea are twins like a kangaroo and a shark, and whatsoever have no resemblance with their parents Padme and Ani. In this "fourth" part technology is deteriorated beyond belief (nothing to do with sfx!), as the Star Wars universe went couple of hundreds of years backwards compared to the Revenge of the Sith (episode III). The casting is also lame but was probably good for that time ("hey, guys, who wants to star in a movie and probably get paid?"). I never thought much of Mr. Lucas as a director and this movie proudly proves it. Someone (not George Lucas!) should remake the second part of the trilogy, and patch all the holes (of which many are wider than the Solar system). Try to save what could be saved and make these movies proper and balanced sequels. Kids will always buy stuff like this. It will always be a cult and a favorite fairy tale. And a soap-opera for grownups, of course. And yes: over- weighted rebel pilot's name is Porkins :) Oh, I forgot the spoilers mentioned above! Here they are: spoilers.
