Filled with great characters and a fun story, Star Wars is well deserving of its reputation as a classic. John Williams score alone makes this a film worth seeing. The characters are unforgettable and the special effects impressive for its time, but very outdated now. The different alien species are one of the best things about the film. The Cantina scene showing an array of Lucas' creations is particularly fun.I give this film a 7/10. Looking at it subjectively, it isn't a really good film. A lot of clichés, bad dialogue, cracker jack philosophy, and unimpressive acting. Yet, for some reason, I find it hard to say anything bad about this movie. My favorite film as a child, and one I still enjoy, mostly for nostalgia.


                
It is a shame that not any other of George Lucas's films were as fun and inspiring as his unforgettable epic "Star Wars: A New Hope". It was a film that has since been spoofed and ripped-off in many forms of media. It has five sequels, and has many branch-off television series. And it is undeniably one of the most financially successful and definitely one of the better science-fiction films of this or any other age."Star Wars" has one of the most brilliantly constructed and detailed alternative reality settings ever. Literally everything in it makes the "galaxy" seem like a real place. Not only is there civilizations of humans, but civilizations of other creatures, and there are livestock and other creatures like in our world. Names such as droids, banthas, and wookiees work out. But I do feel that the "sandpeople" could've had a more compelling name. The concept of blasters and lightsabers were pure genius and the effects used on these weapons were state-of-the-art for their time. The props and CGI used for the other creatures, such as Chewbacca, may not be acceptable if "Star Wars" came out today, but were great for back then. Costume design was magnificent, especially the great details put into the villainous character of Darth Vader, who is perhaps the most memorable movie villain ever. Although he wouldn't really make his terror so profound and complete until the first sequel "The Empire Strikes Back." The concept of the Death Star is also a fine one.But while "Star Wars" most certainly looks great in terms of detail and special effects, and even moreso on the entertainment level, there are some details that I have a really hard time accepting. Mostly, it's concerned with the screenplay. George Lucas is truly a great screenwriter when it comes to developing story, but when it comes to dialogue, he's not the best there is. Some of the dialogue in the film, mostly the lines spoken by Princess Leia, make me wince. For example her quote "I should have known it was you holding Vader's lease. I smelled your foul stench when I was brought onboard." What sensible person would even think of saying a line that dumb? I also personally felt that Luke Skywalker asked WAY too many questions and too many times. In the Tatooine part of the movie, he asks "Do you know what he's talking about?" numerous times, more than necessary. And all of the lines featuring the word "sandpeople" just seemed weakening to the script. The "sandpeople" were suppose to sound frightening, but they just sound pathetic.Basically, the one and only thing that I have wrong with "Star Wars" is its dialogue sequences. And that is because George Lucas's weakness at writing is dialogue, which he freely admits to. But that does not make "Star Wars" a bad movie. Perhaps I was disappointed with it, but it's still a great movie to watch.


                
This movie was a significant part of the childhood of almost every American born in the later third of the 20th century. This doesn't change the fact that Mark Hamil's acting is simply terrible and the action scenes are simply atrocious. There is no explanation as to why the Storm Troopers cannot aim their guns to save their lives. I don't understand why Obiwan is considered a crazy hermit, when the uncle knew him to be a Jedi knight. I still don't get the flashing lights and buttons on Darth's chest, why didn't Obiwan just use his force powers to switch off the power on the jump suit. Also it is supposed to be about twenty years from episode 3 to episode 4 but Obiwan ages like 40 years. Whats up with that? That whole suicide by Vader thing is incredibly lame, too. Don't get me wrong parts of the movie were absolutely brilliant (esp. acting by Harrison Ford), but it definitely leaves a lot to be desired.
After seeing all six episodes of the Star Wars saga several times apiece, I still think this initial entry is interesting but one of weaker ones in the series. Perhaps that's because by now, the special-effects look primitive but also because it's a little slow in parts, slower than the other five films. Sometimes, though, it's nice to have more lulls as these modern-day action films many times overdo the violence. This one, however, is just a bit too slow overall.The first hour of this film sets up the second hour plus the two sequels that followed in the 1980s, showing how the principal characters were united, who they are fighting against and what mystical powers they have at their disposal. Note: it was even interesting to watch this film decades later after the final installment, episode 3, was viewed. It made this first entry make a little more sense, knowing the complete story (who was related to whom, how some died, etc.). It was also a shock to go back and see the special-effects in here after viewing those final three films issued in recent years.I always got annoyed, to be honest, at two things in this initial Star Wars film I felt were overdone: the "Rambo" mentality in which hundreds of shots are fired at the good guys and never hit them and the constant arguing between Carrie Fisher ("Princess Leia") and Harrison Ford ("Han Solo"). By the third film, thankfully, that bickering stopped and everyone was "on the same page."Despite how old this film is, it's a "must" for this collection since it sets up so much of what is to follow. It's also kind of fun to look at this again and see how young everyone looks!


                
When Star Wars came out in 1977 there was nothing like it, it came out of nowhere and was so different. It is indeed a product of its time and would have fascinated many kids of the era. As a film it is very simple and easy to follow. There are no big twists, dilemmas and the good forces come on top. The special effects and film have definitely aged but it has some classic elements. Darth Vader, the army of storm troopers and the mighty light saber is unlikely to be forgotten. Star Wars as a franchise clearly benefited from coming out at the right time, this was the day before competitive television, streaming services or films like Inception. The immortality of Star Wars lies in its simplicity, linear story and vast imagination. This appealed to millions of kids who grew into adults who still loved identified their childhood with this series.


                
The film is good. Interesting characters, interesting plot, but for some reason people say is a masterpiece.
There is nothing perfect on this movie, is just a fun action film. The villain is boring and Obi Wan has no personality. The final spaceship battle is a joke. I can understand that this film has some weird looking effects, but the final spaceship battle looks horrible. Everything seems boring and we see more of the pilots on the spaceships than actual the spaceships. The battle of Obi Wan against Darth Vader is also pretty lame. There is no actual battle, we only see Obi Wan moving his lightsaber randomly.
But it also has some great scenes. Han Solo is a very fun character, and every single scene with him is incredibly memorable. C3PO and RD2D are also great, some of the funniest comedy reliefs in history.
Nothing much to say. Fun film, some fun action sequences, some fun characters, but not a masterpiece by any stretch of the imagination.


                
I was raised on all six Star Wars movies, and due to the recent release of Star Wars VII I felt the need to re-watch the series. My opinion of this movie has remained generally unchanged. The plot of A New Hope is, although not particularly original by today's standards, still a good one. The galaxy is ruled by an evil empire and a rebellion forms. I actually never knew why the rebels fought the empire when I watched it as a kid, nor did I know what a rebel was. So the plot didn't feel old or boring to me. The characters were decent, but once again, not horribly original by today's standards. I still found that they were just as likable as I remember them. Star Wars as a series is one that, although did great when it first came out, doesn't stand up to that nearly as well by today's standards. Reason being this series set the standards, so we've seen so much of Star Wars already in modern science fiction movies. The series does not age well, but when you think about it from the perspective of when it first came out it really is quite a good series. Overall A New Hope is a solid addition to the science fiction genre, and one of it's most important contributions. Despite not aging very well, it manages to hold up as a classic that I will never forget, and I think it will hold a special place in every person's heart who watched it when it first came out (or as children like me). In the end I would recommend that everyone give Star Wars a watch. Whether you like it or not is not important, but you just need to see it if you haven't already.


                
The movie starts off with a laser beam exchange, but not like those bought in the 1.99 stores that only blind the person. This one also blind, but if you pick up the leg it sticks and burns. The strange hairstyle princess is captured for being rebellious. The last hope left is in the hands of a robot that does a lot, but does not have hardware to be able to communicate well. However he has the help of a translator robot. They then flee and are captured by a breed of hooded creatures and then sold to a family of farmers. In this family is the protagonist of the film, which not surprisingly is blonde, has straight hair, will lose his family, find a teacher to teach him the tricks of life and ultimately will save everyone.Although the plot, for our current parameters is not loaded with surprises and somewhat predictable since its beginning, it presents a rather interesting universe with a wide variety of creatures and languages. However, one thing that draws a lot of attention is that with so much racial variety in that galaxy, the only humans in the film are Caucasians.The soundtrack is quite original and this is well accented. She is also responsible for denouncing how the scene will be resolved.Overall, it's an interesting movie that is worth seeing. But I rather distrust the exaggerated score that has this film, I believe it is only because of the fanaticism of its followers.
Star wars a new hope is so great its hard to think that it was made in the 70's. With great characters and a adventurous plot you wont get bored with this movie. Luke is one of the main characters and shall be taken with Obi-wan ken-obi and other characters like Han Solo, Princess leia, Chewbacca, C3P0 and R2D2 to a adventure to defeat the empire. Its got one of the most famous evil villain of all time, Darth Vader! If you haven't seen this movie yet you are missing out. Anybody can love this film even if there not big fan of big action and adventure films. Its a must see! Just remember that this was made in the 70's so it wont have the big CGI effects like movies today.


                
Star Wars (later to be known as A New Hope) was released in 1977 after a particularly difficult production directed and written by George Lucas and staring Mark Hamill, Harrison Ford, Carrie Fisher and Alec Guinness. It is the first film in the Star Wars trilogy (fourth if you count the prequels which we're not) which went on to be a huge unexpected success. To this day Star Wars and its successors are considered some of the greatest and most influential sci-fi films ever made, changing the way films were made and revolutionizing special effects.I think Star Wars is fully deserving of its mass amounts of praise because it really is an excellent film, right from the beginning I was impressed. The amazing and now iconic score by John Williams booming while brilliant models (which aren't even noticeable as so) soar across the screen, a small Rebel Alliance ship and a huge Imperial Star Destroyer offer as some great visual storytelling, showing us where each side stands in this massive conflict. The good guys are heavily outnumbered and you feel this immediately as the suspense of watching the Rebel soldiers fear for their lives as the ship is attacked and quickly overrun by hoards of Storm Troopers during an exciting and thrilling action sequence.While the action is superb throughout, it's not the only thing that the film has to offer. One reason these films are as timeless and memorable as they are is because of the brilliant characters that are all for the most part well acted, even if Mark Hamill does show that this is his first major role, often coming off as annoying and poorly performed (something he greatly improved upon in the sequels). The dialogue was well written and felt very natural with great humorous moments which are just a delight to watch. That being said I felt the interactions between characters was something greatly improved on in the sequels.I mentioned before that the special and practical effects were seamless and stunning and the same goes with the costumes, make up and sets. All felt stunningly real considering the fact it was mainly strange aliens and far away worlds. You become immersed immediately in this huge expansive world.A huge player in what makes this film so entertaining is how mysterious all of it is, you are introduced to more names and places you want to learn more about and when you do even more questions arise, some mentions you don't even get a resolution for until Return of the Jedi. It all added to the excitement and tension of the film which put a huge childish grin on my face.Overall Star Wars is a brilliant film, it's exciting, it's epic in scale yet manages to be so close to the characters and emotions that drive the film and make it so classic. The effects are to this day excellent and the score is simply amazing. If you have not seen this film yet (how?), I highly recommend it, something as universal as this will be enjoyed by pretty much anyone.


                
Let me start by saying the movie doesn't suck, given the time it was made. The problem is that its legacy has created die-hard fans which have spawned the biggest franchise of all time; nothing wrong with that of course. But if you take a step back into modern day, you will see a film with all the elements a great fantasy epic should have (unimportant boy gets trained by old man, becomes great warrior etc) but a film where each element lacks the emotion to make you feel what you should. You don't feel sympathy when Luke's aunt and uncle die, you don't care about Kenobi's death because there was never an emotional stand-point that pinpointed him as a "great man". Everything simply happens without any given thought about the characters emotions. I could name a million films with all the same elements that have been done ten times better. That said, the originality is genuine, the whole story exciting and it's generally fun to watch. Just a shame its practically been ruined by its reputation as the greatest franchise ever.
The important points about this movie are very<U+0085> The first of the ones around it; is that overwhelming success. It was incredible to see how the audience declared "war" over the entire hippie, realistic, experimental American cinema (whatever the name of the problem was) that prevailed since the end of the 1960s, celebrating a real glossy and entertaining another one. Apparently this movie returned the word commercial to movies, being Hollywood's perfect revenge out of the TV<U+0085>previous expensive "not hit" movies<U+0085>or the else illnesses, and the birth of the modern blockbuster as we know right now.Additionally, I think that (Star Wars) gave the movies very effective influence; which's pushing powerfully the teenagers as the cinematic heroes. Yes, Disney movies did it before, but on a short-range and not with a gigantic prosperity. So it paved the way to next hits with venturesome leads who range between 10 and 18 year old (recall E.T., The Goonies, Back to the Future), defining the ages of the moviegoers for years to come as well.Then, the important points "in" it. For one is the combination of the script. It's smart to gather factors of the western legacy, the old world's legends and the sci-fi space adventures. And it clicked. I loved the most that team of : strong mystic knight (Obi-Wan Kenobi), reckless bounty hunter (Han Solo), willful girl (Princess Leia), heroic immature boy (Luke Skywalker), English – so devoted – butler (C-3PO), and clever little robot (R2-D2); instead of the mythical animals of the ancient legends. And not to forget the magical evil man Darth Vader. That selecting of soul, mind, and heart vs. blackness, coldness, and inhumanity was damn creative despite how using them wasn't mostly as creative. And, these special effects. I believe that was a milestone at its time. The next stops will be (Terminator 2) and (The Matrix). Let alone that music score. (John Williams) is the one who can make the symphonies so marketable. What I love about such a man is his understanding when it comes to expressing many themes in high passionate way. And the way how he gave that plain tale a profound shadows and enthusiastic spirit. Without his music this movie could have lost good deal of its personality and prestige. Away from all of those points, the script wasn't that competent (something to be assured of with the next, not written by George Lucas, sequel. And to hold by your own hands with the next, wholly doomed, wholly written by Lucas, 3 prequels !). I don't remember a twist or surprise. The thrill wasn't that super. The characters were so comics; namely funny and naive. And I hated points like for instance how Chewbacca was so unnecessary, rather unused ! I watched it more than once, and I can't deny the feel of bore in some places. For one reason the dialog is so-deeply-insightful-it's-uninteresting, seeming so geeky and no entertaining. It's things to be written but not to be said (exactly as Carrie Fisher referred to Lucas once). And for another the direction was ordinary; many scenes were tepid and humdrum.The action sequences weren't the best. The long last one of exploding the death star was yes kind of new image but surely artificial, monotonous, and lacking any real suspense. Although the lightsabers idea was impressive but the swordplay wasn't. Generally the movie relayed more on the cool look more than the smart directing. Unlike many of the movie's attackers I didn't hate the acting. It was suitable and fresh. The thing is that script didn't endow these actors with many characteristics, or hard situations to watch and enjoy them deeply. Still Harrison Ford is the winner. Aside from his wit, the lovable cowboy was absent for years. And simply his character was the more human; the type that will be nonexistent in the prequels. The "New Hope" matter was a new carp! I don't know how Lucas did that in cold blood? But clearly he did it only for himself. Otherwise, it's a practical lesson in how to toy with an old movie to change and alter, how to irritate viewers by some useless CGI, and how to destroy the history (since it makes you totally out of the mood and distracted between the original 70s's quality and the 90s's one !).The sequel is way better. Mainly because Lucas was out of the writing and the directing. These previous defects I mentioned will be doubled in the next trilogy of prequels; where the script will go down, the action will be so missed, the direction will be downright tedious, the CGI will hugely and provocatively rule (as if it's the point), and the acting – sorrowfully – will hit the rock bottom also ! Nostalgia got a big hand in the top rank (Star War) achieved. No doubt, the viewers of the late 1970s were so thirsty for that substitute dazzlingly-made world, being extremely fed up of countless anti-heroes, needing desperately a portion of sheer noble adventures or good American values. Not the "Dirty" Harry, not the "British" James Bond. So they got all the reasons to adore this movie. It looked different and desired for them, unlike someone who watched it in 1998. Because deep down inside (Star Wars) is averagely entertaining time. And despite my admitting that it has great effects, it is not a great movie in my book.


                
Star Wars begins as a really dull, flat, and boring film. 25 minutes into the film, and I still couldn't care less about the main characters. To be perfectly honest, I considered turning off the movie at that point, ranking it a 1 on IMDb, and writing a harsh review. But about 5 minutes later, the film really picks up, coinciding with the first appearance of Obi-Wan Kenobi (Alec Guinness). That's when the film becomes "watchable". It becomes entertaining as soon as Han Solo (Harrison Ford) appears.What's wrong with the first 25 minutes? It's just plain boring. Perhaps the biggest error is having the majority of the first 15 minutes spoken in an incomprehensible alien language. It is just so flat, that the appearance of Luke Skywalker does almost nothing to balance it out. But as soon as the plot picks up, it doesn't slow down.I also hate George Lucas' direction. His eternally wooden camera does little other than panning throughout this movie, and in fact, his career.James Earl Jones delivers an amazing performance as Darth Vader (O.K., I know he does only his voice, but still, that guy's voice is AMAZING!). Vader is the perfect choice for a movie villain: that mask is creepier than any deformed or disfigured face could be: always expressionless, constantly breathing heavily<U+0085> He's just plain, old-fashioned scary! This movie certainly has some fantastic acting, particularly from Harrison Ford, Alec Guinness, James Earl Jones (of course), and Mark Hamill (who would later voice the Joker in Batman: The Animated Series).Of course, the movie has its faults, especially when it comes to characters. Chewbacca and R2-D2 are quite possibly more annoying than watching Ace Ventura: The Animated Series.So overall, Star Wars begins very boring, but is very entertaining by the end.


                
A few years ago, the New Yorker magazine wrote a fascinating article on Star Wars. It explained the whole phenomenon of Star Wars and how it happened. I was like other 5 year old "Star Wars" fanatics in 1977 and when I saw the Millennium Falcon zap into hyper-drive, it was an overwhelming stimulation of the imagination. Suddenly every 4 and 5 year old child was teleported into a future that existed long ago and in a galaxy far away. "Star Wars' gave reason to why we see movies in a big and darkened theater. Yes, Star Wars was a phenomenon but it was not THE film changed the movie industry. That was Jaws.Star Wars's greatest achievement is that the film was such a grand and ambitious project and yet, writer, director George Lucas was able to realize it. No other science fiction film has had so many creatures, planets and special effects as Star Wars. It is a universe in and of itself. Looking back on "Star Wars" many year later, I can see problems that seemed to permeate in the other films from the saga. Don't get me wrong, Star Wars is a masterpiece, that is up until the story leads Luke and the others into the Death Star. By that point, the film turns into an exaggerated cartoon. When Han Solo is chasing after an army of stormtroopers, we get the idea that he's really not that scared. Okay, he's scared but not to the point where his life is at risk. We see this type of problem in all the Star Wars films (with the exception of "The Empire Strikes Back"). Characters are running around shooting each other like a bunch of kids playing tag. Where's the suspense and drama that leads us to believe that this is supposed to be real? It worked for the first half of Star Wars.The first hour of Star Wars is beautifully written. One of my favorite scenes is when Luke and Obi-Wan are sitting at Obi Wan's home. Obi wan is talking about the past and also talking about Luke's father and the "force" which is an "energy field created by all living things." This conversation is one of the moments of the film that always enhanced my imagination for the film. I not only believed in the film, but I also believed that there was all of this history and supernatural elements that existed prior to this film. Too bad, the history was later realized into another series of cartoonishly dull adventures in the Episode I, II, and III. Oh well. It is after all the imagination come to life that makes all of these films important. That's what counts. The rest is mediocre.


                
Though I like "Star Wars" in isolation, I'm angry about what it did to science fiction and to movies as a whole. Let's be honest; although this is great entertainment, it does lack depth and sensitivity. The characters are all archetypes: the roguish Han, the sagely Kenobi, the brash youngster Luke. And let's not forget Darth Vader ("Dark Invader"?), who seems to have stepped right out of a 1950s pulp magazine. I like these folks - I grew up with them - but fascinating people they ain't. The film only works because it plays to very basic emotions and themes. Luke wants to leave home and see the universe. The Empire is evil - just evil, who needs an explanation? And though there's hardware and technology on display everywhere, it's ultimately faith and spiritualism (in the form of the Force) that saves the day. It's a very positive flick, but what is really the message? If you have a moment of Zen in the cockpit of your X-Wing, you'll be able to guide your torpedoes right down the throat of that evil space station? Strange that this moment means so much to so many people.Don't get me wrong; I love good sci-fi. But I was actually raised on the more cerebral stuff - the sci-fi that discusses issues instead of wages wars. "Star Wars" is firmly in the latter camp; it has great combat, but not great drama. And it has inspired so many feeble imitators (pick one, there's a million of them) and forced the advancement of special effects so far that movies have been forever changed, for the worse, because of it. After this, movies were all about faster paces and bigger bangs. The 1970s, a very meaningful decade for cinema, gave way to the shallow sci-fi spectacle of the 80s...and this is the movie that's responsible for that regrettable shift in emphasis.


                
"Star Wars is the greatest movie of all time" claim the pundits. Nonsense. Star Wars is a good action movie, a reasonable science fiction movie, and a bad character movie. There is insufficient plot to fill out the amount of time you have to sit, and the special effects look like they were made more than 20 years ago. At its time this was a very good movie. It is a very influential movie, but it is not as watchable as Aliens or even Star Trek: First Contact.Of the lead 6 good guys:Two are incapable of human speech, and make noises that are supposed to provoke emotion, but just sound stupid.Two are now famous actors, one (Ford) showing what he does that makes him so popular, showing off his strength as an actor, and the other (Fisher) showing why she is no longer famous.One is an annoying weak wooden robot...and the other is C3PO.Mark Hamill is one of the weakest lead actors of our time, and the fact that three of his movies are rated in the top 50 movies of all time is very questionable.On the other hand, the special effects were impressive then, and are mildly impressive now. Lucas and Spielberg are two of the most impressive visionariesand directors of our time. Watch the film, but don't push it down other people's throats.


                
Whatever it was George Lucas was shooting for with "Star Wars: A New Hope", a rather audacious attempt at a rip-roaring multi-stranded action-adventure piece, it worked. In the years since its 1977 release, the film has become a phenomenon - spawning cartoons; toys; video games and an array of other offshoot memorabilia linked to the franchise. This first film of the series, like "Citizen Kane"; "Casablanca" or "The Godfather", has since buried itself into an elusive canon which essentially sees it critic-proof - it is assumed that it is one of those films you have both seen and liked: if neither applies, then there must be something wrong with you...Viewing it more recently, and without, admittedly, really knowing an awful lot about it having never really seen the original trilogy, it is a difficult film to place into greatness, but it certainly packs the sort of punch for its genre that a film such as this should. Certainly, what Star Wars has on its side is time - the more garbage that is produced by Hollywood studios in contemporary times, the better these old Star Wars films seem to look: in a 1983 TV discussion with Roger Ebert and Gene Siskel, critic John Simon dismisses Lucas' films as harmful childish nonsense. Meanwhile, modern film theorists lament the infantalisation of mainstream cinema; the dumbing-down of films, particularly sci-fi, which emphasise special effects too much. As far as having a place in history goes, Star Wars was really the unleashing of this particular genie, but it is far from mere stupidity.Lucas wastes no time in getting the show rolling - we are dropped, headfirst, into the middle of an intergalactic war between two sides which has been raging for some time. There is no time for set up in this regard; we don't know how things came to be as they are - the politics of the situation is sidestepped for crash-bash causality: we know that there are heroes, dressed predominantly in white, and villains, dressed predominantly in black; that the rebels are a broad spectrum of men, women, funky robots and large hairy creatures called wookies, whereas the members and soldiers of the Empire all look the same. The scale of the task in-front of the rebels is established in the opening shot, when its ship is dwarfed by the mammoth-sized one belonging to the other side that it is chasing it.On board is a feisty Princess by the name of Leia (Carrie Fisher), who might ordinarily be a male character - she has stolen, along with her crew, the plans for the film's universe's equivalent of an A-bomb, which allows their opponents (known only as "the Empire") to annihilate an entire planet at the touch of a button. Within these plans lies of course its weakness, which will allow the rebels to destroy it. Chaos erupts when Leia's ship is boarded; a dithering robot by the name of C3PO confirms just how powerful a certain Darth Vader is within the Empire's ranks when he wonders if he will have him and his accomplice R2D2 sentenced to the salt mines. The plans are smuggled onto the database of the latter droid, both of whom are ejected down onto a barren planet so that one of Leia's allies may find them...From here, Lucas weaves a tale which is at once a little childish and, yes, simplistic, but does so through a series of worlds unlike few others and with an array of likeable supporting characters which possess a surprising amount of individuality. Luke Skywalker (Mark Hamill) is going nowhere on his uncle and aunt's ranch, harvesting crops and maintaining machinery - he longs for adventure and a shot at studying at 'the academy'. Eventually, he comes into contact with Obi-wan (Alec Guinness) when Skywalker accidentally purchases R2D2 - Obi-wan lives in solitude, depressed at the destruction of his race. This in turn leads the twosome to Han Solo (Harrison Ford), who attempts to pay off a debt to a slug-like gangster the film seems to think important by smuggling goods around the galaxy.What is refreshing is that these characters are essentially on the periphery of the war, only later to become more involved once they have matured through learning the lessons of allegiance and responsibility. "A New Hope" does not revolve around muscular all-action heroes saving the day, which elevates it above some of what Hollywood would produce in the action genre in the 80's. Its triumph in this respect lies in its attention to detail; to background; to that which supports the central focus - we have seen the story before, while the film's climax, with its twists and epiphanies, is far from unpredictable.But it is the vastness of the mise-en-scene which pulls wool over our eyes, and we cannot help it - the invention of the concept of 'the force'; the diversity of the alien species hovering around, each with their own hideous features and characteristics; the varying worlds the characters can visit and the infinite possibilities that brings.At a time when thrills-and-spills filmmaking was largely confined to either the, often dingy, backstreets of the wrong part of town, or the disaster movie genre specifically, "A New Hope" merged entertainment with a sense of the cinematic - soon after adding business to the equation - to revolutionise what a film studio might take-on when attempting to produce a new project. This has, of course, led to today's climate which is responsible for some complete rubbish - we have all skulked out of a multiplex having felt cheated of our time and money at the latest in sci-fi/action jiggery-pokery, and "Star Wars" more broadly is to blame for the inception of the 'event' movie. In spite of this, I find it difficult to redirect these levels of frustration, even hatred, at "A New Hope", which has an idea and a vision in mind and sprints for it - pulling it off in the process.


                
Episodes I and II have 6,5 on IMDb, III has 7,7 and this one has almost 9. I don't understand. Maybe I am not able to see things from the '70s perspective, I was not even born back then, but from my point of view, all four I saw so far are on more or less same level, slightly above average movies. I'm giving 7 to all of them. I just have to acknowledge one thing as first time viewer. If I didn't know anything about this franchise before watching it, it is possible that I wouldn't even notice two-decade space between trilogies. Sure, when you see 3 movies from the 21st century and then in the 4th sequel you see Harrison Ford as a youngster, it reveals pretty much, but other than that trilogies are perfectly blended.7/10


                
I thought it was alright :) i tihnk that the special effects were pretty ok for a movie made by a small indie company. anyways, i realy liked the rain troopers. they were very cool . why did queen lava lead the star destroyer to the rebellious house planet though ? that is my only gripe. but i also have one gripe? of other thing known as misc. one of the pilots known as biggs was shot down during the end scene when dark vatarm was chasing them? that personally was very sad and sdisappointing but other than that it was a great movie and harrison ford was handsom but i don't swing that way hahaha cheers : )
Rewatching, this time the despecialized version. The first time I was disappointed because it didn't live up to my expectations given by the hype of fanatics who follow Star Wars with religious frenzy. Now that I see for what it is, it's a fun movie that set the standards for blockbusters although not even close to being one of the greatest film ever as the fans claim it is.


                
. . . (which comes AFTER "all" the closing credits) will learn that it's now Open Season on Harry Potter & Friends. When Mordo attacks Pangborn, he mutters "The world has too many wizards." This is a dead giveaway that Disney MegaBlobCorp intends on forcing AT&T to spin off Master Potter's Warner Bros. Studio to the House of Louse as the price of regulatory approval for AT&T's acquisition of Time Warner. That way, the D-Blob will swallow up Warner's Potter Properties, just as they devoured Pixar, the Muppets, ESPN, ABC, Marvel Studios, and Star Wars. Anytime now we can expect a flick to hit the Big Screens in which Mordo sets his sights on Harry, Ron, and Hermione in the Disney Multiverse. Kiefer Sutherland as the DESIGNATED SURVIVOR will be divvying up Kermit, LeBron, Woody, Luke, Miss Piggy, Thor, Nemo, Draco, Anakin, Bryce, Elmo, Ironman, Dory, Quasimodo, Jarjar, Wolverine, Ernie, and all the Princesses from Leia to Elsa into Team Mordo and Team Potter. Perhaps the Disney Blob will release what amounts to a gooey glob, but it cannot be much cheesier than the psychedelic Outer Space DOCTOR STRANGE spin on GROUNDHOG DAY. (Would you like some spaghetti with your multicolored meatballs, Doc?) By ripping bits and pieces from both good movies (INCEPTION) and bombs (THE LAST AIRBENDER), at least DOCTOR STRANGE is an Equal Opportunity target for copyright infringement lawsuits.
The question has often come up, as with any movie of renown, of why this movie and its successors have been so successful and highly regarded. But after some thought, I think I have somewhat of an answer. The response I usually get when I say that an older movie is overrated is that "it was great for the time", which usually is in reference to the visual effects. I always come back by saying that Transformers has some of the best effects of the past decade, but we don't exactly regard those as great works of cinema. If a movie is really great, it can speak to people of all times and doesn't need to rely on spfx to be respected. I saw this movie first when I was eight, and I can tell you straight up that I didn't notice or care that the effects were cheesy, and at the time it was by far my favorite movie. Now I'm not as into the series and get a couple of laughs from the dated visuals, but I still respect the movie because it is one of those rare gems in which the big budget and commercial appeal don't lull the filmmakers into doing a sloppy job. I would imagine that people walked out of the theater amazed on many different levels. For many, it might have been their first time seeing a fluid combination of technical spectacle, an exciting adventure, an empowering coming of age tale, and a chance to immerse themselves into another world/Galaxy. There are similar sci-fi movies still being made such as the Matrix, Inception, and Lord of the Rings (Mad Max: Fury Road seems to fall under this as well, but I haven't seen it). Movies such as these are a wonderful treat because we love great visuals, but we also hate it when big budget blockbusters leave us feeling robbed and disappointed. So it's awesome when one of these results in a great- not above average but great- movie that speaks to most of its audience.By today's standards, the characters are a little generic but they all have distinct personalities and voices, good development, and importance to the plot. Even the two droids, while they might not be considered characters, advance both the internal and external plots. Their external contribution is obvious enough, but I think they really help Luke's development too by reflecting his thoughts in a way. C3PO is always playing it safe and being logical like Luke's farmboy side wants him to be, while R2D2 is always doing something active without caring if it's smart or not. And if you look through the story, R2D2 wins these debates every time Darth Vader, while not the epitome of villains himself, has definitely become the prototype for an intimidating on-screen force. He may not have been the first to don the stereotypical black cape, but he sure made it memorable. It's true that the acting isn't great, but it's no worse than today's action flicks.The story is also a bit generic for today, but that might be a result of similar movies using Star Wars as a model for their own stories. I know there are people out there who obsess over the plot holes that have come up because of how George Lucas decided to build his continued narratives. And if you read some of the justifications for why one Death Star took 20 years to build and the other only took 4, or the reasoning behind Obi Wan acting as if he is not Luke's father, they are a little flimsy. But I would ask you to get over these discrepancies because George Lucas was likely not planning for sequels and none of the holes are really that major. I know this can be hard, because I tend to obsess over dialogue or exposition that I feel is unrealistic. This doesn't mean you have to like it, but it's much harder to get something out of a movie if you're too busy nitpicking. So hate it as much as you want, but please make sure you give it a serious look too.Lastly, I want to comment on the Force. If we're honest, every true Star Wars fan wishes or has wished they could use the Force. But I think if we understood what the Force is, we could actually use it in a realistic way. I know that sounds cheesy and invalidates all your attempts to get sodas from your fridge by telekinesis, but please hear me out. The Force, by my interpretation, is acquired by becoming in tune with the world around us and it exists in our own reality by different names. If you look at a few philosophers, they discuss concepts concerning reality that should make sense. What I find fascinating about the Force is that it encapsulates the entire idea of faith, and I don't mean that religiously. All the characters utilize the Force by having faith in the concept of it, faith in their own possession of it, and faith in its effects on the people around them.Most people are either ardent fans of this series or have friends and family that are. If you somehow have managed to avoid watching it, I can respect whatever aversions you might have. The ardor of the fans is enough to turn anyone off, but it is possible to enjoy and appreciate the series without becoming part of a stereotype. Overall Rating: 7.8/10.
Being quite new to the Star Wars franchise, I have decided that before I can go and watch the new release, I need to watch the previous films in this franchise. Being the person that I am, I have decided to watch them in the order that they have been released, rather than the order that the timeline in the story follows.Taking into account that this film is now almost 40 years old, I will make no comment towards the special effects that make this film the sci-fi film that it is. All of these characters have been around for so long that, even though I haven't seen the films before, I still recognise them and know who they are. Cue the start of the film, with R2D2 and C3PO working their way through their spaceship as battle breaks out around them, eliciting many squeals and comments from me as they have always been two of my favourite characters.The acting, at times, had me wincing with embarrassment, but many of the quotes throughout the whole 2 hours had me pausing the film to have a good old laugh.I cannot wait to carry on with this series of films and, hopefully, finish them off in a short while.


                
My favorite of the franchise.Great humor, intense action, and great characters. Star Wars is not the best sci-fi film but great epic tale.Lucas shows when Special Effect are done well with a good story it can enhance the film experience.Excellent adventure classic features great visuals.And the music? OMG.Wiki quotes:"Lucas hired composer John Williams. Williams had worked with Spielberg on the film Jaws, for which he won an Academy Award. Lucas felt that the film would portray visually foreign worlds, but that the musical score would give the audience an emotional familiarity; he wanted a grand musical sound for Star Wars, with leitmotifs to provide distinction.""IThe American Film Institute's list of best film scores ranks the Star Wars soundtrack at number one."Great job Hollywood.


                
Alright, it's not the best of the original three Star Wars movies. It had some rocky starts with some odd looking little creatures in a brown hooded cloak (Jawas), but the story did go much smoother when Luke had to finally go on his own. It was sad to see uncle Owen and Aunt Baru die...but it did further the plot for Luke and Obey Won Kenoby to start their adventure. My favorite part to this movie was near the middle part of the movie, where Han tells Chewey, "Way to think with your stomach. " Pure hilarity! It had been, of course that the big guy had smelt something amongst the trash that the whole crew had been standing around in. And the final battle, while the massive space station was destroyed, it opened up a stunning cliff hanger for episode five.
