When I first watched this movie - I was stunned by the first hour or so. It was spectacular and made up for all the deficiencies of the 2nd half - and even made the whole movie look brilliant. I rated it 9 here.Then I saw 'The 400 blows'. To sum up my experience:The 400 Blows (+) Dyslexia in place of the existential theme (+) A brother instead of a friend (+) boarding school instead of a military school (+) Silly art competition the expected winner of which is quite obvious (+) One extra hour of film reel wasting (+++) Smugness of Aamir Khan - the messiah, the all seeing prophet, the true leader of all mankind = Taare Zameen ParEvery single detail is a rip off. It's now quite clear why the latter parts of the movie was distinctly average - those were Aamir Khan's additions to the 400 blows! If Aamir Khan's "independent approach to the world of filmmaking," is a ripping off of the 1950's French new wave films, god bless Indian cinema. Amen.


                
The idea behind this movie is a good one, but carrying it out just didn't work. The kid is great, his distress is clearly communicated (in a very interesting fashion, I might add), some of the songs are great, and the setting is beautiful. Other than those four aspects, I really disliked the movie. For starters, it was much, much too long (and the intermission did not help matters). There were too many songs that made the scenes drag on. The music also contributed to the sense of over-dramatizing/exaggerating the situations. I had trouble believing many aspects of the movie, so it just seemed cheesy and propaganda-ish. It was as if the art teacher was this angel sent from heaven <U+0096> the perfect person that would make everything all right for everyone around him, the one who could do no wrong. His character was very over- done and not well-acted. While I acknowledge that I have no experience with the Indian school system, as a teacher, I am familiar with that of North America. There are no dancing/performing teachers unless they teach dance and performance arts (and even then they do not carry out a one- person show), and students do not join in the dance unless they are taught it first. Teachers do not have free time to devote several hours a week to one student. Students with learning difficulties do not progress at the incredible rate shown in this movie, especially not with just one person providing support. Teachers (with professionalism) do not directly criticize parents of their students. In this day and age, if a parent is involved with their child's education, they will clue in that there's something wrong with the brain when all the 'b's are 'd's (and vice versa) by the end of grade one, at the latest end of grade 2. The father's character also changes radically (unbelievably), which really, really bothered me. If I am to enjoy a movie, I need to be drawn into the story, and if the characters are doing things that I don't believe they would do, the story is lost. However powerful the premise of this movie is, however noble the sentiment that each child is unique (one I whole- heartedly agree with, by the way), this movie drowned itself by hugely over-exaggerating the "overcoming obstacles" theme.
