In my eyes, there has never been a "Black Adder 1" because besides a good opening song, that one had nothing going for it. This one on the other hand is closer to the Black Adder that gets the fans pleased.In this Black Adder is trying ever so desperately to remain wealthy as a friend of The Queen (Elizabeth I) whilst also trying to keep his head on his shoulders. The Queen is the only one who he never insults to the face, He is a complete bastard to all his other "companions" such as Melchett, Percy and Baldrick.The acting is fantastic, obviously Rowan Atkinson plays a good bastard, this time outside the vein of Bean. Others that have to be spoken for are Stephen Fry, Miranda Richardson, Tim McInnery, Tony Robinson and Rik Mayall (I know he was only in this for one episode but he was fantastic as Flashheart).This part of the show was written by Ben Elton and Richard Curtis so expect a historical Young Ones on a leash. You won't see Baldrick try to kill himself with laxatives but it'll be something along those lines of humor.Overall if you're a fan of this sort of thing, this series will be perfect.


                
On a production level this second season, produced 3 years later seems actually less sophisticated; cheap looking sets, much more of a standard sit-com look. But this is a sit com ala Fawlty Towers, weird, whip-smart, subversive and very dark. While I can't say for me that it quite stands up to the greatness of Fawlty Towers or Monty Python, the two shows to which it is inevitably compared, it has a ton of very funny moments, and the acting is top notch. It's 100 years plus since series one, and Blackadder is no longer the weaselly immoral wimpy swine of the first series. He's now a handsome. dashing weaselly immoral swine, a favorite of the vaguely insane Queen Elizabeth --that is when she's not threatening to execute him. It's a lot of fun to see Atkinson in this very different, non Mr. Bean persona, and he pulls it off wonderfully. And Hugh Laurie is hysterical in two completely different guest roles, while Miranda Richardson as Queen Elizabeth displays a flair for goofy silly physical comedy one would never suspect from her body of work.Very worth a view, even if you were iffy on series one.


                
The second series of Blackadder was much improved.
Moving forward to the Elizabethan era, the storyline was very good and the characters were greatly improved (although Tim McInnerny's character 'Percy Percy' was very similar to the previous series and rather unnecessary).The actors here retained thier characters names from the previous series.
In this series Blackadder is a Lord (the great grandson of the Blackadder of series I) and often attends Queen Elizabeth I's court alongside the Queens follower and suck-up Lord Melchett and her former nanny turned side-kick Nursie.
Blackadder is again aided by his servant Baldrick and fellow Lord, the bumbling Percy Percy.The final episode again seemed a bit odd as every character was killed off by the supposedly dead 'master of disguise' Prince Ludwig who took the place of Queen Elizabeth I.
Perhaps the most popular part of the Blackadder series, this comedy 6-episode TV series is packed with brilliant acting, fantastic jokes and a very good cast (which will be revealed shortly). This is not my favourite of the parts, due to the silliness of the queen and nurse, who for some reason spoil the series for me in a few ways. The best episode of theseries is almost definitely "Head", immediately it starts with the best Blackadder joke of this part of the series.Blackadder(talking to Baldrick): I have two beans and I have three beans, how many beans do I have? Baldrick: Some beans. Blackadder: Baldrick - I have two beans and I have three beans, what do I have? Baldrick: A very small casserole. Blackadder: Baldrick, the apes in the Indo-Chinese jungles have mastered this. I have two beans and I have three beans, how many do I have? Baldrick: Four beans. Blackadder: What-. Baldrick: And that one. Blackadder: Baldrick, I have two beans and I have three beans, how many beans do I have? Baldrick: Some beans.Anyway, the cast:The marvellous, intelligent and mean Blackadder: Rowan Atkinson The brainless but lovable Baldrick: Tony Robinson. The bumbling Lord Percy: Tim McInnerny. The mad and squealing Queen Elizabeth I: Miranda Richardson. The even madder nurse: Patsy Byrne.Blackadder is a servant/helper of Queen Elizabeth and so are his companions Lord Percy and Baldrick. In each episode there is a surprising adventure - with even more surprising and often hilarious consequences...I recommend this to anyone who loves funny historical series and the like. Enjoy! :-)P.S Like in the first part of the series, the intro and the credits are very entertaining - in this case the into especially. It actually shows a black adder - very funny. It gets you into the mood for each episode, luckily.


                
BlackadderCurtis and Atkinson's passionate project of upsetting your expectation on both literature and history, is one of the rare art that inspires us even after decades. The writing still holds for both its maturity and pettiness, never has been before, a sketchy act so witty and truthful to its theme. It starts from the scratch on the infamous royal history of Britain and ends on a dramatic World War note, where both the humor and drama is given sincere respect on writing and performance. Despite of depicting various different stages of history with new characters, the themes often dwells on the chemistry of a master and a squire.And with equations shuffling like cards, where either there is envy, honesty and vacuous-ness between their relationship, the close calls that is the ignition of the chaotic humor is something that stays with us throughout the series. It often tilts towards satirical where politics, democracy, monarchy and even humanity is put to trial and being laughed at. Atkinson, as the soul and the title of the series, challenges himself on all sorts of personas, from gullible to being cunning as a fox, his necessity on greed and humility is the fabrication of the history itself.Robinson is the apt supporter of his, on every literal sense where every now and then brilliant actors like Laurie and Fry invests their talent in, to raise the bar. The world built by Curtis and Atkinson is a mirror to our own only with a slight change of post or title or references, the emotions and circumstances it goes through, still can easily be seen around us and it is that nakedness of the game that we are curious to dazzle with. Blackadder is much more than a mere series or a period sitcom, it has memories of ours and theirs childhood that makes it long last.


                
