Set during the Elizabethan times, "BlackAdder II" is superb comedy as well as a major turning point for the series. Here not only does the show hit its stride but would serve as a template for the rest of the entries that would come after. Out of all the installments in the series, this one keeps the quality the most consistent, as the scripting and laughs remains solid throughout. Rowan Atkinson is back in the title role but this time he is a much different person than before. In the first one, Edmund, the Duke of Edinburgh was a rather sniveling and cowardly opportunist. While "BlackAdder II", Lord Edmund BlackAdder is a cynical, cunning, and urbane bastard, which is the one that we would come to know and love for the rest of the series. We also see his sidekicks Percy and Baldrick again yet this time they have been "dumbed down" (pun intended) for the better. Tim McInnerny's Percy is a complete oaf while Tony Robinson's Baldrick becomes Edmund's dirty and lovably stupid servant.Another major change also came with Ben Elton, replacing Atkinson, as the co-writer for the series alongside Richard Curtis. Not only do we get hysterical situations but also lots of one- liners that make you laugh every minute. How can you not love it when BlackAdder says "Percy the devil farts in my face once more." It is a classic exercise in the sarcastic humor that British comedies are often known for. If only more American sitcoms could be this nuanced and sophisticated. All of the episodes are very funny, ones that standout include "Head", "Money", and "Chains".The rest of its supporting cast are also a delight. Stephen Fry is really good as Lord Melchett, Miranda Richardson is charming as The Queen, and Patsy Burne is fun as Nursie. However, it is the guests in each episode that are an absolute hoot such Rik Mayall as Lord Flasheart, an unrecognizable Tom Baker as the insane captain, and Hugh Laurie as the mad Prince Ludwig (Laurie and Fry would eventually become series regulars).Recommended for anyone who likes droll and irreverent humor.


                
This, the second series in the Blackadder Saga, follows another Edmund Blackadder; this one is a lord during the early years of the reign of Queen Elizabeth I. Unlike is somewhat silly ancestor this Blackadder has a sharp wit and a penchant for withering sarcasm; like his forebear he has a servant named Baldrick and a stupid friend called Percy.Over the course of six episodes he gets into various scrapes; falling in love with 'Bob' his apparently male servant, getting involved in a drinking game the night he meets his puritanical aunt, becoming an explorer to impress the queen, owing money to the most feared bishop in the land, getting the job of Lord High Executioner and being held for ransom. He, Percy and Baldrick deal with these predicaments in a manner that should have most viewers laughing heartily.Rowan Atkinson excels in the role of Blackadder; delivering every line with just the right degree of sarcasm. He is ably supported by Tony Robinson and Tim McInnerny who return as Baldrick and Percy. New cast members include Miranda Richardson; who does a great job as the Queen; portraying her in a way that makes her both innocent and rather dangerous<U+0085> she frequently threatens to have heads chopped off. Stephen Fry is good as the somewhat obsequious Melchett and Patsy Byrne is hilarious as the delightfully bonkers Nursie. There are also some fine cameo roles; most notable an appearance from the late Rick Mayall who steals the episode he appears in despite only being on screen for three or four minutes.While I really enjoyed the oft maligned first series I must admit this takes it up to a new level. The changes in Blackadder's character work really well and the new writing team have delivered a more subtle approach; sarcasm delivered by rapier sharp wit rather than gags with the subtlety of a sledgehammer. If you enjoy classic British comedies then this series is a must see. It is shocking to realise that this will be thirty years old this year; it feels as fresh as ever!
Blackadder II is a massive change from Series 1 in five aspects:1. The sets are a heck of a lot cheaper. 2. No blood, fancy special effects or superimpositions on screen. 3. There is a new screenwriter (Ben Elton). 4. Baldrick is stupid rather than smart this time. 5. It was far more successful.Though Series 1 was different, Series 2 was better. It had far more wit, sarcasm, and hilarious one-liners, and had far more success on a far smaller budget. Blackadder is so much better as the cruel, cunning, intelligent man that everybody knows him as today, Baldrick is FAR FAR better as the idiot and stinky tramp everybody knows him as, and Percy has always been good as an idiot. Many people have forgot about Series 1 because Series 2 was the one that established Blackadder as one to be watched - it is a true classic, and manages to deliver some great performances, brilliant lines, cracking situations and good guest appearances. The best episode was Potato - Tom Baker was brilliant.Series 2 of Blackadder was better than the first one because of one fact - Ben Elton and his cunning plans were what the show was destined to need. If he didn't show up, Blackadder would never have got off the ground and Rowan Atkinson would have never found his fame. Brilliant, but Series 1's epic budgets are evidently lacking, and that is a shame. 9/10


                
The first and essential element is the set of actors and first of all Rowan Atkinson. That is pure English comedy based on totally anachronistic and crazy situations, on witty puns that nearly or most of the time have to do with what is generally under the belt of most people but that is floating on top of the mind of these comedians. It is supposed to make you laugh and nothing else and it ridicules all historical characters and situations: Elizabeth I, Queen Victoria, Georges VI or some other Prince of Wales, the First World War, Robin Hood and I guess they avoided Peter Pan because he might only be marginally historical, though Pitt Junior is a real hit, definitely under the belt at the level of the comforter, if you see what I mean. It even turns upside down the famous Christmas Carol. As for the Time Machine it is completely twisted around in all directions, back and forth for sure, to make a sort of self-centered social climbing, politically opportunistic remake of Back to the Future more than the Time Machine, but the principle is the same. So Sir Edmund Blackadder finishing King Edmund I is at least hilarious. H.G. Wells is betrayed since for him you cannot change the past and Zemeckis is betrayed just the same since you are not supposed to use your time travelling to recuperate some personal advantage from it. I must say though this type of comedy is light maybe slightly too light, but it is good indeed.Dr Jacques COULARDEAU, University Paris 1 Pantheon Sorbonne, University Paris 8 Saint Denis, University Paris 12 Créteil, CEGID
