I was surprised and impressed to find out this movie was released in 1940, before the United States entered World War II. On the surface, satirizing something as solemn and horrible as Nazi Germany could be misconstrued as rash. But Chaplin's brilliance isn't limited to making a joke out of everything. In fact, the seriousness of his message wouldn't have been nearly as valid if not for the excellent use of humor in this movie along with the moments of stark drama blended in. Drama alone wouldn't have had the bite and resonance that this film did. Laughing at someone (Adenoid Hynkel) can be the best way to attack them, while laughing with someone (the Jewish Barber) can be the best way to love them. In the Jewish Barber's final speech, I forgot for a moment that the war he was talking about happened more than half a century ago. They are words that have meaning now, and in any time of war. For this reason I believe the film did far greater good than harm, as it still has the same profound effect today.


                
The Great Dictator is a beyond-excellent film.  Charlie Chaplin succeeds in being both extremely funny and witty and yet at the same time provides a strong statement in his satire against fascism.  The anti-Nazi speech by Chaplin at the end, with its values, is one of filmdom's great moments. Throughout this movie, I sensed there was some higher form of intelligence, beyond genuinely intelligent filmmaking, at work.


                
Here we have the inimitable Charlie Chaplin forsaking his slapstick past to tackle the serious subject of anti-Semitism, and intolerance in general. He portrays two characters - the sweet, innocent Jewish barber - a war veteran, and the raving and ruthless dictator, Adenoid Hynkel. The Jewish ghetto in this country is not safe for long, due to the whims of Hynkel and his armed thugs, who routinely rough up its residents, or leave them alone, dependent upon his mood that day or week. The barber is among them, but is befriended by his former commanding officer, Schultz (Reginald Gardner), who seems to keep things quiet for a while, until Hynkel condemns him to a concentration camp. He seeks refuge with the Jews in the ghetto, most specifically the barber, and the feisty young woman, Hannah (Paulette Goddard). The premise will be - who will be the one among these Jews to put their lives on the line to get rid of Hynkel and his cronies? We needn't guess too hard to know the answer; the barber is a dead ringer for the dictator, and he is outfitted in his image, accompanied by Schultz, also in full military gear. Hannah escapes with several of her ghetto friends to the country of Osterlich, where Mr Jaeckel's (Maurice Moscovich) cousin has a farm, and they can live peaceably for a while. At this point, Hynkel himself has been arrested by his armed forces, thinking him to be the notorious barber. The latter, meanwhile, has been escorted with Schultz to a podium, to make a speech announcing the conquest of Osterlich. The ensuing ten minutes is pure Chaplin himself, speaking from his heart of tolerance, love and freedom, and denigrating greed and hatred. Albeit Chaplin started production on the film in 1937, it can be forgiven some naivete. He was allegedly unaware of the gravity of this persecution and hatred, and said had he known the full extent, he would never have made the film, because he most likely believed it would have trivialized the situation. He has a marvelous supporting cast: Reginald Gardner, Henry Daniell as Garbitsch, his aide-de-camp, the always wonderful Billy Gilbert as the bumbling Herring, Paulette Goddard, Jack Oakie as the dictator Napaloni, his rival for conquest, veteran European actors David Gorcey (Leo's father), Maurice Moscovich, among others. The scene he choreographed with globe, with just a musical accompaniment is sheer, luminous inspiration, and luminous, as well, is Paulette Goddard at the film's end, smiling through her tears. I have seen this film before, but there is always something new in it for me. Last evening, when it finished, I sat there in tears. I defy anyone not to be moved by it.
Before I saw this film I didn't really expect to much from it, although my friend advised otherwise. Due to this request from my friend I decided I was really going to watch this film. The minute I sat down to view the film I was absolutely blown away. From the credits I was falling of my seat; I just couldn't contain myself. The film is about Hitler in all the glory of comedy. Hynkel is the absolute double for the Jewish Barber, who comes back from fighting in the war. Due to the heroics of the barber, he manages to save one of the germans and by doing that gets a member of the enemy on board, which helps in the struggle which the jews had. But things went wrong and Stolz was arrested, but only then to escape to the confines of the Jewish surburb, 'The Ghetto'. Due to this escape, the german army began searching which meant that the Barber and Stolz got arrested but again they escaped, only to be mistaken for hynkel and consequently takes his poistion. *****THE SPEECH THAT CHAPLIN MAKES AT THE END IS FANTASTIC, IT COMPLIES THE MORALS WHICH SOCIETY COULD ONLY DREAM ABOUT. IN THE SPEECH IT CONTRADICTS THE WHOLE MEANING OF THE FILM BECAUSE OF THE SERIOUNESS AND SINCERENITY WHICH IT ENTAILED, AND IT DEFINATELY WORKS, BECAUSE I DID WALK OUT FEELING GUILTY ABOUT HOW WE LIVE OUR LIVES, LOOKING AT THE SMALLEST THING SUCH AS BEING IGNORANT TO SOMEONE TO THE BIGGEST, MOST PROMINENT THINGS SUCH AS WAR.


                
The tagline of 'The Great Dictator' is 'the comedy masterpiece', and I couldn't think of a better line to sum this film up. It's a hilarious political satire, but it also delivers an important message. This film was released at a time when Hitler was at the height of his power and dictator Hynkel is obviously a reference to him.Charlie Chaplin is simply outstanding in this in what was his first spoken film. He shines in both of his roles as dictator Hynkel and the Jewish barber. Chaplin's speech at the end, which is very much HIS speech even though he's playing a character, is a piece of cinema I will never forget. Such a powerful, moving and compelling speech that remains relevant even today.Making a comedy out of such a tragedy is risky business, but Chaplin's anti-fascist message ensured it wasn't taken the wrong way. 'The Great Dictator' is a hilarious but meaningful and powerful film. A brilliant piece of cinema.


                
The Great Dictator is an exceptional film that sees Chaplin shine in a dual role. The only shred of resemblance shared by these two protagonists is their appearance, which plays out in a very clever manner as the film progresses. The satirical manner in which Chaplin carries out Hynkel's oratory is comedy at its finest. Seamlessly blending both comical ingenuity and serious subject matter, The Great Dictator is a hilarious and pensive film produced to perfection. The now famous anti-Nazi speech given at the end is nothing short of mesmerizing. Making an impassioned plea for brotherhood and goodwill, Chaplin deliver's one of the most introspective speeches in cinema history. Chaplin's first true sound film more than stands the test of time after almost 80 years and is quite simply one of the most magnificent films ever crafted.


                
Charlie Chaplin makes blatant fun of Adolf Hitler by parodying his Nazi Regime and expressing how he personally felt about it. Chaplin included aspects of anti-Semitism, and Hitler's invasion of Austria. Chaplin stars as two characters. Adenoid Hynkel the dictator of Tomania and an unnamed Jewish barber. There are also parodies of Joseph Goebbels and Hermann Goring in Garbitsch (Henry Daniell) and Herring (Billy Gilbert). It also satirizes Benito Mussolini with a character named Benzino Napolani (Jack Oakie). The things I love most about this movie are the situations between Hynkel and the people that work for him. Because to me there is nothing funnier than a powerful guy who is a complete idiot. It's even funnier when you look at the fact that it represents Hitler. Chaplin is replacing a formidable leader, with a pathetic dweeb in the same role. Hynkel steals the show in every scene he's in. In particular the scene with Hynkel and the globe and the scene where Hynkel is giving a speech in fake German. Go check this one out.


                
"The Great Dictator" is, arguably, one of Charlie Chaplin's most widely-known films. It is notorious for it's blatant satire of Adolf Hitler and Nazism. Until watching it, I only knew of it's fame. Now I know how much the film deserves it.The film basically shows the exploits of the somewhat clumsy, ambitious, short-fused and impressive dictator of Tomania, Adenoid Hynkel; and with him, his near and dear staff: Field-Marshall Herring and Herr Garbitsch. Also, it entails the exploits of an amnesiac, emotional and often clumsy Jewish barber, a veteran of the First World War.Stopping with the plot, I would like to say that this film has various qualities that make it both unique and wonderful. While the comedy is decidedly both verbal and slapstick and incidental, the entirety of the film shows how serious it takes Nazism or aggressive nationalism as a theme with various interludes. Chaplin's impeccable acting skills range far and wide in the film, he keeps revving it up and up until he simply explodes. Paulette Goddard's position as an ambitious Jewish would-be revolter and Henry Daniell's delivery of a nasal, calm-as-Death-serious-as-a-heart-attack lines makes for wonderful viewing.Further, one aspect of the film is what makes it so special: it pulls no punches. It isn't "covert", it has no business being covert. It is an "overt", blatant, in-your-face, obvious lampooning of both Hitler and Nazism.To sum up briefly, watch it. Just watch it, you'll see it.
*The Great SPOILERS* A Jewish barber (Charles Chaplin) saves a fellow Tomanian soldier, Schultz, during the First World War, and loses his memory. When he comes back to his barbershop, Tomania has a new leader, who looks exactly like him, Adenoid Hynkel (Charles Chaplin), a tyrant who fuels the hate for Jews to distract people from the failing economy, but who is not very bright (as most of those around him are). Schultz, now a member of the new government, tries to help him and his community survive the attacks from the 'grey shirts', Hynkel's cronies, but things don't look good at all...This movie is, in one word, awesome. It satirizes Hitler as plainly as one can (and also Mussolini, who shows up near the end), but manages to not overdo it and be also moving and intense. Charles Chaplin gives two great interpretations and everyone else is in part.The ending speech, especially, is nothing short of poetry. Everybody should watch this movie, especially politicians.The Great Dictator: 10/10.
April 1889 is significant for two births that occurred within four days of each other. The births were of two men who would leave their marks, for better or worse, upon the 20th Century. On April 16, 1889 Charles Spencer Chaplin was born to poor parents in London, England. On April 20, 1889 Adolf Hitler was born to a minor bureaucrat and his wife in Austria-Hungary. The first truly great cinema clown and star and the most evil dictator of all time born four days apart - it does show the impersonal way fate acts, willy-nilly, in tossing this old globe and it's peoples about.Chaplin and Hitler never met. They never had reason to meet. Hitler, although he liked movies, was not known to be enamored by comedians. In fact few of his intimates suggest he ever laughed that much. Chaplin had little use for the demon from Austria who seized Europe by the throat and nearly destroyed it, and who did destroy millions in his death camps. But by some ironies, such as their similar ages, their paths were bound to cross. The most supreme one was the mustache. Charlie had gotten there before Adolf (publicly, that is) with his toothbrush mustache. It made it look like a showdown for ownership of a trademark was destined between the two men. Only Oliver Hardy would sport a similar one to theirs in the same period, and Hardy's bulk made him hardly look like a Hitler clone. Chaplin had read MEIN KAMPF, and knew the homicidal insanities of his contemporary. He made no mistakes about them - this man was pure evil. It helped Chaplin that he had grown up in the East End of London, heavily populated with Jews, and that his half-brother Syd was Jewish (as was his wife Paulette Goddard). Chaplin was fully aware of what this beast and his minions could do and would do. And yet he did miss the beat on the camps (more below on that).Chaplin's first full talkie picks up with the conclusion of World War I. He is playing two roles, and the first is a Jewish Barber, who is a soldier in the Tomanian Army. The soldier saves the life of an officer, Captain Schultz (Reginald Gardiner, in a good performance), who was trying to deliver an important directive to the Tomanian commanders that could have won the war. But he fails to do it, so Tomania loses. The barber is knocked out and only emerges from his amnesia twenty years later to find Adenoid Hynkel the dictator of Tomania. Hynkel is also Chaplin. His first speech on screen is a wonderful spoof on those hideous eruptions of spite and malice from "Der Fuhrer" that newsreels showed in that period. When he clearly says in mock German that Democracy and Free Speech stink (he says "schtunk") the propagandist stooge translator uses euphemisms like "Democracy is fragrant!" to hide the curt dismissal involved in these comments. When Hynkel goes into a tirade about the Jews, the translator will only say "His excellency is commenting about the Jews!". Henry Daniell (as "Garbitsch" - a Goebbels type of adviser) is nonchalantly listening on the podium to all this. Later, when riding home with Hynkel, Garbitsch says, "I thought you didn't like the Jews?" to a surprised Hynkel.So it goes throughout the film, with point by point demolition of everything hideous about the Nazis. But with fun. The swastika is reduced to a pair of exes (a "double cross"). The cult of the leader is spoofed by Hynkel having a schedule which allows him one five or six second pose for a sculptor and a painter (he switches the direction of his head for both). An inventor of a new bullet proof jacket offers a pistol to Hynkel to shoot him with to test it. Hynkel does just that, only to kill the man - which he just shrugs off.It's a film full of delights, even with those horrendous shadows from the monster across the ocean in our minds. Only the handling of the concentration camps is less than desirable. Instead of real torture and horrible murder being shown, the camps are shown as places where the prisoners kick each other by forced marches in close order while goose stepping. Chaplin later said that had he known what horrors were in the camps he would not have made the film.Paulette Goddard is the love interest, a spirited Jew who is shown fighting off two storm trooper thugs in one scene. Daniell is perfectly aloof as always, feeding his bosses's ego in that memorable floating balloon globe scene. Billy Gilbert is a Goering clone, Field Marshall Bismarck Herring, whose bulk is used in some scenes against Hynkel. Gardiner is Hynkel's aide, who eventually turns on him. And best is Jack Oakie, who is perfect as Napoleoni, the rival dictator (and Mussolini clone), who keeps besting Hynkel in oneupmanship (I suspect that Chaplin did not like Mussolini, but in 1939 - 1940 the Fascist leader looked more tolerable to most people, prior to his fully joining the war as Hitler's ally). THE GREAT DICTATOR was a wonderful comment by April 16 about April 20. It remains so to this day.
I would say that "The Great Dictator" is Charlie Chaplin's best movie ever. Mainly a spoof of Hitler, but also reminding us about tyranny in any form, the movie was Chaplin's first talkie. Probably the funniest aspect is his mockery of German: dictator Adenoid Hynkel stands up on the podium and rants something that sounds like: "Eh, de Holstein und de Aryan maiden und de strangulation itten. Kapeet! Kapatt! Deutsch Juden...grrr deutsch Juden!" Another great scene is when he's arguing with the Mussolini character about the Ostralich border, and their argument almost turns into a catfight.Seeing how he pointed the finger at all tyranny, it's easy to see why HUAC used this movie to kick Chaplin out of the country. No matter, Chaplin ended up getting the last laugh; not only did the Oscars eventually give him an honorary Oscar, but the world remembers him as one of the greatest directors in history.


                
There are a few films that are destined to be great, because they are challenging and daring. They are so because they challenge the times in which they are made. The highlights amongst these films are Kubrick's "Dr Strangelove" and "The Great Dictator", a film that everybody in Hollywood said nobody wanted to see. Thank god Chaplin made this film anyway.What Chaplin offers in this film and why it is so important as a historical piece today is an insight into the eccentricities of fascism that dogged the early 20th century. Chaplin and his actors masterfully copied the mannerism of the important figures of the time and then amplified and exaggerated them. We are therefore shown the Third Reich in all its dark and loony glory, in all its bloodthirsty expansionist policy and inhuman treatment of `sub-humans'.Chaplin's rendition of Hynkel is masterfully put forward as jibberish, with dramatic poses and movements that include him pouring water down his pants. The famous ballet with the globe was Chaplin's ultimate film moment that symbolizes just how reckless the Nazi expansion policy really was. However some of the most entertaining moments come from Napoloni, who visits <U+0091>Hynki' to discuss the invasion of Austerlitz by Tomania. A direct parody of the appeasement policy and the breaking of the Stresa front, Chaplin does not only have a go at Nazi Germany, but also at the people that just let it happen.Chaplin's final speech in which the Jewish barber takes the place of Hynkel, questioning Hitler's own Arianness, is filled with a plea to the world to stop war forever instead of simply saying that the world should stop the Nazis. This film should be compulsory in every country and in every school and the fact that the world is still embroiled in wars all over shows that this film is perhaps more relevant today than it was in 1940. When one looks at this film one can see, Robert Mugabe, Mohammed Al Caddaffi, Saddam Hussein and George W. Bush. Obviously we have not learnt the lesson yet!


                
This movie is to WW2 what Dr strangelove is to the cold war.  It's hilarious yet still sends a meaningful message to the audience.  Chaplin's portrayal of Hitler is legendary.  This movie shows what the audience was missing all these years, the treat of having a Chaplin talkie.  This being his first talkie, it definitely lived up to, and exceeded its billing.  Through all the comedy and wise cracks that the movie is filled with, the message at the end that Chaplin gives makes it all worth while and brings tears to your eyes.  It makes me laugh that in his later years, people actually accused Chaplin of being a commie.  Just hearing the ending message should squash any of those beliefs.  Definite must see


                
It is a very funny movie, but it is by no means just light entertainment. The comedy got people to pay attention to a message that they might have ignored otherwise.A the time, many people though that he treatment of Jews in Germany couldn't be as bad as was depicted in the film, but if anything, this movie is mild compared to the real thing.It's important to remember that this movie was made when the US was fairly anti-semitic.The movie was also contreversial because it didn't just take on Naziism, but oppression wherever it occurred.  The final speech is about more than Naziism.


                
The Great Dictator is about a poor barber is confused with the great Nazi dictator and is sent into his place, unknown to the dictator. When I look at comedy's today I see good work and overall a good comedy. But it will never be like Charles Chaplin the great dictator. This movie mixers comedy and drama together so perfectly nothing can top it. The globe scene, the train scene and the speech at the end which made me cry because how true it is and how much we need it to make the world a better place. Overall the great dictator is outstanding movie with a great story and a brilliant speech. Quote from Dictator of Tomania: "I'm sorry, but I don't want to be an emperor. That's not my business. I don't want to rule or conquer anyone. I should like to help everyone if possible; Jew, Gentile, black man, white. We all want to help one another. Human beings are like that. We want to live by each other's happiness, not by each other's misery. We don't want to hate and despise one another. In this world there is room for everyone, and the good earth is rich and can provide for everyone. The way of life can be free and beautiful, but we have lost the way. Greed has poisoned men's souls, has barricaded the world with hate, has goose-stepped us into misery and bloodshed. We have developed speed, but we have shut ourselves in. Machinery that gives abundance has left us in want. Our knowledge has made us cynical; our cleverness, hard and unkind. We think too much and feel too little. More than machinery, we need humanity. More than cleverness, we need kindness and gentleness. Without these qualities, life will be violent and all will be lost. The airplane and the radio have brought us closer together. The very nature of these inventions cries out for the goodness in men; cries out for universal brotherhood; for the unity of us all. Even now my voice is reaching millions throughout the world, millions of despairing men, women, and little children, victims of a system that makes men torture and imprison innocent people. To those who can hear me, I say, do not despair. The misery that is now upon us is but the passing of greed, the bitterness of men who fear the way of human progress. The hate of men will pass, and dictators die, and the power they took from the people will return to the people. And so long as men die, liberty will never perish. Soldiers! Don't give yourselves to brutes, men who despise you, enslave you; who regiment your lives, tell you what to do, what to think and what to feel! Who drill you, diet you, treat you like cattle, use you as cannon fodder. Don't give yourselves to these unnatural men - machine men with machine minds and machine hearts! You are not machines, you are not cattle, you are men! You have the love of humanity in your hearts! You don't hate! Only the unloved hate; the unloved and the unnatural. Soldiers! Don't fight for slavery! Fight for liberty! In the seventeenth chapter of St. Luke, it is written that the kingdom of God is within man, not one man nor a group of men, but in all men! In you! You, the people, have the power, the power to create machines, the power to create happiness! You, the people, have the power to make this life free and beautiful, to make this life a wonderful adventure. Then in the name of democracy, let us use that power. Let us all unite. Let us fight for a new world, a decent world that will give men a chance to work, that will give youth a future and old age a security. By the promise of these things, brutes have risen to power. But they lie! They do not fulfill that promise. They never will! Dictators free themselves but they enslave the people. Now let us fight to fulfill that promise. Let us fight to free the world! To do away with national barriers! To do away with greed, with hate and intolerance! Let us fight for a world of reason, a world where science and progress will lead to all men's happiness. Soldiers, in the name of democracy, let us all unite!


                
A movie that even Adolf Hitler watched twice(probably to overcome the fact that they have uncanny resemblances and convince himself that it wasn't him who acted in the film).The movie was the first of the talking movies made by Charles Chaplin and it did not involve the character "tramp". The movie is a laughter riot like every Chaplin movie and his take on Adolf Hitler is very much tacit.I wonder how he has made the greatest mass murderer in the history of the world look like the greatest stand-up comedian ever. Such is the effort taken by the man who penned the script, directed the movie and acted in it.A masterpiece indeed.
The Great Dictator is a very well crafted movie. More than a movie Chaplin treated this project as a work of art and beautifully crafted it. I ve not seen his other movies but soon i will check out all of them. The characters are as interesting as the dialogues. There is never a dull moment in the movie. You cant help but notice the wit and intelligence involved in the script writing, as the minutes pass by, once you are into the movie. The comedy comes out as a breath of fresh air and not even close to being dated. Chaplin shows his greatness not only as a writer, director, actor but also a great human being. The final speech is by far one of the best speeches ever you will listen. I highly recommend this movie to everyone.


                
The Great Dictator is a comedy film by Charlie Chaplin.Like most Chaplin films, he wrote, produced, and directed, in addition to starring as the lead. Having been the only Hollywood film maker to continue to make silent films well into the period of sound films, this was Chaplin's first true talking picture as well as his most commercially successful film.More importantly, it was the first major feature film to bitterly satirize Nazism and Adolf Hitler.With this pithy opening title, Chaplin begins his first all-talking feature film, The Great Dictator. During World War I, a Jewish barber in the army of Tomania saves the life of high-ranking officer Schultz. While Schultz survives the conflict unscathed, the barber is stricken with amnesia and bundled off to a hospital. Twenty years pass: Tomania has been taken over by dictator Adenoid Hynkel and his stooges Garbitsch and Herring. Hynkel despises all Jews and regularly wreaks havoc on the Tomanian Jewish ghetto, where feisty Hannah lives. Meanwhile, the little barber escapes from the hospital and instinctively heads back to his cobweb-laden ghetto barber shop. Unaware of Hynkel's policy towards Jews (in fact, he's unaware of Hynkel), the barber gets into a slapstick confrontation with a gang of Aryan storm troopers. He is rescued by his old friend Schultz, now one of Hynkel's most loyal officers. Thanks to Schultz's protection, the ghetto receives a brief respite from Hynkel's persecution. The barber sets up shop again, developing a warm platonic relationship with the lovely Hannah. But things take a sorry turn when Hynkel, angered that a Jewish banker has refused to finance his impending war with Austerlitz, begins bearing down again on the Ghetto. Near the end of the film, when the dictator is expected to make another one of his hate-filled, war-mongering speeches, the barber steps up to the microphones...and Charles Chaplin drops character and becomes "himself," delivering an impassioned plea for peace, tolerance, and humanity.Like all major Chaplin works, The Great Dictator was a cheaply, but methodically, made film, a cardboard act of humanist defiance, and, thanks to its purity of purpose, the cheesier the jokes get, the harder they land.Aside from that,The first full-blown talkie from the biggest star of the silent era, complete with a message that he couldn't have sent more loudly or clearly.Finally,the film hasn't aged well, but in 1940 it was perceived to be original, bold and controversial due to its combination of slapstick satire of the German dictator.It is one of the best films ever made in cinema history.
Charlie Chaplin certainly put off speaking on cinema long enough. His bread and butter was made with his little tramp character on the silent screen. But when Chaplin finally did speak he spoke some of the most memorable prose ever spoken on the cinema. The eloquence of his appeal for universal brotherhood is maybe more relevant today than even back in 1940 when he decided to satirize Nazi Germany in The Great Dictator.In his memoirs Chaplin said that he would never have made The Great Dictator had he suspected for a moment exactly the extent of what was going on in Nazi Germany. It was bad enough in 1940, but of course Hitler's final solution doctrine about systematic extermination wasn't put in place until the following year. After that Nazi Germany provided damn few laughs.As the film opens Chaplin hearkens back to his World War I classic Shoulder Arms when we see him as a bumbling soldier during World War I. He saves the life of air ace Reginald Gardiner, but in doing so is injured and loses his memory. Some fifteen years later Charlie regains his memory and leaves the hospital and returns to his profession as barber in the Jewish quarter of his native city.No one notices, but the little barber with the funny mustache bears no small resemblance to the dictator of his country of Ptomania, Adenoid Hynkel. And as it turns out Reginald Gardiner who is a storm trooper commandant gets reacquainted with his savior and has a reassessment of his feelings about Jews. Of course in the end that resemblance proves to be Gardiner and Chaplin's salvation and in Chaplin's fantasy world the salvation of humanity.In his Hynkel persona Chaplin was the first on the screen to satirize Hitler, to make him an object of ridicule. Later on when America was finally in World War II in some of our lesser propaganda efforts, Hitler impersonators like Bobby Watson leaned heavily on what Chaplin did in The Great Dictator. Of course his best Hynkel moment is the famous dream scene where the globe becomes a big beach ball type balloon with Chaplin lovingly treating it in the best fetishistic manner. As the barber Chaplin also goes back to his little tramp roots and is seen giving one of his customers a shave to the music of Brahm's Number 5 Dance could have been done in any of his silent classics. Chaplin's final speech was a masterpiece. People like Orson Welles, Paul Muni, and Spencer Tracy are probably the players most noted for giving long addresses well on screen, but for a man whose cinematic career was spent in silence up to that point, Chaplin was nothing short of brilliant. When the Tramp finally spoke, what profound things he had to say.The Great Dictator made a pile of money for United Artists of whom one of the partners was Charlie Chaplin. It received five Oscar nominations for Best Picture, Best Actor for Chaplin, Best Supporting Actor for Jack Oakie, Best Musical Score for Meredith Willson, and Best Original Screenplay for Chaplin. Curiously enough Charlie wasn't nominated for Best Director. Casting Jack Oakie as the spoof dictator Nappoloni based on that other Axis partner Mussolini was a stroke of genius. Oakie played loudmouth blowhards his entire film career and as Nappoloni of Bacteria, Oakie played one of the biggest blowhards in history. Oakie lost to Walter Brennan for The Westerner and Chaplin gave way to Jimmy Stewart in The Philadelphia Story. Chaplin did win the New York Film Critic's Award for Best Actor in 1940.Others worthy of note are Charlie's then estranged wife Paulette Goddard as the barber's love interest. Paulette who was Paulette Levy by birth played a Jew for maybe the only time in her career. Henry Daniell is minister of propaganda Garbitsch and he's his usual cold and cynical, but Charlie should have gotten Martin Kosleck who got a lot of work during World War II with a dead-on impersonation of Joseph Goebbels. For Air Minister Herring who would you get for the weight challenged Herman Goerring, but Billy Gilbert.In a world where a lot of self seeking politicians and terrorists appeal to the worst in man, The Great Dictator is timeless because of its appeal to the better angels of our nature as James Madison phrased it. Never miss this when it is broadcast it will renew your human spirit.


                
I know many people prefer Charlie Chaplin when he's silent, but I have to rank this as my favorite Chaplin film, sound and all. This is one of those movies chock full of one memorable scene after another: Chaplin's hapless soldier trying to load and fire a giant gun; his goofy dictator cavorting with an inflatable beach ball designed to look like a globe of the world; his gentle barber trying to give a member of the Gestapo a shave. I've heard that Chaplin was put on Hitler's death list as a result of this film; I don't know whether that's true or not, but if he was I'm not surprised. I can't even imagine the guts it took to make a film that so obviously mocked such a scary historical figure. In a time when comedians mock our world leaders left and right, it's easy to forget that there were times (and still places today) when doing so could get you killed.Without Chaplin's impassioned plea that closes the movie, in which he steps out of character and warns his audience directly about the consequences of ignoring the gathering storm of Nazi Germany (and fascism in general), "The Great Dictator" would be a marvelous comedy. With that plea, it becomes much more than merely a marvelous comedy; it becomes an important and inspiring historical document, that happens also to be pretty damn funny too.Grade: A+


                
Chaplin is greatly amusing in this extraordinary film. The acting is superb, as well as the jokes which are definitively hilarious. For those who have read the extense biography on Hitler by Ian Kershaw or Allan Bullock's mesmerizing book, this impersonation of Hitler is adequate. The parody of the strong, guttural German accent, and Hitler's gestures when lecturing on hatred and repression, is very similar to reality. In fact, the scene with Adenoid Hynkel playing with a balloon that resembles the Earth, is not far from historical evidence. Hitler was the world's most extravagant megalomaniac, a feature which Chaplin obviously caught a glimpse of. Finally, I highly recommend this film for cinema fans and people who simply seek a funny, yet profound movie.


                
This movie was years ahead of it's time.  Chaplin was a master as both director and actor.  To take on a persona such as Hitler while Hitler was at the height of his power was without equal.  As far as I am concerned, Chaplin sealed his fate as the top of the movie world with this film.


                
The Great Dictator was by far the most direct cinematic manifestation of Chaplin's politics, which he had been exploring for decades in his silent comedies, but had been sharpened by his experiences touring the world in the early 1930s. His previous feature, Modern Times (1936), was his most "political" film to date, and in that masterpiece he demonstrated how fluidly he could merge the political and the comical, turning out a "message movie" that went down smoothly. The same is true for much of The Great Dictator, which is a frequently hilarious film that boldly uses caricature and satire to ridicule the leading despots of the early 20th century. Even many years later than it's first appearance on the screen this movie is more updated than ever! The totalitarianism and alienation of people are now a daily reality. Like their release of Modern Times last fall, Criterion has done fantastic work with The Great Dictator, giving us a new 2K high-definition transfer taken from a combination of a 35mm fine-grain master positive and a 35mm duplicate negative. Extensive digital restoration has removed virtually all signs of age and damage without losing the image's grain structure and film like appearance. All in all, there are no complains here, or even minor quibbles, for that matter. The image is sharp, well-detailed, and beautifully rendered in gray scale, with good black levels and excellent contrast. The monaural soundtrack, transferred at 24-bit from the sound negative and digitally restored, likewise gives the film a new lease on life. There are no cracks, pops, or ambient hiss, and the dialogue and sound effects are clear and precise.


                
This was a great dark comedy! This was the first Charlie Chaplin film that i have seen that was not a silent film! It had the same goofiness and deadpan humor that was in some of Chaplin's other films such as city lights except a lot of the humor had a darker tone to it. It wasn't extremely dark like some of todays comedies but it was still a bit dark. Fans of the film Doctor Strangelove should enjoy this film. This film is about a Jewish barber and a dictator (both played by Charlie Chaplin) this film also conveys the themes of hope, peace, and equality. as with all of Charlie Chaplin films this film has a very poignant tone to it. fans of Charlie Chaplin should definitely check this film out. Every gag exhibited in this film was funny and almost none of the gags fell flat. Bravo!


                
What is it, where is it, how will it affect me? Fictional dictator Adenoid Hynkel tries to expand his empire while a poor Jewish barber tries to avoid persecution from Hynkel's regime. We start the top 10 countdown with one of the eldest of the collection of all-time greats, a later day work of a director we all know and love more often than not for his charismatic and vaudeville performances on the screen rather than his blueprinting off it. Along with all great directors throughout history, Chaplin's greatest work is disputed to a short fallen conclusion. Notable for his consistent recurrence of the themes of strife of the downtrodden and 'good triumphs over evil' fables, The Great Dictator is, at face value, no exception. But the film's rich tapestry holds so much more to it than that, elevating it to a stance of assuming easily the role of not only Chaplin's greatest but one of history's greatest. One has to admire the bravery of Chaplin to produce such a touching, topical and quite frankly worldly historic piece of propaganda entertainment in 1940 for his loyal subjects: the distressed, the downtrodden and fed up allied population. It's piece of work that, as it rumbles into life, seems to be a misfit and muddled fledgling of a picture, soon turns into the greatest comedy ever made. Yet, astonishingly, after it assumes this role, it proves ever more versatile to the dumbfounded and subdued audience, showing a climactic bout of emotional power and vigour in the form of Chaplin's Dictator's famous dictatorial speech. The skill to represent both the weak and the powerful with his interchangeable portrayal of two characters, who take turns in being the mature and immature of the pair, ending on the prior mentioned sublime and bittersweet monologue of conflicting internal ideals of the satirised Hitler as a largely solo effort, just goes to show the untouchable echelons of what performance and direction working in harmony in the right place at the right time can be like. The Great Dictator is often said to be a weaker film amongst its competitors of the 1940s and 1930s, but cometh the hour of darkness: cometh the document of courage and faith with both humanist and more serious intent.


                
