What makes this film great is the historical context in which is was made. Having been made early in the second world war, this film is a great spectacle of wartime propaganda and satire against Hitler. Unfortunately, as Charlie Chaplin's first talkie, his well-renowned comedic timing suffers in the film. Chaplin's signature comedic walking makes one appearance, and his signature suit makes about two. All in all, visual gags are only provided every 15 minutes or so. This is understandable, as he is mocking Hitler for half the film, and he's attempting to replace visual gags with something more appropriate for a talkie. His pseudo-German is hysterical, but he relies on it too heavily. English dialog is extremely dumbed down compared to the Marx Brothers' films of the same period, leaving political jargon that, rather than having satirical merit, tends to simply slow down the film. After an hour of bearing with this shortcoming, the film does pick up slightly, especially after a turning point in the film involving new diplomacy. We do get a nice idealistic speech at the end that reveals some of Chaplin's political views.As for the aggression against Jews in the film, one might expect Chaplin to turn the scenes into something similar to chase scenes from his silent films. Modern films, on the other hand, tend to develop the victims in the film well enough so we can feel some connection. In other words, I would expect to feel the need to either laugh or cry if Chaplin were to depict this kind of situation. Unfortunately scenes are more uncomfortable to watch than they are compelling.Perhaps this film is highly regarded for what it stands for, but as a fan of Chaplin's silent films, as well as a huge fan of comedic talkies from this era, I felt highly disappointed and nearly fell asleep watching the film.


                
Maybe this was *An Important Movie* and that's why people rank it so highly, but honestly it isn't very good. In hindsight it's easy to see that Chaplin (probably all of Hollywood) was incredibly naive about the magnitude of what was really going on in the ghettos, so you can't fault him TOO much for the disconnect that affects a modern viewer, but the disconnect remains.More disappointingly, the movie is just clunky; it's as if Chaplin had no idea that movies had progressed in sophistication since the silent era. The set pieces, those involving both the Jewish Barber and the Dictator, don't flow into each other; they just sit there like discrete lumps of storyline that progress in fits and starts, moving SOMEWHERE but never arriving at resolution. Some are funny, some less so.What charm the movie has is strictly in the person of Chaplin himself. His parodies of Hitler's speeches were the best part of the whole thing, and there's no denying that he had a physical grace that was delightful to watch. But virtually everything he surrounded himself with was ANNOYING. Hannah was TOO DAMN American. The Storm Troopers were TOO DAMN American.Oooh! Oooh! One more thing! I don't know what purpose was served by having Garbage be the source of evil behind the throne. It almost seems like the film is saying that, if it weren't for malign influences like Garbage, Hynckle wouldn't have been that bad a guy.


                
I'm not exactly a Chaplin fan, and perhaps that's part of why I didn't find The Great Dictator to be that good.The film feels too long to begin with. It's not a good thing when you sort of drift in and out of the film, suddenly realising that you weren't paying attention, and also realising that you didn't really miss anything. This almost always happened when the barber was on screen, rather than dictator Hynkel. I really didn't care for the melodramatic stuff, which is too much on the sappy side for my taste.The real joy of watching this movie comes from the crazed antics of Adenoid Hynkel. Things pick up pace every time he appears and Chaplin's satire take on Hitler is really good. In his scenes, the film lives up to its classic stature.The film feels very well made for its time, so I have no problem there either. The famous ending speech by Chaplin ruins a lot, though. It's all done with the best of intentions, but today it feels very naive and doesn't fit in with the rest of the movie. It's like Chaplin just ends the film with a propaganda speech, rather than to bring closure to the story. A more subtle approach towards getting out his message would have been much better. [4/10]


                
This film starts off on a high note, with Chaplin returning to the "little tramp" form in sequences showing his bumbling attempts to help his fellow Germans win WWI, but the second half of the film degenerates amidst the not-so-soluble dual plotlines (involving, of course, star Chaplin in both plots) and pitiful verbal humor and ends on a note of unconvincing propaganda.  He plays both the Jewish barber and the leader of the Germans. There are some very witty moments in this latter role, such as his dance with with an inflated globe, but too much verbal ethnic humor (of the low vaudeville type) is not alleviated by a sufficient amount of slapstick violence.  Also, the plot's fluctuations between the two characters' stories becomes disconcerting and makes the film unfocused.  Goddard makes an unconvincing impoverished Jewess; she is a talented actress but she's wasted here as the object of mostly idealized romanticism.  Chaplin's sincerity goes way past the breaking point of credulity in his final, ludicrously optimistic speech (yes, this one would put even Spencer Tracy to shame!).  This scene, which is played straight and has no humor whatsoever, ends the film on a sour, unconvincing note and does much to unhinge any satire that preceded it.An interesting failure at best.


                
Adenoid Hynkel, a lowly soldier in World War One, rises in subsequent years to become the ruthless dictator of Toumania.  He creates an aggressive, antisemitic war machine and cultivates a little toothbrush moustache.  Sound like anyone you know?From the safety of Hollywood, Chaplin uses this soapbox to exhort Europe to take up arms and defy Hitler and Mussolini.  Given that the United States in 1940 had more than a year of neutrality ahead of it, and no strong desire to embroil itself in Europe's civil strife (remember, it was Hitler who declared war on the USA, not the other way round) it is surprising that Chaplin was allowed to distribute this immoderate polemic.The story involves on the one hand the the vulgar and repellant Hynkel and the reign of terror over which he ineptly presides, and life in the jewish ghetto where every single person is friendly, humane, brave, etc., etc,  Chaplin is Hynkel, and he also plays The Jewish Barber, the little hero of the ghetto (The Tramp in all but name).  Needless to say, Chaplin writes, directs, stars, composes the music and does the catering.In 1940 the full truth was not yet known about the Third Reich, and Chaplin can be forgiven for having something less than perfect historical foresight, but even by the standards of the day he gets Hitler badly wrong. A comedian and a sentimentalist, Chaplin tries to ridicule Hitler by making Hynkel silly and hapless.  All this does is to humanise him.  When Hynkel the not-very-warlike soldier fools around with the big gun and the upside-down aeroplane, he becomes endearing rather than despicable.  As dictator, he inspects his subordinates' technical innovations which don't work (the parachute hat, the bulletproof uniform etc.) and these passages are meant to make us think that the real-life Nazis are incompetent and can be swept aside.  In fact, Hynkel's regime is made cute and likeable by its bumbling bodgery.In truth, Chaplin's day had already passed when he made this ill-considered polemic.  At heart, he was still a dinosaur of the silent screen (check out the humour, with gags like staggering up and down the street semi-conscious, or the pantomime of the coins in the puddings). The hero Schultz is meant to represent a yardstick of European decency against which Hynkel can be judged, but Schultz looks more like a character from operetta than a Nazi.  Is it in any way believable that a Schultz figure (if such had existed) would say to the Fuehrer's face, "your cause is doomed to failure because it's built upon the stupid, ruthless persecution of innocent people"?  And how does Schultz come to be in the cellars of the jewish ghetto?  If he is the object of an exhaustive manhunt, why does he persist in wearing his Ruritanian uniform?  Chaplin did not yet know the full horrors of Auschwitz-Birkenau or Treblinka, but the Nazi concentration camp which he offers us is hopelessly out of kilter with the grim spirit of the age.  As usual, Chaplin thinks in terms of 'silent' comedy set-pieces, loosely pegged onto the narrative clothes line.  There is the knockabout scrapping with the stormtroopers, shaving a man to the accompaniment of Brahms, and the globe ballet (watch for the segment filmed in reverse).Paulette Goddard is the unremittingly perfect Hannah.  Just as the people of the ghetto are impossibly nice, and the jewish haven in Osterlich is ridiculously idyllic, so Hannah is quite literally too good to be true. Brave, defiant, resourceful, hardworking and (of course) beautiful, she is the canary of judaism in the ghetto cage.  "Gee, ain't I cute?" she asks, after the Barber gives her a make-over.  Too cute by far, is the answer. She doesn't come close to ringing true, because Chaplin has made her a caricature.  The 'wouldn't it be wonderful?' speech which Chaplin puts into her mouth is typical of the author - too wordy, too emotionally cloying.Jack Oakie is great as Napaloni, the fascist dictator of Bacteria. He brings a whiff of much-needed comic brio to the proceedings, but the film's underlying weakness remains.  If Napaloni is silly and ineffective, how can we fear him?  And anyway, the stuttering stop-start of the back-projected train is a fine Chaplinesque example of a gag that is persisted with far beyond its comic worth.And where did the Jewish Barber acquire that immaculate Hynkel uniform?


                
*MILD SPOILERS*In this would-be satire, Chaplin set his sights on the evils of German fascism, playing the twin roles of Tomanian dictator Adenoid Hynkel and one of his subjects, an inadvertent World War I hero and Jewish barber. Through events inspired by both Adolf Hitler and the Marx Brothers, Hynkel negotiates contracts and declares war on neighbouring Osterlich whilst finding time for numerous, oddly flat set-pieces. The dictator's much-celebrated waltz with an inflatable globe is actually entirely heavyhanded, underwhelming and unfunny.Chaplin should certainly be commended for looking to lampoon Hitler and for speaking out strongly on celluloid - his much-maligned final speech is actually the bold, memorable highlight of the piece - but the film simply isn't sharp or funny enough to merit the praise frequently heaped upon it, nor to demand repeated viewings. The best gags are away from Hynkel's tiresome posturing and involve The Barber attempting to avoid a large spinning bomb (a sequence which steals from the gun tussle in The Gold Rush) and later, with a pot on his head, accidentally walking the plank off the roof of his shop.Compared to the director's silent classics, The Great Dictator is slow, wildly inconsistent and altogether somewhat unsatisfactory, whilst the barren spells between laughs are often long and difficult to endure. There is no doubt that Chaplin was a genius, but even geniuses make disappointing pictures and The Great Dictator certainly ranks as such.


                
The Great Dictator (1940 United Artists) is a mediocre movie which contains wonderful comedy and acting fragments provided by Charlie Chaplin, who directed and wrote it, and by Paulette Goddard, his girlfriend (some accounts state they were legally married) during the late 1930's. Goddard also starred with Chaplin in Modern Times (1935), the movie Chaplin did immediately before The Great Dictator (1940 United Artists) and Chaplin's last "silent" movie (contained a music soundtrack and a brief singing sequence where Chaplin sang a nonsense song lasting less than 2 minutes....most of the movie was silent and had old time silent movie "titles.")The Great Dictator (1940 United Artists) was and is a propaganda movie, pure and simple, aimed at defaming the German regime of Adolph Hitler, at war with England, France, and the USSR in 1940, but not yet at war with the USA (that didn't occur until very late in 1941, almost 1942).Many people and organizations in the years immediately prior to WWII times were outspoken about not wanting to join in the "European" war, and indeed it took an event in the central Pacific Ocean (the attack at Pearl Harbor by the Japanese in December of 1941) to cause the USA to send soldiers and treasure into Europe and battles against the German government.The prospect of the USA engaging Germany in yet another war (following WWI in 1917-18) was controversial, and The Great Dictator (1940 United Artists) movie was blatant propaganda favoring one point of view about the war entry question which in fact was disputed widely.The movie is a hodge podge of sequences which include Charlie Chaplin's famous and familiar mime clowning, pratfalls, and sight gags often seen in his justifiably famous and honored silent movies. He was an acrobat and physical clown of high gifts.Interestingly, The Great Dictator (1940 United Artists) was the very first movie which allowed viewers to hear Chaplin's voice, which was not at all trained, sonorous, easy to hear, dramatic, or at all one of his great talents along with mime work, script writing, directing, and sight gag clown performance. His voice was rather soft and high, not deep, masculine, and commanding in the manner of traditional sound movie leading men movie stars (Ronald Colman, Glark Gable, Spencer Tracy, and others of that era).The Great Dictator (1940 United Artists) predictably defames Adolph Hitler (called "Adenoid Hynkel" in the screenplay....Germany is called "Tomania"). One sequence depicts the Hitler character played by Chaplin himself as ordering 3,000 factory workers executed because they threatened to go on strike. The enemy government leader was styled as a monster. So also were government police officers oppressing Jewish ghetto residents, which included the character played by Paulette Goddard and Chaplin himself (who also plays a Jewish barber).The movie alternates between sequences of pure comedy not related to or required by the anti-German theme of the movie...Charlie Chaplin serving up high quality comedy, and doing it well, and Paulette Goddard, a gifted actress of those times, also providing very good examples of acting in various fragments of the movie.------------------- Written by Tex Allen, SAG Actor. Visit WWW.IMDb.Com and choose "Tex Allen" "resume" for contact information, movie credits, and biographical information about Tex Allen. Tex Allen has reviewed more than 35 movies posted on the website WWW.IMDb.Com (the world's largest movie information database, owned by Amazon.Com) as of January 2011. These include: 1. Alfie (1966) 29 July 2009 2. Alien (1979) 24 July 2009 3. All the President's Men (1976) 16 November 2010 4. American Graffiti (1973) 22 November 2010 5. Animal House (1978) 16 August 2009 6. Bullitt (1968) 23 July 2009 7. Captain Kidd (1945) 28 July 2009 8. Child Bride (1938) 24 September 2009 9. Creature from the Black Lagoon (1954) 22 September 2010 10. Detour (1945) 19 November 2010 11. Die Hard 2 (1990) 23 December 2010 12. The Wonderful, Horrible Life of Leni Riefenstahl (1993) 19 November 2010 13. Jack and the Beanstalk (1952) 26 July 2009 14. King Solomon's Mines (1950) 1 December 2010 15. Knute Rockne All American (1940) 2 November 2010 16. Claire's Knee (1970) 15 August 2009 17. Melody Ranch (1940) 10 November 2010 18. Morning Glory (1933) 19 November 2010 19. New Moon (1940) 3 November 2010 20. Pinocchio (1940) 6 November 2010 21. R2PC: Road to Park City (2000) 19 November 2010 22. Salt (2010) 24 August 2010 23. Sunset Blvd. (1950) 1 December 2010 24. The Great Dictator (1940) 1 November 2010 25. The Loneliness of the Long Distance Runner (1962) 9 January 2011 26. The Man in the White Suit (1951) 5 August 2009 27. The Philadelphia Story (1940) 5 November 2010 28. The Taking of Pelham One Two Three (1974) 1 August 2009 29. The Thomas Crown Affair (1999) 14 August 2009 30. The Witchmaker (1969) 21 July 2009 31. Thousands Cheer (1943) 3 December 2010 32. Till the Clouds Roll By (1946) 24 November 2010 33. Wake Up and Live (1937) 27 July 2009 34. Witness for the Prosecution (1957) 1 August 2009 A full list of Tex Allen's movie reviews appearing on WWW.IMDb.Com with links to full texts of reviews is accessible via: http://imdb.com/user/ur15279309/comments Written by Tex Allen, SAG-AFTRA movie actor. Visit WWW.IMDb.Me/TexAllen for more information about Tex Allen. Tex Allen's email address is TexAllen@Rocketmail.Com.See Tes Allen Movie Credits, Biography, and 2012 photos at WWW.IMDb.Me/TexAllen. See other Tex Allen written movie reviews....almost 100 titles.... at: "http://imdb.com/user/ur15279309/comments" (paste this address into your URL Browser)
