"The Great Dictator" (United Artists, 1940), became the long awaited talking debut of silent film comedian, Charlie Chaplin (who also wrote and directed), in a political satire on Adolph Hitler, only the way Chaplin dared to do at the time. He plays a Jewish barber and Hynkel, dictator of Tomania. Some of the humor cannot really be absorbed at first glance, but after repeated viewing, it gets better. My personal classic moment occurs with Chaplin in the barber shop working on a bald-headed customer by giving him a shave while listening to a classical composition on the radio, never missing a beat. Co-starring opposite Chaplin for the second and final time is Paulette Goddard as Hannah. Goddard became the only Chaplin leading lady to ever make a success on her own while the others just drifted to "B" movies or faded away. Jack Oakie as Napaloni, the Dictator of Bacteria (a spoof on Mussolini), appears late in the story but shares with Chaplin some of its brilliant comedic moments. Both Chaplin and Oakie earned Academy Award nominations for their performances (Chaplin for Best Actor/Oakie for Best Supporting Actor), but no wins. Henry Daniell as Garbitsch and Reginald Gardiner as Schultz also share the spotlight. Aside from Chaplin's screenplay in poking fun of its then current issues on European invasion by the Nazis, "The Great Dictator" expertly blends satire with dramatic overtones. Its closing scene in which Chaplin makes a speech pleading for all people to follow the path of peace, brotherhood and democracy, is not to be missed. Whether this movie is above or beyond the Marx Brothers' "Duck Soup" (Paramount, 1933) is anyone's matter of taste. (***)


                
..this movie has been done when Hitler ( and Mussolini who is as well in the movie) was at the top and many politics and even the Roman Church used to close eyes about brutality and evil of Nazism. Especially in USA there were many people who had not understood what was really going on in Germany and Europe ( Charles Lindenbergh for example ).It would be as today a big actor would made a parody of Berlusconi or Chirac. Chaplin maybe made a lot of mistakes in his life, but this is really a masterpiece of humanity and IMHO a great demonstration he was a courageous man. The movie is funny and deep, the final speech has a terrible strength and is still updated. I think this movie is one of the best ever done.


                
This film entered production before WW2 began, but was not released until it was well under way. With significant fascist-sympathy in the US, and Chaplin himself being suspected as a communist sympathiser, The Great Dictator was a very courageous endeavour. Such risks in film-making - thinly veiled political statements - would be almost inconceivable today. Imagine the fallout if someone were to make an equally satirical film today which criticised the USA's foreign policy?This film is hilarious, poignant and tragic. The tragedy is that Chaplin makes a plea for the madness to end, but it is already to late - for him and for us. A must see if you have any interest whatsoever in history, film-making, politics or sattire as an art-form.


                
The Great Dictator is Chaplin's parody about the Nazi Germany with scenes that make you laugh no matter in what mood you are.Beside this ,from my point of view the movie's best part is the superb speech by the Jewish Barber ,a speech's thoughts that if would existed a little bit in Hitler's mind too it would had a chance for the world too pas a second world war.The Speech: "I'm sorry but I don't want to be an emperor.That's not my business.I don't want to rule or conquer anyone.I should like to help everyone: Jew, gentile, black man, white.We all want to help one another.Human beings are like that.We want to live by each other's happiness, not misery.We don't want to hate one another.In this world, the good earth is rich and can provide for everyone.The way of life can be free and beautiful but we have lost the way.Greed has poisoned men's souls, has barricaded the world with hate, has goose-stepped us into bloodshed.We have developed speed but have shut ourselves in.Machinery has left us in want.Our knowledge has made us cynical, our cleverness, hard and unkind.We think too much and feel too little.More than machinery we need humanity.More than cleverness we need kindness and gentleness.Without these qualities, life will be violent and all will be lost...The airplane and radio have brought us closer.These inventions cry out for the goodness in man, cry out for universal brotherhood, for the unity of us all.Even now my voice is reaching millions, millions of despairing men, women and children, victims of a system that makes men torture and imprison innocent people.To those who can hear me I say, do not despair.The misery upon us is but the passing of greed, the bitterness of men who fear the way of human progress.The hate of men will pass, and dictators die, and the power they took will return to the people.So long as men die liberty will never perish.Soldiers, don't give yourselves to brutes, men who despise you, enslave you, regiment your lives, tell you what to think and feel, who drill you, treat you like cattle and use you as cannon fodder.Don't give yourselves to these men, machine men with machine minds and machine hearts.You are not machines, you are not cattle, you are men! You have the love of humanity in you.Don't hate. Only the unloved and the unnatural hate.Soldiers, don't fight for slavery, fight for liberty! St Luke says, "The Kingdom of God is within man." Not in one man nor a group of men, but in all men. In you! You have the power to create machines, the power to create happiness.You have the power to make this life free and beautiful, to make this life a wonderful adventure.In the name of democracy, let us use that power.Let us all unite, let us fight for a new world, a world that will give men a chance to work, that will give youth a future and old age security.Promising these things, brutes have risen.But they lie! They do not fulfill that promise. They never will! Dictators free themselves but they enslave the people.Now let us fight to fulfill that promise! Let us fight to free the world, to do away with national barriers, to do away with greed, with hate and intolerance.Let us fight for a world of reason, a world where science and progress will lead to the happiness of all.Soldiers, in the name of democracy, let us unite!"


                
I find this film remarkable. Here you have a man at the peak of his celebrity who has some moral responsibility. How rare! Imagine Michael Jordan risking all (and eventually losing all) in order to do the right thing. This film is a multidimensional risk: he is trying to master the talkie (though his talent is in the visual), he is trying to mix tragedy and comedy (always a hard mix, and nearly impossible when using current events) and he is trying to actually effect his audience, to counter evil in the land.One must remember that when this was started, Hitler was generally admired in the US and essentially no one at all was standing up for the Jews. (In the film: `first we get the Jews, and then the brunettes.')I think he succeeds so far as the talkie, but he doesn't stand at the top of the heap, and several years before, the Marx brothers had made their own, superior, antiwar movie (Duck Soup). He succeeds in mixing comedy and tragedy only by alternating, and extending the length of the film.Concerning his effectiveness in countering evil: his impassioned speech at the end is powerful. But it appears to have had no effect whatsoever. This is the man that McCarthy and friends drove from the US! I think one of his mistakes was portraying the pogrom and invasions as the work of one man, rather than of a whole nation: Germans, not Nazis.


                
Back at the dawn of the talkie era, Charlie Chaplin defended his decision not to start making sound films by saying "The moment the little tramp talks, he's dead". He was right of course. His comic persona was the creation of an era in cinema when words and voices were irrelevant. The little tramp's appeal lay entirely in how he did things, not in what he was supposed to be saying. And yet it was inevitable that if Chaplin wanted to continue in the business he would have to cave in eventually. Besides Chaplin's agenda was itself changing, and he had now reached a point in his life where he really wanted to speak to the world.Many of the early scenes in The Great Dictator seem to prove Chaplin's fears about sound film. The slapstick has lost its flow, looking forced and awkward. And it appears Chaplin has no real idea how to write or direct dialogue. Sometimes characters make some banal little comment on the action as if simply to fill up the silence. Even worse things happen when Chaplin attempts verbal humour, resorting to feeble puns like the one about the gas keeping him awake all night (not that puns are necessarily bad, just that Chaplin isn't very good at them). Above all, the visual and verbal business is poorly integrated, with a badly-timed stop-start feel. It makes it particularly jarring after a dialogue scene to see this ageing version of the little tramp doing some of his old moves, such as teetering on one foot as he runs into a squad of stormtroopers. These scenes are unlikely to raise more than a titter, and are a sad testament to the fact that this familiar character was past his prime and out of time.But this is a tale of two Charlies. For the first time in decades Chaplin creates a new character for himself in dictator Adenoid Hynkel. And the great thing about Hynkel is that he sidesteps Chaplin's inability with comedy in words but still makes use of comedy in sound. The dictator's cod-Germanic speech is part silly-voice, part linguistic nonsense and it is very, very funny. It actually adds to the humour that no-one else in the picture speaks it, and that Hynkel mostly lapses into it in moments of anger, as if it was some involuntary anxiety-driven affectation. The other great thing about Hynkel is that he is one of Chaplin's great works of satire. The nonsense language is of course a lampooning of Hitler's forceful speechmaking, but the parody continues through everything Hynkel does. Take for example when he has finished posing with the baby, and rather disgustedly wipes his hand clean. He does it with the same stiff-faced disdain that Hitler always displayed in public, but the character's puffed-up austerity is also being punctured by the fact that he's just got his hand covered in wee wee. The little tramp, a creation of and for the silent era, could not make the transition to sound. But Hynkel is a creation of and for the sound era, and he works fantastically.As the picture unfolds, it begins to gain maturity and clarity, not to mention comic brilliance. Jack Oakie's Napoloni makes a perfect partner for Hynkel, and their antics together are like the Marx Brothers at their most riotous. Napoloni is also a work of satire equal to Hynkel, with Oakie working in many of Mussolini's less dignified mannerisms, such as curling his lip and bulging his eyes like he's trying to squeeze out a fart. While Chaplin's direction is at its most overt and showy, he also cleverly and subtly gears his compositions towards ridicule, making the most of those tall set designs to show off the dictator as some little twerp. And finally, the picture acquires the poignancy that made Chaplin's silent features stand out, this time with an extra bite in the seriousness of its message. It is then that you realise Chaplin knew his little tramp was finished, and yet that he needed him here to deliver his point. By subjecting him to sound, Chaplin sacrifices his alter-ego, making a means to speak his mind to the public who had loved him.


                
As a die-hard fan of Charles Chaplin, my primary devotions are to his best material, which for me are all the silent films. I believe that he himself had a clear intuition that something would dissipate were he to switch to talking films. This is not to say that he did not produce wonderful "talkie" films. He did and The Great Dictator (TGD) is one of his best. Perhaps his greatest film, "Modern Times" has a bit of speaking in it and of course his wonderful impromptu song filled with gibberish words. We don't think of this as a "talking" film in the same way that TGD is; this was his first all talking film. I still prefer the silent films for several reasons. His true genius lay in suggestions brought about ONLY by facial expression. He had no peer who could evoke what his face could; remember that Keaton was known as 'stone face' and never, ever broke his facial expression, no matter what. Chaplin's silent evocations also relied on incredible physical agility and body humor that is still hilarious today.TGD still uses quite a bit of physical humor and it all works well. TGD is a scathing indictment of fascism in Europe, ending as it does with a phenomenal and hair raising speech, spoken out of character, where Chaplin addresses himself to all of humanity. It is also a sad, shocking and disturbing drama filled with bits of humor that are as dark as Chaplin knew how to express.Consider his physical humor for a moment. In the early part of the film when the plane crashes, Chaplin emerges from complete submersion in a huge pile of wet mud. His entire head is enveloped in mud as he pops his eyes open - I really don't know how he did that without blinding himself. The scene is incredible and although it lasts for a few moments, it shows to what extremes he was willing to go to produce a laugh. Consider the scene in the ghetto where his lady friend, in trying to help him, accidentally bops him quite hard on the head with a frying pan.In his depiction of the Hitler-like leader, Hinckle, there is one scene that must go down as one of the most breathtaking and marvelous in all movie history. It comes when he is alone in his room and plays with a huge inflatable globe of the world, bouncing it up and down, catching it and bouncing it sometimes off his rear end. The symmetry of his movements as lithe as anything a top ballet dancer could have done. The scene lingers in the mind, having deeper meaning than the surface action. Chaplin was blessed with a deep insight into people and this film shows him at his razor sharpest.Another reason this film is so important: in a time when almost all of the world had turned it's back on the racial genocide that Nazi Germany was perpetrating on Europe's Jews, Chaplin knew of it and was convinced that something brave must be said about it. Where almost no one, certainly in Hollywood, thought it important to say that the Jews were getting massacred, Chaplin brought the Jewish focus front and center and miraculously, in a funny sort of way. Even though the rest of the world was to discover after the war that the destruction of Jews was far more sinister and horrific than this film implies, at least Chaplin stood up and shouted about it.This is a brave, moving, brilliant, scathing, insightful, compassionate and raucous movie. Chaplin's portrayal of Hinckle, where he moves in and out of a Germanic accent, shows that a great silent film actor could move quite successfully into the talking movies. His Hitlerian rants were often so similar to Hitler's own that it was amazing to see that Chaplin could be vocal mimic as well. A complex film that holds up very well. A must see for all Chaplin fans.
I watched this movie the other night and was surprised at just how effective it still is today.While it might not be Chaplins' finest hour,it underlines what a brilliant film maker he was.The first thing that struck me was just how quick he must have been to spot the dangerous undercurrent's of the Nazi regime and although some of the humour might not seem to be that daring by todays standards,in 1940 this film must have ruffled many feathers.Chaplin was under a lot of pressure not to make this and we should be grateful that he did.He stuck to his guns and delivers a movie of some power.The story involves a Jewish barber and a tyrant Hynkel who is obviously Hitler in disguise.Both roles are played by Chaplin and he is superb in each guise.To cut a long story short,the barber is mistaken for the dictator and this gives Chaplin the chance to deliver his plea for world peace.Make no mistake,it is definitely Chaplin speaking and not the barber.This speech has come in for much criticism over the years.It has been called naive and mawkish but I think that is a direct plea from the heart and you can't disagree with what Chaplin asks for.I personally thought that the moment that Paulette Goddards' character Hannah talks to herself hoping for an end to the suffering in the ghetto was more soppy and unconvincing.She is fine in the role although she is so obviously gorgeous before she is cleaned up by the barber.The acting in general is first rate and special mention must go to Jack Oakie as Napaloni.His portrayal is funny and hits the mark every time.There is good chemistry between Chaplin and Oakie and they looked as though they really enjoyed their scenes together.There are many scenes of brilliance on show here.Of course there is the globe segment,the final speech and Hynkel's opening speech of gibberish.One scene that impressed me especially was when the barber and Hannah escape to the rooftops and his shop is destroyed.He simply says 'There goes the barber's shop' with his back to camera.While Hannah tries to offer him words of comfort and encouragement,he stays silent and you can just sense the fight escaping from him.He looks desolate just by his body language,very impressive acting in my opinion.While many scenes may seem pretty tame,Chaplin shows a Jew getting shot in the ghetto,Hannah getting smacked in the face by a storm trooper and a public lynching.This was very daring for it's day and a credit to the sensor's for leaving these scenes in.Charlie Chaplin deserves his place in cinema history and this movie shows that he was a true master of his craft.He is up there with the greats and rightly so.
For a lesser actor, the scariest fate is to be typecast. Even so, no actor so allowed himself to be typecast as Charles Chaplin. But this is the inimitable Charlie Chaplin; he did it to himself, and he endured the consequences -- artistic success that no other actor could ever achieve. The great Charlie did well.Charles Chaplin succeeds as nobody else in the famous dual role as the Tramp, essentially the same character as he had been for over 25 years, and as "Adenoid Hynkel", also known as "Der Phooey" (spoof of Hitler's popular title "Der Fuhrer", undeniably a parody of Adolf Hitler, the evil dictator of "Ptomania", undoubtedly a spoof of (nazi) Germany (get it -- "ptomaine" is a very bad germ) and its dictator.The classic Tramp of the pioneer days of motion pictures is this time a Jewish barber, a victim of the absurd persecution of an innocent people -- and he also looks like the hollow, silly "Adenoid Hynkel". As with other movies featuring the Tramp, one laughs with him as he endures the absurd situations of helpless humanity. We laugh at the Great Dictator for the harshness of his voice (Chaplin did not have an attractive voice), his rhetoric, his vanity, and his hypocrisy. The Tramp character is the common man in a nearly-hopeless situation; Adenoid Hynkel is a base man risen to power that he can never use except for the basest and most selfish, cruel purposes. The characters in their unique split roles meet in the most remarkable manner at the end of the movie, and to say more about that juxtaposition of characters is to introduce a spoiler. If you have never seen this movie, then see it at the first opportunity. The superb physical comedy from the silent era survives without deterioration both as the Tramp and as the Great Dictator -- remarkable for his age (51) at the time, and for the fact that Chaplin did not age gracefully even if he lived into his late eighties. As usual Chaplin uses few words, illustrating his true ties to the silent era. For good reason Chaplin was slow to make a full adoption of his own voice in cinema -- but in its harshness it well fits the vile Adenoid Hynkel, a man who like his obvious model wins the predictable adulation of adoring crowds who have surrendered their freedom. We laugh AT Adenoid Hynkel, a man who wistfully tosses a globe about disrespectfully, only to cause it to pop like a balloon; we see a microphone recoil from the harshness of his banal speech as a cowardly audience can't. But the unnamed Jewish tramp (and the other Jews)... we recognize a character that we can't do without -- the person who, however rational, can treat tragedy and despair with humor and innocence.The movie ends with a cornball speech... corny now, but effective then, one in which the Tramp must pose as "Der Phooey" and use the misbegotten fame of a bad man -- against all of the evil that "Der Phooey" had wreaked upon the world. See it, by all means.
Charlie Chaplin was an actor and director who was known for his very unique style of slapstick and comedy in general. This was his first venture into all-talking, all-sound film, thirteen years after the end on the silent era. The result was one of the finest pieces of cinema in the last 70 years. First impressions are, for any veteran Chaplin fan, simply familiar territory. We see a hapless private during the war fail at the most basic tasks and be humiliated for it. Then we see a ludicrous bomb spin around the flour in circles after our supposed protagonist. Personally this form of comedy is not to my tastes yet Chaplin is one of few comedians able to make it work for me, leading more to my great respect for this filmmaker. This really sets the tone for the film of serious situations and events portrayed in a more accessible way for the audience. Considering the 1940 release this was very important in order to raise awareness of the war in Europe. And it is clear that this was one of Chaplin's goals as the conclusion to the film shows. Chaplin gives a typically on form performance filled with great timing and physicality that he became famous for. Hilarity ensues whenever he wants it to and this fact is why he is one of the greatest comic actors of all time. In many ways this is a one man show, not suggesting the supporting cast is in any way irrelevant or underwhelming. They are just great for Chaplin to bounce off. Yet combined with him leads to some brilliantly choreographed sequences. The sets are visually impressive when coupled with this choreography and the mise-en-scene overall has to be commended. Its comedic twist on authentic, what was current eastern European lifestyles and militaristic parodies of Nazi uniform and propaganda are ingenious. All this combined makes for a fantastically memorable film that has stood the test of time, yet it is considered one of the all-time greats. This is because of, what I consider to be the most potent, relevant and emotionally impactful speech in not only cinema history but in the last one hundred years. The raw, unrelenting passion Chaplin exudes during these defining moments are is nothing short of beautiful. What makes this so expressively vivid is how, as a modern audience member of the twenty first century, I can see how the same problems remain after all these years. Chaplin glimpsed a future without division, without hatred, anger, war and intolerance, a future we could so easily attain. Yet we are all human, something The Great Dictator shows will just lead to the same problems again and again as Chaplin's character fails again and again. Yet with the courage and hope he gains at the very end, the world changes. As The Great Dictator shows, without hope all is lost.
In Tomania(Germany), dictator Hynkel(Chaplin, doing a fantastic job aping and subverting Hitler's(both he and Mussolini are reduced to spoilt children, screaming when they don't get their way, with their world-altering war decisions being nothing more than them stroking their own egos... an all too true breakdown of many major despots) mannerisms, shouting nonsense speeches and short temper) has a doppelganger in a poor, kind Jewish barber(the contrast he creates between these is compelling) - and the fact that the two look the same, yet are treated so differently is one of numerous clever, and often subtle, comments on the ideology.The writing reveals a thorough understanding of the thinking, reasoning and actions of the Nazis. Sure, there are details that are changed or the like, forgivably to ease the story-telling, to make a point, etc. There are also other types of comedy; mocking and black humor is used to remove the sting from the fear of the shells, army and the mistreatment of the children of Israel.And that last one is treated seriously, as well. The tone will switch very effectively, and suddenly we are afraid of something similar to what we've just been chuckling at. This way, the reality doesn't become lost, and one can sense the actual threat of persecution and foreign invasion right underneath it all.The smart references, including some that, at the time, not everyone would have known enough to get, are mixed in with simpler material. While the slapstick can be rather inspired, the wordplays are on the nose(Italy becomes Bacteria... those don't even sound alike...), and there is the occasional half-baked gag, abandoned as quickly and abruptly as it is begun.This is swiftly paced, and the 120 minute running time tends to go by smoothly(if the narrative jumps awkwardly once or twice). Acting is strong for all concerned, both the broad gesturing and the finer nuances(Goddard is charming, inspiring and memorable as the outspoken Hannah).There is a little violent and disturbing content in this. I recommend this to everyone who appreciates satire dealing with tragedy. 9/10


                
This satire is just really, really dead-on, and nobody is spared. But even though this movie has plenty of laughs within the silly story and the grotesque imitation of Hitler (here cleverly renamed as "Hynkel", and speaking in a hilarious kind of pseudo-German), the general tone is pretty sad, maybe because of the movie's place in history. And the actors aren't even exaggerating that much I suppose. One of the greatest movie moments of all time must be the Jewish barber's ending speech, if only things could have ended in that way. It's not even really the character talking anymore, it's Chaplin saying something he really wanted to say. If you ignore the technical aspects, the movie doesn't feel dated or old, it actually moves at a pretty nice pace. And the sharp humor we find everywhere in this work will never die, the only thing I don't care for is the slapstick, but that just comes with the era I suppose. This is an incredibly daring, harsh take on fascism, it's so hard-hitting still after all these years.


                
With the Nazi rise to power in Eastern Europe in the late 1930's, Charles Chaplin turned his attention to creating a reaction to it. The catalyst may well have been a propaganda publication referring to Chaplin as a Jewish sympathizer. In The Great Dictator, Chaplin created a dead-on parody of Hitler that is as funny as it is frightening at times. The film traces Hitler's experiences in the German army from World War I up to the present day. Simultaneously, Chaplin plays a Jewish barber who dresses like the tramp who comes out of a hospital after a long long time, only to discover how different the world is under Nazi rule.Paulette Goddard, Chaplin's wife at the time, plays a young Jewish girl whose family is oppressed in a Jewish ghetto. Jack Oakie has a great, Oscar-nominated supporting role as a Mussolini look-alike (Benzini Napaloni) who gives Chaplin's Hitler character, Adenoid Hynkel, a lot of fits. Henry Daniell is his usual staid self as Garbitsch, chief adviser to Adenoid Hynkel. Chaplin wrote and directed the film and received Oscar nominations for his screenplay and his acting. The film was also nominated for best picture.Chaplin made the film under tremendous pressure for some obvious reasons and some not so well known. He financed the entire film himself at great risk because of the subject matter, and there were no other major films made regarding Nazi Germany up to that time. The film spent about twenty-one months in production with Chaplin even rebuilding a set and re-shooting a scene to get things right. By the time of the film's release in October of 1940, the war in Europe was well under way with Hitler conquering one country after another, so the film became much more topical at its release than when production first began.There isn't much plot in looking at the film in retrospect; the film seems more like a series of comedy sketches and/or mishaps strung together to get to a purpose independent of the film itself. Several examples of this occur in the last third of the film with the meeting between Hynkel and Napaloni. The scene is very very funny, but it leads no where in terms of the plot. Likewise, the escape of both the barber and Schultz simply leads to the mistaken identity of the barber for Hynkel in order to give Chaplin (through the barber character) an opportunity to pontificate to the audience at the end of the film. On the other hand, what better way to make a point about the misplaced narcissism of Aryan superiority than to have a Jewish Barber mistaken for Hynkel? Still, the film contains many high comic moments, such as the rally speech, the new war developments (bulletproof uniforms, etc.), the dancing globe scene, the coin in the pudding scene, and the entire scenario between Hynkel and Napaloni (including the barber chair scene) to highly recommend the film. One can also not forget the risks Chaplin took in making his first talking film, an anti-Nazi film, and financing the film himself. ***1/2 of 4 stars.
In his very first 'talkie' film. Charlie Chaplin proves as he did with his silent work to be impressive and inspirational in this now classic comedy/drama parodying the events leading up to and during the Second World War. The film opens with a Jewish soldier fighting on a fictionalised version of the Western Front for the nation of Tomania. After a near-fatal plane crash, the barber loses his memory and spends twenty years recovering in a hospital, during the same time his country and people are undergoing a radical revolution in the name of a new dictator named Adenoid Hynkel. Considered taboo and even downright dangerous at the time, The Great Dictator shows Chaplin to be more than just an outstanding actor and comedian, but a remorseful and courageous human being standing up to the real world troubles at the time and using his voice as a weapon. This is not just apparent in the beautiful and unifying speech that Chaplin delivers in the third act, but in his depiction of dictators and corrupt rulers. The film will have you laughing, cheering and even crying by the soul-touching finale, which challenges the very concept of human nature and the slow demise of mankind. While Chaplin may have come to pass, his legacy has well and truly lived on in what some consider his finest work. The only minor flaws are a lack of a real soundtrack that could have boosted the emotion, especially in the more serious scenes and some recurring gags that loose their comedic value by the end. 9/10


                
"I'm sorry, but I don't want to be an emperor. That's not my business. I don't want to rule or conquer anyone. I should like to help everyone if possible."That final five minute speech given by Chaplin shows his true genius as a director, actor, and screenwriter. He was capable of understanding better than anyone the social realities he was part of and made one of the best anti-Nazi propaganda films I've seen. Giving his character who had been silent up to that film such an important speech was such a powerful and historical moment in film history. I don't know why I always believed Chaplin was one of those directors that never managed to handle the transition from silent films to talkies very well, because ironically this (his first complete talkie) is my favorite film of his. The way he was able to use his physical comedy with as little dialogue as possible and then add some funny lines was a beautiful touch. He said what he could with his physical performance and then used sound to say what actions couldn't tell wholeheartedly. Chaplin had proved that actions speak louder than words with his Tramp films, but when those words are in tune with actions they can blow you away and that is how I felt with The Great Dictator. In 1940 no one knew about the horrendous crimes the Nazi's were going to commit against the Jews, but Chaplin was warning the world from the beginning how hate and racism could destroy the world. That powerful speech continues to resonate with audiences almost 75 years later and you can add that scene to Chaplin's wonderful legacy in film. There are several other memorable scenes in this two hour film (the longest Chaplin film I've seen, yet probably the one I would be most likely to rewatch), mostly all involving Chaplin's wonderful physical comedy as he makes fun of Hitler. While the entire world seemed to be ignoring Hitler and Mussolini's abuse of power, Chaplin courageously was warning us in the best way he could, through slapstick comedy, about their horrendous racial beliefs and the dehumanization it would lead to. The film opens during the First World War where a soldier (Charles Chaplin) who is later introduced as a Jewish barber, is saving the life of a pilot named Schultz (Reginald Gardiner). They escape on a small plane, but eventually they crash and the barber loses his memory. Several years later he is released from the hospital but everything has changed. They lost the war, and Dictator Adenoid Hynke (also played by Charles Chaplin) is now rebuilding the country of Tomania. The Jews in the ghetto are being discriminated and treated poorly by Hynke's soldiers and the barber has no clue as to what is going on. A friendly neighbor named Hannah helps him, but there is not much they can do against the soldiers. When he gets into trouble with some of them, the commanding officer arrives and it happens to be Schultz who immediately helps the barber and offers him and the people in his ghetto protection. For a while things look good for them, but when Dictator Hynke discovers Schultz is helping the Jews he sends for his arrest and the Jews suffer persecution once again. Hynke plans to rule the world so his first step is invading Osterlich, the place where Hannah and her family were forced to flee. Things aren't looking good for the Barber and his friends, but keeping his head up and joining forces with Schultz, they are ready to make a stand.The Great Dictator was truly a delightful and joyous experience. I don't know why I liked it more than his silent films because I really enjoyed all of them, but there was something about The Great Dictator that just hit all the right notes with me. I fell in love with this film and will definitely recommend it as my favorite Chaplin film. I wasn't considering watching his next two talkies, but after the experience I had with The Great Dictator I'm definitely considering watching them. I loved the way Chaplin clearly stated his beliefs in this film, mocking Hitler and his inhumane ideas with a courageous performance considering no one was doing anything to stop him at that time. But it's not just a brave film, it is really funny as well and I found myself laughing throughout many scenes. His physical comedic talents can still be seen in this talkie; one of his most memorable scenes involves a globe dance sequence. Paulette Goddard, who was also in Chaplin's Modern Times, gives yet another sweet performance, and Jack Oakie will forever be remembered for his role as Napaloni, Dictator of Bacteria, which was a clear lampoon on Mussolini. This was one perfectly executed satire that happened to come along at the right moment. Unlike in other politically correct films, Chaplin makes it evident that ridiculing Hitler was his main objective. It is a classic and a must see for film lovers everywhere.


                
The film starts with a long title sequence typical of early films. Charlie Chaplin is a bumbling, albeit somewhat effective, Jewish soldier in WW1. He's in an air crash and awakens after the war without his memory. His town has been turned into a ghetto and the the anti-Semite Hynkel has seized power. He tries to return to normal life, but of course can't, as the anti- Jewish laws are far too powerful. He and a friend from WW1, who is now a pariah, try to stop the evil Hynkel and his ally Napoloni. Towards the end, the Jewish barber/soldier is mistaken for Hynkel and delivers a speech of brotherly love that appears to stop the coming war.I now really know what a "gag" is after watching this. I had seen such things in "Airplane" but never known them by this name. As the barber tries to operate the AA gun, as he throws the grenade, and as he and Schulz are in the plane. It's really a collection of many funny sketches in the beginning. The airplane was particularly funny with the feigned exhaustion of Schulz. I couldn't stop laughing as Schulz tried to drink from the canteen. The scenes in the ghetto are often gnashing, because, as we know now, the situation was much darker. However, even giving attention to these is something many didn't do at the time, so it looks more artistic than calloused. This is still a pretty funny movie, although a modern movie would probably be quicker paced and have more recognizable actors. It has, after all, been about 74 years. It's still funny though - a big recommend.
The Great Dictator Is written and directed by Charlie Chaplin. It also sees him play duel roles. In the primary role he plays Dictator Adenoid Hynkel of a fictional country called Tomainia. Who over the course of the film tries to expand his empire by trying to borrow money from a Jewish banker In order to Invade his neighbouring country of Osterlich. After being refused the loan he orders the purge of Jewish community which was already being subjugated under his orders.Chaplins second role Is juxtaposed against Hynkel, he plays a Jewish barber(his name is never given) and Is a WW1 veteran. Who In the process of saving the life of a wounded pilot, loses his own memory. Twenty years later returns to the ghetto where he falls In love with Hannah(Paulette Goddard), and tries to go back to being a barber. However after being constantly harassed by Hynkels stormtroopers, finds himself on the run.The set up and story of this film is fairly basic, and offers no surprises, but the film never Intends to. Instead this Is a platform for Chaplin to voice a larger message. The film was made In 1940, at the time the USA hadn't entered the war yet. Whilst the horrors and persecution of the Jewish people hadn't been fully realised yet at that point In time. If It had of been know, I think this would've been a very different film, It probably wouldn't of even been made.This if one of only a couple of films In which Chaplin spoke In, and It's this reason why the film feels more powerful then It would've been had someone else starred In It. This is personified In what many people would agree to be the finest speech In film history at the end of the film. The last five minutes of the film are by far and away the most famous aspect of the film, and for good reason. It's a rousing and profound speech, that comes straight from Chaplins heart. It's a speech that speaks too the very goodness of humanity. It's also made all the more effective coming from a man known for his silence.Whilst the last few minutes of the film has a very serious tone and message. The film contains the usual levity and slapstick humour that Is associated with Chaplins work. There are many moments of excellent satire peppered all throughout the film. my personal favourite being when the Barber meets up with the pilot he saved twenty years later(Schultz). Schultz saves him from being taken by the Stormtroopers. He says to the barber "Strange, and I always thought of you as an Aryan" To which Chaplins barber responds "I'm a vegetarian" In a deadpan manner. There are a few jokes that do feel a little dated. The majority however hit their mark, and feel fresh and contemporary In todays current climate.The Great Dictator came out at an Important time not just film history, but human history. Whilst some of the satire Is a little too on the nose. The film did what it needed too do with flying colours, It's a beautiful film to watch and the editing and direction is on point. The Great Dictator maybe arguably one of the most important films ever made. It's a film that everyone should watch at-least once In their life-time.


                
This is probably the film that Chaplin is best known for, even though it isn't actually one of the films from the repertoire of silent classics. In a way it is not so much a criticism of Fascism in Europe but rather a criticism of US isolationism. However, it doesn't necessarily seem to be that as Chaplin seems to be making a mockery of the fascist dictators in Europe as opposed to actually confronting his viewers with the reality of the situation, and while in a sense we may, at least at this time, consider Hitler to be something of a joke, the reality of the horrors weren't going to come to the fore until much later.The film beings in World War I, where a Jewish barber is fighting on the Front Lines, and then ends up not only saving a pilot, but after crashing the plane ending up in hospital with amnesia. Twenty years later we have him leave the hospital and return to the ghetto to see that in one sense nothing has changed, but in another sense quite a lot has changed. The thing is that the Jews up to that time have always lived in Ghettos, and have always suffered persecution under the hands to those around them, however things seemed to be getting a lot worse.The Great Dictator cuts between Hynkle, who is played by Chaplin, and the Barber, who is also played by Chaplin. The Hynkle scenes are in a sense a lot of slapstick, in a way that politicians are mocked. It is similar with the barber scenes, yet Chaplin seems to be trying to challenge us with the problems that the Jews were living under at the time, and the nature of extreme racism. However, he also seemed to be trying to open our eyes to the fact that this wasn't just the case in Germany, but everywhere. The thing was that nobody particularly cared about the Jews, which is why Hitler was able to get away with what he did, though we must remember that he did work to cover the holocaust up somewhat.It isn't a silent film though, which sort confronted me at least since Chaplin was one of the masters of the silent era. However, I doubt it would have worked as one. What is interesting though are the speeches. Obviously there is the great speech that is delivered at the end, which is in effect let's stop being mean to each other and start to learn to actually get along. We also have Hynkle's speeches which are basically gibberish. At first I thought he may have been just mocking Hitler, but there is also that essence with the idea that it is not the content that actually matters, but the energy with which it is delivered. In a way Hitler, like many other populist politicians, are able to get people on side simply by telling them what they want to hear. Also, one could even suggest that the content could be drastically changed, but as long as the energy that delivered the original speech is replicated, then people will simply continue to follow along blindly, which is why the barber was able to get away with what he did.
The Great Dictator was released in 1940, before the true magnitude of atrocities committed by the Nazis was known. The character of Adenoid Hynkel is obviously Adolf Hitler and the character of Benzino Napalon, played by Jack Oakie is obviously Benito Mussolini. Written and directed by Chaplin, it is truly a masterpiece. The movie begins with Chaplinisk slap-stick comedy, which had me rolling with the silliness of it. But, as the film progresses, the theme changes and by the end, when Chaplin delivers the closing speech, the raw emotion is very nearly overwhelming. Sadly, though there is no longer an obvious monster to despise and blame for the ills of the world, the film remains poignant and pertinent. "Greed has poisoned men's souls, has barricaded the world with hate, has goose- stepped us into misery and bloodshed." The speech has as much applicability to our modern world as it did in 1940. It remains for me a monumental mystery that we are continually being shown the harshness and callousness of society, yet we continue along the same path.The Great Dictator is a wonderful, germane, comedic, powerful, moving testament to human nature. Hopefully, one day we will graduate from our ignorance.
THE GREAT DICTATOR is a cinematic masterpiece with equal doses of vaudevillian humor and poignant drama. It is the story of Adenoid Hynkel and a Jewish barber. One aspires to take over the world, while the other just wants to live his life free of oppression. It is to Charlie Chaplin's credit that this film is able to speak to the human heart in such a moving way, which is what it's all about. Charlie Chaplin gives two excellent performances as the dictator, Adenoid Hynkel, and a Jewish barber. Both roles give him an opportunity to display the physical comedy which he was already so famous for. He also gets a lot of laughs by ranting in pseudo-German. The rest of the cast also do well in their roles, particularly the actor who played Benzino Napaloni (a parody of Mussolini). There was also some great cinematography and set design. The only minor thing I felt was wrong was the opening sequence, which I felt dragged on a little too long. Still, it was a nice throwback to Chaplin's previous silent movies and had some nice sight gags (really, there was quite a number of hilarious sight gags throughout). Overall, this should be seen by any self-respecting movie-lover, if only for the impassioned speech at the end, which ranks as one of the greatest movie speeches I've ever witnessed.


                
One of the funniest opening sequences followed by a highly audacious, extravagant, contemporary and darkly hilarious work of Charlie Chaplin ending with a rousing poignant speech. While playing his run-of-the-mill tramp character with his usual flourish, Chaplin delivered a masterstroke as Hynkel - a mockery of Hitler by generating laughs from the eccentricity and egotistic nature of the character. By making a comedy out of the highly precarious situation of the Jews exactly during the full blown Holocaust might have garnered a reputation for bad taste, but enough care was taken not to hurt feelings and all the angst is directed towards the fascists.A Jewish Barber (Charles Chaplin) suffers amnesia after getting injured in the war saving a General. The barber remains contained in a hospital staying ignorant to the ascent of a tyrant Hynkel - the eccentric dictator of Tomania (Charles Chaplin again) and the condition of his kind. When he stands up to the harassing fascist soldiers after walking into the turbulent world he earns love of Hannah (Paulette Goddard) but wrath from the fascists saved timely by the General. Meanwhile Hynkel is plotting to invade Osterlich by tricking Napolini, the dictator of Bacteria into pulling back their army.Charles Chaplin is already a legend in playing the tramp character, but Hynkel was a different ballgame for him. It is a character of aggression, superiority and eccentricity but still clumsy as the tramp. The war sequences, rich palace settings elevates the scale of the movie compared to his previous outing, an equally magnificent 'Modern Times'. Chaplin is a gifted all rounder with a profound writing talent that always portrays the triumph of looking at life in positive outset and a sense of humor. The background score is melodious and rich according the situations. Paulette Goddard looks aged and heavy compared to 'Modern Times' but retains the charm and infective energy she possessed there. The remaining actors and the technical departments do an apt job in putting together this masterpiece.Audacious, extravagant, contemporary and darkly hilarious


                
IMDb Top 250: 86The Great Dictator is a gem in film, and a gem in history. It's a shame so few people have seen it. This is one of my favourite, arguably number 1 comedy ever, and one of the best war movies ever made. I am not an easy critic to please when it comes to comedies, but the Great Dictator blew me away. It's incredible.The plot, for most of the film, doesn't go anywhere. This is beneficial for the film, because instead of forcing direction like many comedies, Chaplin decided to run the film like a series of sketch comedies. Alternating between the Dictator and the Barber, we see a series of situations occur to both characters. While the barber is 'similar' to the Tramp, Henkyl is outstanding. His first speech, absolute gibberish with a few words tossed in for humour, made me laugh out loud. Hard. I can't remember the last time a film made me do that.Towards the end, developments happen and the pacing is impeccable. Just when the sketches could start to seem redundant, the invasion plans start. Whereas most comedies stop humour for plot movement, the Great Dictator keeps the laughs rolling. I won't discuss the plot, but it sets up a timeless ending. (More on that later.) One other character tickled my funny bone- Napaloni. His Italian stereotype cracked me up, with his a-words, his a-hand gestures and costume. The satire here is spot-on. The film's ignorance is it's greatest strength. The film would be much safer, less shocking, or have not happened if Chaplin knew what was happening at the time. But because it was released when it was, we see a more raw, explicit parody of a madman and his ideas.It's funny, the importance of this film. A parody of a conflict, and what a conflict it was, while the war raged. Imagine if someone made an Afghanistan version (without puppets 'Team America') today, without fear of judgement or knowledge of the atrocities that are surely happening to both sides. That is the Great Dictator. Used to anger Axis soldiers (read the IMDb trivia), banned in many countries, and seen by Hitler himself twice. This is the movie I wanted Dr. Strangelove to be: zany and witty.The Great Dictator, despite its age, is one of the funniest movies I've seen. And then at th end, Charlie stops and gives a timeless, touching speech about war that I don't want to spoil: see it. A historical masterpiece. 9.5/10


                
What an amazing performance by probably the most talented comedian in history! His over-acting personality fits perfectly of a parody of Hitler. I'm sure he's was outraged when the Tramp did this film, but he deserves it. The final scene is one of my favorites in the whole movie. Throughout the whole film you see a comedian making fun of one of the most evil humans in history, but in the end you a truly amazing actor who almost looks as if he's going to cry give an amazing speech of human dignity. The acting from Charlie Chaplin is probably the best performance of the the 1940's in my opinion. In this film he could make people laugh, cry, rejoiced with love or (if your a Nazi) hate him. The point is... his performance was amazing and I think it is by far his best work.


                
CONTAINS PROBABLE SPOILERS(((One of the history's best funny - people Charlie Chaplin made this critic, funny and beautiful satire right when the World War II started for bloody serious. STORY: we follow two twins in each part of the World War who's about to begin. The jewish barber and the double - cross dictator.
The movie is so peculiar, so brilliant and nice that I laughed myself and ammused myself so much with this film that I dare say it being one of the film motion pictures ever made! Charlie Chaplin's genius brains and moves twists together into a lunatic comedy filled with everything from typical slapstick to art inspired parody. Brilliant in every way it shell and want to be! Unforgettable!! STARS: ***** 5/5 (satire on it's best!)
The Great Dictator is a 1940 satirical comedy directed by and starring Charlie Chaplin. Chaplin actually plays two roles in the film: Adenoid Hynkel, the dictator of the fictional country of Tomania and the Jewish Barber, a WWI veteran returning from a years long convalescence to a Jewish ghetto in Tomania. Hynkel and the Dictator of Bacteria, Napaloni (played with great comic timing by Jack Oakie) haplessly try to one up each other and become the first to start WWII by invading another country. Meanwhile, the Jewish Barber wrestles with life in an increasingly authoritarian and anti-Semitic Tomania. The Jewish Barber also pursues the defiant Hannah (played by Paulette Goddard) who teaches him how to navigate through the chaotic ghetto.Chaplin started shooting the film almost one week after Nazi Germany invaded Poland in 1939. When the film was released a year later, the US had still not entered the war and major studios were wary of running afoul of German sensibilities or being seen as advocating a side in the European wars. Chaplin, one of the most recognizable stars in the world at that time, took a daring risk to his personal career by releasing a film that not only parodied Hitler but brought attention to Jewish persecution under the Nazi regime.In confronting a current day crisis, Chaplin's film was a prelude for another writer-director-star, Spike Lee, to take on the controversial topic of race relations and police brutality in 1989 with Do The Right Thing. Both filmmakers were criticized for inciting people to take up arms and fight for their freedoms. However, both the directors and their films have been vindicated by history as their films are largely seen as rousing viewers to think deeply about current events and as courageous predictions of future troubles.The Great Dictator's closing scene is in stark contrast to the rest of the film and Chaplin's career to date. The final few minutes has the Jewish Barber (being mistaken for the dictator, Hynkel) giving a speech that implores the crowd (and the audience since Chaplin's character is facing the camera) to resist hate and fascism. This was Chaplin's first full picture with synchronized sound. For an audience in 1940 to hear one of the most popular humans on the planet give such a speech against tyranny must have been unexpected. Chaplin uses this technique to grab hold of the audience and step out of his normal comedic persona to focus the film on his words and not his antics.Chaplin would later state that he never would have made The Great Dictator had he been aware of the full horrors of the Holocaust. There are certainly some odd scenes where the juxtaposition of Chaplin's slapstick comedy against the backdrop of Jewish persecution is unsettling. But, Chaplin could not have known the full extent of the Nazi's crimes. He used his resources and star power to sponsor a film that attempted through comedy to warn people of the horrors to come and make an appeal for universal humanity. Chaplin should be applauded for his sincere efforts.


                
