I just returned from seeing a special preview of "The Help," which is due out in theaters this summer. Okay, so here's the truth: I'm a middle-aged, white male... I didn't read the book and I assumed, based on the fact that this is a virtually an all-female cast, that this was some sort of chick flick. Boy, was I wrong! This is an incredible film that not only pays justice to the bestseller on which it's based (according to those who have read the book AND seen the film), but is phenomenally cast, with exceptional performances by Viola Davis, Emma Stone, Octavia Spencer, Bryce Dallas Howard and Allison Janney. Veteran actresses Sissy Spacek and Cicely Tyson also deliver incredible performances. While Tyson's character is central to the storyline, her role comprises what seems to be a few, precious minutes of the 2:20 running time, she delivers, in my opinion, one of the most powerful and moving moments in the film...one in which she doesn't even utter a line (trust me, you'll know when you see it.)The Help also delivers some very funny moments and will make you laugh. I'll go so far as to say that this film and a few of its cast members will draw some Oscar nominations. I certainly think this takes Stone into a whole new level.The racial imbalances of 1963 are well illustrated in "The Help," and will, no doubt, underscore how far America has come, as well as how little progress we've made in the last 50 years. Either way, this is a powerful movie that needs to be seen on the big screen as soon as you can get a ticket.


                
I saw a preview of this film a few weeks ago in Philadelphia. I am huge fan of the book and could not wait to see the movie. I was not disappointed. I LOVED this movie. I have not seen anything more moving or more real in such a long time.The movie stays very close to the book. The book has a bit more details, but all the parts of the book that make it so great were in the movie. There was not a thing missed in the screenplay.The characters come alive on the screen. There is no stretch of imagination. The casting is perfect.Go see this, you will not be disappointed!


                
The Help is one of the many films that's set in the 60s that deals with themes like prejudice and racism involving segregation amongst the Whites and the African Americans in Jackson, Mississippi, but having the very same themes also being relevant in society today even here in Singapore especially, with recent talk and focus on the issue of domestic help and our attitudes toward household maids that many employ for various reasons, who assist in looking after the children and the elderly, as well as to keep home while the rest of the adults are neck deep in economic pursuits. While racism is generally kept under control here, there are niggling incidents that pop up every now and then, so clearly we're not off the hook and there will always be individuals who choose intolerance.Granted that racism back then was more pronounced especially during that era put on film, the story's based on an international bestseller written by Kathryn Stockett, and over here we're bound to identify with the issues highlighted especially in the horror stories you'd hear with regards to the treatment of domestic help, with abuse cases that make you sit up and wonder why we are capable of such inhumane acts. And the worst of all involves being hypocritical, putting on a false front for society, while clearly behaving like the devil when behind closed doors. The bottom line is, we're all humans and we share similar hopes and dreams whatever our skin colour, language and where we're from, in desiring a comfortable life filled with love, with a roof over our heads, food and community, friends and family we can turn to in times of need. Which is why this film has themes and a poignant, thought provoking narrative that screams relevance, especially for those closeted intolerant few who must watch this, and reflect. Emma Stone stars as Eugenia "Skeeter" Phelan, an aspiring journalist who has returned home only to find out that the group of peers she had grown up with, are leading a lifestyle of superficial leisure, saying a lot of things, but meaning nothing. And for all their cliquish behaviour in cruelly treating one of their own as a social outcast (Jessica Chastain from The Tree of Life), for an ulterior reason only Hilly (Bryce Dallas Howard) knows, what more their household maids who have to slog with the chores, be that surrogate mother to their kids, be at their beck and call, and being given attitude, stick, and threats of the sack?Given the tension all round during the time, it's no wonder that Skeeter's plans to want to highlight The Help's predicament and provide them with a voice, no doubt also serving as a ticket for her journalistic ambitions to embark on a career in New York, all met with stone walled silence, until Aibileen Clark (Viola Davis) decided that enough is enough, and begin opening up to Skeeter as research material, becoming her insights and perspective on how the African American help get treated in White households. And besides Aibileen's point of view, her friend Minny Jackson (Octavia Spencer) also chipped in, and both represent the broad spectrum of heartfelt accounts both good and bad, though largely negative, with the tacit understanding with Skeeter that they are not to be referred to directly.It's one of those powerful films that takes the ugly side of humanity and presents it to us face on, to confront how cruel some of us can be, and what the strong amongst us must do to act and help those who are weak or bullied. Director Tate Taylor, who also wrote the screenplay, focuses on the tales crafted around the households both Aibileen and Minny serve, from being treated like dirt to forming firm friendships with some of the people they know and serve, such as Celia Foote (Jessica Chastain), as a reminder on how we should never judge a book by its cover, being obviously relevant when one gets handed one's fate for being of a certain skin colour. You may think that this may be a heavy film with all its seriousness, but trust me there is enough light hearted, even heart warming moments scattered throughout, though counter-balanced with moments of fear that will make you worry for the characters since mob mentality can lead to anything.Emma Stone normally plays kooky characters of late, so this was perfect opportunity for her to shine in more serious drama which she does adequately. But she got upstaged by both Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer, the former who brought a certain quiet dignity to her role which just calls for respect, and the latter being the comic relief as a really straight-talker, and whose story was probably the most touching in the film, with one of the funniest, running gag in the later half. Bryce Dallas Howard also owned her role as the antagonist Hilly in the film, and if you'd think she's only capable of goody two shoes roles, think again as she can convincingly play back-stabbers, with Sissy Spacek in a supporting role as Hilly's mom.The Help reminds us of how one has to have Fear and Courage to addresses changes in community or the larger society we serve in, without which we would all be poorer for it. It may be almost 2 1/2 hours long, but it's every minute worth it just watching how an uphill battle was fought, and baby steps being taken each time to overcome obstacles placed in the characters' way. It's guaranteed that you'll laugh and you'll cry in the film thanks to its material, and it's firmly one of the contenders to be amongst my favourite films of this year. Highly recommended!


                
Look folks, I'm not the one to go watch a movie and then come and write a review. This is very rare, in fact this is the first time. First of all, I'm a black middle-aged male living in Australia. I'm not into that black-white-red-yellow affirmative action, divide or whatever you call it and I have not experienced that American slavery or racism history except seeing it presented one-sided or biased on TV.Now having proclaimed my neutrality above, I will tell you this: this is one powerful movie that will sure touch and move you in one way or another whatever your political lining. The casting, directing and acting are top-of-the-shelf superb A+++. When my wife first told me about it, I said OK whatever. Man was I wrong! I cried and laughed at the same throughout the movie, and I'm a dude and where I come from men are not supposed to show their soft side. All I can say is go see the movie and it will be worth it.


                
This movie will hold a special glue to anyone who has been a Gone With The Wind fan , for the rest it just might simulate them to revisit those history lessons . The film is brilliantly cast , there being not a single dull moment. The film revolves around three very different women who form an unlikely friendship in their quest for a common goal. It is much more then just being about the state of events in the 1950s at the South .Its a portrayal of a waning tradition that still grips the peninsula even after a century of the Civil War which was fought to abolish the exact same custom. It raises serious issues - demarcation of people based on skin color , making another human being walk in incessant rain rather than allowing her(it?) to use one's own bathroom , makes us reflect that we still aren't very far along the vicious prejudice. The movie also touches upon how the untarnished mind of a child is capable to love the same person he would grow up to walk all over on, of how society can be a venomous influence in conditioning the brain on so much discrimination. In the end it also hints that even after being subjected to centuries of venom , the heart still has the capability to love, that there is still hope for all of us.


                
This movie is a gem among a field of roses that the last year has given us. There have been tons of great movies in the last few seasons, however, this movie has created its own ranks. Beyond the shadow of a doubt, The Help entices every second eyes hit the screen.Having not read the book, and knowing just how often that I can honestly say that the books are way better than the film, I cannot see how the book could be better! If it is, then I have gotta say, best book ever written.I was crying, laughing, getting angry, clapping, and every good thing you could evoke into an audience at a movie theater. If I wasn't so shy, I would have given a standing applaud at the end of the movie.I recommend this to anyone and everyone, it will not disappoint.


                
After reading the book, I was anxious to see how well the actresses matched the characters. I absolutely LOVED Emma and Viola. They made the movie realistic and followed the characters from the book exactly. I don't think many actresses could have pulled it off. Also, it was a relief to see that Hilly was a lot less intimidating in the movie than in the book. What I like most about The Help is that it wouldn't be a huge deal to not have read the book; the movie would suffice (creating the same emotions in both film and book). Two side notes: (1) even after seeing the movie, read the end of the book regarding the author. (2) Emma is awesome--would love to work with her!


                
This is the most wonderful movie. I enjoyed everything about it. I adore the characters and the story line. Excellent movie!!!!! I think it is well told and it is a very moving story. It is a slow paced movie but I found myself intrigued by each moment. The only thing I found myself wanting at the end of the movie was more story line. This is a touching endearing movie, I cried and laughed. I haven't seen a good movie like this in awhile. Though most will consider this a "chick flick", I think men could enjoy it just as much. A must see! I would compare this movie to "Life as a House" and "Evening Star". A story that just captures you heart and you don't want it to end.


                
Perfect. A movie about the civil rights movement in the 1960's responds with a light hearted approach to the chaos whilst conjunctively addressing the hardship of 'The Help'. Whilst the in-story author requires help from the help, to right about the Help may seem disorienting, Tate Taylor (Director) does this in a way that no other Director seems to be able to do correctly. Great camera work located at about 30 minutes, where the camera spirals upwards, following Emma Stone up the spiral staircase is a shot that has been remembered by myself and is something I look for within movies today. However, this shot and the shot at the end credits place it comfortably - in my books, as the shot which is on par with final shot from 'The Passenger'. The end credits in particular allow the actors the right of recognition which they all deserve. Keeping to the underlying message right down to the point. A film which is undeniably rare for our time, a perfect 10 out of 10, 5 out of 5, masterpiece.


                
How many times have we searched in vain for a "good movie". We all say, "they just don't make good movies anymore".THIS is one of them. I watched it from start to finish. I would watch it again and tell others to watch it. It was one of the finest movies I have watched in a long, long time. The entire cast did a fantastic believable job in making this story come to life.It was something you could watch with the entire family. It literally gives you an inside view of how "hired help" was treated back then. It also showed you what it was like to be part of the upper elite and how so many dared not speak their opinions for fear of being cast out.It showed you that not only did the help do their jobs but some of them honestly cared for members of the family they worked for.


                
Absolutely the best movie of the last few years. Loved it. Laughed, cried, related, remembered, and remember Martin Luther King's speech I have a dream. This is an awesome movie everyone should see. Racism is disgusting and should never be. This movie was so good and had such a great message I didn't want it to end. I grew up with racist parents and grandparents and I can tell you I could very well have ended up prejudice but I hated it then and I hate it now. We make choices in life if we are going to do right or wrong and we all bleed red. If people can't get along on earth what makes anyone think God wants them in heaven? This was wonderful how they presented what was still going on in the 60s. I saw the racism and hatred with the watts riots, the tension in Long Beach, and the hatred from both sides. This movie was presented so good and had such great aspects to it that it was the one movie in hundreds I have seen that I would even want to give a review on. Acting great, story great, and even if it was just a presentation of what things went on and might not have been about a particular family...this was pretty darn accurate by what I lived through in the 60s. Thanks for the movie. It was a delight to watch and I give it a triple A rating. All families should watch this together and discuss it after because it truly should win every award out there.


                
In 2008,I had a chance to watch a movie that stood on it's strong performances and an excellent adaptation from a Tony Award winning play...........I'm talking of the movie 'Doubt'.The movie had nearly the entire cast nominated for the Oscars that year.One performer was Voila Davis,who had strongly caught my attention for her class performance.She had a screen space of hardly a couple of minutes .....but she exploited those moments completely to show us an authentic portrayal of a concerned mother. This year in The Help,she again manages to move us with her acting potentials.She does the role of a black maid who raises white children.The movie is set against the backdrop of racism, wherein the maids (all colored women) from Jackson come forward to give in their experiences in the houses of the whites where they are employed.And each ones experiences comes together to take in the shape of a book by Anonymous, thanks to Skeeter(Emma Stone.... another notable character in the movie),which turns out to be popular but also a threat to some of the white women who have to face the consequences of their mindset(one hilarious moment being when Mrs.Hilly eats the pie made by Minny........an incredible revenge I say)...oh yeah .........Minny....Octavia Spencer,I should mention has done an outstanding work....one class apart performance......and even Jessica Chastain manages to grab your attention as a dumb white mistress(Ms.Celia Foote) to Minny but she is extremely good at heart(which I believe is more important to call yourself a human being). Viola Davis as Aibileen is not only just impressive but is the real show stealer.The performances of the women are so brilliant that the viewer tends to overlook everything else about the film. But what makes the performances so strong is beautiful adaptation of the screenplay and a good job from the director ........Tate Taylor.....he surely does deserve kudos.What I loved about his work was that he could purely read my mind....I gave it a thought .......is the movie about racism?.......NO..........it is only about the maids who are doing an incredible favor to their mistress.......raising their children.........and in return these women get treated like shits.I adore the way he made this point clear across the film. The movie on a whole has been brilliant.....after a long time I got to see a movie that made me laugh,cry,thrill.......and most importantly made me feel humbled...It is surely one of the best movies of the year!!!!


                
Even though the movie The Help is a work of fiction, here's a true story: I offended someone today when I proclaimed at work: "I finally saw the first 5-star movie of 2011: 'The Help'!"Of course, with a touchy subject such as this, it's a 50/50 chance you'll offend with someone with this movie and subject-matter. Granted, I thought I would be in good graces since the person I upset was black and I only briefly mentioned it where she could overhear it.Apparently, her beef was mainly for the fact that the prejudice portrayed still runs true today – don't I know that! Anyways, like I always say about most work places: "Why even install carpet in the office, when the floor is covered with eggshells?"This movie was moving, brilliant, wonderfully written, emotional, well-acted and stirs up enough emotions to make us all think twice on how we treat each other. I know I stood back and was actually ashamed of being white during this viewing.Rebel Skeeter (the always wonderful Emma Stone) is wanting to write a book against her (ENORMOUSLY) racist bridge-playing peers and in the POV of "the help," i.e. black maids when "the deep south" still treated non-whites as inhumanly as possible. It's not easy for a VERY hard working servant to give their story, but with great courage it happens. And then it happens<U+0085>it hits the fan.Loved this movie. The performances all around, whether you love the individual or HATE HATE HATE the character, were pitch-perfect. The dialogue had be both rolling and angry (in a good way) at the same time. And the pacing, despite the more-than-2-hours running time was completely well used.I also love the fact that it was<U+0085>fiction. Some people are claiming this as heavy-handed. Bah. This was a perfect summarization of the travesty that happened back in the 1950s/1960s and like my fellow peer realizes, still today. SEE THIS MOVIE<U+0085>and then look at ourselves.
...this is one of the best films I've ever seen.I've been told I haven't written enough so my review won't be shown. For goodness sake. I find reading long reviews tedious and boring. This is a great film, worthy of Oscars for Best Film, Best Actress, Best Supporting Actress (so many to choose from in this film).I have to write ten lines of text for the review to be taken seriously. I'd like to know why? It's a great film go and see it! It's a great film go and see it! It's a great film go and see it! It's a great film go and see it! If I fill the review up with junk words 'they' will delete my account. Do you know what, I don't care. IMDb is obviously a pompous lot and need to review themselves. It's still not long enough for a review apparently so I'll keep up the twaddle in the sure knowledge my account will be deleted. Hooray, I'll stick to twitter.


                
It took me 3 days to read the book and I went out and watched the movie right afterwards, with every detail still fresh in my mind. Of course in a book based film there will be some differences, details that get left out. I was thoroughly pleased with this film and how close it came to the book. The things that were changed or left out are understandable. There are a couple of small things I wished the movie stayed true to: Constantine being a large, tall woman, and of course the way that Stuart left Skeeter. Although, I would have been happy if they left out him leaving all together and had him stay with her :) The cast they chose was incredible. I am a huge Emma Stone fan, but I have to say that Hilly's character was my favorite. That beautiful woman played that horrible part so well. And please let me revert back to a teenager for a moment and say that Chris Lowell is a hottie. Last but not least... I saw interviews saying that Aibileen's character was really going to have to work hard to fill the shoes and believe me, SHE DID, but I have to say that Octavia Spencer was outstanding. Minny stole the show. This is an incredible film and I will watch it over and over.


                
An exceptionally well-made drama with a quality cast, top performances & a keen eye for small-town social mores. A simplistic portrayal of historic race relations boosted by terrific performances from some of the best actresses working Hollywood


                
If this film were total fiction bearing no relation to reality, it would still be worth seeing for the fine acting and production values--even if some of the young white women approached "Southern Gothic."But it wasn't fiction--at least, the depiction of Southern society wasn't. As I watched I kept drifting back to small-town South Carolina in the 1950s, where I
mgrew up. It was moving and disturbing to be reminded how black people were treated then--loved and yet "kept down in their place." Our neighborhood was all middle-class and every family had a maid. There were plenty of boys my age, we visited in each other's homes, and called every maid by her first name. One even started a baseball team for the little white boys, for which her reward was a visit by the Klan.Our maid helped my mother cook and clean. One of my parents picked her up and took her home every day--and she rode in the back seat. She ate her lunch in our kitchen--without being allowed to use our utensils. I remember her eating with her fingers. I do not remember ever seeing her use our bathrooms. I thought about that during the movie and truly cannot recall what she did, an embarrassing gap in memory.I do remember when my father was out of work and our maid had to be cut back to three days a week. I actually cried; she was a member of our family. When talk about civil rights began in the late 1950s, my mother became annoyed at our maid for getting "uppity." And so it went. We moved to central Florida in 1961, where there were no maids.Travel back in time with this film. It's quite real, and I highly recommend it.
The message in this film was so powerful. Hats off to the cast and crew for such an amazing performance..


                
This film is phenomenal. Truly one of the best I've seen in a long time and I attend movies weekly. It's an inspirational, courageous and empowering story about very different extraordinary women in the 1960s South who build an unlikely friendship around a secret writing project that breaks society's rules and puts them at risk.The movie is filled with poignancy, humor and hope. Also brings forward messages that all audiences should take heed of, regarding who we are as people,skin color is not a factor.All performances were outstanding,deserving of even more public recognition, awards and credits received. Should have won the Academy Award for sure.I saw this movie a few years ago but can still convey to friends and acquaintances my favorite scenes that made such a lasting impression on me. Mostly those with a comedic flair that packed such a powerful statement.


                
I finally caught this on TV the other night and stayed up very late because I couldn't shut it off. What a great movie. It definitely lives up to all the hype I remember from award season a couple years ago.Set in Mississippi during the 1960s, a southern society girl returns from college determined to become a writer and proceeds to turn her friends lives and a Mississippi town upside down when she decides to interview the black women who have spent their lives taking care of prominent southern families. The entire cast is so flippin' fantastic; (Allison Janney, Emma Stone, Jessica Chastain, Nelsan Ellis, Sissy Spacek, Viola Davis.) And while I can't remember who won the academy award(s?) I will tell you who surprised me was Bryce Dallas Howard as the bitchy society girl. I just didn't expect that sort of range from her, what an evil woman but again everyone involved was great. I'll admit to being uncomfortable and angry with certain scenes (as I was meant to be) but also proud because the world is a changing. 01.07.14


                
I love this movie for it's message. It's also a great way to remind people what America was like in that time period. I feel as if this movie extends further from segregation and more towards the fact that we are all created equally. The story is wonderful. The comedy was genius. I love everything about this movie. One person wanted to stick up for those that weren't being treated fairly and so she did. It was a brave thing to do. Especially when it turned her into an outcast. But did that bother her? Of course not. She set her own personal values aside in order to make a difference. This movie had me laughing. It had me crying. It had my heart breaking. Then it had me leaping for joy. I think everyone should at least give this movie a chance. It could change your entire perspective on life.You is Kind. You is Smart. You is Important.


                
I absolutely and wholeheartedly loved this film. To start, any film starring Emma Stone is my favorite. I believe that the directors created this film with so much respect to all races. No matter what race you are, so much can be learned from the story line of this film. Although this film was based on times that we no longer live in, it did an excellent job portraying it in a way where viewers could relate, understand, and be entertained. This film is not just to bring awareness to past history, but it is also a film that contains different scenes that will make you laugh so hard, scenes that will make you fall in love, and scenes that will make you cry of both sorrow and joy. It is unbelievable that such a great, appropriate, and family friendly movie, can contain all the factors that us as viewers enjoy to sit back and watch. I definitely recommend this film to everyone! It is a film that will open your eyes, and also bring unity within different races, and appreciation for bold people who one day took a stand for freedom and equality.


                
The year is 1963, and Skeeter returns from college to find life as usual among her privileged set. She's the only one in the Junior League who notices that the black servants must silently endure insults and degradation at the hands of their oblivious employers. She decides to write a book about how the help really feel about their jobs and asks to interview several maids. This is socially risky for Skeeter and seriously dangerous for the maids.I loved the book and was glad that the movie is just as good. The cruelty heaped on the help by their snooty bosses is heart-breakingly portrayed. Bryce Dallas Howard was surprisingly good as the nasty queen bee of the Junior League and Emma Stone is refreshing and likable as the brave Skeeter. Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer play Aibileen and Minny, two long-time maids who risk everything to contribute to Skeeter's book. They both give outstanding performances.Life in Jackson, Mississippi, in 1963, is recreated in fine detail and the script is witty and honest. Highly recommended.
Let me first say that my normal type of movie involves lots of tits, guns, and explosions. I went to an early screener of this movie with my sister because she got the tickets from her Junior League and I'm always down for a free movie. I did not expect much more than a nice dark place to nap. Boy was I wrong. This film was absolutely great. I was honestly enticed from the very beginning to the very end. It has a perfect balance of comedy and emotion which at no point is heavy handed. I would recommend this movie to absolutely anyone, and am confident that everyone will enjoy it.


                
No long heavy handed in depth review just the phrase that most aptly applies..."A must see Academy Award Winner." Hollywood has come full circle with what movie fans really want. Nice to see there is hope in tinsel town.If you see nothing else this year at least see this and be glad you did. Acting by all was top shelf with a tremendous script. The most important film since...well since Gone With The Wind. O.K. at least since Steel Magnolias. All the ingredients of what comes together is near perfect. Obviously the Book was a treasure trove of what makes for a classic film. The closest film today to show the plight of people of color since Color Purple. How good was it? I want to see it once again. Maybe twice. I will be buying it as soon as it is made available.


                
