This movie wasn't badly made, it's just bad that it was made. In it every character is a cliché cartoon in support of a fictional rose coloured glasses version of 60's America, where almost every white person is a villain and every black person loves fried chicken. If this is how America learns its history (and judging by the reviews where many have viewed this film as having a positive and accurate message of hope and struggle????), then no wonder the western world is in trouble. Is it worse that a story about the struggle of black people to overcome oppression in racist 60s America is centered on a privileged white woman on the road to New York success? Marginalized yet again it seems. This movie started out as passable entertainment but by the time it crossed the finished line it had stepped full force into misguided and offensive. And shockingly many people seem to not know the difference.


                
A really poor adaptation of a quite brilliant book. I find it difficult to comprehend how they managed to go so wrong with such excellent material. This felt like second rate TV movie throughout, poorly directed and cast. It was very difficult to feel any empathy with Emma Stone's portrayal of Skeeter, her performance lacked any of the depth and complexity of the written equivalent. Bryce Dallas Howard also overplayed Hilly Holbrook in what could have become one of the great on screen villains. The cinematography was also very bland and poor. Having recently seen the likes of Drive, and Tinker, Tailor, Soldier, Spy at the cinema 'The Help' appears as if it was shot by a 12 year old with his first camera in comparison. Normally I find IMDb ratings an accurate basis of a film's quality. How this Sunday afternoon schmaltz has got 8 stars is beyond me.


                
This movie felt so contrived. Emma Stone was okay, but I thought Allison Janney, whom I usually love, overacted. Bryce Howard was awful.Talk about bad overacting! Her character was a cliché joke and of course was the total Southern Jerk so everyone could have someone to really hate! Sissy Spacek was good. I thought it was gross and despicable what the maid did to the pie. So, everyone who has been mistreated should feel entitled do something like that?! Most everyone had horrible, fake Southern accents. I thought Cicley Tyson was her usual terrible actress. I think the whole book and movie are way overrated and Hollywood will likely give it the Oscar because it's right down their alley.


                
Another film where white people are praised for finding a shred of decency within themselves, and helping the poor black people they should never have been oppressing in the first place. Surely I can't be the only person who finds this overdone storyline super offensive.


                
The main characters in this film are stereotypes, which is OK - bu this film had pretensions to delve deep into inter-race relations in the Deep south - the characters are extremely simplistic. The Black characters really are barely above the mammy/maid stereotype - but add to that that the white girls are just mean, the one poor white girl is clueless, then you have the Great White Savior Figure Skeeter - this movie was so depressing to me,, so dirty in it's fundamental assumptions, - it's just a mean, crabby movie. I wish I never saw it, it's like some nasty film on your mind. I will try to forget this as soon as I can .


                
