Well, I grew up during this period in the south and we always had a black maid. We loved our black maid Veronica (first black person I'd ever seen and I thought she was made of my favorite stuff -- chocolate), and our family corresponded with her (and sent her money) for years after we moved. Other families had black maids and no one ever, ever, ever, ever, ever talked about them or treated them the way they are in this film (haven't read the book) but instead with value and respect, though within the confines of the segregationist times. That whole bathroom issue --silly, never happened that I witnessed or heard of.Don't get me wrong: It was certainly a period and relationship worth examination from our more modern era. I can recall at one point going out to visit our maid who was sick. She lived on a piece of farmland -- had all these children, our counterpart, and we played together while parents visited, though I was aware that it was like looking in a mirror, dark on other side. And one can bemoan the disparity of the period (but we still have it though) and still-rampart racism back then that was just taken for granted by everyone. But, no, ma'am, nothing about this movie rang true beyond the fact that the maids were always black, generally poorer, and, yes, helped raise white babies (sang to them, fed them, fussed at them, did their -- my -- hair). Maybe there was just some peculiar cesspool in Jackson, but if anyone had acted like the villain did where we lived, she'd probably be sent for mental treatment (actually not, but everyone would know she was insane).And by the way, no one back then said "Damn" in front of a woman (opening scene), "Jesus" as a cuss-word (opening scene), and heaven forbid "Sh-t" (many times) which I never once heard in my life until college. In summary, this movie struck me as a bit of a cartoon. Plunked down in a real period lifestyle are cartoonish villains as well as cartoonish heroines. Guess you needed to put in such stuff for Hollywood. Or maybe the writer added it to finally get sold. Too bad.


                
I had high expectations before seeing the film. I had just read the book and liked it a lot, one of the best I read in 2011.So, therefore the movie made me disappointed. The film taking several shortcuts and simplifying the story too much. The perspective of the book (Skeeter's) was changed to be the perspective of the maids, mainly Aibileen and Minny. I felt Skeeter was reduced to a bi-stander and not the driver of collecting the interviews and writing the book as in the original text. Take the story of Skeeter and Stuart. It had been cut down so it did not make any sense why he was so gloomy, drinking to much.I urge you all, movie audience and the film makers, to read the book!


                
This isn't a bad movie. It actually has a lot of good material in it. It's an interesting perspective on the civil rights movement of the 1960's and especially on race relations in the state of Mississippi. It revolves around the writing of a book by Skeeter (Emma Stone) - an aspiring author largely raised by a black maid employed by her family who decides to write about what life is like as a black domestic servant in the City of Jackson. As we watch her write, and as she manages to get more and more of the stories of the various "maids" shared with her, we see the sadness and injustice of the southern lifestyle of the era. The "maids" were only slightly better off than the slaves who had come before them - at the whim of their "employers," poorly paid and useful mainly because they allowed the women they worked for to enjoy a relative life of ease, not even having to take responsibility for the raising of their own children. There may have been a little too much caricature involved in that portrayal (although not having lived in Jackson, Mississippi in the '60's, I can't say for sure) but this certainly gives a taste of the era and the society. This isn't about marches or protests, although the killing of civil rights leader Medgar Evers earns a mention; it's a story about people and the struggles they faced overcoming a legacy of racism.And yet, while it's worthwhile (and even manages to tell a difficult story with a fair bit of humour thrown in) it also came across to me at least as lacking a real edge or focus. It needed something more to really draw me in. The stories offered an interesting vignette of southern life, but there wasn't enough of interest to really keep me glued to the film. In fact, throughout the last 30-45 minutes, I was mostly interested in how this was going to end, and frankly every time a new scene came up the thought that went through my head was "there's more."I appreciated it. It made a point, and of course it had the requisite heart-wrenching ending (which, for this story, was very appropriate and not at all superfluous) but it needed something more; it actually needed a lot more for my tastes (although, on the subject of tastes, the story of Minnie's chocolate pie alone makes this movie definitely worth watching!) (4/10)


                
Down here in Brazil, we -- or at least I -- had the impression that this movie was going to make some subtle observations as to the employer/domestic relationship. It was looked forward to as a contribution to comparative ethnography. What a surprise! The movie was neither dramatic enough to be a drama nor comic enough to be a comedy. Pity Divine from the old John Waters movies wasn't still alive to do the part of Hilly. At the conclusion of "Pink Flamingos" many decades ago, Divine did a memorable star turn with dirt the dog had left behind, so Divine might have brought some dimension and resonance to the heavy-handed scene in which Hilly eats chocolate cake, whereas the performance by the little Hollywood actress, whoever she is, had barely enough richness for a remake of National Lampoon's Dorm Daze. Audiences aren't resentful of being hammered with the obvious seven times over? E.g., that Aibeleen, not the white woman, is the standard-issue cute toddler's only real mother? As for the repeated returns to the face of the wounded child in the window, shameless, shameless, shameless. Anyone with a serious interest in employer/domestic relations -- and not merely in smugly being on the right side of a battle that, at least in the terms stated, was won a long time ago -- would do well to get hold of the Brazilian film Domésticas, which I believe is in video stores in the U.S. under the title Maids.
This movie, much like most of the movies about Jim Crow is about the white woman, not "The Help". This movie is more of a cautionary tale for wealthy white woman that do not take care of their own children, than a real revelation about black maids in the south during Jim Crow. What's the revelation here? Black maids had a life outside of their jobs? What can I say I rolled my eyes ever since I heard the subject matter. I have rolled my eyes at least 15 times since the movie started. You know what gets me? When people start reviewing movies about this subject-matter they say they don't want to talk about it, just the film itself. What a punk, talk about it. Let me see you and hear your opinion.


                
THE HELP is one of those feel-good Hollywood productions that always makes me feel cold inside instead. The sentimentality is overbearing and the shrill performances extremely off-putting to this viewer, with Bryce Dallas Howard and Jessica Chastain making me want to switch off every time while they're on screen. The film seems to have been made to assuage white guilt and looks at the plight of black maids in the American South during the 1960s, where they were regularly bullied and treated as lessers during the civil rights era. Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer give well judged performances but the story feels padded out and lifeless at times; it really didn't need to be two and a half hours long. Emma Stone's grating character gets too much screen time and seems a bit dim while the decent into bad taste humour at one point is something I couldn't forgive or come back from.
Watched The Help the other night again after first seeing it a half dozen years ago and before so much of the press as of late. The Help tries to hint at the real cultural divide between the black and white communities yet in a very watered down manner, but the focus was spot on regarding where the control really was; the white women. My grandmother grew up in this crowd and played the game well. Had her own man, a grounds keeper and knew how to manage the near enslavement relationship they had at the time. We only knew the man as John; no last name or where he lived or that he even had a family. Then one day, in my home town, during my grandmother's life, a white woman got mad at a black man and over the next few days, every black-owned building and home, about a thousand, was burned to the ground with nearly the same number dead. As our main character was delivering her pie in appeasement to her master, she knew what the downside might be like and she was no fool. While the movie makes her out to be clever and brave, most of the black community of the day was deferential out of necessity for survival.Try not to think of this movie as a real reflection of the time; had it tried to be so, it would never have been released, however, it was a good attempt at starting a conversation of the over-privileged nature, and outright cruelty of the white-woman of the day, which, actually, still persists.


                
I've read great reviews (some real 'stinkers', too)! I expected this to be a 'white-bashing', funny movie. It was not, in my opinion. The film seemed to drag on and on; was over & I was still waiting for something to happen (it never did). The ladies who starred in the film were great, but it just didn't 'take off'. There were some sad parts, for sure, but nothing that I'd call 'belly laugh' funny; nothing really 'got 'em by the nuts', either. I bought this movie; missed as it aired in theaters. I thought it would be a 'see-more-than-once' movie. It wasn't. I feel as if I wasted money on the DVD purchase. I would not recommend this as a 'must see' movie - even with the great casting! The ladies were great as the movie just dragged on & on . . .


                
I do not agree with most of this film! If I had a maid that stole a ring and hocked it, I would fire her too. Also when the maids are walking down the isle in the grocery store taking up the whole isle, that is not right. They make it look like it was the white woman's fault. It wasn't!! When Minnie makes the pie, that is totally rubbish, if you did that in real life you would most likely die! get Cohlera, or EColi. I do not think that was funny at all. If someone really did that, it would be disastrous. The big fuss they made about the outside bathroom was over blown too. She should have been glad she had one at all, and not a outhouse. Also when Skeeter gets a job and he only pays her what was it, 5.00 a week? Thats ridiculous! the maids were making more than she was. Cause Viola said she was paid 95cents an hour or something like that. Just figure it out, thats more than five dollars a week. True the actress that played Minnie, did a fantastic job and well deserved the Oscar. I think the whole movie was misleading and false. Doesn't the writer know we can add?


                
