I just got back from a special-screening of "The Help" at my local movie theatre, so I thought that I might as well do a review for all of you who are wanting to see this movie when it comes out.Now, first off, I must admit that I have only read a portion of the book, but I definitely do know a lot about it. After watching the trailer, I was intrigued, so of course, I visited the IMDb boards to learn more about it. At first glance, the casting caught my attention big-time. Emma Stone as 'Skeeter'? I bet most people were as shocked as I was to find out that she was cast as the main character -- but let me tell you what: the casting was superb! I could not have chosen a better cast than what was already chosen. There was amazing chemistry between both the antagonists and protagonists. I won't go into too much depth about the characters, but for me, Emma Stone, Jessica Chastain, Sissy Spacek, and Octavia Spencer were the shining stars of the movie.Casting: 9.5/10 I know that there has been an on-going issue about this movie from a lot of people claiming that "the blacks had to be 'saved' by the whites" (pardon the language), or something along those lines. I have to agree that the trailer does give off that type of vibe -- Skeeter saving the colored-folks -- however, the movie tells and depicts otherwise - the colored-folks actually saved themselves. Minny and Aibileen, as well as the other colored-folks in the community, were the real "heroes" of the movie; they just needed someone to push them to their potential (Skeeter).I can not remember the last time I saw a movie that inspired me, made me cry, made me laugh, and made me sad, angry, and hopeful, all at the same time -- this is what "The Help" strides and aims for, without making it "cheesy". Without a doubt in my mind, there are definitely Oscar-worthy performances in this movie. Not only does this movie depict just the colored-folks' side of the story, but it also equally shows the feelings of the white-folks, as well. So, you definitely get both sides of the story without it being more or less "mean" or "degrading" to any sides.There are definitely a few awkward moments in the movie, but what movie doesn't have them? This movie started around 7:10 and ended around 9:20 -- about 2 hours and 10 minutes, give or take, if my calculations are correct. However, this movie only felt like it was an hour-long. It was so good that I didn't even know the two hours passed by until the theatre lights lid and the rolling credits began.All in all, this is a DEFINITELY-MUST-SEE movie. I personally believe that it is one of the best movies of 2011. Go see it -- you will not regret it. If you have any questions, feel free to ask.Movie rating: 9/10


                
Recently the other Dude and I were discussing that not many award worthy movies come out during the summer; then I see The Help. To say it is not a story that I am normally interested in would be an understatement. I wasn't around during the time of segregation to fully appreciate the depth of this story. Additionally, if there was ever a movie that screamed "chick flick" it would be this one. In spite of that, I've heard wonderful things about the book and decided to view the movie. I'm happy to say that I'm glad that I did. Virtually unknown director Tate Taylor put together a cast of relatively unknown actors and actresses that truly made the story go. Taylor, whose last movie was the little seen Pretty Ugly People, grabbed a familiar actress to join him in making The Help, Allison Janney. Other than Janney the only other familiar actresses in the movie are Cicely Tyson and Sissy Spacek. The rather unknown cast has a fresh feeling on the story and there are no preconceived notions based on a past actor or actresses work. That being said Emma Stone (Easy A), and Viola Davis had a true coming out party in The Help. Both women played fantastic parts, which really made the cast mesh nicely together. Bryce Dallas Howard, Octavia Spencer and Jessica Chastain were all spectacular in supporting roles alongside Stone and Davis.When a movie doesn't have the explosions, crazy action or crude humor that we've become accustomed to seeing in newer movies there has got to be a great story attached in order to maintain your interest; The Help had that great story. There aren't many movies that have you laughing, crying, or getting angry and end up still being fantastic and that is where this one had me. With my common rule of no movie should be over 2 hours unless it is special; this one is very special. I would be surprised if there aren't a number of nominations coming.Children: If they can handle a lot of dialog it is age appropriate for 10+ Award Worthy: YES! Nominations for: Best Actress, Best Supporting Actress, Screenplay, Picture, Director Entertaining: Yes Summer Movie Grade: A+ Is it Worth the Price of a Movie ticket: Yes Would I watch It Again: YesVisit our site at www.twodudereview.com


                
Having never read the book but always wanting too, The help was an obvious choice whilst choosing a film for a quiet night in with friends.Set in the 1960's, The Help tells the story of two black maids trying to make a decent living in the south. A heart warming, controversial tale of a struggle to be heard in a civilisation full of deaf ears.Kudos to Taylor for representing both sides of the story. She portrays the ignorant racists as well as Skeeter's endeavour to make the world realise the immorality of the oppression. Emma Stone plays this well, despite bordering patronising a few times. Minny on the other hand manages to find a balance between an eye rolling, finger snapping, sarcastic stereotype and a headstrong, witty character. Aibileen also does this and still manages to keep it genuine as she creates a bond with one of the children she cares for telling her 'you is kind, you is smart, you is important' this was an important relationship in the film because it educates the audience about the emotional bond that developed between maids and those that they cared for.Skeeter's tell all book provides an opportunity for a power shift from the black staff to their white owners and back and forth, providing a roller coaster of entertainment for the viewer.


                
In Jackson, Mississippi, in the 60's, the aspirant writer Skeeter Phelan (Emma Stone) has just graduated and returns home after finding a job writing in a futile newspaper column in the local newspaper. When she arrives home, she finds that her nanny and family's maid Constantine Jefferson (Cicely Tyson) is gone. Skeeter sees the chance of writing a book about the relationship of the black maids with the Southern society for an editor from New York. First she convinces Aibileen Clark (Viola Davis) to open her heart to her; then Minny Jackson (Octavia Spencer) is unfairly fired by the arrogant Hilly Holbrook (Bryce Dallas Howard), who is a leader in the racist high society, and Minny decides to tell her stories after finding a job with the outcast Celia Foote (Jessica Chastain). Soon eleven other maids accept to be interviewed by Skeeter that also tells the truth about Constantine. When the book "The Help" is released, Jackson's high society will never be the same."The Help" is an unforgettable movie about a forgettable time in the history of the United States of America. The engaging story is supported by magnificent performances and the viewer does not feel the 146 minutes running time. The performances of Viola Davis, Bryce Dallas Howard, Octavia Spencer and Jessica Chastain are top-notch and all of them deserved at least nomination to the Oscar and major film festivals. The direction is tight and art direction is very realistic. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Histórias Cruzadas" ("Entwined Stories")


                
Three very courageous women decide to tell the unique story of what it's like to be a black female helper taking care of white children set against the backdrop of the civil rights movement and the rampant bigotry of the time. I thought this film was very moving throughout; a particular scene that comes to mind is when a helper is betrayed after a life long service to a family. It's the most powerful scene I saw in a film in 2011 and my heart just sunk as I watched it. The performances are solid right across the board. Bryce Dallas Howard is serviceable and Emma Stone shows she can do more than comedy. But this film belongs to the performances of the two helpers; Viola Davis and Octavia Spenser. Viola is clearly a fantastic actress. I liked what she did in Solaris (thought she was underrated), LOVED her brief but very strong role in Doubt and this performance just puts her in the next level of actresses for me. The suffering and heartbreak of this character just emanates from her; her performance makes this film great.Octavia Spencer (Minny) was a newcomer for me at the time I first saw this and I thought she provided some of the more light hearted parts of the story (which it definitely need). I initially didn't know what to think of this film and was surprised at the buzz it was getting. I expected it to be a bit cheesy. But after seeing it I definitely get it. Like the Blind Side, I think it's really resonating with people. It's clearly not the feel good movie of the year, but it's highly recommended.Enjoyed my review? Keep in touch! Blog: www.themoviesnob.ca Twitter: @the_movie_snob
I won't venture in to great detail about the film; I just really felt compelled (after seeing the film half an hour ago) to express my heartfelt thoughts on such a beautiful and touching film. Not only did it bring tears to my eyes (and cheeks, and chin, and blouse!) it made me laugh, made me contemplate and also reflect greatly on the history and thought provoking truth that the film so touchingly, and truthfully depicts. It was beautifully directed, fantastically acted and above all, this films ability to touch the hearts of all those in the theatre really made it a magical experience. Not only is it a film with an historical message, it is a film with a mood; hope. I could go on, but I won't. All I have left to say is please go and watch this incredible film.


                
This is a movie about shallow cruel women living in the 1960s in Mississippi and their black maids. Cicely Tyson, Mary Steenburgen, Sissy Spacek, Leslie Jordan (Bernard from Boston Legal) and Allison Janney all have minor but juicy roles. Tyson is like watching an alien. Your eyes are glued.The cruelty is about putting others down with a big smile, patronising, and shunning. The main villain is Hilly Holbrook played by Bryce Dallas Howard (a supercilious female). I ached for revenge. Some revenge came in the middle of the movie, but there was no grand finale of revenge the way you would expect from Hollywood. She just plodded on and on being her bitchy, self-absorbed self.The scene that hit me most emotionally was when a maid was fired without cause, and she went into the child's room she had been caring for and touched each mark on the wall where she had recorded the child's height over the years.One of the most interesting characters was Celia Foote played by Jessica Chastain. We are introduced to her as a skinny Marilyn Monroe clone air head bimbo who has not the ability to even boil water. Gradually she becomes a more tragic character, even though she remains an air head bimbo. The townspeople are unbelievable rude to her. Her maid gradually teaches her to cook and to have some self confidence. The message is she too has a right to happiness and respect even if she is stupid. The others are jealous because she landed the handsomest and richest guy in town. It is a beautiful movie because you stay sympathetic to her even when she continues to get drunk and barf at a fancy dress ball.One strange feature of the movie is it had it happy ending about 3/4 the way through, then they just kept tacking on denouement after denouement like some spoof symphony that could not get on with ending.


                
The Help is set in the 1960's where colored people had little to no rights and mainly focuses on the colored maids working for the "white" people.I didn't really want to see the movie but it got great reviews so I decided to check it out. I must say this movie was quite touching and very well done.The cast is excellent with award worthy performances from Viola Davis, Emma Stone and Octavia Spencer - the main cast. The acting was amazing and there was great chemistry among the respectful classes of people in the film ( the whites and the blacks).The script was well written and I love the balance of comedy and drama. There are some intense scenes however the comedy makes the movie more enjoyable rather than just a movie to make you feel sad all the way through. There was a perfects balance there and I loved that. The film also took you on a roller-coaster of emotions. Sometimes you were sad, extremely happy, angry or laughing. Its also one of those movies that can hold your interest from beginning to end.With great performances, a brilliant script and a film so touching and inspiring, The Help is definitely a must-see!


                
From watching the movie I realized this one thing:
"Best Ending is not always end in wealth, but it is end in happy self after dealing with themshelves."


                
An inspirational drama, The Help (a deft adaptation of Kathryn Stockett's best-selling novel) is a rousing film with an endearing heart and subtle poignancy that is sometimes overlooked, but once discovered is a certain crowd-pleaser. Set in Jackson, Mississippi at the dawn of the Civil Rights movement, Emma Stone plays the plucky, fresh-out-of-college Skeeter, who is just plain enough to stand out in her clique of well-to-do white housewives who, beneath their frivolous goings on, treat their black house- helps like slaves. Aggrieved at the racial bigotry she witnesses, and determined to break into the New York literary world, she resolves to write a book that will allow the town's black maids to give a voice to their experiences. Her idea is met with lucrative publishing prospects, but finding any maid willing to give her the real story is a problem. Viola Davis plays Aibileen Clark, who carries a sorrow that is only partly built from a lifetime of servitude. She has lost her own child to racial prejudice and is faced with the growing horrors of racism every single day at work. Then there is her feisty, too-sassy-to-suffer-forever friend Minny Jackson (Octavia Spencer) who undergoes similar humiliation at the hands of the meticulously- coiffed society princess Miss Hilly (Bryce Dallas Howard). Although with some trepidation, the two finally open up to Skeeter and once they do, the other maids join in and stories begin flowing. Soon, through clandestine meetings, they manage to start something that becomes a force of real change!The Help paints its characters, black and white alike, with a very broad bush that adroitly pushes the audience's buttons to elicit laughter and tears. On the surface, The Help might seem like another discourse on the evils of racism. But look closer and you will find that it is a much more complex tale. While the story takes place at a time of seismic social upheaval, racism is just a sidelight in a story that centers on the commonalities that the women faced in the repressive air that filled the early 1960s. In Tate Taylor's hands, a storyline that could have been mushy and preachy becomes genuinely stirring. He succeeds in creating characters you really care about and delivers its message without resorting to sickly sweet sentimentality or becoming too self-congratulatory. And then there are the charming performances that give the story such heart. Taylor expertly juggles all the characters and their stories, providing each actress a chance to stand out in a flock of fascinating women. Stone has an innate likability and is sparkling as Skeeter. Howard embodies the hissable Hilly with a vibrant panache. Jessica Chastain delivers the wonderfully tacky, white- trash Celia with flair, giving her pathos and earnestness. Both Allison Janney and Sissy Spacek are faultless in their maternal turns. But it's Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer who breathe life into the movie in their career defining performances. Davis gives Aibileen an elusive truth that jumps off the screen and delivers a perfectly nuanced performance (her hypnotic gaze alone could carry a film). Spencer plays a wonderfully cheeky Minny, offering plenty of comic relief, and a respectable honesty to her sass.The Help picks its audience up and carries it along in its engrossing, affecting wake: and then, like the best nursemaids, it calms us down with a large spoonful of healing syrup. The Help not only has its 'pie' but eats it too (Pun intended. Be assured, you'll never look at chocolate pie the same way again)!


                
In order for a movie to be good, there has to be some good acting. I'm glad to say that this film, The Help has exceptional acting and that is why it's such a great movie. At first, I was skeptical of seeing this but after the great word-of-mouth this film has been spreading, I thought it was time for me to check it out. As a movie that deals with racism, it's dialed down a notch but it's still powerful nonetheless.This film is about a 23-year-old, white Mississippi girl who wanted to change the lives of black people for the better. She decides to interview some maids, Abileen and Minny so she can tell the world their lives from their points of view.The acting is just beyond belief. Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer led this movie with their powerful performances as the slaves. Jessica Chastain is certainly making a name for herself. I can say the same for Emma Stone as well. I also loved the evilness by Bryce Dallas Howard as Hilly because I just loathed the character in the movie.Overall, this is a great, powerful film that will have you cheering at some moments and in tears in other moments. I won't give anything away, but I loved that one scene that involved a funny confrontation between Hilly and Minny. I think that also made this movie great because of some unexpected humor. I rate this film 9/10.


                
I guess it came at no surprise that "The Help" was going to garner some awards during Oscar time. But the big winners went to those who brought their tickets to see this brilliant movie. The riveting performances by Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer will make your melt faster than a snowball in a microwave with their scintillating performances. I was a bit disappointed with the DVD because there was a lackluster of bonus material. In addition to that over four minutes of scenes were deleted. All we get is a five minute music video, which makes me cringe because I felt cheated when I purchased the DVD. If that's the case then I advise everyone who missed the movie I'd say skip the DVD and watch the movie on your local movie stations. It's still a quintessential movie that's rich in story and detail and something you shouldn't miss.I had the honour to see the opening matinée last year and I saw it a few more times after that. It really is that special. It's doubtful if there is any accuracy behind this movie based on the epicenter era of the civil rights movement came into fruition. The script compliments Kathryn Stockett's best selling novel and if you liked the movie, you will absolutely enjoy. The story of three dynamic women in Mississippi is likely to keep readers and viewers intrigued. The central plot of writing a book that exploits the dark truth about the racial intentions in the city of Jackson upper class Caucasian's and their subservient black helpers by keeping it low-profile so that retribution does not come towards them.The humor was customized in the way the upper-class socialites from Jackson behaved and their initial reaction once this novel has been published. Bryce Dallas Howard was the perfect choice for the leading antagonist Hilly. Sure she was not sore on the eyes, Hilly was still the definitive character you just purely love to despise. Jessica Chastain was amazing in her scene stealing performance as Celia as she successfully tries to keep it real. Viola Davis was drop-dead gorgeous and shapely figured as Aibileen even though from the book I was given the impression of her being frumpy and out of shape, but I'm not complaining. Octavia Spencer was right on the Minny...I mean money as she just nails her role and the interviews she gives is very captivating. The hidden secrets behind Skeeter's (Emma Stone) childhood maid was a more integral part of the the plot from the novel. The casting was really sublime and it was great to see small roles from veteran performers like Sissy Spacek, Cecily Tyson and Mary Steenburgen.From reading the book to watching the movie there is one thing a did on both occasions. I rooted for this dynamic triad an hoped that they all have a happy ending and overcoming all obstacles that get in their way. The movie and the performances look and feel so believable you never ponder for a minute that it is a work of fiction But for those who want 100% accuracy, i suggest you watch a documentary of the South during the Civil Rights Movements or to spend time and speak to someone who lived in that era.If you're looking for that one movie that will truly move you, then "The Help" should really fit that bill. This film is as equally intriguing with a script that's equally as poignant as the book and the performers played out their respected roles subliminally. it doesn't matter if you read the book or seen the movie first on both accounts you are in for a real treat.
I knew not much when the movie first came to the cinemas, but after seeing the trailer I was intrigued. I expected something a little less serious, but if the movie was in any way different than it is, it wouldn't be this good. The story is extremely difficult emotionally. It deals with a problem that was an issue not so long ago, and I believe that is what makes it so powerful. People who took care of their children, them, their entire lives were treated, by them, like slaves. No respect, no consideration for their feelings, their problems. I was actually considering leaving the cinema after 40 min because I got so enraged by how those women were treated I could barely stand it. Why was that so? Primarily, the acting. Every character in this movie was played to the point of perfection. Bryce Dallas Howard and Viola Davis were astonishing. One can feel nothing but hate for Hilly, and nothing but sorrow and love for Aibileen. Another staggering performance was the one by Jessica Chastain. I found myself wanting to jump into the movie and just hug that woman's character through and through. Such cuteness I have never seen! The only minor problem is Emma Stone who got a little lost in the sea of these marvelous performances. All of the above named characters simply "ate" her on the screen. One more name worth mentioning is Octavia Spencer. She was my favorite character. Strong and powerful, but also extremely gentle and frightened. As is presented, the movie's leading characters are women. Another thing that deserves an absolute A+ is the contrast of the exterior space and the interior of the people. The hairspray generation, the houses filled with thousand of colors and at the same time such dark and evil personalities. See this movie and take everyone you know to see it. It is powerful, staggering, at times hilarious, and it has a beautiful message. This movie will bring out the best of you, and surely bring out emotions.


                
This cast was first off, awesome, and I was just pleasantly surprised that it was as good as it was. I must find the book and read it!!! Talk about courage and friendship, what an understatement. I couldn't imagine living back when people had such small minds but that's how it was. This movie was touching and very real, with a no hold back on feelings and the actors portraying them. Back to Bryce was amazingly cunning and bitchy while Emma was the sweetest but stood her ground! Sissy was hilarious in her small role that had a massive impact. Viola Davis drew me in and took me along for her ride of heartbreak and triumph. Oooohh don't forget Octavia Spencer, she was AMAZING! What a great story to show how the world has changed and continues to do so!


                
At the outset, I have to say that I have not read the novel by Kathyrn Stockett. Written for the screen and directed by her good friend Tate Taylor, The Help is one of the must see movies of the year.Strung together on a modest budget of 35 million, it has become one of the sleeper hits of the year with a domestic gross of over 160 million and still counting. Set in the background of 1960's civil rights struggle in America led by Martin Luther King, The Help focuses on the plight of African American housekeeper community and struggles against their racist white employers in suburban conservative Jackson,Mississippi. With an all star outstanding cast, it tells the story of a single independent white woman (Emma Stone) and her dogged pursuit to bring to light the plight of black cleaning maid community. When two of the help of the conservative households in Jackson come forward to tell their story, the struggles threads a thin line between fight for survival and a better future and fear of death from the dreaded and bigoted Ku Klux Klan. Portrayed brilliantly by Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer, the desperation and fear of the marginalised and oppressed Black community comes to fore with outstanding performances which is a sure bet for supporting actress nominations for both the actresses. The ensemble cast includes Bryce Dallas Howard, Jessica Chastain, Chris Lowell,Alison Janney and veteran actresses Sissy Spacek and Cicely Tyson .The performance of Cicely Tyson is one of the most the emotionally poignant scenes of the movie and though she has a screen time of just under two and half minutes, her performance is bound to make you reach for the tissues.The Help is a movie which will highlight how bad it was in the 1960's and how far we have come albeit with a long way to go to still achieve equality for all marginalised communities.The movie will make u get angry, frustrated, it will make u cry, and feel for the desperation of the maids and still manages to have its feel good moments.It is by far the best drama yet this year.


                
In the opening weekend, The Help sat at number 2 in the box office, the next three weekends after that it sat at number 1. I saw it this last weekend and it ended as number 2 again.Based on a book of the same name, The Help follows the lives of African- American maids in the South during the 1960s. Issues like racism and civil rights are obviously apparent here.The film has grossed over $141 million with a budget of only $25 million. Quite a theatrical film feat if ya ask me.The main focus of the story is obviously on "The Help" book and the character that wrote it. Eugenia "Skeeter" Phelan, portrayed so elegantly by Emma Stone, is the author of said book. After coming back home from graduating at University of Mississippi, she finds that her childhood maid, Constantine, had quit. To Skeeter this doesn't add up as her maid was beloved.Seeing Emma Stone in such a serious drama like this one gave her a lot more respect. I've only known Emma as a comedic girly actor in films like Superbad, Zombieland, Easy A, and Crazy, Stupid, Love. Aforementioned comedies like those didn't present her true acting potential. This has to be Emma's best acting so far! I thought her popularity was over exaggerated this year, but I was wrong. It'll be interesting to see how she plays Gwen Stacy in The Amazing Spider-Man.Other honorable mentions would have to be Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer, who played the two main maid characters in Aibileen Clark and Minny Jackson. The two combined presented most of the dramatic and comedic aspects of the film. I really enjoyed their performance. Truly were devoted to their characters. Well done!Everything about this movie was well done. The acting was great all around, the sets were visually appealing, the music flowed, the direction was there, and the story was great. It's hard to pick out something bad.9/10 Stars.


                
Went to this movie at the request of my wife, and am not sorry I did. I recommend it to anyone. One of the best movies that addresses racism realistically - You know, not everyone was evil while some were "evil"... much like the real world. The movie, was for the most part non- confrontational while accurately demonstrating a dark time in history... and shining the light on a person or group can make a difference and pride in ones self isn't a bad thing. The movie is well over two hours but keeps your interest the whole way... The movie takes you through several emotions and is very entertaining. GO see this movie!


                
Despite "The Help" being nominated for many Academy Awards, it took me a long time to pop it into my Blu-Ray player. Why? Because I was worried that the racial message would be too preachy or political, and I cannot stand those types of films. When I finally did view the picture, however, I was pleasantly surprised by its straightforward nature.For a basic plot summary, this story takes place in the 1960s deep South (Jackson, Mississippi, to be exact), where Southern Belles like Hilly Holbrook (Bryce Dallas Howard) hire black maids to do their housework and raise their children. The maids are treated with little respect and given no rights whatsoever. When young Skeeter (Emma Stone), an aspiring journalist, comes home to Jackson after graduating college, she begins to see how wrongly the maids are being treated. In secret, she begins collaborating with Aibileen (Viola Davis) & Minnie (Octavia Spencer) to write a book espousing "their side of the story".There are two primary reasons why this movie is so gripping and enjoyable:First, of course, is the heartfelt story. I honestly do not know how close to reality the stories fall, but even if a sliver of them are true it is still a story that needs to be told. Racially-themed films can be a touchy subject, but "The Help" doesn't get too preachy or overly political. Instead, it focuses squarely on the players at hand, the right move for this type of film.Secondly, this is a period piece almost unlike any other. Thanks to the incredible acting and period music/clothing/sets, you will feel transported into that time period for the duration of viewing. Combine the racial aspects of Denzel Washington's "The Great Debaters" with the Southern feel of "Walk The Line" and one would be close to describing the overall ambiance of "The Help".On a quick note, I don't quite understand why Emma Stone was not given more "Academy love" for her performance. Though the two primary maids (Spencer & Davis) are spot-on as well, it truly is Stone who carries the movie along. She is one of the best actresses in Hollywood today and her performance alone in "The Help" is reason enough to give it a try.Thus, I really don't have too much bad to say about "The Help". It made me think, transported me to another era, and got me emotionally invested in the characters. With the possible grey area of being "based on true events", what more can a film accomplish?
This was a brilliant film about life in the segregated 1960s America. A lady in Mississippi named Skeeter decided to write a book about the "Help" given by black servants, and, boy, does she get enough help! The movie is dedicated to her character, the black ladies in the film, and all the perspective she gains from them while writing it. She also interacts well from the other people in it.This has an an impressive cast with Emma Stone, Jessica Chastain, Viola Davis, and others. I loved the final scene and the s*** pie scene. This is a must-view for anyone and very realistic. I loved it and so will you.*** 1/2 out of ****
It was an amazing film. The cinematography was lovely, the scenery absolutely gorgeous, the soundtrack wonderful, and the pacing perfect. The humour made me laugh out loud more than once, and yes, I cried my guts out too; towards the end it was just so bittersweet :( The film was vibrant, bright, colourful, and beautiful. The dresses worn by the white ladies were so pretty and colourful, and every woman was dressed in the colour and pattern that suited her looks while keeping with the time period. Inevitably, the film didn't dive as deep into the racial issues as the book did. It could have dusted off the sugar coating a bit as well. BUT it was still so powerful, and gave some strong thought-provoking and eye-opening moments. NOW THE ACTING BECAUSE I HAVE TO TALK ABOUT THIS CAST. Wow just wow. Every one of these amazing ladies gave it their all and acted the heck of their roles. Between Bryce Dallas Howard's energy, Octavia Spencer's spot-on facial expressions, Viola Davis's powerful presence, Jessica Chastain's passion and comical delight, and Emma Stone's radiant shine and quirkiness, every woman was utterly unforgettable. Chastain and Davis were both very deserving of their Oscar nomination for their roles, and Spencer was equally deserving of her win, but I do believe Dallas Howard and Stone gave performances that were just as rich and powerful. This masterpiece deserved more Oscar recognition.There was amazing chemistry between everyone in the film. The secondary actors also delivered incredible performances; namely Sissy Spacek, who gave the film some of its most witty and humorous moments. PLEASE WATCH THIS MOVIE!


                
What I really like about this movie, is the portrayal. It's not just the beautiful dresses they use in that era. It's the point of view we see all this. This movie give us all a little more understanding about the apartheid. We meet this young girl, Skeeter who's brave enough to listen to a voice who's not normally heard. It meant much at that time to not being friends with the "blacks" and Skeeter is then interviewing them anonymously. The movie shows us also the heartbreaking relationship Skeeter have to her "house-helper". She comes to a shock in the movie where she finally gets the explanation why she left. The movie shows some clips about their relationship and it's so heartwarming and so kind. What I also liked about the movie, was that you learn you have to stand up for those who don't have a voice, and how important it is to make a difference, no matter how small or big. What I missed was that some of Skeeter white friends should have stand up and join her in some way. There's much portrayal of what is fair and about consequences. I wished Skeeter's mom would have had a bigger development during the movie. We see that she's all about other opinions about her, and I wished she just gave that up and supported Skeeter in the end. If you see the movie, you will understand all this.
The Help is a story about black maids in Jackson, Mississippi who are mistreated by their white bosses. However, there is a young white journalist who wants to help them by writing a collection of stories of what their life is like. Originally she has a hard time getting people to volunteer to share their stories, because it is very risky. However she manages to get lots of volunteers in the end and she published her book. Fortunately for the maids, they aren't punished because their bosses are afraid to admit that the stories are about Jackson, because there are embarrassing stories. Specifically about how one of the bosses ate a pie made out of her maids poop. This is a great movie for seeing how African Americans were mistreated in the South for so long. It is ridiculous that the whites believe that they can't use the same toilets as blacks because they carry certain disease, yet they allow them to take care of their children.
Thought this film, there are many main ideas that bring out the reality of the Solid South during the times of civil rights and integration. Although the reality of the South was much worse than the movie portrays, I believe the movie carries out all the ideas it involves with great proficiency. The Help shows an attitude of love even towards those who hate and hurt those you love and even yourself. It shows a persevering way of life and creates an environment of hardships and despair with JFK's assassination and the death of the main characters son, to demonstrate how awful life was, especially for African Americans, in this time. Furthermore, nonviolent ways of life is shown, allowing the historical fact that nonviolent actions were what changed generations (ie, the actual book The Help written in the movie). Overall, I greatly appreciate the timeline and plot of this movie and find it to be incredibly inspiring.


                
The Help, before it was turned into a movie, was a great book. Though it painted the conditions of the South during this era in clean, easily digestible strokes, it told a great story of life in that situation.The movie, on the other hand, was more than just a great story. It payed justice to the book, and then some. The actresses and actors did a fantastic job fleshing out the characters, and giving more depth into their character development. They gave them a new life, picking up the few two-dimensional characters and turning them into characters we could sympathize and identify with.My only issue is that the movie leaned on the portrayal of a "great white savior." It plays on the fact that "only the young white girl can offer salvation", and also leans on some stereotypical caricatures that Hollywood is all to fond of using. Altogether though, it was a good story, with both comedic and tragic parts. I would recommend the book, though, before the movie.


                
I and my family enjoyed watching this film. It's a delicious blend of laughter and tears, hope and fear, and ended with a good message. Just like everyone else, I agree that this is a great cast, many of them delivering subtle and powerful performances. Although there are sad moments, heartbreaking moments, there are also very funny moments too. You can feel humanity resonating here and there. The story is not dark. There is hope, there is a trust in the good side of people, a warm feeling from friendship and humanity that comfort your heart a whisper that says "love will conquer in the end." The villain, Hilly, was an excellent example of the pharisees and their hypocrisy.She presents herself as the most godly woman in the community but actually she is the most godless person among them. Hilly is presented in contrast with Celia, who is a little crazy and unmannered, but very sincere and sweet. This film shows us love, hatred, patience, honesty, courage, and after all...love your enemy. :)


                
