This film was entertaining even in 2018. I'm not trying to take away from the art of the silent film, but many of them don't entertain today, but The Kid had a great story that proves some things never change. The physical humor still stands well and shows how many physical comedians drew inspiration from Charlie Chaplin. A true film gem.


                
The Kid, in short, is about The Tramp's exploits as a father figure to an orphaned boy that he first tries to get rid of.What I think about The Kid is mostly good. The Tramp is, of course, Charlie Chaplin, one of the biggest movie stars of the time. The film is touted as being "6 reels of joy" in 1920's parlance. Today, it would be known more as a "film for the whole family" (rarely is a movie presented on film reels nowadays). Out for a stroll one day, The Tramp spots a baby that is nearly hurt by some debris being thrown out of a window. The Tramp rescues the boy but then tries his best to unload the child anywhere he can, however an annoying, seemingly omnipresent flat-foot quashes any ideas that come to mind. So, The Tramp takes in the boy and raises the child as his own after reading a note the mother left tucked inside his nappy. We play witness to The Tramp trying his best to raise the boy while still being a virtual vagabond. He teaches The Kid the family business and other nefarious undertakings they need to survive this cruel world. Hilarity ensues.I'm always amazed at how silent film actors can get their message across without a voice to carry it. This movie has a newly-scored background, and only a few title cards to help the viewer understand where it's at. It's all enjoyable acting to watch, even if it's mostly slapstick humor we're laughing at. Jackie Coogan, billed as The Child, is The Kid of whom we're speaking. He really is quite adorable and can surprisingly act. Overall, this is a pleasant family film, and most will enjoy it. Maybe even your own kid will like it.Two things you'll LIKE: 1) It's simple in its presentation, but still magical in a sense. Special effects, 1920's style! 2) It's the perfect length.Two things you'll DISLIKE: 1) After years of watching widescreen, HD and 4K films having never seen a single foot of actual film, the 1.37:1 aspect ratio (think of a square), and not clear-as-crystal 35mm film, may be jarring to watch at first. 2) Slapstick comedy: does it still work?


                
This movie reminds me of The Pursuit of Happiness (2006). The only difference is the color of the movie, the duration, 95 years and the switch C. Chaplin/W. Smith. A miserable life for Chaplin here until he finds the baby - his new life. Happiness, in most of the cases, arrives easier to poor people because they know how to enjoy life with less. The trouble is that there are lots of mothers who still abandon their vulnerable children nowadays. And this movie is from 1921! It looks like plenty of parents did not watch this movie so that it could arrive to their hearts or feelings, and think twice the option of abandoning a child. But what kind of life does Chaplin has in the movie? Some dreadful clothes, a miserable room and a few pennies to eat some soup or cupcakes during the day? However, a child could always bring prosperity as it happens in The Kid. They seek for each other constantly and that is true love. It is understandable that a young mother could reach to the point to abandon a child, but what it is valuable in the movie is that after realising what she has committed, she gives charities to the penniless society. Since the encounter with the kid, Chaplin makes it easier to nourish, because we all know that life is better when you are positive, and moreover when you take it as a joke.


                
When it comes to classic cinema and especially those often bunched into the "masterpiece" corner, you must prepare yourself when reading reviews for strong gusts of superlatives and overblown gushing over minute details. Your shining suit of scepticism should be worn at all times, weary traveller. Although a fun and enjoyable film, The Kid which has been met with steady and sustained acclaim since its debut in 1921, you could argue is a good example of such criticism gone awry. It's a sometimes-amusing and often-heart-warming feature, sure, but a masterpiece? Not so much. At least not for me. The comedy's plot which revolves around the Tramp adopting an abandoned orphan from infancy before fast-forwarding five years where they run a bit of a racket together, is light and fluffy and has a distinct charm permeating the interactions between the two actors. But aside from a few sight gags and one touching piece of drama, there's not much else to be had from the experience and by the time it reaches the 40 minute mark, feels a bit winded. So much so that Chaplin tacks on a bizarre dream sequence seemingly to fill up some time. Critics often praise this scene as "out of the box" and "daring" and they're right. What they often overlook however is the fact that it's rather useless and superfluous to the already very little going on. It's no surprise to find out that The Kid came at a time when Chaplin was creatively bankrupt and had been so for quite some time. This scene in particular along with the more famous abduction scene are key examples of where film criticism seems ardently opposed to calling a good film a good film instead of throwing more unwarranted praise into an already overflowing river of rose-tinted admiration. The abduction scene which I reference is great, yes, and rich in pathos, but claims of it being the most emotive scene in a comedy, nay film in general (yes this is claimed, believe it or not) are about as grounded as Chaplin's take on whether dogs go to heaven or not. The Kid is a lovely and charming miniature film with affecting performances resulting in some good laughs here and there that must have raised roofs in 1921, but that's it. Nothing else. Anybody who tells you there's more to it than that is probably just as likely to make an argument for swapping your mortgage in exchange for a 100- year-old bottle of wine. Because it's distinguished, it's cultured, it's a classic and you obviously just don't get the whole picture. Instead I'll let you in on a little secret. It's a good film as I've said, maybe even great, but it's certainly not the masterpiece it's so often regurgitated to be. Let's move on.


                
Version I saw: UK bluray release Actors: 7/10 Plot/script: 7/10 Photography/visual style: 6/10 Music/score: 7/10 Overall: 7/10 It could be said that this was Charlie Chaplin's breakthrough film: it was one of the longest films he had made up to this point, having previously focused on short films of around 15-25 minutes' duration. I think it could actually be considered two short films, as it has a lengthy dream sequence midway through it in which Chaplin dreams himself as an angel in paradise.While Chaplin has a deceptive way of seeming effortlessly funny, I feel that this film is more one to smile all the way through than a riotous comedy: there are not as many outright laughs as in some of his other films.However, while it is not as political as other Chaplin films, The Kid does pull a similar trick of sneaking in social issues, and even manages to make them more deeply affecting than in the others I have seen. The scene in which the child is taken away is particularly touching, with the panicked, desperate expressions visible on both of their faces.For my full review, read my Blogspot independent film blog, Cinema Inferno: http://cinemainferno-blog.blogspot.co.uk/2014/01/the-kid-1921.html
Another great Chaplin movie. This movie, while watching it, I kept feeling bad over and over for the girl, Chaplin, & the kid. Chaplin plays it off as the girl is at a loss with losing her child, The kid is a somewhat delinquent under Chaplin's parenthood, and Chaplin knows that its not his real kid. To me I just felt this feeling of sadness, although it was funny and charming, throughout the movie. I love the setting of the movie, just seems like a very plain city setting, almost industrial sort of town. The scene when he's knocked out and everyone has wings and all that takes place reminds me of a dream I had once and when first watching that scene it creeped me out a little bit. Thanks Charlie.


                
I love Charlie Chapling movies! This one is also good, just not great for me personally. I was thinking all along. Hmmm.. those other ones were better. Funnier! And so, at the end of the movie, I took a look at the release year, and I see this is one of his first movies. So, in my opinion his movies get even better as he gains experience making them. This is a good movie though. Stands for repeat watching! As all his movies do! Wow, why have we stopped making movies like this?? This is some quality comedy, better than most of the Hollywood ones, who mainly seem to be making R-rated , jokes, inappropriate for kids and even too unclean for adults many times. Besides, C.C. is a master of body language it seems. And choreography. This movies are brilliant. Even if made today. But they were made like almost a century ago. Pretty much the first movies ever!So, yeah, C.C. movies highly recommended, other ones even more than this one.Real rating: 7.1


                
IMDb Top 250: 159The Kid is the oldest film on the Top 250. It's nine years older than my grandpa, like Ferris' Day Off is nine years older than me. A 90 year old film... You should see it for that reason only. History. From a time of post world conflict, during poverty, not yet prosperity, and no one knew who Hitler was yet. A moment frozen in time.But this is a film review. This 'comedy' is about an orphan adopted by the Tramp, and their adventures. It starts off too heavily-handed, especially for such a short film. The joke don't start till 15 minutes in, which is too long.There are some bad cuts, taking into account the film's age. Flying Chaplin will seem to teleport in one really bad cut.Also, the music is not fitting at all. Tense music plays during sad scenes, quiet music plays during chases, it doesn't help the atmosphere. There are some good scenes though, like the fight and the window scam. There's just not enough of them. Also the end is too quick and abrupt. The end scene is less than a minute, with little resolution. A classic, but overrated. 7.3/10
Charlie Chaplin is a Tramp in this one who suddenly finds himself unexpectedly saddled with the unwanted responsibility of looking after an orphaned child. At first resistant to such an idea, the Tramp eventually comes to love and appreciate the child's happy presence in his life, an otherwise dark and dreary existence. However things get complicated when the child's birth mother comes looking for him.This enjoyable comedy romp also has lots of drama and delivers not only laughs but gut-wrenching sad moments and delightfully happy ones. This isn't just comedic silliness but deals with real world serious issues such as poverty demonstrating how love can surpass most any bounds and/or limitations. Jackie Coogan as the five-year old version of the kid is an absolute delight and plays off of Charlie and his Tramp character wonderfully. Just a terrific job from a young talent who never once becomes annoying or irritating to the viewing audience as so many children in films often seem to do.


                
If you take a close look at the slum scenes where The Tramp lives with The Kid, they are very uncanny to the settings of Chaplin's early home in England in the 1994 film CHAPLIN. It is a fact that Chaplin did not have the best childhood growing up. Many of the moments in this film were taken out of Chaplin's life. THE KID is Chaplin's first attempt to use film as a vehicle to not only entertain the audience but to inform them as well.


                
