I really don't get it.. why all these critics praise this kind of movie that are totally without plot.. it won't deliver no emotions at all. Completely waste of time. At least it's only 90 minutes long. It looks like a Sunday morning animated tv show that cliffhanger you to the episode of the next week.. in this case an episode that you cannot (luckily) see.


                
This is supposedly one of the "Great Movies" according to Roger Ebert...My tone in the previous sentence should suffice for my review, but I feel like more needs to be said. My Neighbor Totoro isn't offensive, obnoxious, disturbing, annoying, or irritating in any way. And as Ebert continually points out in his review, it doesn't fall in line with a lot of clichés that are prevalent in American cartoons in terms of characterization or plot-line. This may all be true; but it doesn't make up for it's fatal flaw...it's boring. It's really really, boring. There is hardly any plot other then these 2 girls hanging around their house out in the country side. The title character makes his first appearance 30 minutes in, and only a couple of times after that. He doesn't do much either. In his debut scene he sleeps and yawns...how appropriate. Later he does some other stuff but it's not too exciting and perhaps only mildly so compared to the doldrum of the girls lives. I wasn't "enchanted", the world didn't seem that magical to me, and with the lack of any compelling plot I couldn't help but once again become baffled by the godly praise for this movie. The animation is OK but don't see why Miyazaki's work is considered to be THAT much better then everyone else's. Perhaps you have to be an anime aficionado to understand why. Perhaps you have to be an anime aficionado to love this movie. I can think of no other reason why. Granted, I'm 23 and cartoons don't hold the same appeal as they did 15 years ago. But that being said, I can't see myself even sitting through this 15 years ago. And as an adult, it doesn't seem to hold much value. There is no plot, the writing is forgettable, and I don't find it's artistic value to be any higher then that of any other anime. Bottom line, if you are an anime fan, you aren't even reading this because you own My Neighboro Totoro on DVD and are probably waiting for the special edition. However, if you are checking up on one of the "Great Movies" or if you a parent and want to show your kid something, I can't recommend it to you on either level.


                
For me, the worst movie of its writer and of its studio but then again, I always preferred Fireflies to Mononoke.The issue of this movie is simple. It doesn't have any conflict. This is the thing that is at the centre of all storytelling. I want to be fair and try to understand what this movie was trying to do. It was not meant to be the resolving antagonism between two forces, but rather a meditation on the good things in life, not the bad. In that respect it isn't badly made. It is a breezy and soothing trek quite perfect for someone recovering in hospital after an emotionally and physically traumatizing experience.In other movies, one of the little girls would feel spiteful about having to move home or there would be some other type of family disharmony. But here the worst thing going on with these people is the sick mother but even then, we only see her in a convalescent state.Totoro himself barely does anything but I don't want to reveal too much.
I have exaggerated a little, the movie does try to bring a little conflict for the climax, but it is as contrived and out of the blue as the final act of "Twilight". But in "Twilight's" defence, they used their climax to explore themes present throughout the book and they are only part one of the "Twilight Saga".
It has a professional, verdant design and many instantly icon moments that unfortunately are wasted in having no real context, but they did make me want to like it. It's the five-year-old's birthday party soundtrack that makes me want to dislike it.I can see myself at 5 being tolerant of this movie even if you have to wait through all the slice of life to get anywhere. I can't see myself at 10 caring for this movie at all. But I can see myself at 30 maybe warming to it eventually. It's not really a movie for kids, it's a movie that organic, gluten free parents want their kids to like.But if you're trying to find an entry point into Japanimation or are looking for another from its studio/writer, I'd recommend Porco Rosso way before this, even if this one is the more popular.


                
