I apologise to the seemingly massive fanbase for these Miyazaki films but I find them totally over praised.I cannot see what people find so amazing about them. The scripts are totally banal and unnatural with nothing that makes me feel any emotion or humour. I find the dialogue boring and idiotic to be honest.Yes the animation is what must attract people mainly I guess but is it just me or is it no better than the weird cartoons I used to watch on kids TV in the 80s like Ulysees, City of Gold or Thundercats? I just would accept it as a kid in the 80s and it is not terrible but while quirky it is neither clever nor realistic nor beautiful. I am not impressed.The stories are mostly weird. In this case again the film is weird and unengaging for me. I cannot see why people rate it so highly. The characters are uninteresting and the script is robotic. The quirky animation and story is all that I can see to attract people but I find it a big turn off. I feel it appeals to the kind of computer game playing, does not leave their bedroom type of geek who has not grown up. It is neither for children nor for adults which is my main disconnect I think. Just my opinion.


                
To put it simply, this beloved animation is fairly boring. 'My Neighbour Totoro (1988)' is unable to make up for its lack of story - or, at least, proper plot - and characters even with its generally beautiful and inventive aesthetic, the inclusion of which is really its only saving grace and provides its limited - but somehow still genuine - charm. The only shot that amused me was one of a water drop hitting a frog on the head, a simple but effective moment that's totally inconsequential and completely detached from the narrative, but there is somehow an overall pleasurable vibe to the piece. This is created by the innocence of its characters and the innocuous craziness of some visuals. It feels quite palpable, despite the experience also being pretty dull, and prevents the piece from slipping into totally terrible territory. 4/10


                
