The movie slowly takes it time to build up the two little girls and their father. This slow pace continuous in the movie. I likes that, it felt real.
Most of the character that are shown are also characters not mr. Bland #231 and the artstyle is beautiful.
As a 22y/o man I was watching the movie by myself in public, take a lot of public transport and the movie was able to genuinely put smiles on my face throughout. I noticed I was having a good time because people we're staring at me.
But yeah, almost all of this movie is great, it touches those goos feels, the vistas are gorgeous, but there is almost no plot to be found. The story is small, really really small, which has beauty in itself, I was just longing for just that bit more. That's why I think a 7 is more than deserved!


                
This was a wonderful movie in how imaginative it was. I would completely recomend it for family viewing and if i ever have any children i am sure it will be one of thier favorites.My complaints are that, while being very imaginative, the movie was rather empty when it came to plot when it came to depth and meaning. Some rather important points were not even mentioned, such as why the girls' Mother was in the hospital, and what exactly a totoro is. Also, there really was no set plot, it was more of a story that left me feeling relativly empty when the film ended. I felt it needed to be longer (which would take away from the appeal to children), or have a sequal, which i dont see any reason for it not to.I did enjoy a film on a certain level, but would not recomend it to an adult unless they were a fan of animation or Miyazaki's work. If you have any children on the other hand, i couldn't recomend it enough. My only remaining hope is that Disney releases the rest of Miyazaki's work, especially Nausicaa, which i cannot recomend enough if you can find a copy with subtitles.


                
I always wanted to see Totoro and I gotta say I expected more of it. But maybe it is also positive about the movie that they kept it kind of simple. It probably mainly is for kids but the art style and story definitely also can be appreciated by adults.
I think there should be a sequel, cause the Totoro character has potential.


                
It reminded me in part of Alice in Wonderland ("follow the white rabbit") and in part of Mary Poppins (the Totoro - umbrella scene). Overall it is a sweet picture about childhood, but at the same time it's realistic and deals with adult issues (family relationships, illness).
I had seen the image of one of the recognisable title creature from this Japanese anime movie several times, and I am obviously a big fan of the animations from Studio Ghibli, so I could not wait to watch it, directed by Hayao Miyazaki (The Castle of Cagliostro, Spirited Away, Ponyo). Basically set in 1958 Japan, university professor Tatsuo Kusakabe (Tim Daly) and his two daughters, Satsuki (Dakota Fanning) and Mei (Elle Fanning), have moved into an old house to be closer to the hospital where the girls' mother, Yasuko (Lea Salonga), is recovering from a long-term illness. The house is inhabited with by tiny creatures, small, dark, dust-like house spirits called susuwatari, until the girls and their father settle into the house, the soot spirits drift away on the wind to find another empty house. One day, Mei sees two white, rabbit-like ears in the grass, they are two spirits, they lead her through a briar patch and into the hollow of a large camphor tree. She meets and befriends a larger version of the same kind of spirit (Frank Welker), it identifies itself with a series of roars, which Mei interprets as "Totoro", she falls asleep atop the large creature. When Satsuki finds her, she is on the ground in a dense briar clearing, despite her attempts, Mei cannot show her family Totoro's tree. Tatsuo comforts her, telling her she must have encountered the "keeper of the forest", and that Totoro will reveal himself when he wants to. On a rainy night, the girls become worried when a bus they are expecting carrying Tatsuo does not arrive, Mei falls asleep, and Satsuki is able to see Totoro when he appears beside them, he is delighted to be offered an umbrella to shade him from the rain. In return, he gives her a bundle of nuts and seeds, then a giant bus-shaped cat appears, halting at the stop, Totoro boards it, taking the umbrella, they disappear, shortly after Tatsuo's bus arrives. The girls plant the seeds, a few days later Totoro and his miniature colleagues appears and engage in a ceremonial dance, when the girls join in, the seeds sprout, growing and combining into an enormous tree, then Totoro, his colleagues and the girls go for a ride on a magical flying top. In the morning, the tree is gone, but the seeds have indeed sprouted, it is unclear if they girls were dreaming or not. The girls find out that a planned visit to Yasuko has been postponed due to a setback in her treatment, Satsuki is disappointed and worried, while Mei is upset and angry, leading to an argument between the sisters. Mei disappears, prompting Satsuki and the neighbours to search for her, Mei is trying to walk the long distance to the hospital to bring her mother some fresh corn. In desperation, Satsuki returns to the camphor tree and pleads with Totoro to help her, he is delighted to assist, and summons the Catbus, which carries her to where Mei has stopped. Having rescued Mei, the Catbus then whisks her and Satsuki over the countryside to see Yasuko in the hospital, they perch in a tree outside, to overhear the conversation between their parents. They hear that their mother has a minor, but is otherwise fine, they secretly leave some corn on the windowsill, and return home in the Catbus. Eventually, Mei and Satsuki's mother returns home, the sisters play with each other, while Totoro and his friends watch the family from afar. Also starring The Little Mermaid's Pat Carroll as Granny, Paul Butcher as Kanta and The Simpsons' Russi Taylor as Additional Voices. This film has developed a cult following over the years, it is interesting insight into childhood innocence and experiences, it is a bit of minimal storyline, but you can enjoy the adventurous moments, furry Totoro is adorable, the 12-legged cat bus is wonderfully bizarre, and the colourful animation is of course delightful viewing, a worthwhile animated fantasy. Very good!
It's not as i expected. The movie has 8.2 rating on imdb so that's why i thought it would be a great movie but not "great" . The story is good but it doesn't deserve 8.2 stars. The rating should be 7.3-4.


                
Director Hayao Miyazaki has certainly made his mark with the IMDb audience. If I'm not mistaken, "My Neighbor Totoro" joins four other of his films in IMDb's Top 250 movies. I've now seen them all, and probably come away from them with "Howl's Moving Castle" as the most appealing to me.The version of this film I saw was the Studio Ghibli/Disney rendering, and perhaps it was a by-product of that translation, but I was surprised with the pronunciation of the name 'Totoro'. It was rendered as 'Toe' tuh ro' with the emphasis on the first syllable, whereas before I knew that, I would have pronounced it 'Tuh tor' ro, with the emphasis on the second syllable. Maybe that's anglicizing it, I don't know, but it sounded a little off to me.What stood out to me were some of the concepts that came out of Lewis Carroll's "Alice in Wonderland", with elements like Mei falling down a tunnel (replacing the rabbit hole), and later on with the appearance of the smiling Cheshire Cat bus. I don't know enough about Miyazaki to know whether he was influenced by the Alice story, but he did something similar in "Howl's Moving Castle" when the Witch of the Waste was defeated by a bucket of water, a nod to Frank Baum's "The Wizard of Oz". I acknowledge that it's difficult to come up with something creatively original and brand new, but those two examples suggest that Miyazaki borrowed some of his ideas from other sources.The story itself is quite charming in it's way, and the two young girls role model an ideal family relationship. What bothered me was the way the story left their mother's condition unnamed except to say that she was ill and confined to a hospital. For some reason, the idea that some form of mental illness may have been involved kept intruding while I watched the story. There was nothing overt to suggest that, but neither was there a reasonable expectation offered that she would be out of the hospital any time soon, and I kept wondering about that.What I liked most was the imagination that came up with 'soot gremlins' and the titled Totoro itself, along with those little ghost-like apparitions that followed along. Even though a haunted theme was mentioned more than once, it didn't seem to affect Satsuki and Mei, who were innocent enough not to be fearful of the unknown. That was probably the most charming aspect of the story, and if one were to ask about a recommendation to watch the film, I'd suggest following the acorns.
I think this is a movie made especially for children. It doesn't have a lot of tension or conflict, nor does it have dangers of any kind, feelings of doom or people dying as many of the Japanese productions used us with. Long story short, two girls and their father await for the mother to come out of the hospital. Meanwhile wonderful things happen, like the friendship with a huge teddy bear like creature which seems to be a forest spirit.Saying that, I am 28 years old and I liked it a lot :), even if not so much as other Myiazaki cartoons, so it's not only for kids. It did seem a bit long for me at times, but after its 90 minutes length I felt bad that it ended so soon. If you get over the first 30 minutes, which are a bit slow paced, you will probably enjoy this animation film.


                
in the end i was disappointed. too much focus on satsuke and mei running around the countryside and not enough focus on the relationship between totoro and the girls.but visually, my neighbour totoro is stunning. the style of the characters is pure miyazaki and it was nice to look at.but the story lacked any sort of real cohesiveness. this movie could have been made just as easily without totoro, with a focus on the effect the mother's extended illness has on her two children. on the other hand, this would have been a much better movie if the focus was on the girl's adventures with totoro and his friends inside the giant camphor tree and around the countryside.worth a look either way.


                
I watched Totoro after Spirited Away and is a little disappointed about this movie. The style of drawing is still warm and nice. But the plot is plain and predictable. The loveliness of Totoro is amazing but the way the story ends is no more than cliché. Totoro maybe the dream friend to girls like transformers to boys. The plump, cute and powerful holy friend just caters to girls' unrealistic imagination about someone that can protect her. Boys are crazy about transformers just the way girls fan Totoro. But one thing is different: with the accompany of bumblebee, boys are able to protect himself, his family and fighting against evil while girls keep wondering Totoro to take care of herself and fulfil some painstaking goals. However, Spirited Away encourage us to save the family and pursuit love, with some lucky help from lovely spirits.


                
Hayao Miyazaki and his company Studio Ghibli are known widely as masters of sophisticated and creative hand-drawn anime, supreme imagination and heartfelt stories. "My Neighbor Totoro" is one of the first Miyazaki classics, ranking high in heart and animation but slightly lower on the fantasy end in comparison to his later work.Like many of his films, "Totoro" is set in the country. A young girl and her little sister move to a new home in the countryside with their dad while their mom is sick in the hospital. They come to believe their new home is haunted when the younger sister, Mei, discovers a forest spirit named Totoro, a large round creature resembling a bear with pointy ears and whiskers with an affinity for napping inside large trees."Totoro" is certainly the most child-friendly of Miyazaki's classics. There is no force for evil with the plot revolving around simple family drama. Only our curiosity at the world of forest spirits that Miyazaki withholds from us for so long in this film drives us to watch the entire thing. Sadly, this world does not blossom with imagination anywhere near the way it does in Miyazaki's later films. Totoro himself represents a source of comfort. For all intents and purposes he is merely an imaginary friend, a way for the girls to escape from reality and forget about their ill mother. A huge plus on the emotional side of things for this film, but not much good when it comes to filling our fantasy quota.The characters are some of the strongest people Miyazaki has ever created. The relationship between the two sisters holds the truth and humanity of the story. Even their father, who actually encourages their imagination instead of the expected "parent who tells them things aren't real" character archetype. The Disney English dubbing of the film does a terrific job in casting young Dakota Fanning and her sister Elle for the voice parts of Satsuki and Mei. Somehow in spite of their age they understand that these girls require a voice quality that it is much different from typical American children, for example. As siblings, this certainly made the connection between their characters even stronger."Totoro" has its classic scenes such as the one when Totoro shows up at the bus stop and Satsuki gives him her umbrella and when Mei chases some forest sprites into the woods, but the fantasy stops there. It simply is not integral to this story. "Totoro" is more of a country fairytale, something much different that the Disney cannon or the Wester cannon of children's stories and animation. It aims to tell a story of childhood and family with a slightly fantastical element to it rather than a wildly imaginative fantasy with family roots.~Steven CCheck out my site http://moviemusereviews.com


                
I first saw this before Disney got their hands on the rights, and re-did the English dubs.Not to knock the Fanning sisters, but Disney ruined this title for me. After having the original DVD which was cracked, and replaced by the Disney re-master my family and I both felt it went waaay down in points.The original voice-overs, and dialog were magical! The remake changed a few things, and lost loads of emotion. Still a great movie; however, for us we found an original on ebay for some ridiculous amount like $60 USD, and bought it. Never looked back. Totoro is like a family member. We couldn't just leave him behind. Lol.__ Great movie. I give the original an 8.5 out of 10... My kids and I could not even sit through the Disney re-issue, because we missed the original VO so much.. They ruined it for us... for that reason I rate the Disney re-issue about a 5.7. Harsh, but true.!


                
I'd firstly like to say that I am a HUGE fan of the movies created by Studio Ghibli; they are unlike anything else and this is the case for all of the right reasons.However, I was somewhat disappointed with "My Neighbour Totoro" as, although the charm and imagination of Ghibli productions is there, the actual story-telling techniques seem inadequate for such a great studio. In terms of the positives of this movie, it has the cute, crazy, original and adventurous style that fans of Japanese anime and especially Studio Ghibli will know and love. In addition to this, the story is one that will probably put a smile on your face at various points. Furthermore, the characters are, for the majority of the movie's run-time, very likable.However, whilst the style that Ghibli is famous for makes this film a good one, the actual film-making is just not up to the same standard as some of Hayao Miyazaki's other productions, such as Spirited Away and The Castle of Cagliostro. Firstly, some of the characters are introduced in a manner suggestive of a depth to them, however this complexity is never really provided in some cases. We are, essentially, made to want to know more about some characters (their motives, origins, thoughts), however this thirst for knowledge is not entirely satisfied. This limited feel to the movie is furthered by the fact that the whole plot seems slightly too trivial and lacks a driving purpose. Finally, considering the fact that the run-time is around 80minutes, the pacing is quite peculiar, which left, me personally, wanting more to happen quickly, however this desire is never really met.Overall, this is, undoubtedly, a very good film, and worth a watch for any fans of Japanese anime. However, underneath the wonderful style, originality and creativity Studio Ghibli invoke, is a fairly shallow production that relies far more on its charm as opposed to its production values.


                
My 2.5-year-old is mesmerized by this gentle tale of young children testing their independence and discovering giant animal friends in the forest. The pace is slow and deliberate, and there's nothing overly disturbing, although the mother is in the hospital and the young child gets lost (and found). The theme of secret giant animal friends is compelling and younger children will likely be swept away.


                
The movie, although it had some fairly cute moments, had an extremely weak plot. There are no dramatic events within it, and thus, no room or place for the characters to grow. In fact, the movie doesn't even attempt to include those subtle moral themes that are so typical of most children's films- which, contrary to some beliefs can be a very good and important thing when done well.Instead of being the mysterious and wonderful film it was supposed to be, it seemed rather...bland. Adventures with Totoro seemed very aimless and could've been done a lot more colorfully.Also, what was up with that gigantic smile (and equally colossal roar) that Totoro had? Instead of being friendly, it appeared rather ominous. In fact it reminded my older siblings and I of the grin of Ghostly from Pokemon.I'm fairly sure, though, that somebody, somewhere, will be enchanted by this movie despite what I say. Seeing how my 4 year-old sister was enraptured by the film- and seemingly not at all disturbed by Totoro or his cat-shaped bus- I perhaps have the bias that comes with being skeptical and teen aged. I would, however, highly recommend those enchanted-creature-hungry-folk to leave this one and pursue one of Miyazaki's other films, or, Alice and Wonderland.So, after taking all factors into account, I've decided to be generous and give this movie a 7, whereas personally, it was more like a 6 for me.


                
Sweet, enchanting, heart-warming movie.A father moves himself and his two young daughters, Satsuki and Mei, into an old run-down house in the country in order to be closer to his ailing wife, who is in hospital. Neighbours claim that the house is haunted and pretty soon it looks like they might be correct... Then one day Mei wanders into the forest and discovers an interesting creature, Totoro...The first and, so far, only Hayao Miyazaki movie I've liked, and I've seen all six of his movies that are in the IMDb Top 250. Generally his movies start well, with an intriguing, imaginative set up. However, they tend to quickly degenerate into a rambling adventure for a plot with random action scenes and equally random solutions to problems, and no character depth or engagement. Pretty much suitable for kids only.However, My Neighbour Totoro is different. There's no rambling adventure or random action scenes, but a sweet, focused story. The characters have depth and are likable and engaging. The plot develops gradually and meticulously. There's a beautiful child-like sense of discovery and wonder to the movie.Nice, emotional ending too.Kids will love it but it is ideal for all ages.


                
I think everyone can enjoy a good family film every once in awhile, especially when it's directed by the genius Hayao Miyazaki. He always finds the right mix of fantastical imagination with real heartwarming material. While I think My Neighbor Totoro is a good film, it's nowhere near his best. It explores the relationship between big and little sister, but also people dealing with a difficult situation in life. And sometimes that's when your imagination is at it's highest.It starts off pretty slow, and we don't actually get to see Totoro for about 20 minutes, but when we do the film takes a big jump in quality. A child's imagination is something that is only understood if you have had the same imagination at some point in your life. I remember the days of pretending I had other friends and creatures who would join me on my own adventures. So I can definitely relate to Mei and Satsuki. I think a better film for this would probably be Spirited Away, but it's nonetheless an enjoyable ride. The last 15 minutes or so are really touching. I loved all of the family moments, including their forest family.So Miyazaki has another heartwarming animated feature to his repertoire, but it falls short of the greatness of Spirited Away or even Howl's Moving Castle.+Touching +Imaginative +Totoro is so welcoming -Slow start -Could have been even more fantastical 7.0/10


                
After I saw the "Spirited Away" and "Howl's Moving Castle" I saw another movie by Hayao Miyazaki and that was the "My Neighbour Totoro". When you have seen these masterpiece of Hayao Miyazaki the least you expect is an another masterpiece and he did not let me down for one more time."My Neighbour Totoro" is again a very good movie of Hayao Miyazaki and it has to do with two girls who have adventures with the wondrous forest spirits who live nearby their house. In this movie Hayao Miyazaki wants to show us once more the link between people and spirits and he did it very well.Because I saw this movie after I saw "Spirited Away" I compare it with this movie and I found out that these two movies have some things in common such as the link between people and spirits and their interaction.


                
This film is pretty much one of Hayao Miyazaki's most original pieces of work as it is so genuinely magical. Not being a child, I'm not sure if children would like this film as it can be slow paced. However I enjoyed the film because it was such a great avenue for imagination that it almost felt like I was in the shoes of the two little girls and discovering the things about the place they live in. This is a great film to reflect upon after watching, however not so great whilst watching it. As mentioned before it was almost boring at the start, but then the characters are introduced to a brilliant mythical world that ensures entertainment. A thing that was surprising about this film was how emotionally connected I felt to the characters and the situation with their ill mother, this ability to find an emotional link is what makes Studio Ghibl films so enjoyable and unique. And above all this movie is very cute in almost all aspects.My Neighbor Totoro= 7.8


                
In 1988, after the delightful Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind (1984) and Laputa: Castle in the Sky (1986), Hayao Miyazaki turned his attention to an even younger audience for this sugar-sweet fairy tale charting the adventures of the two young girls, Satsuki (Noriko Hidaka) and Mei (Chika Sakamoto), who move to the countryside with their university professor father (Shigesato Itoi) to be near the hospital where their mother (Sumi Shimamoto) recovers from a nameless illness.It is narrower of scope than the aforementioned classics - deliberately so, because this is a essentially a small-scale drama about a family coping with a terminal illness. That sounds dreadfully morose for what is a work aimed at very young children, but it's all played out very cheerfully, as we gradually enter the kids' fantastical world. In this world they meet the sleepy troll called Totoro. Their passion gives him a reason to awaken, and he becomes the totem of strength and vitality the girls need to cope with the uncertainty surrounding their mother's condition.We often speak of Pixar's and Dreamworks' canniness with the subtle grown-up substance of their animations. But Miyazaki goes beyond winks and trivial references. Perhaps it is the simplicity of his refreshingly formless narrative, but his symbolism has never been stronger than here. At one point, Mei becomes disillusioned by the fact that her acorns will not grow. Then, one night, she and Satsuki meet Totoro and perform a strange rain dance. The acorns don't just grow - an oak tree explodes from the earth, growing a hundred feet high in seconds. It's just one of many beautiful, hopeful scenes, all of which are delivered with a delirious smile.There is more than one nod to Lewis Carroll's Alice In Wonderland: Mei enter's Totoro's realm through a mazy, rabbit hole-style tunnel, while the hilarious 'Catbus' bears the perennial grin of the Cheshire Cat. But parents should not worry about any lurid drug references - this is a film that relishes the trappings of innocence better than any other I've seen.


                
Firstly i have to say that i enjoyed this film. It was really beautiful to watch, especially with the rolling Japanese countryside, (as with all Miyakazi films) and was suitably short. Many of the scenes were innovative and i particularly enjoyed the cat bus scenes. However, as much as i liked the film, there were some major flaws, the main reason i only gave this film 7 out of 10. The first Miyakazi film i watched was Howl's Moving Castle, an epic film which i thoroughly enjoyed and watched multiple times. Howls Castle had a good script and good English voice-overs, but most importantly it had a credible plot and at the end of the film, i was left feeling i had achieved something by watching it. Unfortunately, this film didn't really go anywhere, and despite the fact i enjoyed it, i wasn't very pleased with it. The characters began to grate, especially the little child (Mia?), and the script was very weak. It may be that the English translation was very poor, and in that case, it was acceptable, but i was unimpressed with it at the end of the day. On the other hand, the shortness of the film saved it, and i would definitely recommend this as a good children's film, though I'm not sure it would appeal to a lot of adults, (i am typing here aware that a good deal of adults have commented and really enjoyed this film, but this is purely my humble opinion). I think 7 is a perfectly decent score for a perfectly decent film, but i think it is somewhat lacking in some departments, and that is a little bit disappointing.


                
This is my fourth film from this celebrated animation artist; while I've always enjoyed his work, I still feel that it's somewhat overrated. The ones I'd watched - PRINCESS MONONOKE (1997), SPIRITED AWAY (2001; his best, in my opinion) and HOWL'S MOVING CASTLE (2004) - were all plot-packed, overwhelming visual experiences, so I was surprised to find this one much simpler, virtually kiddie-oriented and essentially plot less! It was still meticulously detailed and inventive, with two extremely likable female protagonists and equally delightful anthropomorphic characters - not to mention an infectious title track. I've yet to catch up with quite a number of his films (TCM showed a retrospective of his work while I was in Hollywood late last year, but I didn't have the time - or stamina - for them) but, given their basic similarity, I guess it's best to approach them one at a time (my local DVD rental outlet does carry a few more titles, though)...


                
We saw this movie at our last Japanese lesson we had at school for this semester. I hadn't seen it before (the anime-freaks looked doubtfully at me) and as it is a Studio Ghibli piece, I had quite a good feeling about that this was going to be a good one (as the vast majority of Ghibli's works are so neat). I must say that the story was sweet, and there is some kind of magic woven in here, enhancing the movie in some way, putting a smile on your lips for sure. I can't really point out anything specific that I got really hooked on, but there were something with the atmosphere I believe. A solid 7/10 well worth seeing for the whole family. Am I the only one that got spellbound by the character Totoro? Hopefully the anime-freaks have a bit more respect for me now.. ;)


                
The respectively 4 and 8 year old Mei and Satsuki move with their father to the countryside of Saitama while the mother is in hospital. They find out that they live nearby a giant totoro.Its so great to see that this type of anime gets recognition in the west in the flood of violent ones. This is peaceful, humane and depicts real people instead of the Disney variety of sugarcoated tales. Hayao Miyazaki has made some terrific anime for kids that would not offend a grown up either. I discovered it just a few years ago and I thoroughly enjoy 'Future Boy Conan' and 'Sen to Chihiro no Kamikakushi' for instance.This is also nice, the imagination to come up with nekobus (cat-bus) and the totoro is childlike in a good way. It doesn't have a real story to tell however and that takes it a bit down.And to bathe with your children help give them a natural relationship with their bodies when they grow up and if thats offensive to you, stick with Disney.


                
