Saint Seiya (also known as Los Caballeros del Zodiaco in Spanish, Knights of Zodiac in English and Les Chevaliers du Zodiaque in French) is one of the best series ever created. First aired in 1986, the series was not as outstandingly popular as your DBZ's or your Sailor Moon's in Japan but strangely it contains/contained an almost religious following in Hispanic (Argentina, Chile, Dominican Republic, etc) and Europ(France and Spain). Based around the idea that our modern world coexists with warriors wearing cloth/armors which are associated with constellations, the series dwells with the adventures of the saints/knights of the goddess Athena. Swearing to protect her, the Bronze saints (the main characters of the story) go to any length and fight anyone who threatens Athena or the well-being of mankind.The series aired in Adult Swim for a while in a crappy time slot and has never really developed an American audience, which is a shame.I can not stress enough how good the series is.


                
Saint Seiya, no doubt, is the best Anime Japan has to offer. It is fast, exciting, and moving. The story line and the character are so real and deep that you'll be attached to them right away. The fierce and fast action is spetacular even using today's standards. But you really have to know the series first in order to enjoy more from the movie. The movie itself, for a first timer is still great, but there are missing details, which by knowing the series will help to fill them.Great anime, watch it.


                
Saint Seiya - The Sanctuary Chapter is a treasure not only in the anime world, but in fiction in general. With features of unusual quality, it is more like a show to enjoy and admire than to entertain us. The only thing that is in contradiction with this is the high number of episodes, which makes the series losing quality sometimes. But these few low moments are easily forgotten when you look at the series as a whole and you can get its real value.The technology, although not excellent (as the series dates from 1986), can present us with splendid effects of light radiation involving the bodies of the knights. The drawings are the most beautiful I have ever seen: characters, armors, environments – they have an outstanding creativity and beauty. A wonderful story, which uses the tireless theme "Good versus Evil", is based on a perfect combination between the Greek mythology and the world today. The fights are spectacular, with diversified moves and strategies that almost always have something to teach us. The knights are often invaded by memories of training with their masters, through which they apprehend important lessons and motivation for the battle, and they have a carefully written (sometimes Epic) speech, through which they explain their ideals.The bronze saints have a strong spirit of sacrifice, and thus can bring me a huge energy and willpower to face the difficulties of day-to-day and to achieve my goals (you can make an analogy between their combats and the obstacles that come in lifetime).Another analogy that I found is the fact that Seiya, a little guy, can defeat Cassius, when the latter presents a physical condition disproportionately higher. Indeed, the Cassius muscles are only due to a superficial and repetitive training that relies on brute force, while Seiya achieves a high energy level (the cosmos) because of the passion that he deposits in training and in combat and the noble ideals it stands for. Therefore, we should also get interest for our work, by doing something that is really good for the society we live in, even if it does not result in better personal profits (such as money and credit), because only the passion for what we do can move us to the level which Cassius was unaware.


                
I am totally addicted to Saint Seiya, there is so much adventure, action and everything here!! I especially like the old episodes, but still they're so cool! All the characters are very well done, each one with especial habilities and skills, and in every episode, something new and cool comes up, you just never know what will come next! I love their powers, for being a show from the 80's is quite impressive how they did it, and even nowadays, it's still very impressive.it's about 5 (more like 4, Ikki shows up not very often) "saints" trained to serve and protect everything that represents good. They always face new adventures and keeps us in the edge of our seat.Also special mention to the music.. wow the music is probably the very soul of Saint Seiya, it suits to every single ocation, a sad moment, a fight, a happy moment, etc.Masami Kurumada es definitely a genius, and now with the new Hades OVAS coming, is definitely something to look forward.Well if you want to see a good anime filled with action and entertainment, you can not miss this one! ***** out of *****


                
Saint Seiya is a Japanese animation TV series about a group of young men chosen to defend the Goddess Athena with their mysterious powers. However, it isn't simply an action series where everyone gets beaten to pulp. It is scattered with mythological references, from Greek mythology to Norse tales. The graphics, although rather old (1986) are splendid, very aesthetical. We quickly become attached to all five of the heroes, who will risk their lives to preserve justice and peace. The musical score of the anime is, all along, a work of art. All in all, anyone interested in mythology and who likes Japanes animation should try to get his hands on this deep yet action filled anime!


                
Sure, a big part of me and my brother's childhood. But beyond being pedagogical, teaching all kinds of myths n mythology to kids - which in itself is FANTASTIC, what a great tool to convey those stories - it is just simply classic literature.I've read "greatest anime ever" on the reviews here. This, if anything, is highly reductive. Of course it's by an infinite measure the best Jap Manga/anime thingy ever, but it is also unparalleled greatness in the realms of literature, poetry, fictional philosophy and cinema altogether.The level of emotions (I cry on a bunch of episodes !) - The depiction of absolute purity - The quality and adrenaline rush in the directing and writing of the action scenes/battles. - The overall class of the characters/scenes/settings. - The intelligence of the script and screen writing: the villain isn't simply a bad guy who wants to kill everyone, there's a very specific motive each time that is brilliantly wrought. - Aesthetics: of the women, the armors/cloths (esp. Gold saints and Poseidon Shoguns), never too violent (decent enough to let you understand the guy lost an arm, but not to show it explicitly)This is the highest piece of cinematography you can get in terms of myths/symbols/poetry/wisdom + enormous emotions + classic tale-telling + and just CLASS overall and incredibly layered.For what it does, it's more perfect than the most perfect thing you could think about. It beats your highest expectations.And I think above all, it sure is informative but above all: HEALTHY. It's hyper positive. You can show this to anyone who's down, and even amongst the most depressed, this can only help and perhaps instill a new breath of life for a few days.This is legendary, it's beyond greatness. No exaggeration. Perhaps the only thing I'd ever want to rate 11/10.


                
This is one of the greatest animes ever made.  I grew up watching the show, hell I still do watch it when ever I can find it on tv.


                
i watched this series back when i was like 6 yrs old in china (i live in the US now). of all the cartoons i saw this one is one of the few that is really ingrained in my memory. the story and characters have a deeper, darker side to them, making them all the more human. you don't find this much in cartoons (or anything really in the media) nowadays. anyway this series really does have something special about it. i don't think it can really be justified by words so all i can say is WATCH IT!!!other animes i like:Neon Genesis Evangelion Sailor Moon Akira Ghost in the Shell


                
Wonderful animation. It has a quality of drawing that's extremely good for 1986. And, not just that, it has great stories and well developed characters. The mythology around it is wonderfully used and mixed into the world as we know. It's admirable how they managed to mix Greek Mythology with Nordic Mythology in some part of the series. Although it's all mythical, the characters are extremely human, with feelings, conflicts and all the discoveries everybody goes through in life. This series was a big success everywhere it was shown, and it deserves it. Saint Seiya is one of the best Japanese animation series ever. And it's a great introduction to the world of animes. Fans of Greek Mythology are going to go berserk.


                
