Soundtrack takes me back to the 80's, luv the selection! It's an interesting view of the 80's I didn't know existed. The characters have gone through so much pain and sadness to be who they are at this point in their lives. The acting isn't the best but the show is fun. I can't wait to see more!


                
Just finished watching Pose on my DVR and to say I was blown away was an understatement. The great thing about this show is the characters. They have focused heavily on character development and the "show, don't tell" aspect of the community and their lives. The opening, when they hid in the museum hooked me. Near the end when the head of the house declared, "I'm his mother!" I knew I'd be watching this series. The characters are interesting, the story is compelling, and the overall tone is about people making the most of their lives. The fact that their gay, or different, while central to the show, transcends the show, so what you're left with is a quality piece of television. This is definitely for adults as an F-bomb was dropped but unless you were really looking for it, it was almost overlooked. Even the minor characters are relevant; love the man on the mic at the ball! I'll continue to watch this. My only downside, which is why I gave it an 8 instead of something higher has to do with some of the acting that is fabulous but stiff. Elektra, the head of House Abundance, makes me think of the "William Shatner School of Acting" sometimes. Her deliveries are over-the-top but also sound like she's reading her lines. She needs to loosen up a bit more. It seems her character is formal, almost too formal, but she's not selling it. I hope as time goes on, she'll get better. Other times, the dancing seemed to stiff and not believable. The dance-off felt like "we must lose this because, you know, drama!" as opposed to a natural lose.Overall, a great show. As I said, I'll be watching this.
All of the scenes are so colorful and full of life with style and dont forget culture. Speaking of color and the lead in direction, I must be watching a Ryan Murphy production. His style has always been one of my favorite. For e.g. the cinmatography from The normal Heart and The people Vs OJ to name two fright off my head. The music more than everything is like a character in this series itself, playing the mid 80s music, especially whenever it was capturing the nostalgia. This shows isnt what it says to be at first. In fact, I watched the first 5 minutes intrigued and then it turned into something different. Watch the whole first episode before deciding on whether you like it or not. You will find after two episodes that the characters go through hard times through the character development that really feel like the shows main strength. Its gritty and raw. The first scene with the son being confronted by his dad was showing the exact range this series has. Five minutes before that the characters in the present were absolutely playing different roles. The switch back to time scene was jarring but true to how being a homosexual was and sadly is still is for those. I'm appalled by the great reviews left and not supported by this community. It leaves me wondering why people would find their reviews mir helpful. READ ALL THE POSTIVE REVIEWS here too, I suggest bc tbey I'm usually reluctant about reviews but this show is put together by the masterful Rynan Murphy, or the guy Netflix just paid 300 million for! If you want to lose yourself and escape to this world of bright colors and incredible music and great directing, though some of the acting may not be top tier all the time. It. Will. Still be refreshing and feel like a breath of fresh air when you've watched what episodes theres to offer (2 at the point of this 
review). Do conineue it will be so much and original and unique imo!!!


                
I was really surprised how excellent this show was. I just finished the first season. I really didn't know how the show was going to be based on the ads and previews, but it was a really good show. It's not just about a bunch of queens being catty with each other. Sure their is some of that in the show but at its core this show has heart and an excellent story. You don't have to be in the LGBTQ community to enjoy the show. Just open minded. I like that they used actual trans actors in this show. Who better to tell their own story than an actual trans person. This show is one the best surprises of the summer. I won't spoil any of the story. Just check it out and find out for your self how good it is.


                
I appreciate there's a growing arena for trans performers. I'm really enjoying the story, music, and the heart this show has. Is the acting a little flat with a couple of characters - yes. Do I still applaud the effort? For sure. A friend said the story was "too sanitized". That may be but I'm appreciating a glimpse into this world that's both serious and enrtertaining. I think it strikes a good balance so far.


                
I mean that in the best way possible. Pose brings the documentary Paris Is Burning into a whole new format, and is one of the shows that I feel is more about atmosphere than just storytelling, where each episode is like a time capsule, that transports the viewer to a time and place they never knew they needed to be. At its core, Pose is about found family, and carving out your own path when society doesn't give you a path to achieve your dreams. Pose had a thoroughly entertaining first season, although I'm wondering where the next season will go, as many plot points felt concluded and many character arcs came to a satisfying conclusion. I sometimes wonder how much mileage the show has. Even though I did enjoy the first season, it did feel bloated at times and inconsequential at others. The storyline with Evan Peters and Kate Mara felt a bit tacked on at times and sometimes took attention away from the houses and balls in a distracting way. Even though the show wasn't perfect, Pose is a must-see show for anyone in the LGBT community, anyone who is interested in the world of ballroom culture and 80s nostalgia. Even as someone not born in the 80s felt a pang of nostalgia for a time lost and a generation that fought so hard for a brighter tomorrow, yet died so young because of the system they were fighting. The show uses the 80s as a parallel to our current political, social, and pop cultural climate and uses Trump era luxury expansion and the rise of materialism to critique the current administration. The show also addresses transgender alienation from the LGBT community in a way that mirrors some attitudes today. All in all, I would highly recommend Pose, a stylish, entertaining show with heart.
The 8-episode narrative of Pose creates a great storytelling which gets to full circle at its last episode. Not only a mark on LGBTQI representation onTV, it also gives us great drama, emotion and fun, especially with its ball sequences. The extreme similarity with Paris is Burning and its characters/sequences/stories can almost shade Pose's originality, but thankfully it doesn't.A must-watch show.


                
It's still shocking to me when I realise that there are a couple of generations now that don't remember what it was like for HIV to be a death sentence, and for gay people to be so marginalised that acts of incredible discrimination and brutality were the norm. 
But the changes that have happened in those lifetimes were a consequence of brave people who sacrificed their safety in exchange for the moments of freedom where they could be their true selves. 
Pose is all about the bursts of sunshine that came in the clubs and the houses and the families that formed around the need to express authenticity, to show joy without the risk of punishment, and the safety and comfort of belonging. 
Pose probably isn't the finest crafted drama you'll ever see, but it has a (mostly) queer cast that includes some terrific actors (who are alao tremendous advocates), a killer 80s soundtrack and is visually lovely. 
It's a lot of fun and a timely reminder that family is about more than blood connections. 
It may not win Emmys, but there will be young queer people who see Pose as realise that any shame they feel is a burden given to them by others and is utterly returnable. 
Thumbs down though for Evan Peters and Kate Mara being given top billing in spite of being somewhat secondary characters. I get the hierarchy is based on their draw power as known actors but still...
Can't wait to see more.


                
I was very sceptical at first but the show is really raw. Normally, the subject of AIDS is not used in the movies/series that much and having a show that focuses on the experience of the "others" in the 80s is very inspiring.Pose touches on a lot of issues and topics such as balls, rivalry, surviving, homosexuality and being accepted in a society where everyone judges you.


                
This series is a much watch, fantastic acting where you can feel the passion and love through the screen.


                
Show is set in 1987 and the opens with Madonna's iconic dance moves from Vogue released in 1990! <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00AC>
The characters are likeable and they grow organically through confronting conflicts. At times it is a little emotionally wrenching. Some of the early episodes were so tense it waas exhausting, but it was worth hanging in there and the character development that came out of it was satisfying. The message that comes through is that people are people, whether they are gay or straight, trans or cis. I feel the writing could be better other than that awesome show.


                
One of the most relatable shows i've ever seen.
Point for Ryan Murphy again!
The cast is really good. MJ, Ryan Jamal and Indya are stars.


                
One of the most relatable shows i've ever seen.
Point for Ryan Murphy again!
The cast is really good. MJ, Ryan Jamal and Indya are stars.


                
