This is an original show with a fantastic cast! I suspect a lot of us are learning a lot about "things we didn't know we didn't know." The ballroom culture of the 80's is fascinating, as are many of the characters. This show operates smoothly at several different levels and tackles the hard stuff. At its heart is the issue of family-it's enduring position as safe harbor & moral compass, and the human tendency to create families of our own to uphold and sustain us when the traditional model has failed.


                
It's very early in the season to begin an assessment as the story arc is just developing, but I'm "in" thus far. I'm hoping that Ryan Murphy doesn't create a trajectory similar to what we observed with "Glee" and am comforted that he stayed away from a "Paris Is Burning" musical (thus far) as the film itself caused controversy and uproar related to matters of appropriation. I hope that the Pose writers listen to community members on set and keep it real, though many are too young to have experienced, first hand, the events they portray. Please continue to seek out and promote talent in the form of community members who were in the ballroom scene and solicit their input! HIV ravaged the community during this time period and those seeking the comfort of others living the same experience, sharing the same space, were challenged in many ways. It's difficult to invest in relationships that may be fleeting due to a deadly illness. For those critiquing the acting, it's unfortunate you're not celebrating the use of transgender talent within a community that exists largely in the shadows and is marginalized in our narrow-minded society. For those making societal degradation comments, there are lots of other channels. TV Land may be more your speed.All that said, I'm loving what I see so far! Thank you for taking this on.


                
I'm in agreement with everyone who is in love with this show. Just want to give a shout out to MJ Rodriguez, who plays Blanca. She is the real standout in a very good cast.


                
A last, something fresh and new, that isn't more reality trash thrust upon us... it has more depth than the Kardashians could ever hope to, and more heart than much of the fodder on offer these days.Its a wonderful flashback for those of us who were teens in the 80s, the stone wash denim, the hightop shoes, and all that neon.... it's well thought out and although I grew up from from New York and all that entails, I can certainly appreciate what is being shown here with nostalgia.The story lines seem to be going somewhere, it has multiple layers with at times complex character behaviour, it seems to me to be telling a story about family, and the reality behind the truth that a family isn't always about biology.The acting is mostly good, there are a few bumps along the way I will say, but those of better acting ability do compensate mostly for those who are simply lacking experience in front of a camera. On the dislike side, the guy from Dawsons Creek, awful character, and if he could indeed ever act it appears he forgot how to which is a surprise as he is probably the face most well recognised in this.Its certainly a colourful and entertaining show, it appears to confront issues of the time reasonably head on and with honesty and relevance that would have been the norm back then. I find it mostly engaging and enjoyable, and certainly think it is worth the investment of time, no doubt you will become as hooked and interested in the evolving stories of the lead characters as I am.I trust this show will continue beyond the current first season, as I say, in a sea of rubbish this is an oasis.


                
Ryan Murphy and his team have created magic realness and characters we will never ever forget. Brilliant just begins to describe this series with heart. Bravo!


                
Can border on after school special territory, but an otherwise beautifully crafted series with an amazing cast, soundtrack, and cinematography. Plus Billy Porter is so endearing.


                
I finished watching the series a week ago and it still keeps me thinking. This is what a great drama should do. There are a lot of scenes in the ballroom where people on the surface seem all happy and cheering being part of the community, it's almost overwhelming, and then in all the other scenes you are witnessing their personal dramas and losses. They are all believable and likeable. For some characters, I wished there was more explanation of their feelings and motivation, such as Damon who I thought came across as a bit too straight-edge after all that had happened to him. But I stilled liked it (and Damon) very much.


                
I am a 38 y.o single mom living in a rural area in Eastern Europe. So hardly someone who would have any idea about the life that is shown in Pose. While I was watching the first episode, I had several moments where I wanted to stop and move on to something else as I felt very out of place in this world. Luckily, I stuck around and ended up binge watching it in 2-3 days.Amazing characters and topics explored. Even more amazing casting. Loved the 80's vibe and really felt for the ladies in this show. Can't wait for season two.


                
A series that takes us back to the late 80s, dazzling costumes, fierce mugs and shows us where RuPaul learned half the tricks of her trade? Yes girl, you'll enjoy this!


                
When I saw trailers for Pose on the BBC channels I knew I wanted to watch it. I finished watching episodes 7 and 8 last night. It's unusual for me to bingewatch a box set (The BBC Iplayer featured Pose as a boxset as well as broadcasting an episode once a week). Pose gripped me and blew me away. The costumes were fabulous, the acting superb. Some of the moments were the best I've seen on TV for years. I cried when Pray Tell and Blanca sang For All We Know and Home. I'll never forget Angel and Stan's faces when the partition came up in the peep show, showing Stan sitting in the red light, and putting his hand on the glass to reach out to Angel. I grew up in the 70s and 80s and I wasn't much of a fan of the music back then, but I have to say the use of songs was outstanding. I'm giving the show a 9 because I found the last episode's final sequence and a few scenes a little too sugary: Blanca was shown a little too much as a saint at the end. Pose didn't hold back from difficult topics: it was a stomach punch when Stan's wife dragged him to a therapist's office and announced she knew he was cheating on her with a transsexual hooker and she was dumping him. All the characters' facets were explored, including Stan's shallowness and his boss' sleazy narcissism. I can't recommend the show enough. I'd give it a trophy even bigger than the ones in Electra's apartment.
My Review- Pose 8/10Think Fame meets Ru Paul but Pose is much more than a spectacular portrayal of GLBT New York culture,it's a huge budget production and has been deservedly applauded by audiences and critics alike.Set in the 1980s, POSE is a groundbreaking new series that explores the juxtaposition of several segments of life and society in New York: the ball culture world, the rise of the luxury Trump-era universe and the downtown social and literary scene.Making television history, POSE features the largest cast of transgender actors in series regular roles, as well as the largest recurring cast of LGBTQ actors ever for a scripted series. The transgender cast includes Mj Rodriguez, Dominique Jackson, Indya Moore, Hailie Sahar and Angelica Ross, who co-star alongside Evan Peters, Kate Mara, James Van Der Beek, Tony Award winner Billy Porter, Charlayne Woodard, and newcomers Ryan Jamaal Swain, Dyllón Burnside and Angel Bismark Curiel.All the characters in Pose are believable and range from teens rejected by parents for their sexuality to the board rooms of Trump Tower ,the glamour of the famous Pageant Ball scene and the heartbreaking hospital AIDS Wards that saw a generation wiped out in the Ronald Reagan era.A great team of writers headed by series creator Steven Canals assures this 8 part first series will be continued in series 2 already in production.


                
I'm just going to say, I got here because of Evan Peters and I'm certainly not unhappy that 2 of my favourite songs now make him pop into my head....
Kate Bush-Running up that Hill 'Pose'
Fleetwood Mac- Gold dust woman 'American horror story.
This series is fantastic so win/win!!


                
Pose it's a little not well know show that deserves more recognition because it's deals with heavy subjects and does it with such a heart, you will inevitably fall in love with the cast, give this show a chance it's worthy.


                
