"Leon: The Professional" is about a love story intertwined with some ridiculous shootouts. The shootouts are unimaginative and plain stupid with the 1.9 million bullets fired at Leon, with three hitting, then Leon' disappearing acts, where he goes from the ceiling; to the hallway; to the bathroom, then, directly behind the guy he's going to kill, and he does it just like a professional... or a magician. One of the worst parts of the action scenes, especially at the end, is when everything is predictable about 30 seconds before it happens. That's the worst kind of predictability. Where you just find out what's going to happen before it does, because when this thrilling sequence happens- that you've been waiting for 30 seconds- it ends up not being so thrilling, and instead, becomes worthless and terribly ineffective. "The Professional" is flat. The love story involves Mathilda (Natalie Portman) and Leon (Jean Reno). Portman is twelve and Leon is<U+0085> old<U+0085> like 40. Don't be fooled, though, they love each other, but their relationship is strictly platonic. Even though Mathilda is much wiser beyond her years and ready for a sexual relationship, Leon is not, but he is tempted. Besson uses several shots throughout the film that places our eyes directly on the twelve-year-old's body. We get the feeling she's ready for it and that Leon want's it, but like Leon, Besson is tempting us because Leon is tempted. He shows her caressing her stomach, or getting out of bed with a shot directly on her underwear as she walks to the kitchen. Intriguing stuff<U+0085> expect she's twelve. What's the point of using a twelve-year-old here? I have no idea. Is it ridiculous and over-the-top? Of course it is and maybe that's the reason. Everything else is so stupid and over-the-top it's almost unwatchable and get's really annoying so why not put a twelve- year-old and 40-something in the middle of a weird love story that doesn't make any sense or have any purpose in a film such as this? Even the action is annoying. When it's not annoying it's boring. It's some of the stupidest stuff you'll ever see. It's unintelligent and plain stupid. The director has Leon stand behind a wall, a bunch of bullets go flying through the wall, and Leon is perfectly okay. Better yet, he's standing behind the people who are shooting at the wall he standing behind, and, then he kills them... all of them... in seconds. Wow. That's impressive stuff (sarcasm). Leon sleeps on a chair with sunglasses and a gun not too far away. His best friend is a plant. It doesn't ask questions and Leon likes that. He drinks a glass of milk by the quart; never the gallon. Oh, the excitement!!!! Leon has it all. The best thing that came out of this steaming pile of garbage is Gary Oldman. Like everything else, his character is over-the-top, but he seems to be the only that embraces it and goes with it. He is so good as the crazy, classical music loving, DEA agent that's so corrupt he loves taking lives. He actually, loves it. That's insane, right? Completely unfathomable? That's right, it is, but Oldman seems to be the only one in this that takes this film for what it is. Everyone else, Besson the worst, acts as if this is somehow plausible. That's when action films like this can't be enjoyable. When the directors know, the actors know, the writers know, and the audiences know this is all over-the-top and all about action, action, and more action is when films such as "Leon" are successful. Not like this, though. Not only are the action sequence poorly done, but the stereotypes of cops left and right with their minds on women, or family problems, or the they're just too stupid to do their job is not only ridiculous but tired and stereotypical and unimaginative. Besson does his best to make this feel anything but European. Reno is supposed to be Italian, see the casting director for that screw up, and Tony (Danny Aiello) is an Italian store-owner who does nothing but order people to be killed- And he has Leon kill a lot of people. Why? Who knows? Besson doesn't understand that's the good stuff. Anyone can make a movie about someone killing someone. Anyone. Tony has a drug ring, but we don't have a clue what it's about, or who it evolves, or where it comes from or anything. The worst part about Aiello's performance is that he thinks this is going to be the 90s version of, "The Godfather." Yeah, not working here, leave it to Brando and Pacino to pull off the real Mob Boss performances in real Mob movies. "The Last Don" didn't do it either. Try reading a script with some depth to it. This takes place in New York City, but you'll get the feeling it takes place in Europe with stupid American's that keep popping up and doing stupid things. It doesn't have much to say about anything. It wants to be bold and outgoing and push the envelope in regards to teens and middle aged men hooking up, but nothing in this film works. The more you think about it, the more you'll be able to pick apart this terribly flawed, substance-less action piece apart. As for the relationship between the forty-year-old and the twelve-year-old? What does it say? Not a whole lot other than love can actually make you happy, but when you're Leon, that doesn't last long and that, too, is predictable. This is simply terrible film-making that also looks outdated.


                
The movie was watchable, but that's about it. Why the hell it's ranked this high on IMDb I cannot understand. Maybe most of us saw it as kids and remembered it as being entertaining then, but for any film-buff, this is no better than movies such as Completely overrated film; nothing was special about the cinema visually nor was the plot that enthralling or original. Natalie Portman, who always pretty much sucks in movies, was apparently even worse as a young actress. This movie is on par with any other cliché "assassin" oriented flick. It seemed like a TV movie when I saw it on TBS. I couldn't BELIEVE it was on the IMDb top 250.


                
I am angry with the film Leon for showing some promise, but being so bad. While the opening action sequence is intriguing and quite stylishly impressive, the overall story is poorly conceived and rather absurd. Its value is greatly diminished by the acting and the stupid things the characters actually do in the script.Different events happen in this film that are completely inconceivable in what looks like a setting in the recent past, the present, or the near future. They are living in a familiar place, but the characters act like their brains are in an alternate universe. Leon, the professional, seems to be an intelligent and rational man, but it is ridiculous that he helps instigate Natalie Portman's character to cause many nonsensical events. The director then contrasts these stupid almost unfathomable actions by trying to make us identify with certain character's natural human emotions. I can't feel any emotions with the characters because apart with speaking the same language and living on Earth, they do many things that I feel are completely illogical.The writers seem to have wanted some comic relief in many parts of the film, but they are mostly unfunny and unnecessary. They make you appreciate the writing of Quentin Tarantino and Guy Ritchie even more. What makes this film somewhat interesting are the action scenes which are definitely well done and cool, but they are unfortunately few and far between.


                
'Leon:The Professional' is a sophisticated action flick possessing a high degree of character development juxtaposed against a realistic enough plot... the fight scenes are totally thrilling. The film unfolds with a technical expertise we expect from a master craftsman- to many, this is a masterpiece. Unfortunately, the film offers an approving view of an inappropriate relationship between the hit man Leon and the recently orphaned girl Matilda (who always dresses like a hooker, btw). He is over 40, she is 12 years old. The original script called for an even more intense or raw exposition of their relationship, and in the international release we get plenty of hints about this. This is a compelling film but I agree with the late great Roger Ebert on this one- the films use of a 12 year old (Natalie Portman in her first role) for the subject matter is creepy. I also find it odd that most reviewers seem to miss what the film is really saying. It may (or may not be) artistic but it is still propaganda for a legally and morally forbidden love, as director Luc Besson himself has indirectly admitted.
