Leon is one of the most emotionally intense movies ever made. French director Luc Besson uses everything: actors, music, camera angles, lighting to create an unique experience - "It's not realism, it's not naturalism - it's heightened reality" as Gary Oldman very well put it.
In "The making of The Professional" Besson says "If I imagine somebody in the street try to knock on my daughter, I kill the guy, in five seconds. I kill him, and I think "It's in me, I'm a beast!" On this part we can't forget that a part of us, the genetic things inside are much, much older than The Ten Commandments". He certainly uses visceral scenes to create very strong emotion  in the movie - the blood running from Mathilda's nose or Stansfield's unforgettable "EVERYONE!" are just a couple of examples. The music and the sound are excellent and are used in a masterly fashion - you can hear Fatman's heart beating desperately or a low claustrophobic sound when Stansfield turns to look at Mathilda's father.However Leon does not work only on this primary level, it also has an intelligent story. It may seem to be almost a fairy-tale, but don't be fooled -  just like his character Besson is serious. This movie has a message: without love we are dead, even if we don't see it. Only true love give meaning to our lives: "everything else reminds me a big yogurt: warm and rancid" as Mathilda says in the original script, which is available on the net under the name Leon Version 1. Is this true in "real life"? I don't know but this movie can make you wonder.Then of course there's the sensuality. It's hypocritical to deny it, the camera interacts with Mathilda in a mesmerising fashion. It's not sick and it's not degrading: it's art, subtle and beautiful.Leon is not perfect but it has so many great moments that all its flaws can be forgiven. It's a movie that really should not be missed, unless you are concerned with its amorality. And don't be - Leon is less violent than many action movies and the unusual relationship between the main characters is handled mostly with genuine feeling and tact.


                
I sensed that Luc Besson (director of The Fifth Element and La Femme Nikita) was, like Tarantino and many, many others before him, borrowed elements from various films and genres to create their own voice in the film. With Leon, I sensed him alluding to the crime films of France (i.e. Melville), Hong-Kong (i.e. Woo), and America (i.e. Scorsese), and making it into his own special brand for the story and characters. That his style visually is as compelling helps a great deal. The international version (which is the one I saw) is a little grittier, and more suggestive, than the version most American audiences saw in 1994 and on cable. But it is also a must-see if you are planning to see the film. It's not a long movie, though it gives a good many details in its story.Jean Reno has his star-making turn (at least for what he's worth) in Leon- he's ruthless contract killer who will kill just about anyone for the right price. He lives out of an apartment by himself, trying his best to ignore his noisy neighbors. One of the daughters is Mathilda (Natalie Portman, also a major breakthrough performance), abused by her whole family to no end. When a corrupt cop (Gary Oldman, one of the key villain performances of his career along with Dracula and Drexl in True Romance) goes and kills off her family while she's away, she has no one else to turn to besides the reclusive killer. She knows what he does, and she wants in. The rest of the film is about their relationship, as it unfolds professionally and emotionally, leading to a tremendous, bloody climax.One thing that struck me most about Leon is the fact that the film was more disturbing than I expected. The idea of a killer getting a pupil in a young teenage girl is unusual enough, but the way it unfolds I felt so much for her plight got to me at times. this doesn't make Leon a tear-jerker (maybe for some, I'm not sure), but because of Portman's dead-on portrayal, it makes the story work somehow, and is in a way as fantastical as it is naturalistic. There are also a few scenes that stuck out as being little masterpieces of all the elements coming together. The first is a brief scene, and crucial to showing the character of Leon early on- he takes a break after his contract, and sees a movie, a musical with Gene Kelly. He's the only one in the theater, and he is completely in the grasp of what he sees on the screen. It's the perfect touch of humanity and shows his only escape is into complete fantasy.The second is when Leon and Mathilda are in a restaurant, after she has just gone through a day of training (there's a hilarious montage that follows this scene). Mathilda is getting drunk off of champagne, rambling with words she may or may not mean. Suddenly, she starts laughing, and she laughs more, and harder. People in the restaurant look at her like she's nuts. Leon is, of course, embarrassed. However, I thought this was just the right touch to this scene, where the kind of father-daughter relationship going on between Leon and Mathilda is revealed. It's not exactly funny, not even really cringe worthy. It just is. The third scene is when Mathilda decides to pay a visit to the man who murdered her family. She follows the man into the bathroom, and waits. Suddenly, he (Oldman) appears out from behind a door. The language used, the tenseness of the two off of one another, it's simply the most terrifying scene in the picture (aside from the first violent turning point).So, basically, when Leon finished, I think I realized that my reaction was this: if I had seen this film when I was younger, be it in high school or even middle school, I would've responded to it even more strongly than I do now. There's something very visceral about the nature of violence and killing, as well as the mentor/pupil relationship, that Besson really gets down pat. While some of the situations have the chance of slipping into clichés, it doesn't happen very often. Leon: The Professional, is hard-hitting when it has to be, soft and funny when it can, and does stay with the viewer a few days after it's over.


                
Many movies have characters in them who are hired assassins, or "hit men". They're the standard "badass" character that kills people in order to collect a reward. Most hit men in films have been portrayed as cold, heartless villains (Boba Fett of Star Wars, Vincent of Collateral). Léon, however, flips this cliché on its end, as the hit-man is the kind-hearted protagonist who learns how to love, thanks to a little girl who shows up on his doorstep.Léon begins in a restaurant, with the assassin himself (Jean Reno) taking a contract from his boss Tony (Danny Aiello) to kill a man who's moving in on Tony's territory. The next 10 minutes become an enthralling cat and mouse game where Leon shows the viewers just why he is known as the cleaner: he is extremely good at this job. We also see Leon's human side, shown by his passion for milk, his affection for his plant (whom he calls his best friend) and when he becomes engrossed watching Singin' in the Rain. Leon seems quite content with this life, not seeming to want anything more. That is, until he is forced to take custody of a twelve-year-old girl (Natalie Portman) whose entire family was cruelly massacred by a corrupt DEA agent (Gary Oldman). This is where Leon is forced to change his lifestyle for the little girl, and when she wishes to get into contract killing to avenge her brother, Leon becomes her mentor and protector.Luc Besson was both the director and screenwriter for Léon, and he proves with his sophomore effort that he is no one-hit wonder. Léon is a very fast paced movie, chronicling Leon's training of Mathilda, Mathilda's growing affection for contract killing (and for Leon himself), and the final standoff with Norman Stansfield. Despite all this, Léon also has time to throw in some slower scenes that develop Leon's and Mathilda's characters, expanding on their growing relationship and partnership.Jean Reno does a very good job as Leon, portraying him both as an effective and frightening killing machine, and as a loving and caring father figure. There is almost a childlike innocence to Leon, with him being unable to read and not familiar with most American culture. Reno allows the audience to both sympathize with this character and respect him, an extremely challenging feat.Natalie Portman's breakout role as Mathilda is one of the greatest acted child roles in a film, period. Portman is able to portray childlike innocence combined with an above average intelligence and awareness of the world around her. Although she is young, she becomes extremely interested in Leon and his job, wanting revenge for the gross acts committed upon her. Make no mistake, Mathilda is the true star of this film, and Portman completely shines in the role.In comparison to Jean Reno's fairly subdued performance as Leon, apparently Luc Besson wanted a more exciting and over-the-top antagonist for the film: enter Gary Oldman. Gary Oldman completely overacts his character of the crooked DEA cop, and he does it so wonderfully that he steals every scene he is in. This is without a doubt the greatest performance of this underrated actor's career, as the fun Oldman has with this role practically oozes out of the screen and infects anyone who watches him. While some critics criticized Oldman for his performance, it was actually spot on considering that the character of Stansfield is a drug-addicted psychotic cop who has no problem with murdering an innocent family to get what he desires. The only nitpick I have with Stansfield is his screen time is fairly small compared with Leon and Mathilda; nevertheless he completely steals the show when he does appear.The plot of Léon is fairly straightforward compared to most action flicks, as there are no particular plot twists or double crossings. However, the simple plot works because this is not a plot driven movie, it is a character driven one. That's not to say there is no action in this movie, there are a few great action sequences (especially the spectacular police shootout in the film's climax), but the film mainly revolves around the growing affection between Leon and Mathilda, and how they change each others' lives. Overall, Léon is an extremely well-made action/drama, and one of the best films of 1994.


                
'Léon' is a classic.The plot is gripping and dramatic, keeps you on edge.It starts off with the brutal killings of Mathilda's family but she isn't there at the time so avoids it. She comes back while the bad guys are still there and knocks on Léon's door hoping for help. This scene could have been so simple with the door just opening, but I loved how emotional this bit was. This is where I really started to feel for the characters as we saw through the spy hole tears running down Natalie Portman's face. This is where the film really starts as the two plot revenge together. The character development in this one is just great. The action scenes are just fantastic and so fast paced. The acting is excellent (How Natalie Portman didn't win any awards for her role as Mathilda I don't know).It's hard to go into more details without potentially spoiling this one, just be sure to watch it. You won't be disappointed. If you like a film with good character development, fast paced action and a film that grabs your complete attention, this is for you.10/10.
Leon the Professional (1994)A tightly wrought, ironically charming (and no so ironically violet) caper about an accomplished assassin and a sweet girl. The assassin Leon is played with dry, raspy wit by Jean Reno. He's one of those guys who's "the best" without question, and who lives off the radar naturally. All he has is a suitcase and a potted plant in his small apartment. The girl, Mathilda, is played with a perfect combination of innocence and worldly savvy by Natalie Portman. When her family is wiped out by gangsters, she is taken in by the assassin, who happens to live next door.The bad guys are led by Gary Oldman, who is a caricature of an evil thug gangleader. And behind the scenes in the middle of all his is the inimitable Danny Aiello in a small but important role. All of this weirdly makes sense, and the plot moves along with our growing concern for Mathilda, above all. And then for Leon, by extension. So whether you call this a buddy movie or an over-the-top farce, it's so well connected, smoothly filmed, and forcefully acted it just feels and looks right. It's just superbly made.Director and writer Luc Besson is a marvel, really, and anyone who has seen "La Femme Nikita" or "Fifth Element" knows that he can show imagination and style with edgy contemporary punch. He's the main example of the so-called "cinema du look" style of French movies, a kind of counter-balance in self-aware movie-making to Quentin Tarantino's more artificial style. Besson is essentially a writer first and director second, and he wrote all of these as well as the "Taken" movies that have recently been so successful both in France and here.If some bloody violence doesn't put you off, add this to your must-see list.


                
One of the most beautiful movie I have ever watched. Pivoting on the dramatic turns in the strange, unusual relationship between the kind- hearted hit-man and his young padawan, Luc Besson's Leon is a stylish mature strangely affecting thriller. That film has a soul that is disclosed by the strong professional performance from Jean Reno and the spectacular debut by the 12-year-old Natalie Portman. Ending with the lovely Sting's song - Shape of my heart - an allusion of the real moral values of the main character, carries a powerful emotional intensity that can burst you into tears, Leon is an unforgettable movie. One pretty awesome action movie.
It is easy to praise the father-daughter relationship that Leon (Jean Reno) and Mathilda (Natalie Portman) display in this dark and compelling film, but I feel that would be superficial.The relationship appeared to be much deeper - almost sexual - as the two tried to find some meaning in their lives.Leon was just slouching through life doing his job and not caring about much else. A wired cop (Gary Oldman) thrust Mathilda into his arms, and he became her protector and trainer. This relationship unfolded slowly and beautifully and was truly a joy to watch.Sure, there was action, but it framed the story, which was really about Leon and Mathilda. Reno and Portman were brilliant and aptly supported by Oldman and Danny Aiello.


                
N.B. Spoilers within. Part action/thriller, part character study, "Leon (The Professional)" is a sure-fire bet for lovers of both categories. The story is about the meticulous hit-man and determined loner Leon (an amazing Jean Reno) and the precocious 12-year-old Mathilda (the equally amazing Natalie Portman) who crashes his party. They are vastly different from each other, separated not just by wide gaps in age, culture, and experience, but by their basic psychologies. Leon runs a strictly one-man show by sheer will and by necessity: it allows him to survive and flourish. But as bottled up as he is, he is marked by tragedy and sorrow. These feelings he keeps tightly compartmentalized, which makes him so successful as a killing machine. Enter Mathilda, the product of a wholly dysfunctional home, where she was regularly beaten and abused by her drug-dealing father and loveless family. Despite this, she is by nature a strong, hopeful, and highly intuitive girl. The movie throws these two together and lovingly documents their emotional journey toward each other. All of this is skillfully woven with Leon's violent line of work, providing the film with some spectacular action sequences. It gets even better when the savvy Mathilda joins Leon on the job, giving her a sense of purpose while forcing Leon to join the human race, or at least one headstrong member of it. The movie really succeeds when it goes deeply into the emotions driving each character. Mathilda, after all, is just discovering love and sexuality, which she presses on Leon, the object of her newfound desires. As for him, Leon can barely stand this nuisance at first, but gradually becomes the caring father figure she never had. The more she gets under his skin, the harder he looks into himself to do the right thing for her. This whole process becomes incredibly touching. You root for these two oddballs; they flesh out a unique love story.Meanwhile, Leon and Mathilda are up against one of the stranger villains of the 90s, the malicious D.E.A. agent Norman Stansfield (Gary Oldman: he scores again). Stansfield is also an oddball: he is outrageously high-strung (always being pampered and brought back to reality by his fellow nasties), he pops weird pills, and rambles on about Beethoven to his soon-to-be-dispatched victims. In any case, he is a creepy, ruthless dude. Besson keeps the tension high for much of the film, letting go only long enough for the occasional scene where Leon and Mathilda have some time alone. (The two actors really shine here.) Otherwise, the film has a running undercurrent of menace and unpredictability. Compassion and cruelty weave continually in and out. The film's climax is gripping, and the do-or-die moment when Leon and Mathilda say goodbye is positively heart-wrenching. The two have come a very long way. A good word should be put in, too, for the always dependable Danny Aiello as Tony, Leon's boss and a father figure himself. This is a smart, highly enjoyable film <U+0096> tight, focused, and personal. It's a rush for the senses and a gratifying story of memorable characters.


                
This is really two films in one. Let me explain.A movie was released in 1994 called "The Professional". Two years later a longer version with an additional 25 minutes appeared. This was called the International version. The shorter original version is what director Luc Besson refers to as his directors cut. Both are English language, but have a very strong French influence. Lovers of European crime films and thrillers will love this film.Both version are modern crime classics, inspired by a medieval French ballad about a knight that was in danger of losing his land through battle, until he mounts one last heroic effort and with a blood curdling battle cry (as seen in the end of the film) he hurls himself once more at the enemy and wins the day. This is one of the many spiritually profound things in this film that lift it from a generic crime film, augmented by a timeless soundtrack by Eric Serra.The plot: A lethal foreign hit-man befriends a young girl after sparing her from the same bloody fate that befalls her family, gunned down by a vicious corrupt cop and his merry band of killers. One of whom in real life would later die on September 11 (he played "Benny").The young girl is Mathilda (Natalie Portman in a very early role). Mathilda demands to stay with her savior, the recalcitrant hermit hit-man, Leon. This sets up a nice role reversal. The older Man should be the one that calls the shots, but he's a helpless foreigner that cannot read English and so it falls to the younger vivacious Matilda to save him right back.The socially awkward man child Leon wears ill fitting clothes made for a teenager not an adult. He really is just half a man. He spends his time between hits drinking enough milk to raise a brood of orphans, just in case the child motif wasn't established enough already. He also trains and trains his body and mind to be the sort of lethal weapon that negates the need to fully integrate into this new foreign world. Half man half child.Leon is bewildered by Matilda and doesn't know how to handle her. Mathilda eventually becomes infatuated with Leon, mistaking his paternal protective mechanism as mutual love. Some Narrow minded film critics see more to that than what it is.As soon as Matilda realizes what Leon does for a living, she demands that he teach her how to kill, hoping to learn the skills required to get revenge on those that made her an orphan. Leon flatly refuses. He also rejects her naive romantic overtures. Ashamed and rejected She runs off alone toward a bloody showdown with the corrupt cop Stansfield (Gary Oldman in his psychotically brilliant career defining role), who murdered her entire family at the start.Talk of a sequel has been bubbling along for years. Director Luc Besson has written a screenplay, but having left Gaumont (the company that produced this film) it appears they are withholding the screenplay from him as well as the rights to make said sequel, so it may never happen.


                
I have a quite specific criteria for rating a movie. It is by how memorable it is. It is by how much it shows you moments, dialogs, situations that get into your mind and which you think over and over again after the movie, without necessarily finding a deep philosophical meaning in them. Moments that left you enough of an impression to force you review and analyze them thoroughly. This film gives me what I am looking for. Leon and Mathilda are excellent characters and you really embrace their personalities, their spirit, their hardships, you watch their actions with agony and feel their will for carrying on in a cruel,unforgiving world. Stansfield is also excellent as the villain and shows the other side of the coin, that is how easy it is to fall into immorality and how much power that can give you in the system we live today. Go and watch that movie. I promise it will be memorable.


                
My rating: 9,0/10 Is actually a bit cheesy at times. But overall the film is very effective, and effective in all aspects. Starting with the cinematography: an oppressive look in the interior scenes _ houses with tight halls and grimy walls_ and a cold, desolated one in the exterior scenes _with a mostly gray palette of colors, streets with big corners and dead ends. This odd, dark ambient, added to a lovely romantic soundtrack, gives this film a distinct, perfect atmosphere. *About the story:* "There is poetry in the dialogs, and there is definitely some artistry put in this film. Is very similar to TDK in that aspect. Very good character development, something extremely rare in this sort of film. A few things felt forced here and there, but overall, a good and moving story about a kid growing up all by herself in a totally hostile environment." *And to finish, the acting:* "Great performances by Oldman, Reno and Portman. They are definitely the highlights of the film. Oldman is a scene stealer here, with his ultra over the top acting." *Conclusion...One of the best crime films of the 80s or 90s.


                
I love this film. I loved it when I saw it in the 90s and I love it today. In fact, after watching it again 5 or 6 years ago, we named our first born son Leon because of this film. He's not chosen a career path yet...No spoilers here, just to say if you like gritty and cinematic but great acting and quirky, disturbing yet somehow still believable characters mostly mixed up by chance and misfortune in a great story. Then this is for you. I also noticed some people giving it a rating of 1 because they felt it was a 7.5 not an 8.7...please don't do that, you idiots. Just vote what you think is fair and leave it alone. The voting system levels itself out, you just f*ck it up trying to play God.WATCH THIS FILM...you'll not regret it. And if you don't like it, you shouldn't be allowed to vote because you clearly have something wrong with you and should have people controlling your internet access.But if you do like it...watch Way of the Gun afterwards, it's nearly as good in a slightly different way.


                
IMDb Top 250: 33I think a big part of why this film was so good is that it could've been so bad. Consider the alternate film this may have been: an icy, one- dimensional hit-man somehow pairs with a bratty young girl to face a drugged police character in this summer's brainmelting blockbuster.But it's not that. It came out as Leon: The Professional.Leon is a special film. It channels classics like Taxi Driver, Batman, and many many New York films but has its own unique identity. Part thriller, part drama, the film is touching and exciting, and reels you in from its stellar first scene and takes you for a fantastic adventure.The story, while having the possibility of being off-putting, works. Sure you can question the relationship between Leon and Mathilda (depending on the cut of the film you saw, I saw the International cut and everything was fine), but I found it more reasonable than say the relationships in Doctor Zhivago and Lolita. Anyway, the story- it's original and takes many turns, but stays on track and never slows without reason.A story only goes so far: the biggest success of Leon is its 3 main characters. Jean Reno IS Leon, I can't see anyone doing any better. As the cold, solitary hit-man who is handed a very different responsibility, we grow to love Leon with his quirky persona of houseplant caring, movie watching and chair sleeping. He is an iconic character with his sunglasses and low voice. His developed duality is remarkable to behold.Leon is complimented by the fiery Mathilda played by the extraordinarily young Natalie Portman, the smoking, swearing kid who grew up with a tough life. As unbelievable as her choices may seem on paper, I totally got behind her reasoning and never found her to do anything horribly distasteful. The duo of killer father and eager daughter is one of the greatest in film.That leaves the sick Stansfield as the target of the duo's revenge. Played by Gary Oldman, one of the greatest actors of all time, the psychotic, pill-popping shady cop is truly despicable, with his scenes of drug consumption and Beethoven rant to be extremely unsettling.The bread and butter of film is great. There are many shots that I found interesting and unique, and the cinematography and editing is all top notch. The music, decidedly the most French thing about the whole film, is juxtaposed to anything happening on-screen and helps make the film's identity, especially in the bonding scenes between Leon and Mathilda.There is a double-edged sword about the film. We see Leon's killer side, and we see him as an awkward caregiver, like in the dress-up game. This mix keeps the audience guessing and keeps the film entertaining. It all culminates in a poetic ending that couldn't be any better or more satisfying.From start to finish, Leon is awesome. It has artistic credibility, awesome action scenes, great characters and acting, as well as the brick and mortar that makes film work. I had never heard of it before seeing the Top 250, and I don't know why it isn't bigger. See this film!9.4/10


                
There is little I can add to the many things that have been said about Leon. But I will offer two observations. One is that Leon is not lascivious. Many if not most or all would-be viewers presume that it will be, and then are disappointed, or, like me, amazed that it is not. It is easy to understand the expectation. How could the story of a disturbingly attractive 12-year-old girl "adopted" by a single middle-aged man under bizarre circumstances - he literally holds the power of life and death over her - not be lascivious? All I can say is that the director and actors somehow found a way to avoid it. The other point, which is related to the first, is that Natalie Portman's performance is mesmerizing. She more than holds her own in her scenes with Jean Reno, and with Gary Oldman and Danny Aiello, whom I consider among the very best. That is extraordinary.


                
The crime thriller birthed its own sub-genre in the 1940s, following the real-life discovery of a number of key Mob members during the Murder Inc trials. From Alain Delon in Le Samourai to Forest Whitaker in Ghost Dog: The Way of The Samurai, the shadowy hit-man has made regular appearances in crime flicks. However, not many assassins (or "cleaners") come in the shape of 12-year-old girls.As Mathilda and her eponymous mentor, Natalie Portman and Jean Reno give complex, sympathetic performances - at least when ranged against Gary Oldman's psycho cop. As the hit-man with a heart, Reno virtually reprises his role from director Luc Besson's Nikita, starring Anne Parillaud as, yep, another trainee hitgirl. Good ideas are worth repeating.


                
I've been postponing watching this movie for a long time, I guess I tend to judge movies by the cover... but I was very wrong, it was one of the best movies I've ever seen. The chemistry is so obvious between Matilda and Leon since the first scene they share together. The character development is so amazing, shows that human emotions are strongest and can soften even the toughest man. I believe this movie has one of the gentlest and purest love story in history of movies and portrayed to perfection.I haven't seen a movie that awakens such nice emotions and sympathy than this one; If you haven't seen it, please do so, you will be amazed;


                
"The Professional" is one of the most interesting movies I have ever seen. There are about a million things that Besson does to make this movie so one-of-a-kind that you may not notice until the second or third time around. The plot is fantastic in that it continually takes turns towards less desirable paths, which makes the movie all the more intriguing. Rarely does a film successfully walk the tightrope of mildly disturbing without falling into the pit of immorality and pervertedness, but Besson manages to make both Mathilda and Leon likable and peculiar without crossing the line of dementia.Watching this movie the first time through, I cringed at the sight of Mathilda in any type of adult situation, especially sexually. After watching it time after time, her mannerisms began to captivate me, as she is no more a girl than a woman trapped in the body of a twelve year old. Besson is brilliant in his direction of Portman, as Natalie is incredible in her execution of her character. There are countless moments where her words or facial expressions send chills down my spine. The way the camera is placed on Mathilda is so captivating that it is impossible to look away, as much as you feel like you should. This movie almost makes me feel guilty for watching it, but there is nothing else like it; the emotional tensions are so high that it is impossible to resist. Never in my life have I seen such a young star so devoted to her character that it disturbs me; everything about their relationship feels real.The deeper meanings in this movie are also prominent, where love is the major contributor. Not only are there no boundaries to love, but the way Leon acts with Mathilda vs. without her accentuates the fact that without love, he has become nothing, just mere existence. The back-story of his lover and the Russian Roulette scene are key in portraying this theme and Portman performs near perfect to get this point across, which makes the full length version of the film a necessity if not only for those two scenes.This film is not only a film-making masterpiece, but the actors feel so realistic that it's chilling. I have never some across an experience like this before and doubt I will again; this movie is undoubtedly one of the most important love stories I have ever seen, and it makes me think how necessary love is to life.
I think, Mathilda's next life should be at this movie.For example, what will she do? But,I loved Leon without it.I think,Natalie Portman very successful and good actress. She was child at this movie but she is great. I impressed from her. Léon: The Professional is very successful and emotional. I guess, this movie is the most emotional movie I have ever seen. If you like tragedy and you want to watch really good movie, you should watch Léon. I liked every character. I love 'shape of my heart' too. And I listen this song so much. There is 'shape of my heart' in final part and when I heard this song,I cried.By Çagla Demirbas
Jean Reno plays the titular character – regardless of the name on the spine of the DVD – he is both Leon and the Professional. A quiet intense man who lives a solitary existence of discipline and ritual, honing his skills as an assassin that leaves no trace and carries out his work cleanly and perfectly, a man with only two parameters to his work: 'No women. No kids.' When the family that lives next door in his modest apartment building is butchered by corrupt police after a drug deal gone wrong, leaving only 11 year old Mathilda (Natalie Portman), Leon has virtually no choice but to literally take her in, lest he break his own rules through deliberate inaction.In the days and weeks that follow, impressionable Mathilda – who feels she is wise beyond her years – comes to realise the enormity of her situation. This is only magnified when she learns of Leon's true occupation. Of course being no more than a kid, Mathilda hardly finds this news abhorrent, but decides that she wishes to learn the ropes of what Leon refers to as 'cleaning'.This leads to a strange new existence for Leon, he cannot force pre-teen Mathilda out into the real world, but allowing her to remain compromises his disciplined existence. The mismatched duo settle in to a 'Daddy / Daughter' relationship, with Mathilda remaining home while Leon heads off to 'work', the issue rapidly becomes that Mathilda rapidly starts seeing Leon as less of a Father figure, and more of a crush<U+0085> Seeing that Mathilda is so headstrong, determined and convincing, and that Leon is if anything slightly child-like and has been shielded from normal human relationships, Leon ultimately yields a little and tentatively commits to basic training; something his employer Tony (Danny Aiello) is rightfully doubtful of.Regardless of suitability or basic ethics, the Leon / Mathilda relationship evolves into a strange partnership, and bringing your (pseudo) daughter to work days take on strange and uncomfortable significance. As Mathilda develops new skills and confidences unbecoming of her fragile years it is more and more evident that her ultimate intent is to avenge the deaths of her family<U+0085> Which brings us to Mr Gary Oldman and his role as corrupt cop Stansfield.Stansfield works for the Drug Enforcement Agency in the police force, however his entire unit is entirely crooked. Oldman toes the fine line between over the top intensity and cartoonishness well for the most part, and I guess if you are looking to forgive some of his antics you could always point to the green and yellow capsules that he takes prior to his more 'memorable' sequences.What is undeniable is that the and inescapable routine that the reserved and measured Leon is bound by is an effective counterpoint to the haphazard and impetuous existence of Stansfield. Having initially innocent Mathilda embroiled between these ying and yang characters provides the film with a centre, and the inevitable feeling that all three characters will find themselves in the same place at the same time.Leon is full of long low key scenes with equally subtle background music, 90% of the dialogue is between Mathilda and Leon – with a good two thirds of each conversation dominated by the precocious child. These scenes are punctuated by sudden dramatic scenes of violence, especially as the film nears its conclusion and Mathilda finally learns that there are some things that kids shouldn't be subjected to regardless of how 'ready' they think they are.Leon: The Professional was directed and written by Luc Besson, who has managed to leave his fingerprints on several essential action flicks from the last couple decades, Taken, Kiss of the Dragon, The Transporter and Unleashed included. Leon seems to be quite a personal work, and while some of the other works listed are very good and worth checking out, in my mind Leon: The Professional stands head and shoulders above them all.This film granted both Gary Oldman and Jean Reno eternal credibility to a generation of young film-goers, and helped launch the career of Natalie Portman. For a moment it almost made me want to buy a skull cap<U+0085> Now nearly two decades on I am at odds with the more 'risky' scenes that further the on the job training and 'romantic' aspects of the storyline. I am by no means decrying their inclusion as being abhorrent or immoral, but I similarly don't really see them adding much to what was already an amazing and essential film.Final Rating – 9 / 10. A simple story about a very non-simple situation, Leon remains an all time classic.


                
This film displays outstanding portrayals of different characters, a clever and touching screenplay and fantastic cinematography.Acting: A young Natalie Portman performs with skill and grace. Jean Reno played a touching yet secretive hit-man brilliantly. Gary Oldman is cold and heartless and does it with ease.Plot: The plot is executed fantastically. The ending is touching, but action-packed and is thankfully not the least bit soapy or sappy.A fantastic film that graces the screen with elegance and poise, and does not disappoint action fans. 'Leon: The Professional' is truly a film for almost anyone. 'The Professional' is very professional indeed.


                
This movie has so many levels to it any description doesn't do it justice. The juxtapositions of what assassins should be concerned with, what little girls should be protected from, what evil men do to create chaos in this world, . . . Too many well-thought out interactions between characters to do the film justice with descriptive words. If you do not experience vile anger, compassion for killers, heart-felt paternal wishes to whisk this child from adult evil or the need to cheer ruthless revenge without guilt, then you are simply not human. The depth and presentation of these characters by excellent, superb acting is only overshadowed by the writing of this masterpiece.


                
Luc Besson, director of La Femme Nikita, introduces us to the kind- hearted assassin Leon, in this tense thriller. After her family is killed by the corrupt Government Official Stansfield (Gary Oldman) the young Mathilda (Natalie Portman) is befriended by Leon. Determined to be taught how to 'clean' and desperate to avenge her young brother's death, Mathilda takes on a deadly new life. Leon, played by Jean Reno, is one of those character's you can't help but love. His goofy appearance and quirky behaviour contrast perfectly with his lethal career choice. Despite being unable to read, Leon loves a good film. The scene where he is watching 'Singin' in the Rain' shows us that he just a child inside. Also, during Mathilda's game he is only able to recognise Gene Kelly. Natalie Portman, also, gives a wonderful performance as the 12 year-old Mathilda and it's clear to see why she began to star in other films quite soon after this: Heat, Mars Attacks! etc. Portman has to portray a lot of emotion in this film and she does it with such ease. You instantly feel for her and the situation she's been put in. However, it does become clear that the tough-girl attitude she acquires is just a front, all she wants is to be loved. Perhaps seeking it from a professional assassin, who is a fair bit older than you, is not the best idea; but it is believable and understandable in this film. Gary Oldman as the villain, Stansfield, is brilliant. With lines like, "I haven't got time for this mickey mouse bullsh*t," he was born for roles like this one. His performance is completely believable and you'll love to hate him. He, also, is an odd character: the weird way he takes his pills is nothing short of disturbing. The music used in Leon is another thing that needs applauding. Suspense is easily created and there are many times where you'll want to hold your breath until the scene is over. The soft music adds even more emotion and charm, making the film quite beautiful. So, overall, I really enjoyed this film and could easily watch it again and again. It's another of those films that will stay with you long after you've seen it. Even though it was made 16 years ago, nothing in this genre comes close to being as good.


                
This movie was entertaining right off the bat. I'm a fan of the movie Lolita and tons of action/crime movies as well and this made the perfect combination. It's cute, funny, dramatic and action packed all in one. I had actually been listening to the song Matilda by Alt J for years and had no idea what the song was about until I read through the comments on YouTube. After watching the movie, the song gave me chills.I'm amazed I haven't seen it yet, I typically lean towards the 90's action and humor.


                
From French director Luc Besson, Leon: The Professional is an action film with a little more to bargain than a just a plethora of explosive action set pieces. It is a part-drama that strives for a sheer exploration in its characters and how their lives are changed when everything goes downhill. The alarming question implemented in this story is what would you be willing to do to protect someone who has seemingly lost everything. The answers lie within Besson's chillingly crafted action vehicle which bears a story of a relationship between a man with demons burning inside him and a preteen girl lost in a world of inconspicuous innocence, and their relationship is the emotional crux that activates the film's momentum. Making up the duo is French-born actor Jean Reno and young actress Natalie Portman, a youngster making her feature film debut. The performances along with Besson's uncompromising direction makes not a comfortable ride, but one that is nearly unforgettable. This film follows Leon (played by Jean Reno), an Italian-born immigrant and professional hit-man working under mobster Tony (played by Danny Aiello), who meets Mathilda (played by Natalie Portman), a lonely 12-year old girl living under the harsh conditions of her abusive father (played by Michael Badalucco), her snappy mother, her equally older sister, and her younger brother who seems to be only pleasant seed in the family. Mathilda spends her days smoking on the balcony and looking for work to do. When Leon witness the brutal murder of her family at the hands of gun-wielding goons lead by mob boss Stansfield (played by Gary Oldman), Leon reluctantly takes her under his wing and teaches her the basics of becoming a professional assassin. Along the way, an unexpected platonic relationship forms between the two.Many actions film set out to entertain audiences with explosive special effects and hyperkinetic atmosphere, but not in a way that this film does. Luc Besson eludes against the common action formula in favor for a more art-house approach, a method that transcends the movie into something more thoughtful, if not masterful. Besson is not quick to just jump straight into the action and lead the scene with loud, heart-stopping gun shootouts. He takes his steady time to dive deep into the characters including establishing their backgrounds and compound personalities, while accompanying the scenery with a riveting score by Eric Serra. The eponymous character Leon is portrayed as a man with brutality written on his forehead. He is a man who shoots and kills to survive against the evildoers who wrong him. But deep inside the mysterious man is a gentle soul who wishes for a peaceful life. His is solidly exhibits in scenes showing his loves for plants and of course, in more light-hearted scenes with Natalie Portman's Mathilda. When the two finally eventually form their bond, that is when the story strikes at the heart. Easily making their relationship uncomfortable to grasp would obviously be their hefty age difference, yet that is what makes things more interesting. Reno's performance really hits hard in soft scenes when he and Portman are bonding, as well as the more grim moments when he shows off his gripping ferocity when he is mowing down the bad guys. Along his side is Portman who, for her surprisingly young age, brightens the room with a gritty portrayal that wrings out maturity and humanity of her character. And the duo must come face-to-face with Stansfield who is granted with a vicious, yet enticingly strong portrayal by Gary Oldman. The tension between him and the title character greatly pays its dues in climatic action sequence at the end when the body count hits the towers and each character faces a blind date with fate. Leon: The Professional is a powerfully crafted action-drama hybrid by Luc Besson who takes the action genre and spins into a visceral cinematic treat. Besson proves himself as a filmmaker capable to wringing out true heart from a genre filled populated with big- budget action parades. It is an admirable piece of work, at least for those who can get past the violent nature of the story.


                
With a very interesting, yet simple premise, "Leon: The Professional" is a very smart, stylistic thriller about a young girl whose family has been murdered. Trying to cope with that while being on the run by a hit-man who is saving her life, the bonding between the two is unlike anything you will get in most films out there, from any generation. From it's extremely drab look, to the creepy vibe Leon gives, even though you know his intentions are great, this is one film you surely shouldn't miss. In the end, this is one of the best films in this genre that I have ever seen. Jean Reno and Natalie Portman are phenomenal, the script is undeniably brilliant, and the score will have your heart racing, even in moments you would least expect.I highly recommend this film to fans and non-fans of this genre. "Leon: The Professional" is a brilliant picture.Leon: The Professional is a wonderful character study, enriched by outstanding performances, thrilling action, and a well-rounded script that gives the film an intriguing amount of depth.Luc Besson's original feels more like a journey than just a joy-buzzer jolt of action, and the deeper, braver, darker story he set out to tell - a fractured and fractious fairy tale. When people rave about "The Professional," they mean "Léon."I have yet to hear of a person putting a bad word against this film. Besson's skill with action is inventive and creative (and of course over the top). ---Yidioo
