Two seasons and two different reasons to watch this cocktail of masterpiece and absurdity.Why a Masterpiece..!Firstly because its an unprecedented effort to bring a quality web series to the Indian youths who were bored, exhausted and irritated with clichés of ekta kapoor and MTV stuffs. The Tvf have some of the rare and exceptional original-creatives such as Arunabh Kumar,Biswapati Sarkar,Nidhi Bisht and Sumeet Vyas,thus the creative mix brought by them and their actors are often of an assured quality.The act portrayed by Nidhi Singh as Tanya and Sumeet Vyas as Mikesh is both new and in melody with each other..in short brilliant.The character of lleo and purshottam brings an off charts humor and originality to the show. The twists,pause,camera angle and subtle humour are among the best we have seen till date in India.So till here you guys rock..but... When it gets Absurd..?Well somewhere around the 2nd episode of Season 2..the moment Darshan Jariwala and Manu Rishi Chadha comes to the main plot,their presence in the screen is a waste.The similarity of the plot with 'Bang Baaja Baraat' and the question who inspired whom with commonality of Sumeet vyas is confusing to the viewers.Though 'the dinner'(episode 4) was a good plot pause but episode 5 was irrelevant to the continuity and brings a lot which could be avoided to bring the awesomeness of Asrani ji's character at last.The adequate pace in which Mikesh's character developed in season 1 is not followed in season 2,which is disappointing. Season 1 of PR was a balanced symphony of creativity,story flow, risk taking and new character introductions, which gets a bit clumsy in season 2.In the End..Permanent Roommates is one of the best and most sincere efforts brought by few of the finest young talents in India today..A must watch for the desi youths..You will find a lot to bond in here and will adore the way protagonists explore their life ahead..


                
This series is a happy break from the clichéd stuff. It depicts the modern society, broad-minded and reasonable people, within a simple story line. Basically, its easier to relate to this with the things happening around you. This show will make you think, but first, it will make you laugh. There isn't a dull moment. Moreover, its a punch packed in five short videos. What makes it better is awesome acting by each and everyone. Also, its easily available on YouTube. So here I have what I have been waiting for - Indian actors, Hindi language (has English subs too), a short and fast-paced series, and I ain't disappointed at all!!! I would totally recommend it. And I will be eagerly waiting for another series by this super team.


                
After a while I have come across such a good Hindi show that imbibes humor, sarcasm and best of situational comedy. Best show on Indian TV after sarabhai vs sarabhai.. May be even better than that. The writing is so simple yet beautiful. The actors can act just apt and that is a perfect level... I love the character Mikesh. Do goody but extremely goofy.. And his GF's realism is so good for them.. And twists (which aren't really there) and kinks of the show are wonderful.I would like to commend the TVF team for such a wonderful show.. As it is their other work like TMO and Rowdies have ROFL me but this show is a class apart which is an amalgam of humor, sensitivity, love wala romance and most of all STORY


                
Permanent Roommates is the first drama series by "The Young Turks" of Indian television - The Viral Fever team. It is high quality (in story, acting, writing, direction), flawless, as well as fearless. Watching these non-existent actors perform with such originality, many of whom were engineering students just few years ago, in colleges we have all studied in - gives you some different kind of joy, mixed with pride.With this drama series, the writing on the wall has become clearer - "this is what we want"! TVF is an expression from the young Indians, who for years mourned the fall of television. Even though the mainstream is still pro-mass entertainment - the day is not far, when this expression will replace the mainstream. For many internet Indians, it is already doing so.


                
A wonderfully written, directed and acted romantic comedy that is truly unique and pleases immensely on many fronts and with many layers. It excellently blends emotion and humor to give an intriguing and fun insight into today's modern relationships. It definitely transcends the current Indian cinematic blunders in this genre. I look forward to their upcoming productions and I am confident the Team will grow from strength to strength in times to come. They deserve financial and distribution support to enter the big screen or perhaps even next-gen television. The world needs more visionaries like these. I am proud to see that Indian youth creators are taking the path less traveled and are venturing into exciting territory. Truly, content is king!


                
This show is made in India , by the Indians and for the Indians . Such proud of whole cast and crew and big thanks to TVF for making such efforts and to make such type of show which is like fresh breeze of air with no cliché anything at all. Very realistic and original concept. Love you guys . Keep up the good work . I was very depressed and was feeling very low and i needed something to boost me up was searching for something good on youtube when I suddenly remember something as Permanent Roommates suggested by my friend . Then i started watching it and within no time my mood was lighten up and was laughing so hard and seriously died laughing. Thank you guys once again. We need more shows like this. Last thing amazing acting and amazing writing . Thumbs up guys. I can go on and on about this show..


                
It is difficult to watch a single episode of Permanent roommates without bursting into splits of laughter There are 5 episodes in all - each progressively longer than the previous - and each is a gem.The series traces the story of a boy and girl in a long distance relationship - after the long distance stage and when they meet and think of renting an apartment.Anyone who is looked for a flat to rent in any town / city in India will spot instant similarities to real life experiences - which would have been hilarious if they were not 100% true. Somehow watching it here makes them funny. Like the lost housing agent (aren't most of them?), the kind of houses shown, the issues one faces daily as an Indian youngster and a couple (and a father, and a government officer, and a...) The series is mostly in Hindi (a bit of English), but has English subtitles on you tube.Don't miss it. I watched a few episodes more than once :)


                
A story about a boy and a girl discovering love out of a long distance relationship and eventually getting to the point of marriage. The story is as simple as it could be, but that is what makes it so real and beautiful. The fact that the writers never even try to be surreal for a moment give it a clear edge over other TV Series (this is not a TV series though). Mikesh's and Tanya's characters are well crafted. Mikesh is sort of an "egg head" (according to the Wikipedia page) and Tanya is the more mature and smarter one. After three years of long distance relationship suddenly Mikesh proposes to Tanya for marriage which in turn creates confusion between the two. And the couple somehow manages with the baggage of their decision. The plot is funny, specially Mikesh who sometimes could be dumb as hell. There would be moments when someone can feel that they don't love each other and they are not a "meant for each other" couple, actually they are not! That's what makes it more realistic. They are not a perfect couple, not at all but they do love each other. Love and only love drives their story forward. Mikesh is annoying so one might end up thinking, "Why on earth Tanya is tolerating him? Maybe she would better off without him." But love doesn't work that way, and this love gives this simple, realistic story an "over the top" feel. Season one is more funny and reasonable. It is more compact in its storytelling. Season two also share the same theme, but it is more dramatic. The plot is a little bit loose and focuses more on the human elements and values of family, society, and culture. The fact that the episodes of the second season are quite lengthier than the first season can give you a reason for "liking it less". But as the story draws itself towards its conclusion, everything started making sense. The story certainly doesn't end in an "all-happy" mode, but in a more natural way where they try to find "happiness" among what is left of them (believe me one would understand it after watching). The writers very cleverly try to tie all the loose knots at the end, and they succeed also. Somehow you get to understand the feelings of both these characters which were buried deep inside them in this entire series. Acting is superb. The direction is very good. But the real heroes are the writers. The way the story is written makes it more lovable. One extra marks for the story.At the end the quote from their title. "Neither do they die nor do they live happily ever after...It's a third kind of love story." It is indeed.


                
We had great TV serials. We were on the right track. Malgudi Days, Byomkesh Bakshi, Office Office, Hum Paanch etc ( There are many). Everything was going great...until...until a lady infested our TV SERIALS. She is responsible for our brain damages..she is responsible for making us the "poor audiences". She gave us Kyoki saas Bi khabhi bahu thi, Kasooti, Kumkum etc etc. She invaded our minds...she spoiled our senses...That lady needs no introduction. Once Naseruddin Shah said, "I can never be part of fiction on TV firstly because it's too time consuming and brain damaging."TVF needs no introduction. They are the best. They neither run for TRP not Money. When they launched the teaser of Permanent Roommates, I was skeptical about it. To make a TV show, you need to think big; basically you need to be original. After watching the first episode I was awestruck ..It was unbelievable ..damn if I were a billionaire I would have launched a TV Channel for them. Everything was perfect. The humour, chemistry, bonding, sarcasm, emotions, background music, acting, direction, story and whatnot. This was something we deserved as an audience. Just completed the final episode...I think their work is impeccable..well, I would say 'trend-setter'. To achieve this level of emotions and sentiments is something difficult. What a heart warming episode they created. TVF TEAM YOU ROCK !! You make India pround...I can say with proud that we have our own sitcom..which is original...COOL !!1. -Party kidhar hai ?? -Party hum Kanha ladies bar mien de hee denge
This is something which define the true kind of romance and quite interesting. Comedy which can engage you to watch it more. The lead cast is amazing of this series. Indian romance redefined in this series.


                
Beautifully describe the actual relationship before n after marriage.must watch atleast once


                
I was in love with mickys cute character and each and every character in this web series has an important message to our society....


                
A goofy bf,
A modern woman and a story which revolves around a couple what has lots of relationships goals and issues addressed in funny but simple ways.
Relatable story for everyone to start watching


                
Just When I had given up on Indian Television, comes this amazing web series that marks the beginning of a new era in Indian television. Wonderful direction, Awesome screenplay and great acting, permanent roommates has it all. The plot is realistic with perfect dose of subtle comedy and strong emotions. the script is nothing short of brilliant. The way series builds up from first episode is phenomenal. The lead characters share a great chemistry and compliment each other really well. As Always Jeetu despite his short role takes the cake. Lleo with his "Jagah kaha hai" dialogue was brilliant as well.Overall a wonderful series filled with romance, comedy and drama.Can't wait for season 2


                
let me get this very clear. Most of the reviews in this section praise the title with barely anyone disappointed with it. I agree them for the fact that season 1 of this series is absolutely path breaking with Indian audience. Lovely, charming and it could not go any better. Season 1 was the best thing happened to us fellow Indians in years. TheViralFever was not much that popular then off course. And then came 2016. TVF was a well known YouTube channel by then. And they decided to bring season 2. And this is where they lost all the charm. Unnecessarily extended season with irrelevant episodes, a very average acting by Nidhi Singh and helpless but adoring Sumit Vyas desperately trying to save the fun. If you haven't watched it yet, please stop over season 1 and thank me later :)


                
Amazing! Simple yet so nicely crafted story line. Not a single second of boredom. There have been instances of loud sexist jokes where as subtle humor was overly spread. Mickesh is such a naturally funny actor.He acted appropriately dumb in the season.Tanya's character was portrayed equally well. The supporting actors are equally worthy of the appreciation.Thoroughly enjoyed it. I have already been a huge fan of the "Novice broker" since the Roadies qtiyapa. This is a new genre of TV series and we can expect much more from other channels as well.Overall it was very refreshing and a total offset from the daily mundane drama. Kudos TVF!! Eagerly waiting for the 2nd season.


                
This show brought a smile on my face. The acting by the lead pair is so effortless .Sumeet Vyas has that quality in him that you instantly start liking him. His mannerisms, the way he talks and his dialogues have a lot of subdued humour. It is a fantastic leap in Indian television that has been cursed with Saas Bahu Sagas. The writing is witty. I hope they make more shows like this and they get released on Mainstream television. This is welcome to an Indian TV Enthusiast that keeps watching American Television and cannot find an Indian Equivalent


                
Permanent roommates is not overly emotional, not overly humorous and not even a overly love story and this is what it makes so special. Unlike "tune meri chai kaise pee" saas bahu crap; this is a middle class depiction of a love between a typical Indian IT professional and an independent girl who feels confused about her relationship. This is really fast paced drama and never kept you waiting for what next... director and script writer deserves a doff for it. Nidhi Singh and Sumeet Vyas both has gone deep inside their characters..This is 100% recommended to anyone who is bored with Netflix and has not watched star plus/colours from last ten years.


                
really boring jokes. same old lame expressions. dialogs very unrealistic. dumb useless pretentious English conversations especially in season 2. introduced new characters and relationships just to waste time. I'm very disappointed from TVF. they really started something with their "QTIYAPA" and "THE MAKING OF", these shows were very creative and genuinely funny. but, now they are back to the same old lame comedy, which general Indians are addicted to. season 1 may be tolerated (inspite of having some boring scenes taken directly from dull romantic movies); but, season 2 is outrageous, its forcibly made into lengthy episodes. i was feeling as if i'm watching an "EKTA KAPOOR" serial, same family drama, same illogical family fights. i wouldn't recommend it.


                
It was given to me by a friend of mine who follows the TVF's Youtube channel on a regular basis... At first I thought I didn't even have any idea that it is some online Serial I just kept watching the first one and when I finished I liked it that much that I instantly downloaded all remaining episodes! I am most hopeless guy and think after this much youth population of country we still can not write good Scripts and Say it movies or serials every place is Literally filled with lack of creativity among scriptwriter and thus leading to repetitive work... Permanent roommates brings a big hope. Extremely good writing, All Great Characters and i've literally fallen in love with this girl which I have already watched her in 'Every Delhi Girl Video', PUROSHOTTAM is Super awesome, Tanya's roommate and her bf are Great too... Top notch Sarcasm, 90s Culture, Practical Jokes, Mike's Sense of humor. In fact pretty awesome gags at every minute as the story continues. You'll start falling in love with all the characters!! If I would be a billionaire I would have made a Channel for TVF!! Watch this being an Indian it's not just some funny video it's Permanent Roommates!! I love it to the core...!!!


                
A cherishing experience; something India can be proud of. This is a quest of TVF for improving the standards of Indian Television which is certainly heading towards success. A big thumbs up to TVF. This show is only for those people who like to see something real and funny at the same time. You just need to give it a chance and it will not disappoint you, this is the best series that I have seen in Hindi language. I would like to request to all the readers that please see this show and it will be worth every second of your time. Without exaggerating I would like to say that this kind of shows are something that Indian audience is longing for.
Funny and entertaining. I gave up watching TV about 5 years ago as there is NOTHING in there worth watching. Now this is the kind of stuff the intelligent audience wants. Of course Pitchers is easily MUCH better but this one is good fun too. I didn't much like episode 3 of season 2 (Part 1) but Part 2 seems to be better. Mikesh's father is so weird- are there really men like him? I request TVF to be careful about a few things though- Drugs should NOT be glorified. I was a bit surprised to see a bit of that in part 2 of episode 3. Why? Asrani is such a find..I thought he had retired from active roles but he seems so suited to the character. Keep up the pace guys!


                
Defying rules, norms, upheld values, TVF is running away with its glory. Soaring high into the free air, liberating from the worldly bounds and transcending precepts. Who says that the Indian audience is not ready, whether we are ready or not, I would like to believe that the decision should be left to us. I wish every Indian channel telecasted shows like Permanent Roommates, but if not all, someone can and someone should. A very well written, directed and executed show depicting the fears, anxieties, tenacious practices and fallible desire of reciprocity, everything that couples go through, presented in a manner that anyone can enjoy. This show is just the beginning of the revolution that blemish the set methods and establish an environment that provides subsistence to whimsical, organized and intelligent television.


                
Such a delight it is watching this show , writing is superb , acting is remarkable and there is sublimity in direction . there is hardly any emotion this show doesn't appeal to.


                
Its really a very nice show. one of the best series. i ever witnessed in my life. i can totally relate that story. its been really a nice journey TVF why dint u make a mode of that. it will be better then any Bollywood movie. it is so real. Mikesh is good I love Tanya . All the other carburetors are awesome.


                
