This series used to be OK, but it has turned into a prime time soap...and not a very good one. Maybe the lead character killed off the good writers???? I'm glad it will be over soon. My wife makes me watch this with her (because we used to enjoy it together) and I'm really starting to resent it.The acting is weak.The characters are weak...even Dexter.There are a lot of holes in the plot (he has a son when it's convenient for the writers).The technical aspects of the show are weak - hire some consultants for goodness sake!Doakes was the best part of this show, and he's long gone.Save your time, read a book instead.
I just viewed the series finale episode which was a completely lousy, unsatisfactory bummer. There was absolutely no reason to kill off Debra. Considering the brilliance and cleverness of the series writers, I am at a loss as to why Debra had to die. It would have been easy enough for the doctors to place her into a medically induced coma so that when she emerged she not only recovers fully as the same old person she was, but with only one, single, crucial difference. That difference could easily have been her having complete amnesia regarding what her brother does and killing Laguerta. She would remember everything else about being a good cop and maybe she would even marry Quint. But NOOOOO!!The entire series has been a wonderful fantasy of justice. The writers and powers-that-were came up with amazing plot twists, always rescuing Dex and Deb in the nick of time. I cannot speak on behalf of any other fans, but surely there must be others of us who realize that in real life, no one like Dexter could possibly exist. Such a person could never do the things depicted in the series and get away with them. We all know that in general principle, vigilantism is wrong because it leads to mob rule, but this TV series gave us the perfect vigilante in this modern, decadent age. I don't know about anyone else's disbelief, but it certainly set aside mine. I am at a loss as to how to fix the damage, even if there is a movie or yearly Dexter special (I'd like that, though.) Thank you for letting me post this protest.
This is one of those series which has a compelling premise, a great balance between the drama and the humor until the end of the fourth season. After that the show runner changed and it's goes from an epic series to a disgrace. The first four seasons are great, but the final 4 are nowhere near as good.Now that is not a crime worthy of such a low rating, but the final episode, the ending is so bad it ruins everything that came before it, if there is any justice served, any person who had any hand creative input in the ending would never work in any form of any entertainment industry again. Yes it is that bad. Not ambiguous like lost or sopranos, but the worst ending in the world, and sadly it's definitive. Do not watch!


                
Does it occur to any of you that the premise that this guy kills only murderers who otherwise can't be brought to justice was a way for the producers to sidestep criticism of what is basically a show that glorifies serial murder? They know you tune in for the blood lust, not the comedy or the justice. If it was about good old fashioned vigilantism they wouldn't include the scenes of Dexter enjoying his killings.It says a lot about modern America that this show exists. The parallels to ancient Rome just keep coming.Try to imagine this show with a non-sociopathic "hero" and you'll see that you'd not enjoy it nearly as much. And that says a lot about YOU.


                
Don't bother investing your time to watch this...after season 4 the show looses its creativity and by the very end your left with nothing... it was like the writers couldn't be bothered thinking of an ending and pulled suggestions out of their a**. I'm not quite sure why the show ended the way it did...not only was the story line pathetic...the acting was mediocre and the it was just basically THE WORST ending ever...there are no other words to describe it. I could go on forever about how horrible it was...there were so many better scenarios they could have used! I originally gave this show a 10/10 but now I feel it deserves a 1/10 Seriously DON'T BOTHER! Good Bye Dexter...


                
This last series is even worse than I expected. It could easily be mistaken for a demented soap opera. Almost each episode is chock full of cringe-inducing scenes and dialogs. To mention but a few: Vogels inviting all her darling serial killers for dinner; Hanna and Deb becoming best pals; love as the cure for the psychotic urge to kill...The Vogel character started out well but after a couple of episodes turned into the worst shrink ever. Hannah was thrown back in the show with one of the worst plot twists ever (Darling Dexter I need you help to kill my husband..... Actually not, I can do it on my own) As an ex fan of Dexter, I decided to watch the final season even if reviews were pretty bad, but I must admit that even bad reviews did not prepare me for a disaster of such an epic proportion.
I only made it through the first three episodes of the first season, so unless the show has gotten a whole lot better since then, which I doubt, I stand by my 1-star rating.This show is kind of like what would happen if they decided to make American Psycho into a TV series, and hired the writers and of a cheesy sitcom, a director whose last project was a high school play, and actors who previously only worked in porn.Okay, yes, Michael C. Hall is great in the show, but you know what he'd be even better in? A show with good writing and a decent supporting cast. I think the worst thing about the show has to be the voice-overs. They're just insulting. It's like they're saying, "Don't worry audience. We know it hurts to think, so we've done all the thinking for you. You see, Dexter is very much aware that he's a very hollow, emotionless killer, but just in case you forget, we'll have him remind you about every 3 minutes or so." The thing that sucks is, I really wanted to like this show. Great premise, great lead actor, but in the end, just a really crappy show.


                
Boring TV series with a criminal Dexter and uninteresting characters. If I truly want to see a Vigilante TV series then Arrow is much better though more unrealistic and more superhero SCIFI based. However in Arrow the enemy are extremely dangerous and the actors in the Arrow TV series are more to my liking.Sick morale in this TV series enough said.You could argue that law should work more in favor of cops sometimes yes I understand that but I don't think this is the solution.Dexter is about revenge and personal feelings and not justice. OK in season 2 for personal feelings goal is to kill someone in the witness protection program. I am sorry but a person in witness protection program has earned the right to live by doing a contract with law enforcment.


                
It says a LOT about modern audiences that a show in which someone commits a slow BDSM murder on a crying human being in the opening five minutes of the first episode is one of the biggest hits in TV history. I don't care what kind of excuses the show gives itself - this is about a man who methodically hunts people down and the climax is him slaughtering that individual in a creative, brutal manner.Wake up call to people who enjoy this series: you are a closet sadist and/or masochist. You need to open up to yourself about these hidden feelings.Addition: This is not what a psychopath (APD) is like. I have spent time with psychopaths before, even shared a house with one for three years, and they are absolutely NOT like this. Dexter is the Hollywood interpretation of antisocial personality disorder, not the real deal.


                
I only saw this show once, and that was all I needed; to see. I hated it this man made; Jack the Ripper; look like an dark angel of death.I do not know why this director or writer did this show, the way that they did. But all I know is it made me sick to my stomach. I watch CSI N.Y. and other shows that have, autopsies that are not even as bad as this show. Some of them can be intense; but nothing like this horrible show. I Will not even buy the DVD's of this piece of crap drama. I myself have never watched this show , but what I saw in the clips was bad enough! Definitely not for someone who has a weak stomach due to the graphic content!review by Meagen Jensen and Angela Jensen


                
I was honestly shocked at how bad this show is. The main character is unlikable because he really is just a depraved, immoral, character-less serial killer. He doesn't kill because he's a vigilante but simply because he likes it. The premise of the show itself, then, is horrifying because he is NOT a good guy doing something that just appears bad if you look at certain ways. He's the bad guy, just as bad as the people he murders. It speaks to the degraded state of the world's lack of morals that this show was a hit.Aside from that, his character still has no likable qualities. In addition, the language is ridiculous. Why do people want to hear the f-word so much? Are you all 12 year olds giggling at potty words or rebellious teenagers cursing for an immature thrill?Horrible, horrible show. I couldn't watch it once I saw the depravity in it.
i started watching Dexter because of the higher ratings it has on IMDb. Honestly i enjoyed the first season. i am not a person who like blood or not like blood, i am basically neutral about it as long as the bad guy get hurt. even though Dexter is a cold blooded serial killer he only kills other serial killers, he don't harm innocent people, he had good control of his feelings, his emotions and his actions. he manage to stay on the track regardless of what comes his way. i considered him as a hero on the first season.then comes the season 2, that's where he became out of control, falling for some crazy chicks seductive acts, unable to control his actions and at last he sacrifices a good and innocent mans life for his own getaway. at that moment i feel regret about thinking him as a hero. Dexter is no hero, he is just another cold blooded killer, he just kill people to satisfy his insanity to kill people. and then i became disappointing about the show.this is not for everyone,just because it has higher ratings that does not mean its the best TV show. i like shows like NCIS LA' Hawaii five 0, white collar, arrow, Castle etc. where bad people get justice they deserve. that's it. this is the baddest TV show i ever watched.waste of time for me.
Dexter is a good example of how bad American TV shows have become. Gory, sadistic, vulgar and pornographic.The "hero" of this show is a serial killer, but don't worry! Dexter is a "good guy", he only murders other serial killers and dangerous criminals (while they're completely helpless).Dexter is what would happen if the radical left and the extreme right married and had a baby. Leftists will love the show because of all the ridiculous liberal propaganda, anti- Christian content, profanity and graphic sex scenes. Extreme right-wingers will drool when Dexter goes Charles Bronson on criminals and throws their remains in the water. It's almost touching, in a sick way.The show is more unrealistic and silly than any of the Harry Potter movies combined. In Dexter's world, everyone is a serial killer. His brother is a serial killer. A woman he meets (and sleeps with, even though he has a girlfriend) at a support group for drug addicts is a serial killer. Even his own psychiatrist is a serial killer. I bet his potty-mouthed step-sister turned out to be serial killer too. "The F-Word Killer". We don't need garbage like this...watch a good show instead, like Bonanza or Walt Disney's Zorro.
The lead in this show is very very boring, stupid and naive. He love killing people or slowly killing people while torturing. I don't know. And after watching few episodes of season one. I don't care. I don't know how It end up getting this high rating on IMDb but. Just to be honest. It is plain stupid story and show. Since, it got such high rating. I will suggest you watch few episodes of first season. And then decide it for yourself. After few episode I was not able to handle the stupidity in this show. This show was boring me to death. Then I have to face the truth.That this is the sh1t in it's purest form.
