I just started writing this review out of anger, because I still can't believe that I wasted 96 hours of my life on this piece of garbage. (Well, 48 to be exact) Dexter used to be so bad-ass once; it started with the premise of a serial killer who only kills bad guys to satisfy his thirst for blood. The first season was alright, with one really cool revelation at the end which added so much to Dexter's depth as a character. The 2nd expanded on that idea and was much better than the last. The 3rd, while a step back, was still great television and the 4th had one of the cruelest endings I had ever witnessed...Then came those awful four seasons. The 5th starred Julia Roberts who's not anyone's favorite person in the world, grew into something okay and then ended dreadfully. Really, why the hell would Debra let two serial killers get away just because they were avenging some bad people? So why doesn't Dexter come out and go "hey Deb, while you're at it, I've been killing bad guys for 20 years apart from this, we cool?" but of course there's always a next season for that. The 6th season, which was very negatively received, had nothing! It just used shock horror, mutilated bodies and statue bodies to cover the void Dexter was starting to create. What the hell was that stupid revelation where we find the bad professor is dead and it's all his student's work? Why the hell would we see the psyche of another serial killer for six whole episodes? When did this show become "Dexter and Tom Hanks' Son"? And of course there was that EXCITING cliffhanger (that could have happened 12 episodes ago), and of course Showtime announced there would be two more Dexter seasons, so, no, nothing was going to happen again. The 7th season actually started nicely, with tension but then turned to the same sleeping pill Dexter had been for the previous 2 years. Introduction of Hannah didn't help either, her character was flat, boring and just played badly. I can't think of any other reason for her character to be there except for the actress to get naked, which she didn't do anyways. So this season ended so predictably that I didn't even think about Dexter for one whole year. Then the last one came; weird characters popped up: First was Zack, who was a bad guy for 3 episodes, a nice one for 10 minutes and then had his head opened up, but left some clues for Dexter. Great storytelling indeed. Then there was the bad guys who were all treated by Evelyn and apparently one of them ate people now and the other was into feet. Of course each of them lasted for 5 to 20 minutes each. So again, great job. Then came the Ryan Gosling lookalike who popped his eyes open to scare people and nothing more. Let's see what else, Evelyn talked a little, played videos and died, Deb did drugs, healed, kissed that pretty cop and died. Dex killed some bad guys, dropped Deb, drove into the storm and didn't die.And what a storm that was! CGI effects that even made a film like Disaster Movie look like Citizen Kane, and of course every time a black smoke comes over Miami the whole town goes insane, and of course nobody learned that Dex was a serial killer, and of course Harrison will be better off with Hannah than with whoever the hell is taking care of Astor and Cody, and of course Astor and Cody won't even get a goodbye call from Dex since he never loved them and of course that pretty cop will let Dex off the hook after he so calmly killed a prisoner because he caused his girl to go under a surgery and then die and of course some idiots will call this series the greatest television show of all time and never watch Breaking Bad or The Wire or for that matter even According to Jim which I personally hate but would rather watch 100 times rather than this vulgar garbage and of course...I gave this show 4 stars because of its great first 4 seasons, now I would've advised you to watch those 4 seasons but then you would be so drawn to the show that you'd start watching the rest as well and then you'll feel as crappy as I do now. So please don't watch this. It's for your own sake.
The first Season of Dexter was quite brilliant, i immediately fell in love with the character. and the idea of this serial Killer that hunts down other Killers without leaving a trace fascinated me! The second Season started off good too, but at the end of this Season Dexter should have been caught by the Police/FBI for all the mistakes he made and traces he left. This is where Dexter died for me. But because of its success in the beginning the saga of dexter continued and there came another aspect into the series, the commercialization. Suddenly the relations of the characters became ever more important, just as in any other sitcom and Dexter's kills ever more sloppier. His mistakes mainly kept the story alive and it became really easy to foresee the main plots of Dexter's story because what ever he could do wrong he did. The original Dexter acting according to his codex/logics was gone. What started off so great ended in a mediocre series. This series suffered the tragedy of being brought to the masses.


                
Dexter lost his cool after season 2 and from 3. and onward Dexter changed from being a cold calculating killer to a predictable, boring, emotional family man. On the same time, the scenarios got less creative, characters seemed cartoonish and the thrilling flow of the episodes disappeared with a few exceptions. SPOILER: Serial killers appear everywhere, everyone around Dexter dies - Luckily his annoying wife got out of the way - I mean seriously, it is the poorest portrait of an American house wife that I have ever seen, I even found a fan-page on Facebook that wanted her dead :D!It has been too easy for the writers to please the Dexter-fans, they have offended our intelligence with easy shortcuts to conclusions and overall poor storytelling!Disappointing....
First of all sorry for my English, I'm from Europe. I started to watch Dexter from the beginning just a few days ago. I thought, this could be an interesting series so I got all the seasons. It appeared to be a very interesting serial. After a week I'm at the 3rd year ep 5. And at this point I stopped watching it. Why? It's very simple: Jennifer Carpenter as Debra Morgan. I never in my life saw a movie or series that was ruined by someone like this. I must say this woman is disgusting. The way she "acts" is far under the brilliant other characters. This woman can not - sorry to say - act. As an actress she is a failure. The way she talks, the way she acts made me stop watching Dexter. I'm sorry. I thought it will be one of my favorite series, but now I'm at a point that has no reason to watch it. Every time Jennifer C. appears I just push the rev. button, but that"s pointless. Sorry...


                
I am a huge fan of "Dexter" since the start of the show, it has been one of my favorite. I really enjoyed how you could see Dexter's mentality in a season, how it changes through out it and the fact that it is centered around him. However after an amazing ending to season 4, season 5 was completely boring and the only thing that kept me watching was how much I liked the first four. Then season 6, which I was looking forward to, started of well especially with Mos Def's character and the contrast to "DDK". However the writers had to many directions to take the show through and chose the wrong one, they lost interest in detail added too much mind-numbing talking and introduced the worst twist followed by the sickest crush I could ever imagine.DEXTER ENDED AT SEASON 4!!!


                
After a good start to build good will, it proceeded to leech off that, as it fairly rapidly became worse, then worse, the maybe improved slightly, then became trash, which continued until the show ended.


                
I wouldn't be arrogant as to state "how do people like this show??" as I wouldn't pretend to criticize anyone's viewing tastes....and I think I do understand the attraction of Dexter...the premise...Mr. Hall does have decent acting chops and knowing the premise its obviously alluring especially seemingly to today's younger generation the idea of an anti-hero serial killer vigilante hiding behind a badge with a "code" that is sickening however somehow seemingly honorable concerning the ends...we don't care about the means other than being fascinated by it...Mr. Hall does a good job showing us such....however... The problem is NOTHING about this show is believable....first of all the droning narration from Mr. Hall wears thin quickly...and you have to pretty much suspend belief that Dexter is adroitly working his double life under the barely suspecting Police Force that employs him...and because of such this just doesn't work as a series...maybe a well planned out 2 hour movie....and then there are the totally miscast support mainly Jennifer Carpenter who seems to be there to be a drama queen much less a cop....She is frustratingly annoying and when She is in the same scene with Dexter it becomes almost distracting...the plot holes are so big again you have to just go with the flow of Dexter being here...being there....always there...a slip up no problem as I can take ALL THE TIME IN THE WORLD from my job to fix it...AND have a relationship with kids at the same time...Julie Benz is a lovely woman however I am not sure what her character was really for....any extra scenes concerning her add little...this show with its premise should be FULL of suspense however there is little and actually I found myself groaning and even laughing at how silly the dialogue could be...the story arc of Season 1 halfway had me at at point of disbelief and I almost bailed....Season 2 it was turning into a Soap Opera as the Lila Character was not only silly but totally unbelievable...it was bad enough having to look at the over stretched face of actress Jaime Murray...at times She looked like Michael Jackson's ugly Cousin...how I made it through the arc in Season 2 is beyond me as by this time all credibility was lost...Jennifer Carpenter is TOTALLY annoying and unwatchable...and worst of all the premise was shrouded and almost negligible...and although the ending was interesting if it was a Bond type movie however its just almost inexplicable to think Dexter would find Lila in France and know exactly where She was to off her....I groaned....and bailed....
As many other reviews note, this show started off great. The story was unique and the cast was great. And then it got repetitive....really repetitive. And the characters became annoying, self-destructive, and altogether annoying and frustrating to watch. The last half of this series destroyed my opinion of the entire series.


                
I watched the first episode and found it boring. After a couple of months, my friends told me to watch it again because it's so amazing and interesting. Then I watched 10 episodes. To be honest, it was a waste of time. This show is the most naive, slow and very boring show I've ever seen!!


                
