I've recently discovered Dexter and have just completed the entire first season in two days. I really enjoy it, and the writing is far superior to most (all?) of the network television shows I've seen in recent years. At first, I had difficulty accepting its premise, as I felt it was too ambitious, but after experiencing the first season's conclusion, I think they did a good job of tying it all together.The one issue that remains for me is the use of flashbacks. While the creators utilize this device in order to explain how a sociopathic serial killer like Dexter can navigate the world undetected -- through the teachings and direction of his adoptive father -- this is something that stretches beyond the ken of how much I can suspend disbelief. There obviously has to be some sort of suspension of disbelief to accept that a serial killer is also one of Miami's top forensic analysts, and that much I can accept. The flashbacks reveal that Dexter's adoptive father rationally taught him a moral code to channel his instinct to kill, and that takes this idea too far for me. The pathology of serial killers is that they cannot be taught, and while implicitly this has to be accepted if the underlying premise is to be entertained, the frequent use of flashbacks over-stresses this to a point of complete disbelief. By the end of the first season, however, this was largely relegated to the back burner, as the plot had thickened sufficiently that the viewer is more interested in its resolution than its realism.Michael C. Hall is compelling in his portrayal. Stylish show, excellent writing notwithstanding the flaws, and fun. On to the second season.
Dexter started off well, loved the first season and ended up watching 90+ hrs in a week to complete the series. The Early Seasons were great but the later ones were just plan bad. Every seasons do have some great episodes but the overall flow of the series turned downhill by the end.Dexter the protagonist as a serial killer/lab geek starts off perfectly- the awkward guy who find hard to fit in with others and try's to stay under the raider of others.I did enjoy his character development of wanting a family and still being the awkward guy. But in later seasons when he become's social and a smooth lier he looses his charm. Debra was again perfect in the start- the clumsy girl leaning on her brother for solving her cases, did enjoy her character development where she become a smart detective but hated the part (season 6) where she starts helping her brother out...just doesn't add up.Season 1- has great story and plot - the mind game with the ice truck serial killer and it's conclusion and meaning to Dexter want's you to come back for more. Dexter and the whole crew are excellent but i really enjoyed Rudy as the ice truck killer the most.Season 2- builds up on the first with him being suspected and trying to balance romance and its fall back. Both the new characters Lila and Agent Lundy add to the productionSeason 3- was a bit disappointment- Dexter taking student and wanting to be friends was very out of character for him but still had good plots and story. Migule didn't seem to add to the series at all.Season 4- Great Plot. Introduction of trinity was great, Dexter trying to learn from him, be a family man and balancing both his nigh and day jobs with the unbelievable cool ending made it the second best season for me.Season 5- Lumen and Dexter together and Debra at the end- didn't like it. Liked individuals episodes and how it played out but Dexter and Debra were so out of character.Season 6- B-Grade Doom's Day Killer Travis was so bad. Debra at the end and her actions were just crap. Only think good about this season was Brother Sam and he was a small part of the season.Season 7- I actually enjoyed the season for the love angles and romance it bought back into Dexter's life and Issak is so bloody cool but Debra and Captain LeGuerta part spoiled the endSeason 8- Worst season of the lot - The ending is Terrible Overall the series is a fun watch and most of the episodes are made like masterpiece only when they started tweaking with the characters personalities things turned sour.


                
Dexter is the show I have been waiting for my whole television watching life! The complex and damaged characters, the twisted plot line and Dexter's foster dad grooming him, educating him, to make him the perfect avenger,its all so intoxicating! I am breathlessly anticipating the next episode. This show is not only well acted, with each and every main character holding my full attention, but written with such deep intensity that I find it absolutely irresistible! I really find it difficult to wait and see more of how Dex was traumatized as a child, more of Harry's lessons, more of the growing relationship with Rita, more of the ice truck killer, more forensics...More of this great show period. Kudos to all involved...this show will surely be a huge hit! It's a hard accomplishment to get someone to actually love a serial killer. But Dexter is one of those few attempts that works. It's not forced upon you- the show doesn't shove the whole "well this serial killer had a terrible childhood..." in your face. And it doesn't need to in order to get you to love its main character. You just do.Michael C. Hall can play any emotion he's handed. Jennifer Carpenter fits her character perfectly, as does everyone else in the cast.Then there's the actual story lines. It's not cliché. It's actually scary and chilling. It keeps you guessing. It's one of those mysteries that is very difficult to solve, but it still keeps your interest.Absolutely brilliant. True to Jeff Lindsay's books. The visual contrast between the darkness of Dexter's secret life and and the gloss of Miami adds an almost surreal quality. Character development is right on the money, bringing out the background slowly so one can see the development of Dexter's sociopath personality and his confusion of human behavior compared to his own. Dexter is an actor in his own life; his relationships between co-workers and his personal life are well shown in the video media. The fact that he is a blood splatter expert This is a dark work, but set in the bizarre world of life in Miami is almost believable. Developers of this series should also look to Andrew Vachss's books.By two more episodes the viewer should be absolutely intoxicated by the complexity of the character Dexter and the acting of Michael C. Hall. His own co-stars admit to being almost "scared" by how well Hall absorbs his character. Personally, I think that without Hall's mastery of Dexter there would be nothing to watch. Don't get me wrong, the plot of this show is extremely intriguing (and original, to be redundant), but the excitement lies purely in the way Dexter/Hall responds to A) his girlfriend, B) blood, and C) other serial killers.Dexter is a sociopath, someone with no human feelings and hence no natural, inner moral compass, and he has an unquenchable blood lust that drives him to kill. But he had the great grace to have been the adopted child of a police officer, who (as we see in terrific flashbacks) successfully instilled in him a complete moral code, which he adheres to on a strictly intellectual level. This is an utterly brilliant concept (which I assume derives from the novels it's based on), one that allows the writers to explore the nature of moral behavior and of what it means to be human (Dexter is, in a sense, an alien).Dexter is hilarious; it is easily the best new show on TV! Dark, dry humor crops up in the most unexpected places, and the settings and dialogue are laced with CSI's pseudo-scientific appeal. While the show may appear to treat standard morality as irreverent, it is actually an excellent study of humanity at its best -- and worse.Dexter, a forensics expert at day, serial killer with a touch of vigilantism at night. Dexter is creating a believable and very detailed portrait of a, lets say troubled, sociopath. One of the parts about the show I like best is the emotions that normal people exhibit, thus forcing Dexter to mimic them. Good laugh when the emotions Dexter fake get real, and he is scared out of his mind, like in the relationship with his "girlfriend" Rita, mother of two and victim of her abusive ex-boyfriend. Also liked the acting of Jennifer Carpenter as Dexter's sister Debra, adds a nice touch colour to the show, without drifting into clichés.Although I am not a regular proponent of serial television shows, the eclectic, in-depth storyline and character development in Dexter are far beyond what I expected from Showtime or any network other than HBO. Dexter is a unique insight into the mind of a serial killer protected by his occupation as well as the lessons derived from his father's teachings. By having a resounding premise of catching a notorious serial killer while trying to conceal his own identity, Dexter enters each week with a new sociological dilemma as well as a new criminal to dispatch. What is best about Dexter is his own personal facade of trying to be normal. While other characters in the show are obviously dysfunctional, the audience are privileged to see the flaws of Dexter while people within his own world cannot. Darkly humorous, well-paced, and morbidly addictive Dexter is the best show of 2006, without a doubt.
I previously have rated this series with a 10. It started so amazingly well, but that was not the thing that made it great. What was great for me is that I have read the books and the series was so much better! The acting was good, the dark humour was very nice, the stories were compelling, the killing was bloody. Everything seemed perfect.After watching the last and eighth season crash and burn (the series had become ridiculous at least 3 seasons before) I have to review my grade. But do not be fooled! If the last seasons sucked, imagine how good the first ones were to average an 8. You should at least see the first season.Cheers!


                
I just watched this whole show in a little over a month on Netflix.
I fell in love with the characters, I thought they were very unique, Dexter the softie killer, Deb with her swearing and all, and everyone else. I couldn't stop watching it until the end.Which was, to say the least, disappointing. 
It left me with a feeling of emptiness, like, is this it?A lot of characters, as stated by some of the previous reviews, did not deserve to end this way. It just doesn't do the series justice.This is why I give it an 8 out of 10, because I really enjoyed watching it, some seasons more than others, right to the end. Which left a taste of bitterness. Oh well, time to fing something else to watch and forget this horrible ending.


                
Miami, Florida. There are a lot of people doing very evil things. And when they slip through the cracks of the legal system, that's where our titular lead(C. Hall, subtle, meticulous), and his Code, comes in. He investigates them to ensure he doesn't off anyone innocent. Drugs them and wakes them back up in a secluded room. They, and the room, are taped down with plastic – no DNA evidence left behind. With photos, he ensures their victims will be the very last thing they see, before he bludgeons or stabs them. Up close and personal. Not the noise and distance of a gun, or the "soft", almost indirect way of poison. No, he wants to feel it. If there's an ironic or poetic way or place to take them out, he'll find it. And he saves a blood slide from each of them: a trophy. Dismembered and dumped off the Bay, no one knows about it. Murder. It's one heck of a way to make a living.Of course, he wasn't always like this. Actually, OK, he totally was. But as awful as this side of him is, he does try to channel it so it might help. Of course, in my opinion, it's not "terminate people who do wrong" that solves problems with people's criminal behavior. It's social issues, making sure everyone can get by without resorting to crime: wages for poor people that allow them to thrive, education for everyone, etc. That would greatly limit how many criminals there would be, and then the police could focus all their energy on just them. This does explore whether it's justice or a need, revenge. And there's, of course, the element of it being a power fantasy.Before landing the blow, he may have a short conversation with his target. After all, they share some similarities<U+0085> both have intentionally slaughtered other people, and more than once – except for some of the rapists and the like. How do they deal with this or that? What choices have they made, and were they happy before their current predicament? And the serial killers herein, the many different types of what this calls monsters(I feel that only actions can be terrible, people may have the option to either do them or not, no one is inherently wicked) are explored in great detail – this is, at its core, a psychological thriller.Learning the craft took years, and a mentor. That's where his adoptive father Harry(Remar, the weight of such responsibility, coupled with the hope for the better) comes in. The hero cop crafted the ruleset that I've mentioned above. He died before this is set, living on in Dexter's mind, this shown via both actors interacting, which we realize is only what is imagined to be taking place. Every major decision is "discussed" with him, and he'll argue, show pride, express disappointment, etc. How long should we follow our parents' guidance? Where do we set the line, what is a healthy way of rebelling?Thus, his stepsister, Debra(Carpenter, nervous in spite of competency), got the short end of the dad's attention-stick. It pushed her to join the force, and she now fights to get into Homicide, from Vice. One of the only women in a male-dominated field, she's masculine, and tries but fails to hide her insecurities, indecisiveness, and her deep emotions<U+0085> usually with an obscene, pun intended, amount of swearing, which can get awkward, and feel like they had a quota to fill. The two of them together is sweet, always looking out for each other. She's the closest he has to a human connection.His girlfriend, Rita(Benz, scared, not pathetic) is scarred. Figuratively speaking. Her ex, who left her with two kids, that she takes great care of, is an abusive junkie. She isn't comfortable with intimacy, which is how he prefers it – he's wary of letting people in, thinking they won't want the real him. With just a little mishandling, she could have been very frustrating. If she had been continuously stuck in her pain, someone for others to help with no end in sight, that's not really something we want to see. And that's not what we got. She has stories of her own. As does almost every regular in this, many of them found in the department, some of whom will change rank over the years, their families strained by the job and the like. This is stock-full of dynamic, detailed characters and their interpersonal relationships, that grow and develop over time. Every performance is compelling.This is tense, dramatic, addictive, binge-inducing and crazy fast-paced, a ton happens in a short space of time, without it being exhausting or feeling forced. This is almost always good, it's even better when its stuff that relates to the whole season(each of which is a chapter in the overall plot. 1 and 4 are amazing, 2 and 3 are great, 5-8 are good, but skippable. And the finale is only OK), and it's at its best when it's to the entire show. A lot is communicated in little time. Scenes "turn", someone loving turns out to be a psycho or vice versa. Still, this doesn't rely too heavily on fake-outs, twists or the like. The production values are high. This goes into what "normal" is, whether or not it's possible to have a fulfilling life while secretly engaging in destructive behavior, among other themes. Can it be controlled? Could anyone accept it? Can it remain hidden?In addition to what I've already noted, there is a lot of brutal, bloody, disturbing and violent content in this. That makes sense given the nature of this. What does not always, and gets unpleasant, is the many prostitutes, strip clubs, and general nudity and sexualization, including of the deceased(!), and the many fridges full of girls, not treated as individuals, rather, there to get sympathy. I recommend this to anyone attracted by the subject matter. 8/10


                
Everything about this show is just amazing. The concept of a serial killer who kills to actually make the world a better place, take out the trash as Dex would say, it's very powerful. The dark passenger, the code, the boat, the knives, the ritual, blood spatter etc. But the best thing was the relationship Dex and Deb share as brother and sister, it's so intense and it was the one consistent thing in both of their lives. Overtime you start to feel the characters, I actually felt bad when Dex let Hannah in his life despite Deb telling him not to. You develop a strong attachment to the characters very quickly.Yes, the end was kind of tame. But the characters, Rita, Harry, Vince, Angel, Harrison... especially Deb and Dex are gonna stay in mind forever. It was totally worth it, gonna miss watching it.
Note: I have seen all 8 seasons.This is a crime show that really doesn't hold anything back, making it probably the best I've seen so far.My suggestion: Stop watching after season 4. It starts to get more convoluted and less believable after that. Or, if you can avoid falling for cliffhangers, watch up through season 6 and end it there assuming Debra does the right thing.


                
Dexter- a character so complex and dark but a man of a strict moral conduct at the same time. the show revolves around the protagnist (or in this case the antagonist too) as he fulfils his personal requirements and ,in my opinion, justifiying them, by fulfiling them on the deserving. interesting till the 4th season but just repetitive from that point, the show neverthless can be considered a classic.


                
Season 1 makes it into my TOP 10 of all time and seasons 2-4 are not far behind it. I like the setting of the show ("Miami"/California). Dexter is interesting as well as the story in itself. Season 5 is a major backflip and the rest is just awful. 10/10 for the 1st half and 3.5/10 for the second


                
An excellent drama that encapsulates the mind and life of the titular character, Dexter definitely does not disappoint. Michael C. Hall as Dexter Morgan is the villain you love to hate and gives an excellently nuanced performance as the Miami serial killer. The supporting cast is excellent as well. Each has satisfying story arcs and feel like a dynamic cast rather than just background noise. Deborah Morgan is a particular standout as Dexter's sister and Deb's actress Jennifer Carpenter holds her own across from Hall. Her character development as Dexter's foil is so well done that by the final seasons of the show, both Dexter and Deb become synonymous with the show. Dexter isn't the only main character here. Despite loving the first five or so seasons, I felt that the show was guilty of carrying on a little too long. Some episodes felt a bit like filler and while the ever changing cast of villains were great, some were noticeably weaker than others. Because of that, it made me less interested in those season's main arcs and sometimes made me just want to get to the next season. Overall however, I would not let a couple plot missteps detract from what is considered one of the best dramas ever to grace television. It in itself is a character study of serial killers and makes you emphasize with both Dexter and the villains. When the pace picks up in certain stretches, viewers might not be able to resist just one more episode. I know I couldn't.


                
I love Dexter. I always have and always will. When the show first came out the season 4 finale upset me so much I had to stop watch. I finally picked the show back up and decided to finish it. Dexter is a great show, but in my opinion the first season wads the best and and it was on a slow decline ever since. Don't get me wrong, Dexter is amazing, just each season was a little less interesting than the last. Then there's the series finale. Everyone told me not to watch it and just pretend the show ended on Season 8 Episode 11. Well I didn't listen and watched the finale. Subsequently, the finale made me so angry I threw my laptop across the room. So whatever you do, DON'T WATCH THE FINALE!


                
Dexter Morgan works for the Miami Dade County Police Department as a blood spatter expert of the forensics department. He is currently dating Rita,a former victim of an abusive drug addict, has a sister who's just joined the homicide devision and a superior officer who enjoys busting his balls whenever the opportunity arises. Oh and he's a completely sociopathic serial killer.But instead of quenching his thirst for murder on the innocent citizens of Miami, he carefully chooses gangsters, drug dealers, paedophiles, murderers. Individuals all of which Dexter feels have long outlived their purpose in the world because they are simply bad people.I first became aware of this series after seeing posters advertising it in a local comic book store in my home town. now the idea of a forensics expert who's also a serial killer screams comic books origins and you'd be on the right track to assume that. It's based on a novel or rather a series of novels. I haven't read them myself but I've read several positive reviews.Getting back to the series. It's nice to see television putting some effort into their programming these days. With the reality TV bug dieing, thankfully, a slow and painful death. Shows such as this, Heroes, Supernatural, Lost etc have proved that the writing seems to be getting better and much more entertaining.Dexter is basically could the result of Brett Easton Ellis ever wrote an episode of CSI: Crime Scene Investigation in which Gil Grissom goes insane and starts killing off the bad guys or if The Punisher wasn't so wild about big guns. When the viewer watches Dexter they can't help him but find the guy somewhat likable. Given he's a complete sociopath and a killer we should be repelled by his actions but the fact that he only punishes those who deserve it, we are forced in some ways to support his "fight" against evil.Dexter's emotional well being or lack there of, often feels conflicted whenever in the presence of his girlfriend Rita. As stated earlier she was a victim of an abusive husband and has zero interest in sexual intercourse. Something which, Dexter admits, is comfortable which. Yet he often finds himself having thoughts which he can't understand, could they be feelings? or something much more sinister? we don't know but this creates definitely the most complex and deep character driven relationships in the entire series.The reviewer only wishes the other interactions between Dexter and the other characters were this fascinating. Another relationship which played out very well in the series was between Dexter and his adoptive father, backed up brilliantly by James Remar's wonderfully understated performance as a detective who's own emotional reserve has been burnt out by the justice system allowing the wrong people getting away with crimes they were so obviously guilty of. This is a state of mind which, for better or worse is instilled within Dexter.What probably stands out most is the writing and of course the acting. Michael C. Hall, James Remar and Julie Benz are fantastic in this. It's outstanding to see their hard work hasn't gone un-noticed with Hall, Benz and Remar picking up awards for their tremendous effort on what has to be one of the best TV shows in this past decade.I can't recommend this series enough. Fans of American Psycho will really enjoy this or people who enjoy TV that can be both engaging and entertaining at the same time. Please, watch at least one episode, I'm sure there'll be something in there that will get your attention and keep for the run of the series.


                
Many of my friends told me it is an amazing show, I never really checked it out until this weekend. I forced myself to sit through the first 2 episodes - and there has been no turning back since. The story line: Dexter is a Serial Killer. That's all you need to know for starters.I've never seen so many people vouch for a serial killer. I think the ability to create such a character is an outrageous challenge, and the creators of this show have been able to do justice to that! The strength of the show has been its ability to create strong villains that make Dexter a necessary evil. I wish they would stick to that formula. Whenever they've failed to do that, there have been too many holes in the plot and some episodes leave me wondering how amateur the work has been.I just completed 4 season back to back of this series. Good show, characterization and story line is solid. Michael C. Hall,James Remar, Julie Benz,John Lithgow lived their characters so far..Starting of 5th season has taken me into a shock.This is not digestible. I am writing this review only for story line S05E01..Killing such a beautiful character is very cruel and not acceptable. :( whoever thought this should be killed first. Julie Benz I Love You. You did a superb job.


                
Let me start off with a warning about this otherwise excellent show: Stop at the end of season 7. As the show progresses over the years, Dexter learns more and more about his past and himself. He is faced with important decisions, sometimes making the right choice, sometimes not. The writers (and directors and producers) also had a choice as to how to resolve the series -- but they made the wrong choice. In season 8, the drama changed to soap opera, and the dialog, which normally just accompanied the scenes, started to drive them. The relentless ramblings of Charlotte Rampling's Dr. Vogel were an attempt to dissect the workings of Dexter's mind but wound up slicing up what had been good story-telling until then. The cardboard characters of season 8 were introduced and dispensed with at random, with more time spent on what was said about them then what they were. And the convoluted relationships and contrived coincidences were nonsense; even Dexter's fellow officers say there's no such thing as coincidence. And the series end -- nothing good to say about it. It may take a while for some viewers to accept the premise of a serial killer being one of the good guys, and I'm sure some won't accept it at all (while others will consider the Dexter character the ultimate hero). Yes, it's vigilante justice, but it IS about justice, not revenge. The show beautifully handles the balance between good and evil. And what the Dexter character does is evil for good. The well-written, well-acted story lines make for an absorbing series, especially in the earlier seasons. The photography is great. So is the music. Actors Jennifer Carpenter, C.S. Lee and Erik King give standout performances. Guest stars John Lithgow, Colin Hanks, Keith Carradine and others were superb -- their creepiness (among other things) led to the best episodes. Don't miss the series. Don't bother with the final season.
There is a bit of a discussion on when or if this show "jumped the shark". Some say it happened after season 4. Personally I disagree. I thought season 5 was great and had a much needed emotional tie-in to the events of season 4. I wasn't too happy with the sudden way the season ended but, for the most part, I was happy with the season. Season 6 was kind of bad, but it had an interesting ending that at least ties in with the series as a whole. Season 7 however was fascinating to watch. I really enjoyed the season and the season finale is among the best in the series except for the season 4 finale. I only wish the show didn't mangle season 8 which is the final season of the show. So here is my opinion: Although the show had its ups and downs, it did not "Jump the Shark" until the final season when it went off the rails for no reason other than trying to be clever for no reason. It had plenty of stories to tell an yet it told none of them...or the least interesting of them.. So there it is. Show good. Ending bad.


                
Superb series. Solid plot, with every season bringing a fresh nemesis for Dexter and new reasons to look over his shoulder. It is a very intriguing and tension-filled drama. The fact that even his sister, who is a detective in the police department, doesn?t know about his double-life makes for very entertaining television, as she could be his Achilles heel.Not perfect though. The writing did become weaker towards the end, with the final season being quite a disappointment. The final episode has to be one of the worst, especially considering the quality that came before it, in TV history. The conclusion is ridiculous. But man do I love this show


                
The series is pretty engaging but has a few minor inconsistencies ( for which I'm reducing two stars ) .Dexter's method of injecting people in the neck while they don't react is poorly done ( they just stand like flaccid dummies with their arms at their sides ) Normal people will flinch violently even for mosquito bites, let alone someone pricking their necks.Season 2 - The casual spinal dose he gave a standing Lila before killing her -absolutely impossible - ask any anaesthesiologist .Season 5 - The foulest thing he ever did was to kill Stan Liddy - who didn't meet the hallowed " code " of Harry . Dexter didn't even hesitate to plan to kill Joseph Quinn ( just before Liddy captured Dexter ) - Quinn didn't meet the code either ( Neither did the foul mouthed redneck , he murdered on the day of Rita's funeral - plain blood-lust . That foul redneck didn't even attack him - so Dexter killing him wasn't even self-defence... so much for the ' code ' .. )Season 4 - during the raid on Trinity's house - Dexter steps out of a coffin in the garage while the garage door is being opened - it wasn't convincing that none of the raiding team found it suspicious as to how he was already inside , even before the door was opened. Even his sister didn't spot that . ( And do unarmed forensic techs accompany armed raiding teams & go inside with them spontaneously ? ) This was even more unbelievable than him pointing out Dan the dentist's body to Debra & Masuka as if he'd just arrived at the scene ( it was puzzling how a cop & a forensic guy were at the scene before a crime or a body was even found or reported ) Funny .The cops trying to get sketches of Kyle Butler from Arthur Mitchell's family was odd too - couldn't the Mitchell family just point out the guy who was present in the same house during the raid ?Season 5 - Dexter stabs Jordan Chase's foot with a knife . His stolen red car flipped just before that - when he gathered his bearings - Jordan Chase was already aiming a gun at him - when did Dexter open his kit & slip a knife out ? When the car was in mid-flip ? When Chase pushed him down the stairs - Dexter's hands are clearly seen tied behind his back - he's not holding a knife . Even if he was concealing one - he would've injured himself when he was pushed downstairs. Chase had the tool kit.Quinn , who was so instinctive , correlating Kyle Butler with Dexter - didn't react to the highly incriminating evidence Stan Liddy was practically shoving under his nose day after day ? What happened - did Quinn suddenly inhale chloroform ? weed ? get a lobotomy ? forget being a cop ?Quinn knew that Liddy was investigating Dexter - when Liddy was horribly murdered - who did Quinn think had murdered poor Liddy ?!!With no evidence he could instinctively link Dexter & Kyle Butler & Rita's murder - but he wouldn't link Dexter to Liddy's murderer - & instead just nervously deleted Liddy's calls from his cell-phone - unbelievable .Season 6 - In the first episode Dexter attends his 20th high school reunion to implicate his classmate Joe of his wife Janet's death 3 yrs earlier . Dexter obtains Joe's DNA by elbowing his nose during a rugby game & finds a match for it in the database against the DNA from the blood found under Janet's fingernails - this is incomprehensible - the Virginia police handling the case couldn't find a match for the blood under the victim's nails against the victim's own husband for 3 yrs ? Lame ...
I love it .. it's one of my best
Dexter Morgan was awesome specially his son but i can't understand how he trusted Hana and let Harrison with her to protect him .. she is also a killer .. 
Death of Dep was so hard to be accepted ..
If you believe in an eye for and eye and a tooth for a tooth, then this is one show you should not miss. It's cracking, and the thrill of wanting to see the next episode continues throughout each series.Michael C Hall plays the lead role in a show which almost questions the morality of today's laws and justice. In summary a serial killer who kills killers.The macabre nature of the show is not for all, nor is the vigilante style justice meted out to those who are deemed guilty by Dexter. Nonetheless, it's gripping and whether you believe in what he does is right or not doesn't detract from the story in each series.However, there is a stark difference between the early episodes and those from series 6 onward. They appear to mature and grow darker... and the relatively light production style from early days feels more brooding and sinister to the point you start questioning your loyalties to Dexter.Michael C Hall plays the character well and you find yourself almost cheering him on, wanting him to get away with it whilst wondering, 'how will this all end?'... And it's that thought which keeps you gripped... If the thought of a serial killer killing killers sounds interesting, then you may well enjoy this.


                
Fighting fire with fire through vigilantism is nothing new for Hollywood. Whether it's Charles Bronson's well known Paul Kersey in "Death Wish" or a lesser known John Eastland, better known as "The Exterminator" played by Robert Ginty, vigilantes have been good platforms for an intriguing story of people seeking justice on their own when the system fails to do so.Then there's Dexter Morgan! Rather than using guns and explosives to carry out his instant justice, he uses his smarts and sharp tools in a "Sick-f*** Ritual" (mentioned by one of the characters) to take out dangerous criminals.What made Dexter appealing wasn't his killing of criminals, but how the character strove to live a normal life while he carried out his "dark" extra curricular activity. He uses his rewarding forensics career to his advantage to get these dangerous criminals; he tries to have a normal social life; has a beautiful girlfriend whom he eventually marries; he meets people who find out and understand his "activity" and keep it secret; he tries successfully and otherwise to cover his deeds.Unlike the Kersey or Eastland characters of yesteryear, Dexter Morgan isn't necessarily driven by revenge and makes these killings the center of his life as again, he tries to live a normal one. He has a code set forth by his late adoptive father who shows up in his mind (played very well by James Remar).As the show goes on, we see how Dexter's "Dark Passenger" (as he coins it) affects his life and the people around him---his colleagues and family---to a tragic conclusion.The creators of the show and the excellent performance of Michael C. Hall developed the title role over eight seasons and never failed to disappoint. There was nothing mundane about the Dexter character compared to other characters in other works who took the law into their own hands.It will be hard to top a vigilante character like Dexter as his wasn't so cliché'd like past ones.
Dexter is great show and one I did not watch for years because I disliked it's premise and could not imagine how it could work. When I finally got around to watching it I was surprised how good it was and how the writers could actually make you root for a serial killer. The humour is one of the ways it softens the horror and the acting is first class. Using an entire series to tell one main story arc was also I think something of a first and it works well. Unfortunately the quality and believability begins to tail off after the 5th series and the hit you over the head anti Christian propaganda begins to become so obvious that it becomes a theme and is as boring as a fundamentalist atheist. But overall it is definitely worth watching.


                
At the start I was hooked. Great storyline a lot of different angles the whole time and ending you could not guess. But, going further and further in this Series it can be a bit all of the same. the story changes but the outcome stays the same. I missed the thrill a bit when going further in the Season. There where in the first Seasons I had the Excitement and really stayed home to watch. At the end I got the feeling I already knew and saw it all.Don't get me wrong since I am in full understanding that Its really hard to make a series that actually maintain a certain "you need to see the next episode" feeling. But in my eyes after X Seasons there was not much outcome change.Over all I want to give it at least an 8 because Dexter deserves it.


                
Just finished watching Dexter on Netflix and it rates in one of my Top 5 ever TV series. I wasn't too disappointed with the ending because the whole series seems to lead to this ending and it could allow more to be made. Dexter is a fantastic diverse character and the casting of him and the other characters bar one or two is perfect. I found the characters of Jamie and Elway to be really annoying. There are a few technical inconsistencies and questions about certain aspects of life and how people act and respond in situations that can be raised throughout but the overall story arc and series is brilliant and enough you can overlook things. Occasionally you'll find yourself saying "would that really happen in real life" but there's a good mixture of drama, comedy and crime fighting here! The character of Dexter is essentially a madman or psychopath but the show gets you to like him and feel his pain and anguish when things go wrong but share in the joy when it goes well for him. Some people will view Dexter as the person he is where as others will love him, which is why the show is so well written.The acting and chemistry between his on screen sister played by Jennifer Carpenter is excellent and both the main characters are cast well. The support cast are very good and there's some good cameos by big actors throughout the series. It's hard to write a review without giving spoilers away.


                
-Contains light spoilers- Great series, good and complex "villain" as the main character for a change who makes you sympathize or even empathize with him (a bit like Death Note's Yagami Light(o), Japanese Manga/Anime/films).Dexter's journey takes some interesting turns each season and episodes are rarely boring with a few exceptions. His obsessive compulsions/cravings to kill take turns for the worse to (depending on other circumstances in his life) completely gone.Some key characters he meets along the way have nice personalities, smart nemesis's, long lost relatives and the truth about himself and his childhood traumas and there are and even a few who knows his secret along the way.. and his father conjured in his mind through his pathology talking to him and trying to get him to follow the "code" he taught him to not get caught as well as a way to justify his existence and not being a complete monster which arguably might be the case too.Fair warning as this paragraph describes my opinion about the ending of the series but I'm not revealing how it ends... The ending of the series sucked imho to the point making me almost wishing I hadn't watched the entire series, enough said.. could easily have been great, what a shame.
