Imagine you are an unsuspecting daughter of prominent New England wealth, and suddenly you are upended by a malignant premonition!! This woman is an enigmatic phantom who has been disillusioned by consequences, she winds up resorting to dipsomanical forms of entertainment, this means that her only form of emotional consolation comes from a bottle of cognac, apathy is suffocating her, and she is afflicted by her own personal failure!! The abrupt revelation that mendacity is your stilted panacea, and reality is her bitter cynicism, necessitates a formidable trepidation which you are unable to cope with!! This is a dreadfully candid scenario with definable features!! You are unfamiliar with this nightmarish figure, but she has an acute resemblance to you, she is warning you about yourself, and you have become terrified!!This Twilight Zone episode deals with devastating disappointments which emanated from personal neglect and wanton selfishness!! You (Ann Henderson) were mirrored by the fallen angel of darkness, otherwise known as you at age 43!! You were suppose to marry Mr Right, and as a result of your adolescent instinct being one of your downfalls, you wound up marrying your childhood sweetheart, he was definitely Mr Wrong!! ..The only constant in your life is alcohol, and your stupors of disenchantment result in blaming your father for everything, hence, you are stalemated by non-productiveness, and you have become misanthropic by default.. These irrational logic patterns of yours are indicative of a banal, run of the mill, alcoholic's proverbial cop out!! Your father's estate has been run into ruin, and your prevailing domestic enmity is a crippling force to your very existence!! At the ripe old age of 18, your desolate future accosted you, and you had no way of fighting back...You were victimized by a lethargic attrition, disheveled by circumstances, and though you were born with a silver spoon in your mouth, your incredible lack of discipline and discriminating judgment has caused you to be permanently bankrupt!! Bottom line, you had a dual with adversity and adversity won!! Everything in your life has gone wrong, and now you are isolated and despondent!! This comprises the callous vilification of your miserably pathetic plight...Without question!! It is definitely time for you to reap what you've sown!!This was my favorite Twilight Zone episode of all time!! It depicts the realistic tragedy of deteriorating wealth decimating an entire family!! Rod Serling illustrates how lives can easily be destroyed by making the wrong decisions!! Films like "Dracula" and "Wolfman" are indeed supernatural sensationalism, and the real horror story which receives the certificate of authenticity is Ann Henderson's life!! Yes, the monster that will destroy you is your future!! While Ann owned a racing horse on the verge of bank foreclosure, by no means, may she ride off into the sunset!! This episode has a very poignant and compelling dialog which addresses the upheaval of pecuniary dissemination!! The trend of domestic disaster in this case is resoundingly irreversible!! In 1964, television's perception of the well to do insinuated that they were omnipotent.. The reality of affluence is that once it is passed down to the heirs (Otherwise known as the overgrown adolescents) it is reduced to nothing in record time!! The Twilight Zone segment "Spur of the Moment" does a tremendous job of displaying such an unfortunately realistic situation!! It was made during the last season of the series!! This was a fantastic idea for a Twilight Zone segment, as I stated before, this is my favorite Twilight Zone episode out of the entire series!!


                
How much do we really know about our next door neighbors? The pleasant facade they masquerade around becomes a stilted and decorative shield for them when their prevailing circumstances are totally cop aesthetic. What happens though, when adversity besieges, and the obligatory veneer is stripped away? The affable camaraderie of your friendly neighborhood kindred spirit, (otherwise known as your neighbor) becomes abruptly, and instantaneously obviated with these circumstances, and now, your neighbor is now a vulgar,venomous, vile, gut-wrenching, self-absorbed- for- survival- mode, monstrous parasite! This episode "The Shelter" is unequivocally,one of the best "Twilight Zone" segments out of the entire series! While it is compared to "The Monsters Are Due On Maple Street", I felt that "The Shelter" was a great deal more compelling. The intensity of the characters' excoriation was extremely gripping with the episode. As opposed to "The Monsters Are Due On Maple Street" where the people extracted a little too much exaggerated paranoia. The cast was very well put together, including Jack Albertson and Larry Gates. (Gates played a doctor, and was down in the basement in the "Twilight Zone's" "The Shelter", just like he was in the movie "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" ). "The Shelter" possesses a vitriolic contempt with which these threatened individuals harbored! This enmity is far more of a lethal arsenal than any defense weapon around. How much do we hate? What exactly is it that we are thoroughly willing to do just to stay alive? The desperation, the prejudice, the primal fears, and the scruple less non cooperation we capitulate to at the first sign of terror, becomes a grim scenario that is truly alarming!! This "Twilight Zone" segment "The Shelter" purveys an incredibly desperate acrimony which basically admonishes the entire human race. This false alarm for apocalyptic calamity with this "Twilight Zone" segment has encapsulated an aggregate character assassination for all of these New York suburban misanthropes who became victimized by this precariously macabre situation. You might want to look in the mirror and attempt to reaffirm the distinction between man and beast after watching this "Twilight Zone" episode. I did, and, quite frankly, such a situation that "The Shelter" brought before me, has made it very difficult for me to distinguish any comfortable dichotomy between human beings, and a bloodthirsty wolf pack!! This wry little epigram definitely put me in an frightfully horrid mood, particularly on a philosophical level! Rod Serling hones in on the rudimentary instincts of man, which are for better, or, for worse, Serling accomplishes this parody in a very successful manner too! What is the most significant aspect to Rod Serling's works is the esoteric element to them that transcends the importance of television ratings and popularity! This intriguing quality is one whereby the paradigms in which Rod Serling manifests were stunningly pertinent to the thought patterns of modern twentieth century America! I do not mean that these ideas were remotely similar to Eisenhower era conceptions, I mean that Serling pinpoints many U.S. cold war ideologies with an utterly succinct and identifiable accuracy! Rod Serling had attained such a creative stranglehold on television entertainment with "Twilight Zone" that it almost seemed as though programming approval from CBS President, William Paley, became relegated to the triviality of a tertiary concern! So many "Twilight Zone" segments were fabulous, and I feel that this episode of "Twilight Zone" entitled "The Shelter" was totally outstanding as well!!


                
Almost nothing that I have ever seen on television is quite this depressing! That does not mean that I thought this episode of "Twilight Zone" was bad! It does mean, however, that this episode entitled "The Long Morrow" was very poignant! The two main stars in this "Twilight Zone" segment were Mariette Hartley and Robert Lansing. Mariette Hartley is an actress who evokes very heart felt expressions that harbor an asserted and clarified cogency! This is a quality of an actress (or actor) which is very believable! Robert Lansing has a subtle disposition which purveys an intense and dedicated conviction throughout this entire episode.The characters that Mariette Hartley and Robert Lansing play, winds up being a situation where they encounter each other through happenstance interaction in this "Twilight Zone" segment. Their intuitive nature dictates that they follow their auspicious urges and get to know each other better. They decide to have an absolutely wonderful evening together regardless of the fact that he (Robert Lansing)has been assigned to a space mission which commences the very next day. This mission will distance Robert Lansing's character from the world for 40 years! As a result,all kindred spirits, and emotional cohesiveness he has experienced with everybody, including Mariette Hartley, must be abandoned and reduced to a bittersweet memory! Turns out, because of a mechanical failure, that his venture into space results in the earth aging all but a few days, while he has aged over 40 years! So now, the end result is one whereby the caprice of a space time continuum has relegated a sorry soul of a man into a plight of unprecedented loneliness!! This emotionally insurmountable tedium which comprises 40 years of festering an affection for a potential loving soul mate, has abruptly resonated into a situation where he must sever all ties, and, bid farewell. Arctic desolation has become the savage assassin which has alienated a man from societal contact, this inevitably means he has no ability to act on any love interests either!! Returning from this journey, 99.999% of all men would call in their marker and claim their love for their woman, even though she is 26 and he is 70! Love in this case is not tough, it is utterly gruesome! The disheartening circumstances are such whereby this man must let the love of his pre-isolated world go. This is a selfless act for the benefit of her well being. Such a philosophical catastrophe ruthlessly demonstrates that this is a case where love truly means total sacrifice! Idealistically phrased, she says "it doesn't matter the way you are, nor the way I am". More eloquently and astutely put, he says "Oh!! it matters"!! While watching this "Twilight Zone" episode and being barraged with an unusually precarious paradigm, I noticed that Rod Serling wrote this segment. You have to generously indulge Serling to attain the total gist of what he was trying to say with this episode. I did, and I got extremely depressed. In this instance, I would say that depression is not entirely pejorative, rather, depression serves as a strengthening tool for fortifying my stamina as an individual! This "Twilight Zone" episode is outstanding, and is one of the best episodes that this series has ever manufactured! I put it up with the top ten "Twilight Zone" segments in all of this series' history!!


                
*SPOILERS for some episodes* This TV Show is the Big Daddy of shows like 'The Outer Limits (both versions)', 'The Hunger', 'Night Visions', 'Nightmare Cafè' and has also spawned two re-adaptations, one in 1985 and another in 2002, two movies... yet a lot of people can only think of 'The Twilight Zone' as 'weird', especially a lot of people my age (I'm 21).It's not just that; it's also a good way to do social commentary without having to change your script for some idiotic reasons (in one of his precedent scripts, he was forbidden to let a character commit suicide because one of the sponsors, an insurance company, said there were a lot of troubles with insurances in case of suicide - one of the most asinine reasons from a network for a rewrite EVER); this is evident in episodes like 'Maple Street'.Others just speak about the hopes, dreams and let's not forget the FEARS and DESIRES of being human, as we watch a man with amnesia wander, scared and lost, through a town devoid of people, or a depressed drunkard gunslinger not wanting to do anymore what's a master of - but that has also thrown him into full-blown alcoholism and depression, or a hypochondriac, selfish to a fault man achieve immortality and then ending up getting 'Life Without Parole', or an aging, deluded actress achieving her dream of being back into her movies (literally), or a man taking a journey through the past and meeting himself as a kid, or Talky Tina, Chucky's grandmother ('I am Talky Tina, and I am going to kill you').With a guest star cast which counts, among the many, Robert Redford, Charles Bronson, Earl Holliman, Dan Duryea, Dick York, Ed Wynn, Robert Duvall, Telly Savalas, Ida Lupino and many others, 'The Twilight Zone' will keep on being my 'next stop'.Twilight Zone: 10/10.
QUITE POSSIBLY THE GREATEST SHOW IN HISTORY! THE STORIES ARE INCREDIBLE! THERE'S SO MANY DIFFERENT TYPES OF EPISODES. ONE OF THE BEST IN MY OPINION IS "TO SERVE MAN." THERE'S SO MANY MORE I COULD MENTION. THANK GOD FOR THE SCI-FI CHANNEL!


                
During a recent Scifi channel marathon (July 4th weekend, 2006), I caught a handful of episodes (not for the first time). I recognized that some of the concepts were used in other movies or shows. The movies didn't copy the TZ show but it appears TZ was the first time the concept had been presented. Twilight Zone was clearly ahead of its time.Toys come to life when the humans are away. movie: Toy StoryClick watch to stop time. movie: ClickPlane flies through turbulence and back through time. movie: The LangoliersMannequins take turns going out as live people. movie: MannequinGuys in suspended animation to wake years later. movie: Forever YoungRobot as maid/caregiver: show: Outer Limits Episode movie: I, Robot


                
When I think of great television, only two programs come to mind, the original Star Trek and The Twilight Zone. Both are indicative of the greatness of their creators. While many TV series deal with the downside of mankind, these two ground-breaking series deal with the uplifting of mankind. How man can be better than he has become and how man can better understand himself and his world around him.Roddenbury and Serling had an understanding of the greatness of man... hence the episodes in Star Trek such as the City on the Edge of Forever, Arena and many others. Twilight Zone had Kick the Can, Serling's poignant Santa Claus story with Art Carney (which always makes me cry) and even late in the series with The Long Morrow.Writers and creators who wished for a better world and created it in their greatest achievements.


                
Twilight zone is my favorite show to watch whether it's on the Sci-fi Channel Marathons or if its on the DVD'S. I don't know what it is about it that just entertains me so but i can tell you one thing; it is a must no matter what kind of genre u love. I am 13 and i was first introduced to the Twilight Zone at around 10 years old when i saw my first Twilight zone episode: "Will the real Martian please stand up". But my favorite episodes would probably be "Man in the Bottle", "Long Live Walter Jameson",and "To Serve Man". If anyone has "Madagascar" or "The Naked Gun 2", then you will find the part where someone is in a panic, holding a book and screaming "IT'S A COOKBOOK" which was originally said by Susan Cummings in "To Serve Man". Most people know Twilight Zone famously for the Theme song (nee nee nee) and "Twilight Zone: Tower of Terror Ride" in Walt Disney World. But to really understand the Twilight zone, Please just watch one or three episodes and you too will be caught up in the suspense.


                
If you ever see an anthology show on tv these days such as American Horror Story or even Tales of the Crypt or Are You Afraid of the Dark, then thank the creators of the classic Twilight Zone for inventing the anthology tv genre we know and love today. Premiering nearly 60 years ago on CBS only in black and white and lasting 5 seasons with little fanfare but gaining popularity in reruns on local tv stations in the 60s to the present where it's shown on syfy and streaming on amazon prime, this 30-minute show (which expanded to 60 by the fourth season), became a launchpad for many stars and directors, and spawned a controversial 1983 anthology movie and several remakes, the latest of which will premiere exclusively on CBS All Access and produced by Jordan Peele of Get Out fame. After 5 seasons, Rod Serling, the creator and narrator of that show, went on to create Night Gallery, which didn't get as much love as Twilight Zone but helped Steven Spielberg direct an episode and was the first Rod Serling show to be in color and on NBC.


                
The Twilight Zone was one of the greatest shows in television history, way ahead of its time. Brought to you by the creative mind of Rod Serling, who penned many episodes. Some will argue that some episodes were mediocre, and I agree. But with over 100 episodes consisting of different casts and different sets, that'll happen.Some of the best episodes were early on, even in the first few seasons. However, in season four, the format changed from 30 minutes to 60 minutes. Those episodes were among some of the worst. Overall, the show was spectacular, especially for premiering in the 1950s. This incarnation, being the first, is by far, the best. Definitely worth checking out.


                
After recently gaining access to all of The Twilight Zone I've watched pretty much every episode. And this is after watching 90% of the sci- fi/horror films & television of the past 40+ years. What struck me most is how most of it draws much of its influence from these amazing stories. For example:Before I saw the episode "A Most Unusual Camera" I had seen the film "Time Lapse". Where three people discover a camera that takes pictures of the future. They use the camera to take pictures of the next days horse races and profit from it until things inevitably go sour; which is the EXACT plot of the aforementioned Twilight Zone episode.The episode "The Trade-ins" involves elderly people from the future who pay huge sums of money to have their mind/memories/etc transferred to a younger, genetically engineered body. Traces of this can be seen in MANY different places, the most recent I've seen would be "Self/less" and "Surrogates"No doubt it's a very dated show (i.e. black & white, very outdated production quality at least by today's standards, acting can be sort of stiff at times, etc), but the stories are timeless and simply amazing compared to the majority of film & television we've got nowadays, and I would take that over a film/show with top-notch acting & quality but a boring, pretentious script and some sort of contrived romance sub-plot. Hell... I would rather just listen to the audio of a Twilight Zone episode than watch an episode of True Blood, one of the "Twilight" films, etc


                
The strange music and titles and the deliberate monologue intro by Rod Serling. As you watch this for the first time you know even though this show was made in the late 50's its top quality and this kind of quality lasts - if you have the imagination. What makes this show interesting for me is the time it was made. A time man had never ventured far into space - anything was possible - Aliens from mars was very much a theme of the movies of the age. Serling uses this fear of the unknown and runs with it. Stories are varied, faces are familiar but throughout especially with the first three seasons the level of quality rarely dips. I love the Twilight Zone - it now really is a portal to another dimension and especially another time. If love it weird, if you love twist endings, strange phenomena and thinking outside the box this really is the show for you. If you can get past the fact this is an old show - if you can overcome those modern hang ups - if you could. Let the genius that is Rod Serling take you - to The Twilight Zone.


                
This series by Rod Serling is an absolute classic of American television. The stories were simple and easy to relate to, but they always ended with a twist that left you with your mouth hanging open in awe. It dealt with many of the most basic fears of men: fear of the dark, nightmares that seem almost too real, paranoia, death, and concepts of evil. Mingled with these stories are ones that are 'what if?' situations, like "Probe 7: Over and Out", "Five Characters in Search of an Exit", "Eye of the Beholder", "The Night of the Meek", and "Time Enough at Last". A great many of the episodes were also chill-inducing in their own right; "Will the Real Martian Please Stand Up?", "To Serve Man", "It's a Good Life", and "Nightmare at 20,000 Feet" all played with the viewers' minds and were much more effective in scaring people like myself than the so-called 'horror' films of today. The more psychological disturbing, the better...at least that's the case for this show.Serling's appearances in the beginnings of the shows only added to the mystery surrounding each player, each situation, and each object. His monologues were beautifully delivered at the beginning and end of each episode, adding a sense of the supernatural to each installment. Serling also had help from many other writers for the show, like Ray Bradbury, and with great actors of their time (Mickey Rooney, Jack Klughorn, Agnes Moorehead, and Burgess Meredith), the show will always be one my favorites as long as I live."You're traveling through another dimension, a dimension not only of sight and sound but of mind. A journey into a wondrous land whose boundaries are that of imagination. That's the signpost up ahead - your next stop, the Twilight Zone!"


                
This is one of the most clever series I have ever seen.  They should have made more episodes.  Most of the episodes were great and innovative.


                
When you think of the truly great shows in television history, it's hard not to think of "The Twilight Zone". Not only did it have exceptional writing and acting, but it also has taken on a cult-like devotion--and deservedly so.My score of 10 is for the overall quality of the show. Some of the shows were simply brilliant--perfect in just about every way ("To Serve man" and "The Monsters Are Due on Maple Street"). Now this does NOT mean that there aren't a few dud episodes--this is true of just about every series. However, the truly crazed fans of this or any other cult show often won't admit that there were a few sad ones thrown in (such as "The Bewitchin' Pool" and "Black Leather Jackets"). But, taken as a whole, this show was brilliant and amazingly watchable today--and probably the best analogy show of all-time--and this would include the terrifically underrated "Outer Limits". A must for anyone who considers themselves a TV addict!


                
I started watch the Zone when I was little with my now deceased father every Saturday morning on our local station, and I will say that NO MATTER what it's still the best series EVER on television. Television programming pushes thing upon us that are trendy and most of the time devoid of staying power in our mind but, this show will always been the one to evoke the most emotion and sentimental feeling for me and my family. If you have children or teenagers and can get them to sit down for thirty minutes GET THEM to watch this show. It is Truly frightening without the use of violence and blood and the shocking twists at the end are always worth watching for, like "Eye of the Beholder", "The Masks" and "Twenty-Two". Rod Serling really evoked the best acting from the big stars and usual players, and never seem to compromise his vision even if it would have made his job easier. Watch the marathons on the Sci-Fi channel on New Years if you're new to it and BEWARE the last 12 Episodes for their rehashing of other episodes and lack of originality, and if you can find it, watch "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge" they don't show it on TV usually but, it's always on the boxed sets along with a few others that are hard to find. I always think to this day how television would have been if Rod Serling had lived to inject his point of view into it. And you could always start up a great group discussion by asking your friends what their favorite episodes is and which ones scare them the most. Read the Companion book by Marc Scott Zicree for the great behind the scenes facts and looks at the writer like Charles Beaumont and Richard Matheson who is definitely one of the GREATEST writers of his time.


                
Not every episode deserves a 10, but as a series it certainly does. The only thing predictable was every plot had a twist. Ironic may be the best description of The Twilight Zone.You will see actors before they struck it big, and others well past the height of their popularity. I find it refreshing to see a big name in a small roll. There is no stock cast, each episode is cast individually, although a few actors are in multiple shows.Special effects are crude, the shows are in black and white, and some actor mannerisms seem odd, but the series is over 50 years old. Most of the stories hold up well, while others seem dated. Each season has episodes that are worth seeing more than once.Imagination is a key word in each opening, and the writers are some of the best at crafting a story with plenty.


                
Greetings Gang,For those of us who grew up either in the 60's or 70's, the truly Golden Age of Television and Entertainment (or at least influenced by that Golden Age), you knew of and as I did, LOVED Rod Serlings' "Twilight Zone".Here is a man who created something so incredibly deep, thought- provoking and globally relative to all who occupy the wacky planet, that it truly was ahead of its time and an incredible influence to many of us who are in this wild and insane industry.Mr. Serlings' collection of poignant stories of life, humanity and the lessons of our past still hold true to this day. Each episode was magic and entertaining, in addition, many of the famous stars of the late 60's, 70's and even the 80's got their starts on Twilight Zone! Cliff Robertson, Burgess Meredith, Robert Redford, William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelly (all three later went on to star in Star Trek), Charles Bronson and Elizabeth Montgomery, again...just to name but a few.I know I'm kind of gushing within this review, but I cannot help it, I was truly influenced by Mr. Serling and Twilight Zone as a child and as a person who is involved in this industry as an actor and as a writer. For those of you who were as influenced as I was, or even if you were not, I would love to hear what you think and if you like, please list some of your favorite episodes, mine are as follows: "He's Alive", "Cesar and Me", "The Howling Man", "Changing of the Guard" and "Time Enough at Last". And again, these are just a few of the brilliant stories told within the five years in which Twilight Zone was in production.Thank you to Mr. Serling and to all of those involved with the Twilight Zone for those five incredible years, thank you for contributing to some of the greatest moments of television for not only the Twentieth Century, but for what is now timeless.


                
I am too young to have seen 'Twilight Zone' on its original transmission. I came to it in 1983 when, to tie-in with the movie's release, the B.B.C. ran repeats of the first series. I watched not really knowing what to expect.It turned out to be a stylish science fiction anthology series, mostly written by Rod Serling ( who also presented ), and starring top-drawer performers of the calibre of Burgess Meredith, Robert Redford, Fritz Weaver, and Charles Bronson. The premise was that the 'Twilight Zone' was this mysterious place where anything could - and frequently did - happen. Ordinary people suddenly finding themselves in extraordinary situations, such as falling in love with robots, revisiting their childhoods, travelling back in time, or meeting aliens. That is my favourite kind of science fiction.The stories varied in quality, but most were worth watching and even the weaker ones had merit. The show came about because Serling had achieved great success with plays such as 'Requiem For A Heavyweight' and 'Patterns', and wanted to do a science fiction series because he thought the genre would give him greater freedom to express his ideas without network interference. Gene Roddenberry later felt the same way when he devised 'Star Trek'.Check out episodes such as 'The Monsters Are Due On Maple Street' ( a wonderful study in paranoia ), 'The Invaders' ( containing a bravura performance by Agnes Moorehead ), 'The After Hours', 'And When The Sky Was Opened', 'Nightmare At 20,000 Feet' to see fantasy television at its best. Aliens and monsters were only a minor part of the show. The real star was Serling's imagination.The show's title and creepy theme tune ( by Marius Constant ) have both entered popular legend. You only have to hum a few bars of the latter and immediately everyone knows what show you are referring to.It ran for five seasons in all ( the fourth being a misguided attempt to upgrade the format to hour-long shows ), and returned to television in the late '80's. As was later the case with the '90's update of 'Outer Limits', the new show was only a pale shadow of its predecessor.Incidentally, the title of this review came from a sketch on 'The Lenny Henry Show', shown on the B.B.C. in 1984.
The year is 2006 and still this little show called the Twilight Zone peruses our airwaves and mystifies our generation as it has for the past 40 years! The sure genius of this show is what has kept it alive. In this day and age of High Definition, THX surround sound, CGI graphics and countless other film making technology no other show to date has been able to do what this show was able to.What made the twilight zone so great was it's ability to make you think, to keep you captivated within the episode and then actually put you into the characters position. The appearance of some great actors was a big help. Though it was the stories that were the true genius of this show. I can recall an episode where everyone when they hit a certain age went through what they called the "transformation". It was a way to keep everyone beautiful and there was no more ugliness in the world, everyone looked similar, though right before the show good Ole Rod Sterling himself tells you that this is happening in the future the year 2000! Now as you watch this you start to think "he is talking about the past for me! it is 2006, this was 6 years ago!" People saw this and thought this is how the future could be 50 years from then, but now it is the past for us. It is mind boggling, the whole episode talks about beauty and the endless pursuit for everyone to be beautiful and no longer ugly and you start to think "omg! this guy was far off about the year 2000!" It's little things like that which keep this show so interesting today.I so recommend that ANYONE who hasn't seen this show to take the time and watch some episodes, look past the black and white, look past the lack of special effects and look for the awesome story lines that have yet to be matched in modern TV.


                
In 1959, network TV was dominated by pretty-boy detective shows (77 Sunset Strip; Hawaiian Eye), law & order westerns (Gunsmoke; Have Gun, Will Travel), and innocuous sitcoms, (Ozzie & Harriet; Leave It to Beaver; The Donna Reed Show). If little else, most of these were entertaining in a blandly narcotizing way. TV producers may have wanted to experiment, but were hamstrung by a production code that was even more restrictive than the notorious motion picture code (crime must not be rewarded; moral transgressors must be punished; the sexes must not be shown in the same bed, etc.). Perhaps more important, producers were strait-jacketed by sponsors who insisted that programming should be as inclusive as possible so as not to risk offending or "confusing" any segment of the audience-- all the better, of course, to sell the sponsor's product, a not unreasonable requirement, given TV's commercial basis. I mention this background, because it's hard to appreciate the cultural significance of Serling's Twilight Zone without it. For the above restrictions inevitably produced a product that was almost uniformly bland, superficial, and, by most accounts, boringly predictable-- (One near exception was the series from that sly old subversive, Alfred Hitchcock.) But pity the poor writers who week after week had to search for fresh water in the middle of this much traversed desert. Because of the conformist approach, two of the biggest casualties were, not unnaturally, Reality and Imagination. For rarely did any of these shows demonstrate even a nodding acquaintance with reality as most of us live it, while what imagination was shown was, of course, channeled into safe variations on the usual. I think many of us old enough and imaginative enough at the time, knew that network programming could be a lot better than what FCC Commissioner Newton Minnow characterized as TV's "vast cultural wasteland". Obviously, it would be a great overstatement to view The Twilight Zone as a magic cure for this blighted situation. But, Serling did boldly and persistently set out to challenge the blandness, and in the process prepare the way for greater offbeat programming. Of course, TZ never claimed to introduce 'reality' into a weekly series-- that would come later with 1971's All in the Family. However, Serling did insist upon that other missing ingredient, 'imagination'-- and by the bucket loads. How well I remember that 1959 evening when I tuned in "Where Is Everybody?", the series' pilot and first installment-- Earl Holliman wandering through a mysteriously deserted town, running smack-dab into a mirror, and winding up in a plausibly topical outcome. I expect many others besides myself were bowled over by the novelty of what we had seen. A whole new world of what TV could be opened up, thanks to Serling, and his success in getting sponsors to take a chance on an innovative concept. Even more happily, was the promise of more to come.Sure, few of the following episodes reached the riveting level of that first installment, at least in my book. But rarely did an entry completely disappoint. Then too, after the first couple of years, the quality dropped off as scripts began buckling under the weekly pressure by falling back on old material for new variations. However, such classics from the first year as "Walking Distance", "And When the Sky Opened", and "The Hitch-Hiker" are among the finest dramatizations of the supernatural ever to appear on TV, and hold up as well today as in that long ago black-and-white. Of course, Serling shouldn't get all the credit. As other reviewers point out, authors such as Charles Beaumont and the greatly under-rated Richard Matheson contributed much to the series' classic standing, as did the often overlooked producer Buck Houghton and director Douglas Heyes. Still and all, it was D-Day paratrooper Serling who exhausted himself in the struggle to deliver three key qualities always in short supply on public airways-- intelligence, innovation, and insight. And for that, those of us graybeards who still enjoy a re-run or two, will always be ready with a tip of the hat to the squinty-eyed gentleman with the cigarette and the powerful belief in the liberating role of imagination.


                
I first saw this series when I was very young and to this very day, it remains, in my opinion, one of the best television shows of all time.  This show is an awesome showcase of science fiction and I also appreciate it for the 'what goes around comes around' type story lines that the episodes often had.  A lot of fun to watch.


                
Serling's ability to tell a complete satisfying story within 24 minutes was amazing, and likely unmatched in TV history. Acting, writing, directing and music for the show were all top notch. About 50 episodes I would rate as simply outstanding.


                
Got into the show from watching it during the New Year's marathon's they would run every year. The episodes really do a great job if transporting you to another universe. Thhe show is very well done and ahead of it's time.


                
Born in the 1980s, I was shown the reruns of the Twilight Zone by my babysitter, and I fell instantly in love with it. The series creator, Rod Serling(rest in peace), was an absolute genius, and television's greatest storyteller, who week after week presented us with tales of the incredible, written with intelligence, wit, and an unbridled imagination. Predating other anthology series like "The Outer Limits", "Tales of the Unexpected", and "Amazing Stories", The Twilight Zone's legacy continues to this day. The series, though(slightly)dated in production values, still holds up with its story telling, showing that good writing will trump special effects any day, that intelligence and imagination is what it takes to tell a story. There is so many things about this series that impacted television and pop-culture. Who cannot look at stories like "Living Doll" and see the seeds of the 'Killer Doll' concept that were planted 2 decades prior to the release of "Child's Play?" What about "The Dummy", about a dummy who comes to life and overthrows his ventriloquist, decades before movies like "Magic" or the Goosebumps story "Night of the Living Dummy"? So many other stories: a child who can wreck havoc with his thoughts; "To Serve Man", with one of the greatest punchlines in history; The thought-provoking and appropriately shocking "The Masks"; there is to much here to do justice in just a mere paragraph. The series also covered multiple genres: Science Fiction, Horror, Comedy, Drama and even Western. If you are a fan of Science Fiction and classic television at all, this series is mandatory. Don't do yourself a disservice by missing out on this classic series. There's the signpost up ahead: your next stop, The Twilight Zone!
