The concept of 'The Twilight Zone' grabbed me immediately. Rather than a simple collection of supernatural tales designed to give us the willies, Rod Serling set out to utilise the often underrated medium of Science Fiction and Fantasy to put forward his social commentary on mankind. Serling's early straight drama scripts had been cut to shreds by the networks whose main concerns were keeping the sponsors happy and not offending potential viewers. This came at the price of quality entertainment and, despite the worthy targets of the scripts, it was more important for the bosses to ensure their funding was secure than it was to produce socially conscious programmes. However, by using a genre that was generally considered to hold little creative value, Serling managed to slip plenty of subversive social and political satire past the censors without them picking up on it. This was the sort of materiel that, in the 1950s, would never have made it to the screen unveiled. It exposed corruption in authority figures, it exposed the sort of weaknesses inherent in mankind that American networks are still so unwilling to portray in their country's citizens. By adding in a supernatural element Serling could suddenly comment on whatever he wanted. To the networks it was a sci-fi show, a bunch of far fetched stories about unusual people. In actuality, it was about all of us. Often the supernatural element figured far less heavily in the story than the social element. Serling's wonderfully melodramatic, wordy scripts focused squarely on his characters rather than just utilising them as two dimensional pawns overwhelmed by the story. People, their thoughts, choices, behavioural patterns and emotions were the story.Just as compelling was the nature of the twilight zone itself. Although Serling offers us a long spiel at the beginning of each show describing the zone, it is purposefully vague so as to not erase the mystery. All we know is that entering the twilight zone causes things to take a turn for the unusual but in exactly what way is impossible to tell until you're in the thick of it. This is because the nature of the zone is so elusive. Sometimes it is a God like force which metes out justice or teaches characters a lesson. However, the zone's sense of justice is often distinctly skewed. Although corrupt, violent, generally unpleasant people get their comeuppance in the zone more often than not, being a good, honest, benevolent person is no guarantee that you won't end up with the rough end of the stick. This is what makes The Twilight Zone such a fascinating watch. You don't know what sort of mood the zone will be in from episode to episode. Sometimes it takes active control, rewarding the good and punishing the bad; sometimes it takes a step back after having set things in motion and simply observes the outcome; sometimes, in what often prove to be some of the best episodes, the zone unleashes its sick sense of humour on an unsuspecting innocent (the most notable example of this being 'Time Enough At Last'). It's even possible for the zone to contradict itself, such as the back to back episodes 'The Sixteen-Millimeter Shrine' and 'Walking Distance', which offer two very different outcomes for characters who long to return to their pasts.More than ably assisting Serling are several other regular writers, most notably Charles Beaumont and Richard Matheson. These two writers turned in many of the very finest episodes of the series and proved to be more consistently reliable than Serling (although, to be fair to Serling, they did not contribute nearly as many scripts to the show as he did). Less inclined to lapse into broad, cartoonish comedy or over-sentimentality, Matheson and Beaumont turned in some of the most famous episodes ("Nightmare at 20,000 Feet") and some of the most undervalued ("Perchance to Dream"). Matheson was to be admired for his taut plotting, strong characterisation and convincing dialogue while Beaumont frequently came up with the most intriguing ("Miniature", "Passage on the Lady Anne") and plain horrific ("Long Live Walter Jameson", "Perchance to Dream", "The New Exhibits") concepts.Of course, as is the case with virtually every anthology show, some episodes of The Twilight Zone were better than others while some were just downright awful (check out the likes of "The Mighty Casey", "The Whole Truth" or "Mr Dingle, The Strong" for just a few examples) but when it got it right, the result was frequently magical. These beautifully made stories in gorgeous, crisp black and white, continue to thrill, delight and disturb me with each viewing. Rod Serling's mysterious but lovable humanitarian host is a hard man to refuse and when he asks me to step into the twilight zone with him, I rarely refuse.


                
Featuring some of the most bizarre, eerie, and thought-provoking tales of the weird and supernatural that you're ever going to see, Rod Serling's "The Twilight Zone", from the early 1960s, has had a phenomenal impact on redefining the genres of Horror and Science Fiction.This brilliant, landmark TV series, that almost single-handedly changed the way we viewed things strange and extraordinary, has so rightly earned its high-ranking position in TV History thanks to its excellent production values, and its deft blend of credible human emotions mixed generously with incredible, awe-inspiring situations, which ranged from comic to tragic.These intriguing half hour episodes were all filmed in b&w.


                
I have just started watching "Twilight Zone" from episode 1 and can confidently say I'll be watching many more. What a great way to fill 25 minutes, mystery, suspense, occasionally a bit of science fiction. The direction is tightly focused and even as you check how much time is left in an episode, still they are invariably wound up neatly with an often unexpected twist. It's also fun to see in early roles actors and actresses who would go onto wider prominence, for instance I've just watched one which featured Martin "Mission Impossible" Landis and Doug "The Virginian" McClure in minor roles as well as more established actors of the day. I was too young to see this programme on original release but can readily appreciate the nostalgia for it here. The fact is it still stands up today, the TV equivalent of the great short story.


                
This is a black and white TV show that kids today can enjoy. The program was extremely well written, concisely paced, and well acted by the guest stars. Some of the episodes have become classics: "The Monsters are Due on Maple Street," "Time Enough at Last," "An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge," "To Serve Man" and "Eye of the Beholder." I've only seen a handful of episodes on the Sci-Fi Channel, and I loved most of them. This program is famous for its "twist endings", but the 30 minute stories themselves are actually parables about greed, the fear of death, and over-placed trust in people or creatures thought to be benign. Who is good and who is evil are often blurred in the episodes, and there are few "happy endings." There are no perfect human beings in "The Twilight Zone." These characters, in spite of their exaggerated eccentricities often resemble us, making this program tangible and relatable on a basic level. The fact that these people fail to meet their goals or meet an unpleasantly surprising end helps make this series unnerving. Also unnerving are the episodes that mix the dream world with reality. Few programs today are so creative in their explorations of humanity through fantasty situations; this program succeeds where most fail. Not all of the episodes are good, but that can be said of most TV series. It's a shame TV Land doesn't run this program. Wacth it. Even if you hate black and white shows, you'll love this one, trust me!


                
Picture if you will a television series which can handle any subject matter, make you wonder, laugh, or cry, express emotions about humanity & make you wonder if there are things other than humanity, express evil & goodwill, plus almost always be entertaining and you can sum up Rod Serlings "The Twight Zone". Many imitators have since tried to rise to the level of this anthology series, including some re-visits to the Zone itself, but none have risen to this level of excellence.Rod's life itself was cut tragically short partly from excessive smoking but mostly due to burn out from working too far into his own Zone. In a TV interview with Mike Wallace in 1958, Rod Sterling sat on the set puffing heavily along with Wallace on cigarettes, but making comments about working so many hours that he had no work-life balance as far as seeing his family. Imagine if you will Rod bringing up this issue about 40 years before it started being mentioned in most of corporate America. Rod was truly a visionary and this series, like that interview, proves that over and over again. The availability of great guest stars to help his efforts never hurt either. The 1950's & 1960's had a very talented generation of actors & actresses looking for work & finding it in the infant & developing television works going on. William Shatner, Elizabeth Montgomery, Agnes Moorehead, Wally Cox, Burgess Meredith, Art Carney & many others appear in different episodes.Different defines this series as Rod Sterling went to the corners of imagination to come up with ideas. One classic episode that did not get syndicated had a young George Takei (Sulu on Star Trek) playing a character that you would not expect. The quality of this series was ahead of its time. Throughout the series, he would always use name references to the Southern Tier area of New York where he grew up. Ironically, his high school English teacher outlived him. Sadly, his Cayuga production company was named after the lake near Ithaca, New York where he would die, or maybe he is still living there in the Twilight Zone.


                
This TV anthology series unfolds tales occurring in the past, present & future whether they're bizarre, eerie or even silly. It changed TV in the early 60's consisting of sci-fi, horror & fantasy with the late, Rod Serling as creator, narrator & host. This is the pinnacle of anthologies and features stars like, William Shatner, Burgess Meredith and Jack Warden. I highly recommend this.
I don't usually watch anthology shows, I like the idea of "jump in at the start of any episode and you'll be able to tell what's going on" but I just prefer the shows with plot and characters. However, with that said I think this could be by far and away the best show of the 50's and 60's.Basically how this show works is that I see them as less of episodes and more of half hour short movies. They usually do something creative with elements that are supernatural, fantasy, science fiction - that kind of thing that usually sees the guilty getting punished by these things, but sometimes even that doesn't really happen. Among my favourite episodes are "When The Sky Was Opened" where three astronauts go on a mission but find themselves being blinked out of existence, with no explanation and nobody remembering them aside from each other, But if I had to say what my least favourite episode, it's one about a man with a weak heart being unable to fall asleep because he keeps having the same nightmare... That's it, nothing really that would keep me intrigued to see what happens.One thing I might warn a modern audience about is that sometimes you may have to suspend your disbelief a little bit further because of the time it was made. The reason why I say this is that, just as an example there's an episode where 2 astronauts go to Mars and they find life there (astronauts going into space is the subject of a lot of episodes). So if you can't because it's common knowledge there's no life on Mars then I understand, because the episode does even more to screw around with it (such as martians being able to create an exact replica of the astronauts house, replicate water, scotch, television and other such things... How does that work? "They can see into your mind").Aside from that the premises are actually really creative. If you're one of those people that just enjoy watching something for it's creativity then this show is loaded with these premises and I have yet to see a good premise on the show where I thought what happened didn't live up to the premise, there have been times where I thought it would be interesting to see what would happen if the premise was turned into a full-length movie but even then, I did enjoy those episodes.If you think that this looks like a series for you then I would suggest you look for a few episodes, watch them and see if you like any of them. It really is the show where you can even watch it backwards and know what's going on. All I have to say is that although it is very easy to talk about and yet very difficult at the same time, if you like the kind of premises that venture off into the unknown then this show is for you.


                
I was about 10 or 12 when "Twilight Zone" was in its heyday and my parents would let us watch it every week; my whole family looked forward to it.When taken one episode at a time it's a masterpiece of early television, and Rod Serling is a veritable genius who could weave words together beautifully and effortlessly. But now, 45 years later, I've been watching marathons of "Twilight Zone" and I have to say that when you watch 20 episodes in one day it becomes rather disturbing.Rod Serling was apparently a very troubled man because he had several depressing, recurring themes in his stories (I must say here that it is possible that some of the stories were written by other writers, and I apologize if I'm giving Mr. Serling too hard a time, but the themes seem to remain the same).What we see, time and time again, in the episodes are these themes: - weak husbands with shrewish wives who force the men to work at jobs they hate - mean men who take delight in belittling women - a fear of what we might find in outer space - a fear of being conquered by beings from outer space - a hatred of machines that are devoid of human kindness and compassion - regret, sadness, and longing for "the good old days" - complete and utter hopelessness for the whole of mankind.Inanimate objects take on human characteristics and then try to get rid of their human owners. Humans are at the mercy of time and wish to remain young at any cost. Man is beaten down at every opportunity and death is welcomed and longed for as the only way to escape the ugliness of this world.Very few episodes have what you might call a happy ending; at the most some of them have an ending that is just slightly optimistic, but the viewer knows that this tiny bit of happiness won't last very long.I still watch "Twilight Zone" and still enjoy it for the artistic value and intellectuality that is sorely lacking in newer television series, but I am watching them now thru different, older eyes, and can't help but feel sorry for the man behind it, whose mind was so obsessed with these troubling thoughts.


                
Rod Serling was quite a guy, a nice Jewish kid from Binghamton, NY, who volunteered for the paratroopers in WWII, was wounded, and attended Antioch College in Yellowsprings, Ohio, on the GI Bill. He worked his way up through TV, and sometimes feature films, as a writer and finally got his own series, "The Twilight Zone." He was exceedingly generous, a Franciscan fool, who publicly threw open the doors to all writers of all stripes while organizing the series. No filters. Anybody could submit a script. But he had to knock that off and resort to the usual means of getting decent stories because the ones flowing in tended to be written in long hand, sometimes on legal pads, and frequently by maniacs.The original team of writers, producers, and directors -- beginning with the first season and lasting two or three years -- was the best. Each member of the cast and crew knew pretty much exactly what they were doing. Buck Houghton, as producer, held the enterprise together and Serling wrote many of the scripts himself. The quality began falling off after a few years. The stories became less original and a bit repetitious. One of the reasons was that Buck Houghton was lured away by a better job. Another was that Serling was simply getting burned out, as he himself admitted.The stories seemed to fall into several categories: the comic stories of special properties in ordinary things or ordinary people (eg., "Mr. Dingle The Strong"), futuristic science fiction (eg., "To Serve Man"), moral lessons consisting mainly of dialog (eg., "The Obsolete Man"), and some sort of time travel (eg., "Back There"). There was often a good deal of overlap. "Next Stop Willoughby" combines a moral lesson with time travel.I've always found the moral tales least successful because the series, ambitious though it might occasionally be, was so determinedly middlebrow. We don't really learn much if an episode tells us that the concentration camps were evil or that an excess of conformity can be dangerous. The comic episodes could be beguiling. And the time travel episodes were often wistful and nostalgic. Serling never forgot his youth on the streets of an ordinary town that, in retrospect, before he became a hot property himself, must have seemed like paradise. His organization and scripts are sprinkled with self-referential names -- Cayuga Productions (one of the Finger Lakes in New York state), a bus to Cortland (a small town near Ithaca), the old train stopping at the non-existent town of Willoughby (in Ohio, near Yellowsprings).Serling himself introduced the episodes and gave the final speech. He refused to appear on screen the first year because he felt his appearance was unprepossessing -- short, not particularly handsome. He couldn't have been more wrong, of course, because he had a distinctive presence on screen, at least the equal of Alfred Hitchcock's.Serling died in his early 50s during heart surgery, a shame. He may have been past his prime, but how nice it would be if all of us could claim such a prime.
The movie was very impress and the cast was not bad either, The Twilight Zone is about different stories and how the people act when the "supernatural" is happening. This is one film you NEED to see. The creator of this master piece (In my opinion) is Rod Sterling, Give him some applause. As you all know, The persons that we are focusing on, Is someone that have done something bad and have some terrible guilt left behind by what they did, SO.. You MUST and NEED to watch the movie.Furture Notice: This movie/series will blow your mind (In some of the stories)This was my opinion plus a review (Just an tiny one, how sad.) So I will give it an: 8 out of 10. Thank you for reading my (tiny) review :).-Jacob
