First and foremost my goal is to write a review about a movie, not an anime. Many people consider this one of the greatest anime ever made but it kind of saddens me that people only treat it as an anime and recommend fans of anime to watch it. I see Kenshin OVA Trust/Betrayal as a movie and recommend every movie fan to watch it.If you are looking for a summary, read somewhere else. If you are trying to find out why this is a great movie, I will try my best to convince you.Kenshin OVA is a character driven movie with excellent character development. The two main characters, Kenshin and Tomoe, have humane and non exaggerated personalities, they are conflicted with their emotions, and they grow and change. I guess what I am trying to say is that the two main characters are not cliché.The stories' setting takes place during the late 1800's in Japan, where a civil war is taking place, where the samurai era is coming to an end, and the shogunate is fighting to keep its place. People who don't know Japanese history of that time period probably going to get a bit confused, but the historical setting provided the movie more depth and political intrigue. Like the current trend of war movies, the historic conflicts are not presented in black and white, but rather shades of gray.The action sequence is something to behold of. It is violent, gruesome, bloody, but does not feel gratuitous, due to the mood and setting the animators have created. The sword fights short, but quick, intense, believable (realistic), and original in presentation. Far better than any live action choreography.Finally there are many subtle touches that makes the movie feel more like a work of art, rather animated violence. The animators are created a lot of scenes with nature. Whether it is the subtleness of snow flake or sakura leaves falling, or the glistening of the lake from the sun, the animators created a world of beauty. On top of that, the soundtrack just masterfully sets up the mood of the scene. The soundtrack is haunting, kinetic during battle, and subtle and poignant. Most importantly the soundtrack is memorable.Kenshin OVA Trust/Betrayal is on the top tier of anime, however if the movie had gotten greater exposure, it would belong in the top tier of movies.


                
Short and Simple Review by WubsTheFadgerEven though this is a series, it can be viewed as a feature film. I personally liked it better viewing it as a film because it is very dynamic and the story flows much better. The first two episodes/first hour are not very good because of the dull voice acting and the confusing storyline. The last two episodes are amazing. The voice acting gets better and the story has some very powerful and emotional moments. The plot twist is strong and the ending is stunning.The voice acting gets better after episode two. The pacing is usually fast and the fight scenes are gruesome and bloody. Pros: Interesting and dynamic story, good voice acting after episode two, fast pacing, an amazing ending, some powerful and emotional scenes, and great fight sequences Cons: Dull voice acting before episode three, the story is a little confusing, and some slow pacingOverall Rating: 8.8P.S. This anime is very good. Like Deathnote and Fullmetal Alchemist, you have to willingly get engaged and be apart of the story. I would highly recommend watching this series.


                
One of the masterpiece of animation which will touch your hart. I saw all the episode of the Rurouni Kenshin. Who ever watched the series knows the Battousai the man slayer. But how he became legendary man slayer is not shown in the Series. To know it you should watch this movie. The complex emotion of Love and Haterate is shown in this movie and executed superbly. How Rurouni Kenshin got the x mark on his face is showed in this movie. I liked this movie. It is very touching and make you feel the power of love. The best part of the movie it will not make you bore.I saw so may animated movies and I love animated movies. But this one I added in my best animation list. The only reason I have given rating 9 because the emotions in this movies is shown beautifully. it is very difficult to mix emotion with the violence or fights. but In this move it is beautifully executed


                
With no doubt, we have here one of the masterworks of the anime. It is great, from the beginning to the end, in this film everything is carefully prepared: the direction and the screenplay a memorable, told with an unusual beauty in anime, delve much into the characters and gives a faithful description of the time, both the politics and the era, and the problems that face the innocent who dies day after day about the politic situation. Here we have one sentence of the film: "... you should not feel resentment even despair, one who has died will not return to life, you glad to be alive, ...". And of course, I can't forget the score, one of the best anime score I never listen, it helps you with its delicacy and tragic beauty to believe the tragedy who have to live with poor Shinta (later knows like Kenshin).


                
Having been a long-time fan of the series, The OVA was a bit different for me. The artwork was darker, but gorgeous nonetheless and the overall tone was darker. If you want to see an emotional story animated beautifully (with some blood, of course...it is about a swordsman) check this out. I was used to the series animation, but it is very easy to be drawn into the story and style of the first OVA. I have seen a great deal of anime series and movies, and I can say the quality of the animation is fantastic. I would recommend this highly to anyone who has seen the series, especially because it is easier to understand the message and plot of the story, but also to anyone who wants to see a great anime film.


                
I first saw Tsuiokuhen (aka Samurai X: Trust and Betrayal) on PPV maybe four years ago. The English dub was horrid. Nevertheless, the beauty of the story shines through.It's 1864 and Japan has been in the grip of a bloody war for over a decade. Into the fray comes Himura Kenshin, a young man with great sword skills and high ideals to match them. Unfortunately, he is put into the role of assassin and quickly begins to lose his humanity as he kills and kills, but doesn't see his ideals come to fruition.One night, he kills a bodyguard who manages to wound him on the cheek before being done in on Kenshin's sword. The wound doesn't heal up properly and bleeds whenever Kenshin kills someone.A few months later, he meets up with a beautiful, but grief-stricken young woman named Tomoe who sees him kill a shogunate supporter. Unable to bring himself to kill her, Kenshin instead takes her to the Patriots' inn where she becomes a maid of all work.Bit by bit, Tomoe opens Kenshin's eyes to what he is doing and the wrongness of it. In the end, he learns the hard way that every time he kills someone, he robs innocent people of their happiness.Vastly different in tone from the Rurouni Kenshin anime series or even the manga, this is understandable as Kenshin is not the Rurouni we know and love, but an assassin on the razor's edge of madness. The sombre tone fits the time period in which this story takes place.I would love to give this story a perfect ten, but a plot diversion from the original manga, namely the reduced role of Yukishiro Enishi to a mere bystander, forces me to give it a nine instead.This OVA can be taken as part of the entire Rurouni Kenshin saga or as its own beautiful Japanese love tragedy. Either way, I highly recommend it.
