I decided to watch "Sons of Anarchy" initially because I am a fan of Charlie Hunnam (a seriously under used and under rated actor,) Ron Perlman and Katey Sagal. What I didn't expect was the best ensemble I've seen in a TV show in years. Every cast member is spot on and the three I mentioned are positively brilliant. In the first five minutes, I completely forgot that Charlie Hunnam is British because his American accent is excellent. This show is heavy on violence and rough language, but it all fits in with the story...as do the occasional sex scenes. Everything about it is excellent: the acting, scripts, sets, cinematography and direction. I'm thrilled that this excellent show will have a second season. If you haven't seen it, all episodes except the finale (to come) are available on line. I hope many more people will watch this terrific show.


                
This is without a doubt the best TV show I've seen in ages. There is nothing about this show that one can't like.Every character is well defined and has it's own boundaries. The story line has enough twists to keep you on the edge of your seats through out the episode. And it may come across as strange, but you don't wait for the next episode because you wanna know what happens next (as in Prison break etc) you wait because you absolutely love the show. I envy the respect the S.O.A have for their members and what they are willing to do for one another. All in all, this is how you make a freaking entertaining show. Kudos to FX!!!


                
OK, I saw Sons Of Anarchy by mistake a few weeks back (I recorded the wrong program) I Had heard of it but never really fancied it! Bikers and all that, not my thing! I had major doubts about Charlie Hunnam, I have only ever seen him in one thing before and that was a movie called Green Street (Hooligans) where he played an East End Londoner (West Ham) football fan-cum-hooligan! He is from Newcastle and his accent in Green Street was terrible but he must have had some voice coaching because in SOA he accent (usa) is spot on, all but the odd word! I watched the first episode and thought it was awesome! But then again, how many first episodes are awesome, only to be followed by a totally average rest-of-season? But I am so happy to say that I was wrong! I am up to episode 10 and each one is better than the last! It's not your average knuckle head biker show! It follows the trials and tribulations of each and every cast member! I really can't recommend Sons Of Anarchy enough! 10/10


                
There is nothing about this show that isn't fantastic. While, at times, it can be a little too realistic (with levels of violence rarely seen on TV), the characters and plots are wonderfully written. You find yourself rooting for characters that you would normally want to hurl abuse at. These are not good guys, but they love their family and do whatever they can to keep them safe.I cannot recommend this show highly enough. Charlie Hunnam, Ron Perlman and Katey Sagal are amazing, as are the rest of the cast. You can tell that Kurt Stutter loves this show as much as the fans do.Although Season One is now over, I can't wait for the newly announced Season Two.


                
The writing and the acting in this show set it apart from 99% of other television shows and movies. While no show is perfectly written or filmed, this one is far and away better than nearly everything else. Why? Several reasons, but here are a couple. 1- More than any other drama I can think of, SOA avoids resorting to highly contrived scenes and plots. How many crime or action shows have LEO characters attempt to clear rooms with their guns held at arms length as they walk through doors and around corners without first clearing blind spots? This kind of forced stupidity absolutely strains credulity and like other viewers I hate it. Only lazy, stupid jerks write scenes like that. They assume viewers are idiots and won't notice how forced and phony the writing is. Apparently this is an old favorite method for building suspense, for giving viewers that "uh oh, something bad is about to happen" feeling. But such writing is transparent and insults the audience. SOA writers didn't do that. Their writing was almost always realistic in those areas. Sure, the characters in the show are unusual, but their behavior is believable. In the same way, the writers did not resort to making most characters emotionally labile as the majority of other drama writers do. There is plenty of emotion in the show, but it is developed realistically, and most of the characters have a normal amount of emotional maturity, so the viewer is able to relate to and go along with it. There is a lot more to be said for this show of course. But I was and am extremely pleased with the realism of the writing, and also of the acting. One more thing which makes the show so believable and good: it was not another vehicle for "political correctness". The writers avoided all that phony thinking and speaking. In one episode a SOA member remarked that he had taken his son out of T ball because every member of every team was given a winner's trophy. As normal people in real life do, he recognized that the school's attempt to eliminate winners and losers is harmful to children. Far too many TV shows appear to be vehicles for promoting "PC" nonsense like that. SOA was not one of them.


                
I DVR'd SOA and I forgot I had it saved. I finally watched the 1st episode last week and I was hooked 5 minutes in. The show is a mix of The Sopranos and The Shield. The acting is top notch and as others have said, you find yourself rooting for the "bad guys" just like The Shield and The Sopranos. How cool is it seeing "Peggy Bundy" in a hardcore role? I also like the way there are several story lines developing, which allows you to attach yourself to several characters. I am anxiously awaiting season 2. My only fear is they may have gone to deep too quick, with lines in the club apparently being drawn with Jax & Piney vs. Clay, Tig and the hardcore members. But we'll see.Bring on season 2.
This is by far one of my Favorite series, Ever! I think they did an amazing job at casting these characters. I wondered if we were to rotate some of the characters around, how it would have turned out, but I must say... Don't change a thing! I absolutely love it!! I am looking forward to the spin off series of the Mayans... However, I wish it was the story of the First 9.... And if it really is about the First 9, I'm even More excited! Kurt, I am an actor myself, and would Love to be part of this cast! Not to mention, I get told I look like Jax all the time! Lol! But Great job Everyone! All the Actors did an Amazing Job! I loved the iconic actors involved as well! Mixing the cast, to not an All Popular cast, was smart. I love when you get the mix of popular stars and not so popular stars, because when you're a follower of certain actors (like Ron Perlman and Katey Sagal), you then find more actors (like Charlie Hunnam, Kim Coates, & Theo Rossi, to name a few) you love and now want to see All the stuff they've been in. I will say, I loved Every actor on there! And am now a fan of a Lot of these actors! Thank you for that! ...patiently waiting for the next series...


                
Great series with a great plot. I loved it up to season 7 which is crap. Jax turns from a "real-life" character to a complete psychopath, killing tons of people, including ..., getting away with it, and immediately getting back to routine club issues like nothing happened. Minimal acting guidelines should have been to look more human and less like a robot while doing that... Chibs and the rest of the club follow him like pappies, not questioning Jax's actions even a little. Also seems unreal. In general season 7 plot is weak and quixotic, to a point it even becomes ridiculous. Sorry but series should have ended at S06...
Simpy the best show ever. This show is not about a bunch of bikers, drugs and alcohol. This show is about something special. A son trying to live up to his dad. A man trying to change things in this Club. Sons have a lot of darkness in it. There is a lot of violence and even some humor in it. The show is tragic in so many ways. But the show is also beautiful in so many ways. The acting from everyone is superb. Top class. The storyline is followed trough every season. The show really begins after the 3 season. I have no words. I have never been so connected to a TV- show ever before. You can really feel the pain in the characters. You can relate to the brotherhood because its all about brotherhood and family. Its hard to explain what the show does to you. Just watch it. 
Best show ever.


                
This show is awesome be prepared for a emotional roller coaster


                
Love EVERYTHING about this show!I was so lucky to be on this show! Cast and Crew were awesome the entire time throughout all Seasons.The cast was perfectly picked. Not one character I did not like because they were all so appealing in their own way.Suspense, Thrill, Drama, Funny and the SEX!!!! Wow it was hot! #TeamCharlie #TeamKatey


                
One of the best TV-Series I've watched , I just finished it yesterday.If u start watching it you will love all about SOA , the characters, the story line , the club and more.Eventually you're beginning to realize how toxic can it be that kind of life.As Jackson at the first episodes and a few seasons maybe , wasn't that cruel , revengeful , so soulless.Struggling to be a member of a club like that and a good husband / father.He had so much to lose , that's what didn't allowed him to be clear-headed at all.As he said on his last words talking to J.T's spot , ~The war with your own mind is more difficult that anything else"~. Even that he knew the story , the purposes , the end of his father he didn't managed to avoid it.History repeated itself. At least Jackson sacrificed himself and managed to cut ties and deals with gun,drug business from the club as his father wanted. He secured a good life for his kids.That's what a true leader does.And Jacks did it. Now somethings that I didn't like for example Gemma should suicide , I mean how could she even lived after all?How could she let Jackson take a huge burden like that from killing her.Because she knew that Jacks will have to kill her eventually.I think that kill swallowed Jackson.She should wrote a suicide note to admit everything and kill herself.But instead she acted selfishly for one more time.However, I loved every second of it.Lets hope for a spin-off with the first nine or maybe from his son Abel. RIP SAMCRO!
Where to begin? I started watching this, after getting together with my partner, as he had previously been into it. And since that moment from watching the first season, we've seen the whole series, several times online.The writing behind the show, is so good. It's around a pretty cool subject, of Harley Davidsons! And has paired it with great actors. And Tommy Flanagan's Scottish accent is to die for as Chibs.It does have a lot of violence in!, but that coupled with character development, is a to die for combination.@RebeccaKLxo


                
Love this show , all actors are good and the script & story is well presented, gripping show , I finished the 8 seasons in one week during Xmas period !


                
I started Sons of Anarchy not really knowing what to expect, except for what my dad -- who's in a Christian MC -- and several friends told me. They thought I would love the show, but I was skeptical. I watched the first episode, but fell asleep -- so I gave it a shot again a few days later.This time, I was hooked. I watched the first season in a week, then breezed through the second in just a few days during a snowstorm. Everyone who told me I'd love the show was right. This show had me. I couldn't get enough of it.I got to Season 7 -- the final one -- and decided to take my time with it, to really try and savor every minute of the show. I finished it just a few nights ago, and the finale blew me away. The scene with Jax, Abel, Thomas and Wendy were incredibly powerful, and the imagery throughout the episode -- the bread and wine and the angel of death Jax encounters at the courthouse -- made it even better. What an ending, too, with Jax's final ride.I highly recommend this show to anyone and everyone.
I went into this show thinking it would be another decent action show that would fail after 2 seasons, after a few episodes though, my mind was very pleasantly changed. This show is as entertaining and deep as the shield or the sopranos, it bears many resemblances to Hamlet and is obviously based on the Hells Angels. It has deep interesting plots that really pull you into the story, the acting and character development is so deep and incredible that you can relate to the characters, fear for them, hope for them and worry about them. the writing is great as well, great dialogue, interesting stories, and surprisingly realistic. it is also smart, something rare in todays reality TV and soap operas, with intricate stories that aren't just senseless violence, not that there is no violence. it has been called the sopranos on motorcycles, but i think the sopranos should be called SoA with more Italians. With the new episodes coming out i'm really excited for the season finale, Donna is dead, Abel came home, jax slept with his ex and all in one episode. Cant wait for the season finale, then i wont be able to wait for season 2. This is an incredible show that really stands out, and it would be a serious injustice to be canceled. If you have yet to witness SAMCROW i highly advise you check it out, all the episodes are on hulu.com, if you've seen it and loved it like me, support it by watching all the new episodes and buying the DVDs when they come out(cant wait) and if you don't like, well you can go back to your mindless reality TV and soap operas.
Wow just when I thought FX couldn't do better than the shield I got the Sons of Anarchy. This show is just about perfect. Ron Pearlman and Katy Segal make two of the most interesting villains I have seen in a long time, (the trick is I am not sure if they can be called villains or not, they do bad things but for semi good reasons) even the supporting cast shines in this show. The story with Opie and his family made for one of the most heart rending moments all season. I just hope season 2 keeps the same high values as season 1. This is one of those shows that I find myself waiting to come on from week to week I haven't been this excited about a show since the Shield and Rescue Me. Long Live SAMCRO
After seeing the commercials on TV my first though was 'just another biker series' as there are so may already.Sons was running for some time when at some evening while trying to find something decent to look I took the time to was an episode, Immediately I was hooked...Me and my wife started over again at episode one, although it starts slow, but you get the urge to keep watching. Now, after 4 seasons we know that the first few episodes are needed to create the plot for the rest of the season, but still you are not bored at all.It became clear to us that this isn't at all just another biker series! Sons of anarchy is great combination between drama, thriller, action and die hard mobster.We watched all episodes and can't wait for the new season to come. This is one of the best series we watched in years.


                
This show is the embodiment of what being in a real biker gang(despite the legal ramifications) is all about. It's got drama that really might happened to a biker gang, guns, drugs, and deals with local gangs. All these elements seem to give a sense of authenticity and zeal.Now onto the actual plot, Jax the "VP" of the club has discovered his dead fathers journals in his old things, now up to this point he had been led to believe that his father went along with all the gunrunning and shady dealings that the club has been doing, although his journal seems to suggest something entirely different. In the meantime we have Gemma(jax's mother) trying desperately to cover this truth up to what end we don't know yet. Clay (the clubs "Prez") has assumed the role of jax's father-figure and seems to have his own ideas about the way the club should be going. There's also a few more characters to take note of like Tara (jax's love interest) and Opie (jax's best friend), but all and all a very well written out story and plot hats off to Kurt Sutter for creating yet another brilliant series. Keep'em coming we love it!


                
Sons of anarchy is easily the best tv show I have watched. I recommend going through it slowly because the story and characters progress slowly but in loads of detail. You grow to love and hate different characters and any of them can be ripped away from you at any moment. I took a break from the series at season 4 but after coming back to it I forgot how much I loved it. I recommend this show to everybody. Very violent at times but fits with the theme of the show. Very good story.


                
I wish it never ended!!! I know the Mayans is not a sequel but a similar show, I don't think it will compare! But going to gv it a shot! 
Farewel soa


                
It's more some thoughts about the show than a review, but since they got rid of Threads i 'll leave it here.I was watching SOA for the last 1.5 month for the first time. I completed it yesterday and today rewatched the ending just for some more pain and read various theories to cover my questions. Just wanna say that the Show is awesome. I can appreciate a drama but i am more a comedy or -Happy Ending and they live happily ever after- guy. But even that this series is so brutal and cruel i enjoyed it and got attached to the strong characters. It's also all about Loyalty.Ending was really tough even though i think everybody expected it. I expected since the start of the Season Juice, Gemma and Jax ending up dead but the fact that i knew it didn't make it any easier. I was still hoping for something to be salvaged. I get all the Jesus references (after all they kept saying it through the whole series a bunch of times) and i will choose to think that Jax sacrificed like Jesus, Juice was probably Judas(his name is similar after all) but i think that's kind of unfair to Juice cause i liked him and i think he was just naive or made mistakes, not on purpose or with bad intentions. The Homeless Girl must be the only not realistic thing in the show, probably a Reaper/ Death - The mom that died from J.T. combo. BTW Jax is also a J.T. so that's another similarity with his father.The Truck that met Jax and Mylo the guy who helped Gemma was also a butterfly effect warm and tough touch. And the Crows for me except the song were combined with the SAMCROW stuff and also bonded with Gemma cause she had crows and love birds.. So she could even became one and flew above Jax in the end.I won't drag any longer just some summarized random things i want to point out:-I saw where this was going and that a lot will be dead, but i think Bobby's death and tortures were just unfair. One of the most good guys and always wanted to avoid troubles. -Also unfair is everything that happened to Opie's family.. Wife, Father, and eventually him... That was so sad for them and the kids.-Same with Jax's kids. Lost their Grandma, mom, father and Abel learned about Tara for a tough growing up. That's why i hoped that MAYBE Jax could live with his kids away from the Club, mostly for them to have a good ending.-Glad that Chibs and Nero lived cause they were also of the good guys.-As i said before, Juice's demise was also sad cause he meant well and not wanted to cause the bad things.-All the 7th season Crap that happened was Gemma's fault. So many lies and betrayals and paybacks with collateral damage...-Finally i think Jax believed in the end what Juri said about J.T. committing suicide that's why he decided to go the same way with his same bike.. And The title and the truck(oh my God when i saw the truck Logo... knowing the title...) also suggest that he behaved like his father.p.s. That was the second time Charlie Hunnam. First was at Green Street Hooligans, another awesome movie.It was one hell of an emotional and tough Ride SAMCRO. Thank you, be well.
My reviews are never to chastise the other reviews/reviewers, nor is it a personal vendetta against the writer, dIrector or producer. It is simply my quick summarized take to explain a glimpse of what the show has in store. And no, I will definitely not spoil the show for you by detailing what happens. Enjoy my review.If you have not seen SOA before, you should. It is a great series to binge watch and an even better series to have you going 'Did that just really happen?"!Great storytelling in the way the series unfolds show by show and keeps you guessing with every corner the writers take you.Suspenseful, high drama and action ride that leaves you wanting more each time.10 out of 10.


                
I've started watching SOA a couple weeks ago and 2 days ago I've finished it. It kept me glued to my laptop for weeks in a row. The way the story is told by Kurt is simply amazing. It's true there are some uncomfortable scenes within this show but those only make it more viable and real. The actors are all perfectly chosen for the job. They are all so natural in doing what their characters are supposed to do that is almost scary :)) Nobody can be that good of a player. Jax is by far my favorite character not only for his looks (Charlie Hunnam is indeed gorgeous) but for the life of his character. Born in this life he cannot escape from. I truly am amazed of what he does in the end..of what becomes of his family and club. Another great aspect of this show is the music. I love it! The white buffalo fits perfectly and it gives the show a certain feel i will truly miss. Sons of Anarchy..it was such a great ride and i will miss watching it.


                
In my decades of TV and movie watching I've come to use a particular phrase far too often: "Well it's not Shakespeare but at least it was entertaining." It's kind of my go-to summary of routine stuff that is fun to watch but isn't really ground breaking. Of course there's better and worse but that one phrase is (for me) adequate enough to describe the bulk of OK shows that come and go.I'm happy to say I can't use that phrase here. Instead I get to say: Sons of Anarchy is Shakespeare.This is a show I started watching with no expectations. What I ended up with was a thrill ride of drama, action and dark comedy.Whether you like the idea of a story about bikers or not, set aside any hesitation and at least give it a chance. This does not glorify the outlaw lifestyle or encourage people to break the law. It just lays out an epic tale of family, friendship, betrayal and brotherhood in all of its glorious and more frequently tragic circumstance.There is a connection here to the core of human relationships that is rarely portrayed in any format of entertainment; and while you may not always agree with the choices someone makes, you can't help but feel their pain while considering what it would be like in their shoes to be forced into making those choices.Shakespeare has far and long been considered a master of storytelling. All I can say is the writers have learned from him and infused that same level of craftsmanship into a masterwork of drama that pulls at the very heart of man.Beyond the story, every aspect of this show is also well done. The acting quality from some of the leads is among the best ever put on film. Even the secondary talent brings a level of realism and believability that suits what is needed for their character. The casting was simply spot on and leaves no room for improvement.The sets, costumes and cinematography are all also suitable for what needs to be portrayed. This isn't a big budget sci-fi with a bunch of expensive special effects, its the nit and grit of the real world we all live in and it's shown in all of its dirt and glory.In 40+ years of watching TV and movies; I'm honestly at a loss to name a single thing I've ever watched that was better written or acted than Sons of Anarchy.There are a few things that come close, and to be honest there are things I'd rather watch more often on repeats simply because they are more fun or more in line with my daily tastes. But, as a total experience Sons of Anarchy is a must watch, at least once in your lifetime. It's just that good.


                
