A friend of mine got me into SOA as it isn't anything likely to hit our screens here in Oz. Ironically enough the theme of the show is not that far removed from a lot of the bike gangs we have here and hear about but i digress.It took me a few episodes to get hooked on SOA as i can honestly say it is unlike any American show i have watched. Its grainy and raw and even the actors are people who you'd see in your everyday life and not the glam and glitter that Hollywood or the like fobs off.For that i ended up loving SOA. A lot. I like also that there are a lot of "known" but not blown up actors. You know their faces but you don't have them seared into your mind from over exposure so you can suspend judgment and believe these characters exist. And the characters drive this series. It isn't the most polished TV series but its edgy and if you are looking for something you can sink your teeth into and not get sick from the saccharine then bite into this show.You will invest and you will care about these people even if they are the "kind" of people we normally fear and shun. And that is not to say the writers glamorize or sympathise, they just offer a different view point. Something we don't normally see.That is the hook and the viewing pleasure of Sons of Anarchy.


                
Sons is a show that should be up in the ranks with The Sopranos and Breaking Bad, that being said given I hail this show as a true classic I can focus on the aspects of it that are disappointing as well, like all great shows, nothing is ever perfect. Season 1 of SOA was a good show, it established what the series will bring forth, season 2 was downright PERFECT! An excellent season with multiple story lines that could have produced more stories to come<U+0085>but did not. Season 3 was downright dragging and poorly written filled with characters you will never see again in a plot in Ireland that wasted the entire season. However, towards the end the season somewhat redeems itself. By season 4 the show goes back to being great, establishing the main rivalries, cementing its main villain and giving the characters the drive to move to its ultimate finale. Season 5 shows a violent leader in charge heading the SAMCRO gang, it has a slower pace than the rest of the previous seasons, but still good. The focus is on the main relationships and its effects of betrayal. Somehow, this season makes it hard to understand why the show is not getting closer to its end, it felt a bit dragged and somewhat unnecessary. However, it's the quintessential season that establishes the main character as the true VILLAIN! And the addition of new characters was excellently casted. Season 6 is definitely more brutal. It felt dragged and long with episodes over extended, but it it's the season that stages the beginning of the end. Season 6 seems like it could have been mixed with season 5... to create a more superior whole and complete season. One interesting element of the season is that WOMEN are the true power players of the season, GEMA VS TARA VS WENDY. The main thorn in SAMCROS thumb is a female DA, and yes there's also a trans character. Margaret should have been given a stronger role, but it was still good. Season 7 <U+0085>Probably my least favorite season after season 3. It was dragged and extended and had too many new characters, that we are not really invested in. Too much violence on these un-invested characters that make the action scenes lacking in payoff. By now you want Jax to die, and there's no one left to root for, with the exception of maybe Gema/Juice. The final episodes were powerful, tying up the main characters journeys (the ones who made it to the end) in dramatic and emotional fashion. There is something very deep and memorable about how thing tie up in the end for everyone. Its closing shot is poetic, metaphoric and downright beautiful. It ends as all strong shows with a strong lead do (Sopranos, Breaking Bad) with a tragic ending worthy of discussion. Ultimately what the story is, is about a man being controlled by the two main women in his life, by his need to bring the club back to the "good old days" as it being led down a destructive path of violence, law enforcement corruption, drugs, prostitution, revenge and lies. Its about a mans identity and his self fulfilling prophecy to play out his fathers vision as stated in the manifesto that drives the story. Its about loyalty, power, control and fate. If you were paying attention, you won't be surprised for it was expected.
FX has done it again. Another excellent show that we sit on the edge of our seats during, and wait impatiently for all week. If the common opinion that shows improve the longer they run rings true for this one, then I predict a perfect rating by season 3 and it will be in the running for all time great. The timing couldn't be more perfect with the great "The Shield" coming to a timely close. Sons of Anarchy takes on a classic Hamlet premise with a dead dad under potentially shady circumstances, a wavering prince, (or in this case vice president of the biker club), wondering what the right path for him is. Should he take the more philosophical path of his deceased predecessor or the hard core gangster approach of his mothers current husband and president of the S. O. A. biker club. The first season is only half over and my wife and I are already dreading the wait for season two. A special kudos for Katey Sagal, I didn't expect her to be able to shed the memory of Peggy Bundy of "Married With Children" but she has been able to create a strong Queen of the club character that is easy to love and hate all at once. Find the time for this one, It's like a white trash Sopranos with a story line that actually goes places.
I almost didn't give this show a chance because Hollywood rarely offers up fully developed biker characters, much less decent or realistic plots about outlaw biker clubs. If there's a Harley and black leathers in the shot -- bad guys killing and doing bad things -- their work is done. Not so with Sons Of Anarchy.While you will find all of the above elements, they're woven into a much richer fabric that brings each and every character to life in 16 million colors and full resolution, rising above the stereo-typical black-and-white portrayals of VGA-rendered knuckle-dragging villains.And the casting! Katy Segal is phenomenal as Gemma, the widow of club founder and wife of present club runner, Clay Morrow, played by Ron Pearlman. Gemma's son, Jax, played by Charlie Hunnam, butts heads with his step-father's vision for the club.But what really sets this biker drama apart is the context. The bikers are all natives of Charming, childhood friends in a small town. They've kept the town free of corporate tentacles and development, partly so they can run their legal and illegal businesses free of interference (gun-running and porn), and partly because the town itself might as well be a club member. The characters have deep roots to the townspeople who fear but also trust them to a degree, at least in the sense that it's sometimes better to deal with the devil you know and sometimes it's even handy to know the devil. The Sons have 'profitable arrangements' with certain local law enforcement officials, including the Chief of Police played magnificently by Dayton Callie, better known as Deadwood's Charlie Utter.Conflict arises from neighboring clubs, gangs and criminal organizations trying to horn in on the action, and to an Aryan businessman and politician, played by Alan Arkin, who wants to set up shop in Charming and take out the Sons of Anarchy so he can take their place at the top of the criminal heap.As if this wasn't fodder enough, Ally Walker joined the cast in season two as ball-breaking FBI agent June Stahl, going after the Sons and IRA gun runners who are selling to the Sons. Her quest, made painfully personal, by a meeting-gone-wrong with an imprisoned club member.The action is gritty, the anti-heroes are plentiful, the characters are full-bodied and the writing is Class-A. Let Sons of Anarchy become your newest guilt-free pleasure and you'll find yourself heading into it full throttle.


                
Sons of Anarchy is a good to great show. It's hard to believe it was on FX and not HBO. I will miss it and it deserves credit for bringing a certain grit and realism for a cable series. I've been with the show since Day 1 and the argument was always too much Gemma. Gemma, Gemma...MF Gemma. Anyone new to the show will go through the same thing, so to all of you I have to say try to get over it. I and many other fans had to get over it but it should be easier to live with if you know before hand that the show is more about Gemma than anything. Watching it from day 1 to the end proved more difficult with handling that. It was the shows only true flaw. ******SPOILERS BELOW****** The first two seasons are great. They set you up for the struggle of the entire series. Jax, Clay, Gemma, JT...the club and family struggle. You think that the show is about Jax and his struggle but it is not. It's about Gemma and her struggle. She is/was in many of our minds at the beginning supposed to be a gatekeeper of secrets. A go-between character that is involved in everything because of what she knows and her relationships with Clay, Jax and JT but she's actually the centerpiece of the show. The show is about HER struggle. She's the Shakespearean tragic figure of the show and not Jax. What happens to her at the end is appropriate and it is filled with emotion. What happens to Jax is empty and unnecessary. The series is great because of all the ensemble moments with SAMCRO and definitely worth watching.
Im currently binge watching this show on Netfix and I cannot stop watching. It's so addictive and so very good. I haven't come across a show like this for a long time. My sister introduced it to me and I've been hooked since. I'm a bit of a Harley fan myself so I was pleasantly surprised when I saw all the Harley's. And then I saw Jax and I think my girly romantic heart skipped a beat. In terms of the writing, producing, directing, etc. All excellent. The one thing, and trust me, it's the only thing, that is bugging me is the overuse of the phrase "Jesus Christ". This isn't a problem for me in terms of blasphemy but I hear it at least 5 times in each episode and it is kind of getting on my nerves now. For an English watcher, Im not sure on the regulations on swearing in the US. But they could try and broaden their cursing or outbursts. Other than that, this show is perfect. Surprises at every corner and moments you go "No way!" and "Dont do it!". I'd seen this show advertised before but never really looked further into it, regretting that now! It's excellent. Side note: be prepared for a lot of Charlie Hunman's butt. It's a true piece of art of which could be compared to Michaelangelo.


                
One of the best series written for TV... there are few criticisms... (imagine the extreme violence, profanity, nudity, and absence of most all moral values would turn off many though). But like all great series television, it has everything (good and bad)... great writing, acting, casting, directing, production-values.. everything. And there's not just one or two top notch acting performances.. the whole entire group is near flawless... awards can go to any number of them. Now running an amazing seven years, its damn near unbelievable to maintain that high quality level for that length of time. It might end soon, but that's not so bad. We just all have to truly appreciate what we've experienced during these many wonderful years (ok.. up until S7). PS-... as the show has now gotten long-in-the-tooth, it's real problem is there's hardly now any characters truly likable remaining.. and the loss of one of the shows main leads, and the 'nicest' individual in the production was a huge blow. Through the years its gotten darker and more gory (if that's possible), and ya get the distinct feeling it's going to be getting lots worse. (Question- ..with all the killing spree mayhem now going on in this little town.. how could armed storm troopers from state and federal government not be all over the place??)


                
from what i saw of this show,i liked it.it's probably a bit rough for some people though,what with the language and the gritty realism.it doesn't hold too much back in that regard.i can say this because i lived with members of a bike club at one time,and they pretty much act the same way as they are portrayed in the series.it doesn't air in Canada,as far as i know,so the only option is to catch it on DVD so far.it definitely isn't for everyone.one of the biggest reasons i was interested in seeing the show was Katey Sagal,whom i had only previously known from Married with Children and 8 Simple Rules.i must say,she is really impressive in "Sons".not once was i reminded of her other characters.obviously she is a very gifted actress.the rest of the cast is also superb.if you don't mind strong language and violence,give this show a shot.you might enjoy it.for me,"Sons of Anarchy" is an 8/10


                
The series has a special place in my heart. It shows how violent behavior occurs in a certain group with their intention to make peace and keep the order. Overall i don't have much to complain but for the ending. The main hero resigns on his own task to make peace, goes on a killing spree and wishes with that, that his son may have a better, peaceful future. Now that's a bummer. He knows that all of his emotions and mistakes carry over to the next generation. But at that time he was too deep into the dark path, and his mind was too clouded to see any other options.That's no end for a hero but for a madman.Regardles, a very thought out, well written example of how violence occurs. I'd recommend it for almost any one with a strong mind & heart.
This is not a perfect show or even a great one but it is one I would highly recommend to anyone who likes a good story and this is a good story about love, hate and the ties that bind and choke you to death. The acting is wonderful by everyone; most notably Katey Sagal who gives the performance of a lifetime as the Matriarch of an outlaw biker club. This is not a show for everyone and it sometimes gets lost in its own drama but I disagree that season 7 was a letdown. I think it was a necessary outcome of everything that came before; a man with nothing to lose and nothing to live for. SOA is not the greatest show of all time but it sure was one of hell of a fun ride.
SOA is a brilliantly cast and well-acted, entertaining tale that might be all the more so because of the tragic ends most of them come to. Is SOA "true to life"? Hardly. A motorcycle club that operated like the characters on the show wouldn't last a week before they were all gunned down or busted. If you don't mind suspending reality a little, you'll probably enjoy this show. If not, don't watch it.While there's plenty of action and gore in this series, it's wheelhouse is the tension and antagonism that exists between its characters, the rapid twists and shocking betrayals, and the swiftness with which love and tenderness turn to anger and rage. There are episodes where your jaw actually drops. From the death of a primary character in the next-to-last season, to the end of the series, the drama plays itself out to tragic ends, making it heart-breaking to watch. For a television series this gritty and graphic to reach such levels of emotional involvement with its characters has to be a first.


                
The best ending of a series i've ever seen until now and also the best musical moments you can find. The action and story line is well defined and the actors are very complex. The final scene was better then I expected as you see a element on the ground and realize something you've seen a lot in some episodes and will give you some chills.The morality of the show is the struggle of choosing between what you love to do and what you should do for the loved ones, the demons you need to fight in order to thank everyone without betray anyone at the same time. I highly recommend to watch the show as long as you love rock music, choppers and the meaning of the word "brotherhood".


                
This is a great show & we are excited to now offer an official shirt on our all women's motorcycle site, Asphalt Sisters. The characters are compelling and well-developed and the story line keep me coming back for more. I am disappointed I read that the 7th season will be the last. I suppose it's better to wrap it up while the show is still interesting, though. Particularly, the growth of Jax is interesting, as his world view is shifted. With the gun-running and bike gang theme, the shows can be rough at times. It does not seem gratuitous, though. The violence/cursing, etc. fits into the story in an authentic way. The characters are many times those that you develop a love-hate relationship with. While they are good at times, they can be awful and you find yourself rooting for them anyway.


                
I was recommended to watch this back in 2008 or 2009 by a friend, but always shrugged it off, as I am not overly keen on TV series and gang-related stuff in general. So it is not actually before now late in 2012 that I have actually gotten acquainted with the "Sons of Anarchy" series. And boy have I been missing out on something great.The characters in the series are well-developed, with lots of background story and motives to drive them on, and that is really one of the things that I really enjoyed about the series. All the characters are nicely portrayed on the screen and each given great chances to give us (the viewers) a glimpse into whom they are, what makes them tick, and follow them as they grow during the course of the running episodes.And for the cast, they had really, and I do mean really, gotten together some very great actors and actresses for the roles. Lots of familiar faces whom you know will deliver the goods, and all bring their own unique touch to each character. My personal favorite character in the show was Harry 'Opie' Winston (played by Ryan Hurst), as I found his character to have the most interesting background and the most dramatic of events happen to him.The fact that "Sons of Anarchy" revolves a motorcycle gang is not bad, it really made for a great breeding ground for plot lines and interesting approached the to the story. So, don't do what I did, shrug it off just because of this fact.If you enjoy series where you get to know the characters well, and if you are entertained by a deep running, solid storyline, then "Sons of Anarchy" is a definite must watch. And the way that the episodes are directed really leaves you wanting for more. There are some great cliffhangers and really good continuations of the storyline from episode to episode, and a superb red line throughout the entire series.This is great entertainment and lots of fun.


                
Do you know those series that start out so confident and they really catch you up so hard that you HAVE to watch it ? But at 1 point you get disappointed, cause they start throwing scenes/episode so they just keep the series on air ? Well i have some news for you, this is not that type of series. This is the type that just gets better and better with each episode/season. Whats the key of this movie ? IT'S UNPREDICTABLE. You just cant figure the plot out, or if you do at 1 point it just turns. I m a big fan of quality movies/series. This is one that you should check on you re watch list. The 8.7 rating is so irrelevant, its at least a 9, id give it at 9.4, lacks some actions here and there. OVERALL : GREAT SERIES, its the kind of thing done when you put you re heart to it and it just cant turn out bad. PS Ron Pearlman's acting makes you feel sometimes like you re a part of SAMCRO.


                
Sons of Anarchy, dear reader, will soon occupy your DVD collection.Your loyalty to the show firmly secured by the end of the second episode is a given. A mere 4 episodes may pass, however, before you realise that you've grown a scruffy beard, bought yourself a leather jacket and are hugging and patting the backs of friends at the same time as calling them 'brother'. Just remember not to try and convince strangers (say for example, on the internet) that you're actually IN a rebel biker gang - lest you fall victim to sarcastic remarks, or worse ;) Alongside the show 'Breaking Bad' it's good to know that some TV these days is still worth watching. Enjoy.


                
So good I'm thinking about watching it a second time. Love the soundtrack!


                
To me not Worthy of watching multiple seasons in a day or even multiple episodes but worth having around as a when your bored kind of moment. Very realistic and we'll written. Just has a lot of boring moments for me to stay deeply involved. Acting is amazing honestly everything about the show to me is good but it just seems when it gets on a boring part it just drags and drags.


                
I guess I now understand what a guilty pleasure is. Never have I seen the word "love" tossed around so much! Killing someone's kin is a minor infraction sometimes and a big deal at other times. People who are thought to be smart aren't. People who are smart are in the gang but if they really were that well-read and contemplative, they'd not be in it. There's a lot of sexism and, although there is a lot of male-male kissing, they seem to be a rather homophobic group. I could go on and on about some of the negatives I saw but the series engaged me as well as enraged me. I wanted to see liars and sneaks be outed. I am a sucker for desert island and prison scenarios where society is run differently from our vanilla one (all puns intended). This series, in a strange way, falls into that category.


                
I started watching Season 7. Got hooked and then had t watch the previous 6 seasons as if it was a prequel to Season 7.In doing this, I actually enjoyed watching the seasons one after the other, in order to understand how Jax came to be.There were some emotional episodes, but the one standing out is the episode where Opie made the decision to save Jax and take one for the team. My favorite character of the entire series was Opie and my favorite quote was "I Got This".Some episodes were a little boring, but only until the end of the episode where you could not wait to start watching the next one.My advice in watching a series is to watch them one after the other to really enjoy it.I really do hope that Kurt Sutter will create some sort of prequel to the SOA.I LOVED IT!!!


                
Pros: ~ Excellent acting, from performers ~ Strong screen writing, and plot development ~ All-Star, celebrity cast ~ Expert Cinematography ~ Good chase scenes ~ Does not glorify the outlaw MC lifestyle ~ Hells Angels Sonny Barger, Chuck Zito and David Labrava appearCons: ~ Insane body count, with minimal, logical repercussions ~ Some violence is contrived"Sons of Anarchy" captivates you with a poignant story of one man's struggle with parenthood, while leading the deadly agendas of a small town, outlaw motorcycle club. The results are staggeringly eye- opening. Everything is for the most part believable, especially the main characters - who are well-developed. The screen writing is top- notch. Just like "Breaking Bad," this series is addictive like the drug Walter White makes.


                
SOA shows the ups and downs of a outlaw mc - haven't seen Mayans MC yet but is on the list based on the quality of SOA


                
I love the internet... We all do!! You can find anything you want, anything you DON'T want, and it's that last point that makes me write this 'review'.... See, the thing i don't like about the 'net, is that everybody becomes a critic. An expert. Someone who decides to completely put down another man's work, desecrate it, and think they are cool. Make stupid comments, say things like 'I never knew what SAMCROW meant, as it was not explained'... Well, if you didn't know what it meant, you really shouldn't be writing a review about it!! It was OBVIOUS what it meant! Like another 'reviewer' who said (after hating season 1, 2 yet still watches up to 3 and beyond!) 'when they get to Northern Ireland it's laughable! I mean, no passports, and they arrive in another country'!! Well, expert, in the same episode when they are stopped by the police in Ireland and they are asked to produce their passports, and they do.......!! See what i'm getting at? My favorite though, is a 'reviewer' who commented on the lead actors 'awful American accent!' Well, if it was so awful, how did you know it was American?? Did you not notice the bad (not awful) Irish accents? Someone else said, 'for a program about a motorcycle club, they don't ride their bikes much'?!!? WHAT???? How two rival clubs became friends? Some people REALLY didn't get that!! 4 words. WATCH.THE.SHOW.AGAIN. It will then become clear... And this is before getting to people who write about 'characters lack of depth', like they would know!! For goodness sake. If you don't like it, say you don't like it, but don't try and be something you are not. Like, clever.So, this could be applied to any film,TV series... For example, i tried Breaking Bad, and i couldn't get into it. But at no point did i feel compelled to slag off another mans/woman's art, as I have left, and will not leave anything to the world of Entertainment, as will most of you. Nobody that writes these reviews came up with an idea, was given $/ £millions to make a program...So, before being stupid, writing drivel (like this maybe?!), please, just think about what you will write first? For example, read 'U.N. Owen from NYC' review below...See? Drivel... And 'he works in front of and behind the camera...' Of course you do....Anyway, I liked this show,as did many other people, hence the 6 soon to be 7 series... If shows are bad, ratings tell all, and no more shows are made? Right? Right. That's all you need to know!!
Great show that feels brutally real and down to earth honest. Gladly without over exaggerated Hollywoodmanners in acting and fx.The only obstacle to get a full 10 star is the feeling of some episodes being pure fillers and some unrealistic events and actions by characters just to bring the story of the episode home. But overall this is one of my favorite TV-shows for being somewhat alone in its genre, at least here in Sweden and the channels I access, and for the good casting of actors. An exception is the casting of prospects who are characterless and look far to bleak and geeky like if the only tough guys in the county are the ones around the table and in other gangs. The difference gets a little to much.


                
I love this show but I find myself in hate with the main characters Jax Teller and his girlfriend Tara Knowles.I don't think that Charlie Hunnam was ever the right person to play Jax Teller (he should have stuck with gay-dude roles like the one he played on Queer as Folk). I think he is an awful actor and doesn't pull off the biker-dude role AT ALL. His on-set girlfriend, Maggie Siff, is nothing to write home about either (she was horrible on Nip/Tuck too). Other than those two the rest of the cast is awesome, if it weren't for Ron Pearlman and Katey Sagal the show would have tanked in my humble opinion.


                
