I originally began watching the show to see how realistic it would be. Living in that culture for many years, I know most people have no idea of the 'lifestyle'.I was pretty surprised as I have only found a few issues that were, in my opinion, not realistic. I would give it a 85-90% for accuracy.Much like other specific shows/plots, I really didn't expect this show to be very good, but I was pleasantly surprised and want to thank FX for doing some homework.The cast is extremely well picked and fits their personalities.I also highly suggest this series. Is it for everyone, of course not; but for those who want to see the 'other side' of life, it is not only fairly accurate but also very entertaining.......


                
Just finished this show and I miss it already . Kurt Sutter really created something perfect with the right amount of love/hate in every character and makes you feel in love with the show for the first minute of running until the very last second . I think I never liked a character so much like I did with Jax Teller (with the great performance of Charlie Hunnam being a bad-ass biker with a philosophical mind that really make you think that every bad decision he makes is the right one) . I am not a very social person but seeing the brotherhood and love that this bikers have for each other really makes me want to be in that kind of weird relationship.


                
Cmon everyone, plug in your rating. Hard to believe this show hasn't received the minimum 5 votes. It obviously has received enough attention to garner a following. Perhaps the viewers of the series don't find it necessary to vote. However, I think it helps others all over the world get a sense as to whether the show is worth even checking out. In this case, it definitely is. At least for the guilty pleasure factor. The show could be a little better if they laid off some of the generic TV series scenes. But, ultimately it is better than 90% of what's out there. However, I have only seen the first 5 episodes, so it may be that I'm being set up for things to get a little darker. I'm enjoying catching up on the first season and look forward to the second season beginning in a few weeks. I appreciate F/X supporting a series like this, as TV needs to challenge the audience more. Shows like "The Sopranos", "Six Feet Under", "Big Love" are the gold standard, so let's keep it going.


                
If somebody were to ask you if you could ever feel yourself to be part of a gang which ruthlessly murders & tortures people and feeds guns to organized crime, you answer would probably be an outraged 'No'. However, when you are watching this series, not only do you feel yourself to be there among these outlaws, witnessing their every good or bad action, laughing with them, riding with them, drinking with them and crying with them, you also start understanding them. You understand the outlaw code, why they do what they do, why it is so important for them to make it right with those who wrong them, why a club is at least as important to them as their families. I believe that any show or movie is successful only if, at any point in the show, you feel exactly what the director wants you to feel. While watching this series, there were times when I was filled with revulsion for Gemma Teller and there were other moments when I sympathized with that very same character and at some level I even understood why she did what she did. That's the power of characterization in a show and it manifests itself when the viewers start understanding the characters at such level that they don't need any rationalizations for the actions of the characters. The character of the protagonist Jax Teller has been portrayed beautifully and successfully shows a man tormented by his internal conflicts in doing justice to both his family and his outlaw organization. He understands everything and tries to set things right but in the end has to embrace his destiny. Throughout the series, and especially in the last season, the plot was wonderfully set such that everything comes together and fits nicely and snugly. On the acting front both Charlie Hunnam and Katy Segal have done an excellent job of bringing to life a highly conflicted and a highly resolute characters respectively.Overall, loved this show.


                
This Tv Show is great. But you can't watch it with kids. Many Sex Scene. But Story is Good.


                
There always comes a moment in someone's life when a motorcyclist cuts him/her off. Most people react in anger, if not they are probably texting or high off their ass. After watching the show, Sons of Anarchy, I felt connected to the motorcyclists for some time, it was as if I could finally see the camaraderie that comes with being part of a club. Of course that only lasted a short time, which ended once a motorcyclist flipped me off for braking at a yellow light when I could've continued. SOA is a fantastic show, one that grips you from beginning to the end, it is my second favorite show so far, only behind the perfection that is Breaking Bad. The show starts off with the fantastic song by The Black Keys 'Hard Row', and even though I felt nothing for the main character at that point, I knew that he made driving a motorcycle look Bad-Ass. The pilot feels a bit jumbled, I probably only remembered three character's names by the end of it, but I quickly became engrossed by the aspect of a gang of that was based around the almost poetic freedom of riding a Harley. After the pilot, I knew that I had to continue watching, but I never expected to really car for the characters as much as I do now. The writing beautifully unravels the story, which many point out is quite similar to Hamlet. There isn't really fantastic camera work in relation to characters, but I have to say that the scenic shots of the Sons riding down the highway made it feel almost as if you were there, witnessing a roaring and unstoppable beast rip through the wastelands of California. SOA is an amazing show, one that will keep you on the edge of your seat till the end, and for my fellow binge-watchers an experience almost on par to that of Breaking Bad.


                
Nice plot and absolutely the best music in a serie!! It focuses on all the members of the club, not only to Jax Teller! I recommend that and surely you will feel such as you live in Charming town!


                
Very hooked on this show. I like the fact that one qualifies as a "good guy." Virtually everyone has an illegal demon in their closet. Pretty typical in a Shakespeare tragedy. It's easy to find a character who is interesting, but difficult to find one to root for. I hope they take advantage of the Agent Stahl character. She's a hoot. Definitely a woman operating in a man's world there.The sound track is excellent. It has a very blues/alternative country feel. I especially liked the instrumental "Fortunate Son" and the season ending "John the Revalator" A big fan of Ron Perlman, but would have liked to see what Scott Glenn would have done in the role. It's good to see Katey Segal in action. She's the glue behind the scene holding the gang/family together. It will be interesting to see how they deal with the prospect getting his colors or not.


                
This show, along with Breaking Bad, is definitely in the top 5 crime dramas on TV right now. It has great pacing and quality acting. Being a big movie buff I recognized many of the actors; Ron Perlman (Hellboy), Tommy Flanagan (Gladiator), Mark Boone Junior (Dark Knight), Charlie Hunnam (Green Street Hooligans), Katey Sagal (Married With Children), Jay Karnes (The Shield), and the list goes on. The cast does an outstanding job. Ron Perlman is outstanding as the club leader 'Clay Morrow'. Charlie Hunnam also shows does a great job playing 'Jax', the main character of the show, who has doubts about his biker ways because of his newborn child.First thing I'll say is this show is not for the squeamish. Although most scenes aren't too bad in terms of imagery, there is some pretty haunting stuff in this show. Lets just say I've seen a fair bit both in cinema and in real life, however, this show still portrays some horrifying moments all too realistically. Like I said though, it's not excessive. I'm referring to mainly only 2 or 3 scenes. The acting in this show is superb, something I cannot repeat enough times! Great job by all the cast including supporting, cameos, and even extras who only have 5 minutes of dialogue. Jay Karnes gives a great performance as agent Kohn, and is in no way similar to any of his other roles. Katey Sagal must be mentioned, as she is nothing short of stellar. Half of her dialogue is in her expressions, and she does a great job at it. Amazing job playing the strong, and often seductive wife of Clay. Kim Coates is chilling as Alex 'the Tig' Trager. He plays his role so convincingly I sometimes wonder if he really is a little crazy! Ryan Hurst is great. His character goes through so much you can't help but feel for him. Hurst plays him so well you can see the emotion behind his eyes in almost every scene. Definitely a character you want to see develop. That's what makes or breaks any show; the characters. This show has character development along the lines of The Wire, Breaking Bad, Oz, and the Sopranos.In all seriousness, a great, great show. How IMDb has not put the ratings up, is a mystery to me. I recommend people who have seen this show to vote so others can see just how good this show is.And as somebody who watches, and enjoys, an array of TV series (Lost, Heroes, Prison Break season 1+2, The Wire, Breaking Bad, Sopranos, Dexter, Oz, The Shield, Band Of Brothers, etc) I can definitely say, this is up there with the best.I'd put it in my top 5 of all time actually. If I had to compare it to any show, it would have to be Breaking Bad. Although it's an entirely different show, I'd say it's the most similar in terms of pacing. There is action every episode, often times there is more than a few big action scenes in a single episode.So, did I say it enough times yet? OK I'll say it again. THIS IS A GREAT SHOW! If you enjoy any of the shows I mentioned (how can you not!?) then this show will fit right in.*NOTE* - Hilarious cameo in season 2!


                
This was a TV show on Netflix that i always saw but never watched a minute of.
I took a chance on it when the show had just finished its final season and i must say it was one of the best decisions (tv wise) ive ever made.
Sons of Anarchy has it all. 
Take a chance you won't regret it


                
This show is one of the best on television and would likely be even more popular if it wasn't so restricted from its limited target audience. This show gives you an inside look at a rarely talked about subgroup of people.. Biker Outlaws.. This show has some very interesting characters and story lines. Although it is easy to criticize and dislike many of the characters on this show they are all so fascinating it becomes hard to look away. As different as these people may be from everyday citizens, we can all relate to them in one way or another. This show gives a unique perspective on things from the eyes of the people we often neglect the most. Sons of Anarchy is well put together and interesting series that will undoubtedly keep you coming back for more.


                
Before I start I am gonna warn you there are spoilers ahead please don't read if you haven't watched all the episodes already.Television show Sons of Anarchy follows the Sons of Anarchy Motorcycle club. Clay, the president wants to keep things dangerous and lucrative while VP and stepson Jax influenced by his dead farther's journal wants to make things more legitimate. SoA is an extremely good show and I throughly enjoyed my 2 week Netflix binge. I find it hard to write how good this show is due to the fact it has so many layers and things going on that effect your emotions. The acting is second to none from all of the main cast, truly phenomenal performances by Katey Sagal, (Gemma Teller Morrow) Ron Perlman (Clarence 'Clay' Morrow) both of which give chillingly good performances I saw the start of pitch perfect 2 the other day and I can't look past Katey Sagal being the manipulative, cunning and down right psycho she ends up becoming in SoA. (A credit to her acting, also props for her singing in some of the songs through the series she really dose an amazing job, pleasantly surprised.) Ron gives a performance with just as good attributes, minus the singing, the way he deals with getting stripped of his patch and by the end he some how made me feel a little sorry for him, how he gets me to feel such strong hate and sorrow for him is a show of his fantastic acting. Charlie Hunnam as the main man, Jackson 'Jax' Teller people have criticised his performance but I thought he really got the conflicted emotions across to the viewer superbly well. I can not stress enough how good other supporting actors are tho, the rather weird and complex Alex 'Tig' Trager played by Kim Coates is hugely underrated for me never gets mentioned. One of my favourites was Tommy Flanagan as Filip 'Chibs' Telford a true bad ass and really comes in his own in season 3 I think it is. I felt the writing to be shy of the quality of acting at times especially in the more intense scenes I found it to be disappointingly predictable. I found it hard to really care about Theo Rossi's character Juan Carlos 'Juice' Ortiz that was mostly down to the poor script, for him especially, than his acting chops. The cinematography, the long panning landscape shots of the crew riding together with whatever scenery they find themselves in seemingly made beautiful be it suburban, country grassland or just highway roads. The music is extraordinary they manage to find (to me) completely unknown artists that do unique, clever, covers of some really famous songs some of my favourites are The White Buffalo - The House of The Rising Sun, Jamey Johnson, Twiggy Ramirez & Shooter Jennings - You Are My Sunshine, Alison Mosshart & The Forest Rangers - What a Wonderful World and Audra Mae & The Forest Rangers - Forever Young. All amazing, not only this but they have a range of ordinal pieces that hold their own too. I have a lot of the songs from all seasons 1-7. I can not express how remarkable the music for this show is, gets the tone and the mood of each scene and episode perfectly right. The plot in the show is a massive highlight too for large portions of seasons I didn't have a clue how things were gonna turn out the unpredictability of Jax's temperament really made for a range of different outcomes all equally possible. Overall I think Sons of Anarchy is worth your time, with sensational acting, music and story it is a strong 9/10.
There is a house in Charming Town They call the Rising Sun It's been the ruin of many a poor girl And me, Oh God, I'm oneIf I listened to my mama Lord I'd be home today But I was young and foolish Handsome rider led me astrayGo tell my baby sister never do what I've done To shun the house in Charming Town They call the Rising SunMy Mother, she's a tailor She sowed my new blue jeans My sweetheart he's a rambler Lord he rides an old machineNow the only thing a rambler needs is a suitcase and a gun the only time he's satisfied is when he's on the runHe fills his chamber up with lead and takes his pain to town the only pleasure he gets out of life is bringing another man downHe's got one hand on the throttle the other on the brakes he's riding back to Redwood to own his father's stakeAnd me I wait in Charming Town To gain my love as one I'm staying here to end my life Down in the Rising SunI'm staying here to end my life Down in the Rising Sun


                
It's said that most series have their peak somewhere inn season 4, and that quality tends to drop inn both storyline and cinematic sequences. This is something that SOA with it's both " realistic" and serious manners manage to avoid. The way history is written, and things turns, the show only get better and better by episode. Carracters gets to evolve with itself within the show, while manuscript manage to make this one of the best series on international TV ever. It's fear to mention that every season have half of episodes usually used to be filmed, but this is maybe also what makes it a great show. Quality before quantity! Anyone doubting this. See it for yourself!


                
At first glance, it does seem rather basic and familiar with the motorcycle gang trying to earn their way, building and breaking alliances along the way that lead to bloodshed. However, the main storyline at play here is all about Jax and the other-worldly consciousness that overcomes him. Over the seasons his attempts to break away and legitimize the MC consume the majority of the conflict that provides our viewing entertainment. A closer look sees a struggling man, husband, father, friend, and son, and no matter how hard he tries, every step forward he takes creates a fallout of two steps back. He can never get ahead, he can never reach his goal. Thus, we see the evolution of Jax turning into the very thing he hoped never to be. While I greatly enjoy the various subplots, I applaud Kurt Sutter for never losing focus of the main story. The character development gives us a connection so deep to these characters, it is hard not to be moved by Jax's struggles and their consequences. While I have my suspicions and hopes for season 7, I cannot imagine Sutter disappointing us in the end. Ultimately, what I have come to understand about this show is that you may not like what happens, but you understand why things had to happen.
First of all, what i'm going to write next it's only my opinion. This is a huge serial, that i loved from beginning to end. I think SOA it's a perfect case of study if you are trying to learn how to write a script. It's my favorite serial even though the cinematography isn't' he best. I didn't like the color correction through the entire serial, i think that sometimes it lowers the cinematography level. I really enjoyed the script, the way you get to know the characters is amazing, the plot twists in every season are huge. I sincerely recommend to watch this serial to every serial lover. It doesn't matter where you come from, this serial will catch you.


                
Sons of Anarchy reaches in to the lives of the outlaw biker attitude and gives it a whole new light. Grasping your attention and affection through strong acting and wonderful writing. The story is a tragic heart-breaker especially toward the end, but I'm not going to spoil what happens. The show kills off some of its best characters but in doing so it keeps everything constantly fresh, there are times when it drags, but not enough to complain too much about. A solid 9/10 and if you haven't seen this series yet, get on Netflix and get to watching it. It's a good one, one of my favorites of all time. Everything from the acting, story, cinematography, and scenery add to the lure of the outlaw biker group known as SAMCRO.


                
A son discovers that his mother and her lover have killed his father and have taken over the motor cycle club that should have belonged to his father. He embarks on his revenge, and his Harley. Unlike Hamlet this young prince marries his love and has children. Over time, seasons of the series, his wife changes into a lady Macbeth type character but who could blame her? The answer most of the club, an ex-sheriff, and some of the best character actors in American television. If some actor has distinguished him or herself in television watch the series long enough and you will see them here. At the time I am writing recent episodes have had Donal Logue, CCH Pounder and Peter Weller. The series pushes the limit of what networks have traditionally allowed on television but Sons' heart, if not groin, is in the right place.


                
Being a big TV junkie, I have to admit that I didn't hear about Sons of Anarchy (SOA) until the middle of Season 2 and even then, I didn't really pay much attention to it. I guess the main reason is because we don't carry the FX channel here in Canada, even though it finally became available last month. About 2 years ago, I received the SOA Season 1 Blu-Ray as a gift for Christmas from my cousin's boyfriend. I remember unwrapping it and then giving him a raised eyebrow look, What's This? Some random TV show about biker gangs starring Peggy Bundy and Hellboy? "Uhhhhh Thanks." He insisted he heard great things about it and that I should give it a try, I was very appreciative of course but the Blu-Ray sat on my shelf unopened for over a year. I honestly just kind of forgot about it because the idea of watching a bunch of old biker dudes causing ruckus just didn't seem so appealing, like how deep could the story be? I was just picturing a typical gang show but instead of the mafia sporting baller suits, you have old hairy fat white men shooting up each other while riding around in their Harley's. I was cleaning my house last summer, and stumbled upon my SOA Blu-Ray, filled with a layer of dust, still in its wrapping sitting on the shelf. I decided to give it a shot and let's just say my perception of the show was COMPLETELY WRONG. I was hooked after 3 episodes and I proceeded to marathon through the 3 seasons. Simply put, Sons of Anarchy is dope.Sons of Anarchy is about a outlaw motorcycle club called, well—Sons of Anarchy, also referred to as SAMCRO (Sons of Anarchy Motorcycle Club Redwood Original). The story takes place in a town called Charming in California. The club basically owns the town, they have the police chief working for them, a Charming politician in their pockets and all the citizens respect them and fear them at the same time. The crew's clubhouse is located beside Teller-Morrow garage which basically acts as a business front for all their illegal activities, primarily, importing and selling firearms.The story centers around the vice president of SAMCRO, Jax Teller (Charlie Hunnam, The Ledge) who is next in line to become the president when Clay Morrow (Ron Perlman, Hellboy) steps down. On the surface, Jax is probably one of the smartest and most useful club members, a natural leader who gets the job done but from the very get-go of the series, we see that he starts to question the club and himself. I don't want to get too much into the shows storyline because I went into the show not knowing what to expect and found myself totally divulged into the story. There are so many deep character interactions and story lines that make SOA far from just a simple show about biker gangs selling guns. Politics, family, love, friendship, brotherhood, secrets and betrayal all come into play.Continue reading the full review at: http://www.thetvsamurai.com/search/label/Sons%20of%20Anarchy


                
The constant violence grew old and much was gratuitous, but it created the story. Jax was COOL with many JC shades. Maggie was smokin hot as Tara, Gemma turned out fast to be a conniving bitch, Lady Macbeth type and Clay was Lear/Trump. The series really touches the race problems post Rodney King in CA. SAMCROW is basically indifferent to race, and Jax more and more ties to unite them, but early on I do hear a few ethnic jabs. The final scene of Jax riding into the semi was brilliant, taking out everything of his father's legacy.
In the episode from season one, "fun House," could one of the gonads from the clown have been used by Half-sack?
Well let me start by saying that in this case "bad guys losing" is totally depressing! I surprised myself by falling in love with the anti-hero. First, Kurt Sutter, to create a show about outlaws took real guts. The research, the casting , the story lines, the gritty sadistic genius vision, I was hooked the very moment I started. The story lines were so raw and compelling; it covered every wrong doing from buying and selling of guns, drugs, human trafficking, prostitution, child pornography, racism and gender bias. I loved that midst the chaos, the adrenaline shot sequences you'd find poetic undertones, moments of vulnerability, loss & comedic relief. Besides that I love,love, love the musical score! I listen to the tracks on loop. The tracks they add to the show's appeal & fit its descriptive.Actually,I almost didn't give this show a chance. I'd read all about it, seen the promos but never really thought myself to be the kind of person who'd end up watching a show about bad ass bikers! Which brings me to Hunnam; thanks to Charlie I gave this show a go. I've been an admirer of his work for the longest time (Nickleby, Crimson Peak, Green Street Hooligans, Undeclared, Pacific Rim) and felt silly to have not watched the show that propelled him into the limelight & gave him the bad boy persona...The moment I sat to watch the show, it took me approximately 15 days to binge watch all 7 seasons of the show. His rendition of the anti - hero had me in knots. Though obviously I got hints of some accent slips here and there, he was a convincingly imperfect, sadistic, sociopath with compassionate & lovable undertones. In some ways the "handsome devil"! I felt at times that he was the character he played. And I get that happens after spending almost a decade on the same show, the reel & real character tend to intertwine. And I absolutely loved that! After Jax's character I think Kim Coates' portrayal of 'Tig' with complex layers of emotions character was amazing to watch. As much as he was hated in season 1 for killing Opie's wife Donna you can't help but weep for this reluctant father as he was forced to watch his daughter being burnt alive right before his eyes. His helpless demeanor to his love hate relationship with Jax followed by his fierce loyalty to him in seasons that follow and then to his much controversial yet supremely endearing relationship with a transvestite "Venus" (another amazingly well added character played by Walton Goggins)in all adds up to brilliant character actor that is Kim Coates.Ryan Hurst as "Opie"; this massive yet adorable guy just took my heart away. After 'Remember the Titans' this was the first time I watched him on screen again. I love how this tall strong frame can convey just deep emotions & show so much vulnerability. He was conflicted for the longest time in his entire show appearance. Loss after loss we felt his sorrow, his fight with himself. His undying loyalty to Jax was so admirable even in his last moments, and the manner in which he was ended on the show was maybe by far the saddest I've seen on television. Besides these, shout out to Ron Perlman,Katey Sagal, Tommy Flanagan, Mark Boone Junior & David Labrava. I think the whole ensemble were perfectly cast and brilliantly succeeded adding their own flavor to the characters. This wasn't only a show about "Bad ass bikers" but a show that gave the stereotype a different face. It feels so ironic to say that I absolutely loved the show by hating every character at some point. You'd wish redemption for them yet you realize that they are beyond redemption.The series ended on a poetic note! The anti - hero who found redemption & gave the ultimate sacrifice in the name of brotherhood yet not quite as you would imagine it!I love a show that steers up all the emotions in me and this show did nothing less. I felt all anger, anguish, anxiety,love, hopelessness & of course the strength & meaning of brotherhood.Raw, Smart, Unpredictable!!!
Initially I gave 9 points, but after seeing all 7 seasons I feel that 6 is better.Too many seasons, repetitive, too unrealistic (e.g. police could not solve simple murders, did they try?). Monster Gemma's role was disturbingly too big.Jax (Hunnam) was splendid, one could see he really tried to balance between the club and the family. Juice was a tragic figure also well acted. Acting throughout was good.Jax's background history was always present. It was important, strong, and well written.


                
A friend of mine recommended me this show a few years ago,so I decided to give it a chance,and i wasn't mistaken.At the beginning and at the first two seasons things were going smoothly and calmly,just to explain the past of the samcro,but then everything changed,a whole other story.Each member of the club has his own history,and they all follow their president at whatever his say until the end.The story was very very good with lots of surprises and with many twists,really this story can taught you a lot.The choice of songs were terrific especially at the last scene of the series,these seven last minutes with that song will be in mind for ever.


                
With no star power, no big budget, and no playing on pop culture, Kurt Sutter creates a masterpiece about one simple yet dynamic issue we all can relate to, and that is family.I am not of fan of Harleys, bikers, leather, etc. I have always been a sci-fi/ fantasy junkie. When my friend told me I had to watch this show, I obliged only out of boredom. Thank the good lord for boredom.SOA is a tale of a family of bikers in Cali. The dynamics and struggles they face can seem alien to those of us who abide by the law, sit in cubicles and drive minivans. I do none of the following, but still, I am like you, one who lives on the grid. SAMCRO (Sons of Anarchy Redwood Original) does not. Yet still, inside of the dark shell of lawlessness and well-paced, not overly used violence in the show, you see a family struggling to find their places beside one another. You see a strict and very dramatic set of rules governing the club.With flaws abound in each character, there are no true stereotypes. Sutter did a fantastic job with his homework, and after viewing two or three episodes, I never once thought of our cast as one dimensional or clichéd. The cast is near perfect. No true stars, but superbly talented veterans. Kim Coates is a highly underrated actor and nowhere near a household name, but he is "that guy". You know, the guy you've seen dozens of times but has never headlined a major film. Boone, Perlman and Flanagan all fall into this category, and all are equally tremendous.I will reveal no other information about the show, as I want you to view it as I did. I want you to sit down with no reservations and practical expectations. If you do, you will find SOA to be one of the most addicting and well-written shows ever. Yes, I said ever. Now go, go and be sure to have plenty of snacks within arms reach, cause there is no way in hell you will want to leave the couch.


                
Addictive, emotionally charged, brilliantly acted.


                
