For a long while, I've described Ben-Hur as the biggest film that I had not yet seen. Now I have. This is one of those classics whose status has been fading with time, and it's no wonder once you've seen the film. Sure, there are a few scenes that are very memorable, and have become part of our common culture. Who can forget the scenes where Judah Ben-Hur is a slave in the galleys, rowing fiercely as the weaker slaves collapse around him? The music in this scene is what I find particularly memorable. And then there's the chariot race, which I think cements this film as one that is worth seeing more than any other. I also like how the story is constructed, as a side story to the life of Jesus. Christ pops up every once in a while. Early in the film, there is a memorable scene where Christ defies a Roman soldier and gives the parched Ben-Hur water. When the soldier tries to reprimand him, a quick look from Jesus silences him completely. Unfortunately, a whole hell of a lot of the film is very forgettable. Each scene seems to take 25% longer than it really needs to <U+0096> not only are the scenes protracted far beyond their limitations, but the actors stumble slowly through their lines, as if each and every syllable was carrying the cross on its back. It gets old, and quick. The film has very little passion as it lumbers along. Most of the direction seems lackluster. Big, but mostly lacking heart. William Wyler directed one of the most emotionally touching films of all time, Mrs. Miniver, an utterly intimate affair that will stay with me forever. Ben-Hur often just sat there without trying to connect to the audience at all. The acting itself is generally weak. Charlton Heston's performance is certainly not among his best. I actually like him as an actor, but I don't think it's very good here. To be fair, his performance gets better as the film moves along. Ben-Hur's moral dilemma is intriguing, and as his desire for revenge and violence did ultimately touch me. Many of the other performances are just bad <U+0096> the one that comes immediately to mind is Haya Harareet as Esther, the slave girl whom Ben-Hur loves and later marries. Martha Scott and Cathy O'Donnell, who play his mother and sister respectively, are too dull to really care too much what happens to them. And I'm disappointed in Sam Jaffe, whom I love as an actor in films such as The Scarlet Empress and Gunga Din. I didn't even recognize him, he has so little energy in this film. Hugh Griffith won an Oscar for playing a sheik, but his character is not memorable at all. The only actor who really hits a home run is Stephen Boyd as Messala, Ben-Hur's childhood friend, now his bitterest enemy. He really projects his inner turmoil. Overall, I say that I am glad that I saw this finally. It may have not worked very well, but I was generally entertained. Not moved at all, but it was nice to watch (and a lot more fun to criticize!). Only the chariot sequence and a couple of Messala's scenes did anything more than that for me. 6/10.


                
When the movie was made British actors were chosen to play the Roman occupying forces, and Americans to play the oppressed Jews - considering their roots, that would of course appeal to Americans. But things have changed from a time when Americans would see themselves as "good guys" in the Cold War. Being the one Rome-like superpower, it's the United States' turn to impose an empire's glory upon the world whether those countries with unhealthy climates want it or not. When I watched the movie the other day parallels with the current situation in Iraq were so obvious that I found the movie quite subversive and amusing - not what you would expect from "Ben Hur".


                
If you don't get the summary joke or hate me because of it, I can't change that. Why I chose it though? I'll come back to that in a second, but let's start: For the sheer scope of the movie you have to love it. By scope I mean the photography (beautiful pictures) and the sound (a fantastic sound design, that could be used to teach students about film music). All this though has to work as a whole. And it does work. It's a good movie and because of it's length and the quality of it's production it's regarded as one of the classic movies of all times.Call it sacrilege though, but I do have some objections to that. Yes it is a fine movie (after all I gave it a 7/10, which is pretty good in my book, although far away from great), but it is just too darn long! And that is where my summary line/reference comes into play. And although we're following Ben Hur, there's a very big side story (the title of the movie was originally named after "that side story" too). And although the similarities in both the sub- and main plot are evident it just makes the whole thing longer ... Epic movie it is then, in all the meanings that there are. An essential movie to watch, but afterwards don't be afraid to say that you thought it was too long!


                
Ben-Hur is a ridiculously overlong spectacle that takes it's time to get going, then goes full throttle for a while, then seems to dawdle on after the darn thing should have ended a long time ago. I mean, I know WHY it had to end the way it did, but to me, if it would have ended after the chariot race I wouldn't have complained. Charleton Heston plays the lead here, and he's quite fine as the tortured Jew (literally and figuratively) Being a man in such a position like Ben-Hur would take an actor of a large stature, and Heston is the guy to pull it off. I really like his performance here. All the other supporting players are great too, but this is Heston's movie, so get out of the way ha ha.


                
Ben Hur must have been a spectacle for 1959 and the film is not aging well. The look, direction, and acting style all scream 1950's epic. The director's style of long scenes with few cut aways gets boring really quickly if you are more use to modern day style. The acting is overly dramatic with a score that while good plays up the emotion like a soap opera, and the special effects particularly the fleet shot using miniatures does not look good at all (it might look better on a big screen theater than my laptop) but Star Wars did a much better job with models. The chariot scene though is really good and this is most of the action of the film.Grade B=


                
It's not that this overrated marathon of a Movie gets worse with age, it gets worse with each repeated viewing. The length and sobriety of it all gets more glaring each time this Blockbuster and Oscar Hog is attempted.The Film's glorious Production is worthy of its reputation and it is only this that makes more than one viewing tolerable, but attempt at Your own risk. The meandering Story is terribly Edited and drawn out to painful lengths and stagnant Acting.It looks gorgeous and the Musical Score is fine. The darn thing just needs some severe trimming, but in 1959 it was not to be and future Audiences are stuck both with this Obese, obsessively self-righteous, pious Picture that cheats on the "Tale of the Christ" and lumbers its way along with Judah Ben-Hur as He discovers that the "Sword has been taken from my hand".But not until His Boyhood Chum turned Jailer is dispensed with via the only thing in this Movie that remains Today as it was in its Day, the famous compelling and exciting Chariot Race. Everything else here drags to tedium. The best example of this is the Leper episode, that just doesn't know when to say enough is enough.Definitely worth one watch and repeated viewings come with the above warning.


                
On the surface, the classic "Ben-Hur" is remembered for the dazzling chariot race featuring the grimacing Charlton Heston at the reins. But on a deeper level, this leisurely paced and nearly four-hour big-budget film is a great Christian tale.Based on the bestselling novel of Civil War general Lew Wallace and first published in 1880, "Ben-Hur"is set in Judea at the time of Christ. Judah Ben-Hur is a patrician Jew, who comes into conflict with his childhood chum Messala, who becomes the Roman Tribune of Judea. An accident that kills a Roman consul implicates Judah, his mother, and his sister, leading to the imprisonment of the women and to the sentence of Judah as a galley slave.After Judah saves the life of another consul, Quintus Arrius, on the Roman ship, he is adopted as a Roman citizen. He becomes a skilled charioteer who figures in the famous chariot race in which Messala cheats during the race and is eventually trampled under the horses' hooves when he falls from his chariot. Of course, Judah is the winner.The film has an overt homoerotic level in the interactions of Messala and Judah. But it is Jack Hawkins as Quintus Arrius who steals the show, especially when he is gawking at the manly muscles of the galley slaves during their rowing exercises.The plot summary above fails to convey the principal mission of the film to tell the story of the Crucifixion. At a critical moment of his life, Judah Ben-Hur was befriended by a stranger who gave him water when he was near death. The stranger touches the life of Judah in a way that will promote love and healing in his family. Of course, the stranger is Jesus of Nazareth.Much of the Lew Wallace narrative is clumsy, especially the sequence when Judah's mother and sister become lepers and the love of Judah's life, Esther, refuses to reveal the truth to him. It is only the power of Jesus that eventually produces the miracle that will place love, instead of revenge, in the heart of Judah Ben-Hur.
Some special effects have aged badly but the galley-slave sequence and the climactic chariot race (directed by Andrew Marton and staged by the legendary stunt expert Yakima Canutt)are still one of the best action scenes ever.
Rating: I give it a 4- out of 5


                
This Movies story very fantastic. If you will see this movie then you see again and again. So i can not explain this movie story in words. You watch and then you feel that you see a great movie. This movie remake i see in the 2016 Ben-her. both are the movies are best. and the star and cast play the Good Role on this movie. If you watch this movie then you again watch this movie that's my promise.
Hollywood has forgotten the epic. Instead of the grand, sweeping and powerful stories -- complete with an overture and intermission -- that characterized cinema of the late 50s and early 60s, our "epics" are shapeless bores without likable characters and original stories. Instead of chariot races charged with righteous vengeance (and moral ambiguity), we have Matthew Mcconaughey conquering the galaxy with Southern-tongued exposition unintentionally bespeckled with gleeful hilarity.If you're thirsting for something loud and powerful (as I was), then Ben-Hur is the film for you. It's unabashedly epic, thunderous, and raw, eliciting wows at every twist, turn, and gargantuan set piece it throws your way. Charlton Heston plays the righteous Jewish prince, returned from wrongful imprisonment in the galleys to take revenge on the man who imprisoned him, his big shiny teeth flashing in the sunlight.The action scenes themselves are stunning. The chariot race is one of the most fantastically involving sequences I have ever seen.However, it's undeniable Jewish propaganda, especially considering the glaring historical inaccuracy -- or in this case, a purposeful exclusion of historical facts . And yet, with multiple Jesus cameos, it sees fit to pass itself off as a Christian film. As a sort of religious outsider, I have no right to comment on that, though. What I can comment on is the flowery dialogue. It's consistently sweeping, yes, but also consistently drawn out and occasionally laughably cheesy. But it's epic. And I suppose that given the sheer entertainment value offered up by this film, its faults are barely more than an afterthought.


                
It's a long film about Judah Ben-Hur and his family, betrayed by their former Roman friend, Messala. Heston is Ben-Hur and Stephen Boyd is Messala. Their mutual enmity animates most of the picture. A combination of luck and skill raises Heston from slavery to the higher echelons of Roman governance, an opportunity he spurns because he has grown to hate Roman civilization. Christ has a featured bit part, whose voice, as Heston says at the end, "has taken the sword from my hand."This is an epic movie by any definition. No expense must have been spared. And the chariot race in the Circus Maximus is without peer. Heston seems to fit into togas and caftans well. He's an impressive presence on the screen. Stephen Boyd as the unregenerate villain doesn't have as much to do but his death scene probably represents his best moments on the screen. He puts everything he has into it and it comes out right. Hugh Griffith is the wily Arab sheik and, as usual, there's always something slightly comic in his pop-eyed performances.The director was William Wyler, a competent professional who brought some surprising sense of cynicism and outrage to Jimmy Stewart's post-war Westerns. Here, he catches small details of life under the Romans that are usually ignored in the sword-and-sandal epics of the 1950s, the ones with title like "Hercules Versus the Gorgon." I'd never known before that the slaves manning the oars of the Roman triremes had to be trained to row at three speeds -- regular, battle, attack, and ramming. Whew. Heston and the rest of the rowers are palpably exhausted after a spell of ramming speed.And before the chariot race, we see footmen or whatever they are, disentangling the gathering horses from one another and dislodging chariot wheels that have gotten themselves stuck in some mural nook. When a charioteer has an accident during the race, they run out rescue him and carry him off on stretchers before the vehicles appear around the bend again. Nice perceptive touches but done conventionally and without distinction. There is a longish scene in the sheik's test, when Griffith fondles his horses and Cheston forces himself to burp. It's an interesting scene, but in "Lawrence of Arabia," there was a similar scene in a vast Arab tent and David Lean had the actors pause while a strong breeze made the tent poles creak slightly. Here, the tent isn't alive. It's just a dead tent.In the end, no Jews are actually converted to Christianity, which didn't exist yet anyway. But all the principals speak with hushed awe about Christ's sermon the mount. I kept wondering if the Haifa-born Haya Harareet had any difficulty with the role.As it develops, the thrilling chariot race is ante-climactic. Long after it's over and Messala's death is forgotten, we have to endure Christ's suffering and crucifixion. Of course, he was the original charismatic personality, yet it's always a downer to see someone tortured and killed.With just a few tweaks, it might have been changed to one of those anti-Nazi movies of the 40s and 50s. The Romans are racists, persecuting the Jews and other misfits, ridiculing the Arabs, torturing prisoners, consigning the sick to the valley of lepers, shown as a kind of concentration camp. Jack Hawkins is magnificent as the Good German.It's an important movie if only because of its sprawling narrative, it's quotidian details, and that unforgettable chariot race. A viewer can only imagine how today's CGI experts would dump the stunt men like "Breezy" Easton and fill the screen with dismembered bodies, flying arms and legs, and chariots tumbling directly into the camera. In 1959, there were no such techniques available -- a near miss. But I suppose it's only a matter of time before a new version of this chestnut is released.
Ben-Hur is famous for its chariot race sequence and that it won 11 Oscars including best Picture. The film is of a grand scale and is an adaptation of a fictional book as well as a remake of a silent classic.It also runs in parallel to the life of Jesus hence why its known as a biblical film. The story of Jesus bookends the movie from his birth in Bethlehem to the crucifixion. In between an unseen Jesus appears at various points through the film and encounters the characters in the movie.Charlton Heston is Judah Ben Hur a proud and noble Jew whose childhood friend, a Roman called Messala has returned from Rome and is second in command to the Roman Governor. Messala wants Ben-Hur to help him banish the rebellion to Rome's authority and when he is refused uses an accident to banish Ben-Hur to slavery and his mother and sister imprisoned.In a galley slave ship Ben-Hur overcomes many obstacles and with luck rescues a Roman General who adopts him as his son. He uses his new found position and wealth to return to Judea and get revenge on Messala which he does through the chariot race when he secures a ride through an Arab tribe. However Ben-Hur is still full of hate and bitterness as he finds out that his mother and sister have caught leprosy and only finds his rage dissipates as he comes across Jesus during the cross. The film is long, William Wyler wanted a visual feast and the film goes for some grand scenes and set designs. The script is a bit stilted and in this day and age a little hokey. The uncredited writer Gore Vidal's anecdote that he re-wrote the scenes of Ben-Hur and Messala as spurned lovers to bring out the essence of the story has now become famous although its actual credence is questionable. There is however some homo-eroticism present in the film especially during the Galley scenes.Some of the acting is rather on the fruity side with Hugh Griffith's blacked up Arab with a Welsh accent looking rather odd these days. Charlton Heston is steady and stout while Stephen Boyd bristles with fury and also a touch of guilt as Messala who feels betrayed by his close friend.


                
When the movie was over and in the last scene I saw Ben-Hur Judah (Charlton Heston) approach his mother and sister after he beheld the miracle of our Lord Jesus Christ, I said within myself, "what a privilege it is to have seen this movie"; and a privilege it was indeed. The most amazing thing about the movie is the score, it is just wonderful, then add the tale of Ben-Hur who went from being a prince to a slave and back and learnt the hard way that revenge does not bring content; What you have is this 50s masterpiece that all should get the privilege to see.The story of Ben-Hur is set during the birth and death of Christ, Ben-Hur at that time was a good friend of the next in line Governor of Jerusalem. Their friendship is tested (as Ben-Hur is a Jew and his best friend Messala (next in line Governor) is Roman) when Messala calls Ben aside and ask for the names of the Jews leading a rebellion against Rome, Ben's refusal caused both friends to part.An unfortunate incident about a loose tile led to the death of the present Governor, Ben and his sister were the ones responsible for the accident, but Messala failed to accept the incident for what it was, an accident even after his investigation showed it was so.Messala, out of revenge for Ben turning him down, had Ben sold to slavery and his family jailed. Something led to another and Ben is free and all he wants is revenge.Ben Hur was a record breaking Oscar movie, it won 11 out of the 12 Academy Award nominations that it got, some of its wins inclue Best Picture, Best Director and Best Actor for Charlton Heston. Charlton's 1956 movie, The Ten Commandment was also a hit and showed Charlton's gift in epic film portrayal. Ben Hur is based on a book named Ben-Hur: A Tale of the Christ by Lew Wallace, and the movie production saw the use of wonderful cinematic scenes, shots that will linger such as the one of the chariot race.Ben-Hur was both a critical and a commercial success making close to 10 times its production cost and the movie is regarded as one of the best epic movies ever made. Holding back ratings in the American Film Institute in their top 100 movies (it is ranked a 100) and Top Epic films (here it is ranked number 2).Ben-Hur is a beautiful movie and a highly successful one, which many should get the chance to see; the movie like The Ten Commandments is biblical but not totally biblically grounded like Ten Commandments, but it is still wonderful and nice to see even for those who are eager to see a biblical film.www.lagsreviews.com


                
Ben-Hur is one of those sword and sandal epics that, like The Ten Commandments or Spartacus, is a good film, well acted, well directed, but ultimately, is just a good excuse to eat junk food, for there's nothing of any real depth to it. In many ways, it is sort of Part Two of Charlton Heston's three part 'religious epic', which started with The Ten Commandments and ended with El Cid (a bit better of a film than the two others). The difference is that this is the least religious of the trio, despite its subtitle being A Story Of The Christ.The film has a few standout scenes, excluding the justly famed chariot sequence (which includes the accidental flip of Hur over the chariot- done by a stuntman, of course), including the two exchanges of water between Christ and Hur, and the dialogue between Hur and Arrius, before their connection is formed, wherein both men counter-taunt each other with words; Heston seeming to make a career over ironic taunts, which would reach its apogee in The Planet Of The Apes. But, mostly, Ben-Hur is good old fashioned movie-making; an epic that has few weaknesses and a number of strengths, even if it is barren of anything of depth. Believe me, there are many worse ways to spend an afternoon than watching Charlton Heston kick ass on the past.
William Wyler is probably the greatest Hollywood director ever to have fallen out of fashion. Winner of three Oscars as Best Director he made some of the most prestigious studio films of the thirties, forties and fifties but they are now largely ignored in favour of smaller, grittier movies from the likes of Nicholas Ray and Samuel Fuller and other of the 'B Diectors'. But a look back at the best of Wyler's work, ("Dodsworth", "The Letter", "The Heiress", "Carrie", "Friendly Persuasion"), should ensure his place in the canon of great directors."Ben-Hur" isn't in the league of any of the above but at the time of its release it was seen as the most prestigious of prestigious studio pictures, an epic as significant for its day as "Gone with the Wind" and like "Gone with the Wind" it chalked up a record number of Oscars, (it won every Oscar for which it was nominated with the exception of Best Screenplay). It was conceived and executed on a scale unimaginable today and it goes on forever, (well, for close on four hours anyway), but then it has everything; sea battles, leprosy, Christ, (and the Crucifixion), and a chariot race that remains unequaled of its kind, certainly in the annals of action cinema, (though the direction of this great sequence is credited now, not to Wyler, but largely to the second-unit director and former stunt-man Yakima Canutt).In the title role Charlton Heston stuck out his noble jaw once too often. His idea of acting is to crunch up his face and bare his teeth. He's like a horse in the process of being broken. Stephen Boyd's black-hearted Messala is by far the more interesting character, (nobility is such a bore), and Boyd plays him superbly emphasizing the homo-erotic bond between the two men, something evident to everyone except apparently to Heston who was oblivious as to Messala's interest in him, (about the only thing in the script, on which many writers worked, in which Gore Vidal's influence might be found). The other great performance is by the Welsh character actor Hugh Griffith as Sheik Ibderim. He isn't in the film long enough but he steals every scene he's in. You can see a real actor's love of acting in his wily old face and he was awarded the Oscar.Of course, there is nothing Wyler, or probably anyone else, could do about the banal religiosity, the miracles and the platitudes though he could have censured Miklos Rozsa's Godawful score which accompanies them. Seeing the film now it is obvious Wyler was not the man for the job. His best films are interior pictures, character studies where the dramas are played out in enclosed spaces. Even in "The Big Country" it is not the vastness of the plains we remember but the dark, interior secrets of the people who inhabit them. Of course to say that "Ben-Hur" could just as easily have been directed by any superior craftsman is, perhaps, to do it and Wyler an injustice. It's a more tightly controlled epic than most, made up of a series of short scenes that carry the story along. This is what signifies it as a Wyler picture. It may be far from his best work but it certainly is no disgrace.


                
This film ages well, and is still entertaining.  However, one can see the evolution of acting and it's improvement over the years.  Great script, excellent casting, and the chariot race is unbeatable.  This movie is spiritual, and the ending is spiritually motivating, leaving the viewer with a scene of hope and faith.


                
