Ben Hur, a Tale of the Christ, was hugely popular as a novel, a play and two movies. It was written in a less vulgar time about a very spiritual event. Seen today by moviegoers addicted to constant action and low frequency effects, it will seem ponderous, slow and pretentious. Well, it is a little. You have to pay attention to the dialogue or you won't get it at all. Some of the intimate scenes aren't all that great. Anyone that really pays attention can tell the sea battle is done with miniatures. It's still worth watching. As everyone ought to know by now, the chariot race is one-of-a-kind; nothing else comes close to that real live race where the main actors actually raced  most of the time. I just watched this movie after lapse of about 10 years. I still enjoyed it. The sea battle is still fun even if you know the boats are about as big as a man. The few moments which have Christ on the screen are still moving. Just about all of the acting is good with only a few forgettable moments. Just be ready to spend about 4 hours in front of the screen listening to occasionally flowery dialog.


                
Great and entertaining period drama. Great acting by all the stars. Must watch movie


                
Winner of 11 Academy Awards in 1959, including Best Picture, Best Director, Best Actor, and Best Supporting Actor. 'Ben-Hur' remains one of the most inspirational, epic action spectacles ever made by a major Hollywood studio. It was a landmark achievement in grand peplum/biblical genre storytelling. Directed by William Wyler, the film tells the story of a kind, wealthy Jew, Judah Ben-Hur (Charlton Heston) whose life is thrown upside down, when he is betrayed and falsely accused of crimes against the Roman Empire by his childhood friend, turn tribune Messala (Stephen Boyd). Spending three years as a galley slave, Judah must find, a way to restore himself to high standing and while, also seeking revenge on his enemies. Without spoiling the movie, too much, while everybody thinks that this movie was the original; it was in fact, the third movie, follow after 1907 & 1925 of the same name to be made from Lew Wallace's successful novel, 1880's 'Ben-Hur: A Tale of The Christ'. It can be argued that a talking picture made from the same story as an earlier silent film is not a true remake, since the storytelling techniques each employ are so radically different, but that's up to debate, but at least, it's more original than the later films that came after it, like the 2003's animation version & the 2016 remake. Anyways, like the book, the movie also has a sub-story running in parallel with Judah's main event narrative; which was the unfolding story of Jesus. While, Jesus does play a more important role in this story more than other films, his cameo presence is still somewhat tangential. It's jarring to see a violent revenge plot, mixed his story about love thy neighbor. Thank God, the film cut the sequences of Ben-Hur faking his death, and raising a Jewish army to overthrow the Romans, as it felt that Christ's message of forgiveness, could be lost. Still, 'Ben-Hur' is the only Hollywood film to make the Vatican approved film list in the category of religion, despite having scenes of him killing an innocent guard. However, the film does have other problems than the mixed messages, it was presenting. The book and the films have always been accuse of being too similar to the book, 'The Count of Monte Cristo" by author Alexandre Dumas to the point that some critics have stated out that the film is 'The Count of Monte Cristo meets Quo Vadis'. While, me, personal, I don't see much of anything comparable; some critics says, the film is ripping off, that premise, way too much. Regardless, I did like the changes by the many screenwriters, did, to couther, being too similar to the novel, like having Messala's vindictiveness be motivated by a sexual and romantic rejection as much as a political one. I'm one of the few people that, kinda like the somewhat hidden homoerotic overtones between Judah and Messala. I also love how Heston didn't know about this; adding an interesting uncomfortable dynamic to the tense dialogue scenes between the two actors. It adds some spice and realism that was really needed for this period film. I also like how the film, add symbolism to the ocean scenes and also cut other things, like the character of Ira from the novel. I always felt that the scenes with her, was time-wasting. On top of that, the other changes like having Judah's sister being the one who dislodge the roof tile & how they treat Messala after the climatic chariot race were equally as important. However, the movie still have pacing issues. 212 minutes running time is way too long. While, I get why, the soul-stirring scenes of Christ's birth and crucifixion was needed, as it provide biblical bookends for MGM's action-packed epic. I think the outdated, theatrical overture & intermission sequence should had been delete in future releases. If anything, scenes like Judah declines the race at times, even after he learns that Messala will also compete, could had been delete as well, as the famous chariot race sequence did happen, later on the film, regardless of Judah wanting to do it or not. It felt like filler. Despite that, the climactic chariot race, which includes collisions, men dragged under chariots, bloody injuries, and intensely suspenseful competition, was so impressive in the stunt work & make up that it set new standards for action-filmmaking without modern cinematic razzle-dazzle. It was very surprising to hear that nobody got kill or seriously hurt. The colorful 1959 version was the most expensive film ever made up to its time, and the most expensive film of the 50s decade. Shot on the grand scale of $15 million, the film took six years to prepare, and over a half year in production, it was a tremendous make-or-break risk for MGM Studios. Luckily, for them, the project, ultimately saved the studio from bankruptcy as it became a box office hit, earning three times more than it took to make. Does it hold up? Yes, while it's slow at times, and some of the acting feels now, mannered, stiff, and awkward like Hugh Griffith in blackface. It still worth the praise and achievements, it got, when it first released. It still has great acting from all the cast, including more physically than emotionally compelling Heston, amazing color widescreen cinematography from Robert Surtees, beautiful music from composter Miklós Rózsa & wonderful costumes from Elizabeth Haffenden and her crew. However, this movie might be too intense to be rated G, even at the time. After all, this movie has a leper colony where two principles characters are shown with open, rotting sores and a few men drowning in the ocean battle. If anything, it could be rated PG or PG-13 now. Regardless of that, I have say, Ben-Hur is one of the ultimate epics movies of all time. A legendary movie that needs to be rewatch, time after time again. Highly recommended.
This monumental version of renowned story during the time of Christ which was filmed several times, concerning on a wealthy Jewish named Ben-Hur results to be an impressive movie . It is a big budget version by William Wyler that won a record of 11 Oscars and was the most expensive picture of its time , being one of the greatest movies of all history. The story is well known , a rich Jewish nobleman Ben Hur (Charlton Heston in the title role, he was initially offered the role of Messala , though Burt Lancaster was considered) and his confrontation to military Messala (Stephen Boyd , though Robert Ryan was also considered , Boyd and other actors playing Romans wore dark contact lenses, so their eyes appeared brown), though they were childhood friends . When happen a distress , Ben Hur incurs the hostility his previous friend and is condemned to galley slavery , reduced to manning an oar , and his family is sent to prison during several years into a room completely locked . When he's in a galleon as slave rower saves to Quinto Arrio (Jack Hawkins) who subsequently appointed him as a heir . Years later he goes back to seek revenge upon his Roman tormentor . This culminates in a groundbreaking chariot race . As he returns Palestina where his mother Miriam and sister Tizrah (roles performed Martha Scott and Cathy O'Donnell respectively) are prisoned at Antonia fortress . This classic tale is added religious issues about Jesus life , as are described the pilgrimage , Mountain sermon , Passion , crucifixion and resurrection .Lavishly produced by Sam Zimbalist and uncredited Sol Siegel, the production cost MGM a massive $15 million and was a gamble by the studio to save itself from bankruptcy . Sensational main cast and enjoyable support actors such as Hugh Griffith as Sheik , Sam Jaffe as Simonides , Finlay Currie as Balthasar , John Le Mesurier as Doctor , Frank Thring as Pontius Pilate , Andre Morrel as Sextus and many others . Marvellously staged battle ships and a breathtaking chariot races . As the chariot race required 15,000 extras, on a set constructed on 18 acres of backlot at Cinecitta Studios outside Rome , eighteen chariots were built, with half being used for practice ; the race took five weeks to film and 15,000 extras were used . Three hundred sets, five years of research, and fourteen months of labor were required for the sets . The dialogue , colorful images , majestic set design from Edward Carfagno and William Horning , glamorous photography by Robert Surtees , evocative musical score combine to cast a spellbinding movie . Rousing soundtrack by the classical Miklós Rózsa who wrote the musical score over a period of nearly a year . His first-rate score deservedly won an Academy Award . The motion picture was stunningly realized by director William Wyler who took on the project because he wanted to do a Cecil B. DeMille type picture . Although William Wyler was Jewish, he particularly wanted to make a film that would appeal to all religious faiths . Wyler selected all the camera angles for the chariot race, but left all the details of its actual shooting in the hands of his second-unit directors Andrew Marton and Yakima Canutt . Rating : 9 , extraordinary and awesome , it ranked #2 on the American Film Institute's list of the 10 greatest films in the genre "Epic".There are numerous renditions based on Lee Wallace's Ben Hur , as stage version , classic MGM's mammoth silent version ¨Ben Hur¨ (1926) by Fred Niblo with Ramon Novarro; and this the remake Ben-Hur (1959) in which Stuntman Cliff Lyons worked as a stuntman/chariot driver in both Ben Hur (1925) and this one . Cartoon version (2003) by Bill Kowalchuk in which a prologue and epilogue narrated by Charlton Heston ; and ¨Ben Hur TV series¨ (2010) by Steven Shill with Joseph Morgan as Judah Ben-Hur , Stephen Campbell Moore as Messala , Emily VanCamp as Esther as Kristin Kreuk as Tirzah , Ben Cross , Simón Andreu , Alex Kingston , James Faulkner , among others .


                
A perennial Xmas favourite on TV during my childhood, spectacular biblical epic Ben-Hur opens with the birth of Jesus: manger, star, wise men, shepherds... the whole nine yards. Those TV programmers knew what they were doing.The film then scoots to XXVI A.D.-Jesus is now a grown man doing God's work; meanwhile, Jewish prince Judah Ben-Hur (played by distinctly non-Jewish blue-eyed hunk Charlton Heston) is reunited with his Roman childhood friend Messala (Stephen Boyd), who has just been appointed tribune of Judea. Messala, desperate to keep the Jews under control, asks Judah to help him quell any potential rebellion, but his friend refuses to betray his people. As a result, the pair part as enemies.This animosity proves problematic for Judah when his sister accidentally knocks a roof tile onto the Roman governor as he arrives in town. Seizing an opportunity to make an example of the influential Hur family, Messala sends Judah's mother and sister to jail, and has Judah thrown into slavery as a rower on the Roman galleys. After several years of 'battle speed', 'attack speed', ramming speed' and 'warp speed', Judah earns his freedom by saving the life of a Roman consul during a sea battle. Returning home, Judah searches for his mother and sister, seeks revenge on Messala, and has a profound encounter with Jesus of Nazareth.In the wrong hands, Ben-Hur could have been an epic bore, but director William Wyler proves himself more than worthy of the task, commanding great dramatic performances from his superb cast, and mounting some stunning action scenes, the highlight being the film's iconic chariot race, a breathtaking piece of cinema that still holds up as one of the most exciting sequences ever committed to film. Every last cent of the massive $15,900,000 budget is up there on the screen, with impressive sets, excellent production design and a cast of thousands. Miklós Rózsa's wonderful score complements the action perfectly, the deserved winner of one of the film's eleven Oscars.Sadly, Ben-Hur no longer pops up on TV every Christmas, meaning that it's probably not found much of a new audience in recent years-a shame, because it really is worthy of any film fan's time-all three and a half hours of it!


                
Ben-Hur defines the term "epic". Story, characters, script, screen play, production values all focused on creating a truly memorable work of art. A movie I never get tired of watching, a fantastic piece of entertainment. Evokes the sort of emotion that only those really special movies can. Certainly the best movie of the "historical epic" genre, but transcends any category to stand out as one of the greatest movies ever made. The people who saw this on its original release must have been awe struck and amazed. I'm still searching for a movie that can get the same response from people, regardless of age, gender, creed or colour. Just an amazing example of how good you can make something, if you really care about the end product.


                
There's a reason Ben-Hur captured more academy awards than any other film (until Titanic).  A close to perfect production which exceeds expectations for a film of religious nature.  The only way to watch Ben-Hur is via the widescreen DVD - presented in 2:7.1 scope - most probably the widest movie filmed.   The only reason I didn't give it a '10' is because of Charlton Heston.  A much overrated actor who overacts at every opportunity and becomes quite tiresome.  Fortunately, there was so much more in Ben-Hur, that his overacting goes unnoticed.   The chariot race is still THE most exciting sequence I've ever seen in a film.  Get over the religious issue and give Ben-Hur its due.


                
This movie is probably Charlton Hestons best. An epic that doesn't feel completely like an epic. It was slow in some places but necessarily so to develop character and the plot. I can easily see why it got so much academy acclaim.


                
Miklos Rosza's score for this film was one of the finest and most memorable ever. One of the reasons I find it so memorable is because he borrowed some phrases from a previous score. I hear several snippets that remind me of his score from "Thief of Baghdad." That's the film that began in England, but was moved to La-La land because the Germans kept blowing up Alexander Korda's studio. Rosza finished scoring this film, then had himself a long career as a Hollywood film composer, winning an Oscar for the score for this film.


                
Hollywood, in trying to distance itself from television, produced many epics, several of which were and still are highly acclaimed (ie: The Bridge on the River Kwai, Lawrence of Arabia, The Ten Commandments, etc.). Ben-Hur is the best of the epics, and everything about it seems to define the very genre itself. The sheer scale of the production is nearly unfathomable, but it is not big for the sake of being big, and it never gets lost in itself. Despite the magnificent scope, William Wyler's magnum opus is a remarkably personal tale of friendship, betrayal, revenge, and forgiveness.The acting is excellent, the cinematography is excellent, the pacing is excellent (it never drags throughout its more than three hour running time), Miklos Rozsa's score is a symphonic masterpiece, the religious aspects are treated with great tact and respect, and so much more about this picture reaches the pinnacle of anything Hollywood has ever produced. Perfection is what it takes to win eleven academy awards, and Ben-Hur delivers. If it sounds like I'm gushing unblemished praise on this movie, it's because I am and it deserves it. This film is an absolute must see.


                
Charlton Heston (as Judah Ben-Hur) grows up in Judea, around the same time as Jesus Christ. A wealthy Jew, Mr. Heston maintains his princely lifestyle, despite the Roman occupation of his land. After a number of years, Heston encounters old friend Stephen Boyd (as Messala), a Roman. Heston soon discovers that politics does not, in every case, make strange bedfellows; as Mr. Boyd is the steadfast leader of the occupying Roman forces. Soon, the political upheaval threatens Heston's freedom, and life<U+0085> "State-of-the-art" epic, from William Wyler and the outstanding MGM cast and crew. Relatively speaking, this film is not as "original" as the 1925 version; still, it's a very worthy update, with superlative production values. With a few exceptions, the film looks very natural, unlike the increasingly tired animated "look" used for big productions some decades later. The film's lighting, scenes, and direction are very aesthetically appealing. The supporting characterizations are better than those in the older version. Christianity remains respectfully restrained; arguably, the amount of Christian faith demonstrated by Heston is unnecessarily subdued.Heston takes some getting used to, as the young Jewish hero; in fact, he looks more convincing as a Roman, especially after his "adoption" by Jack Hawkins (as Quintus Arrius). An interesting, but unacceptable-at-the-time, idea might have been for Heston and Boyd to switch roles; Boyd appears capable of handling either "Judah" or "Messala". Still, Heston wins you over; his scenes in the "slave boat", and the reunification with his leper mother are outstandingly played.Boyd's characterization is extraordinary; watching the way his eyes dart over Heston, in their first scenes together, lends credence to co-writer Gore Vidal assertion there was a homosexual subtext planned for the characters. Realistically, homosexual relations were not all that uncommon among the ancient Romans. Although, this was not likely to be found in the Lew Wallace novel, it does help explain the otherwise inexplicable love/hate relationship between the "Judah" and "Messala" characters.The entire supporting cast does very well, it must have been difficult for award nominators to single anyone out. But, in addition to those mentioned above, Haya Harareet's "Esther" and Hugh Griffith's "Sheik Ilderim" most definitely make an impression. The film's weakest moments occur during the very fake looking "sea battle" sequence; surprisingly, the old 1925 version is much more consistently exciting. Both films' "chariot races" are essential thrill rides. ********* Ben-Hur (11/18/59) William Wyler ~ Charlton Heston, Stephen Boyd, Jack Hawkins, Hugh Griffith


                
I bought "Ben-Hur" on DVD more than one month ago. I had never seen the film, but as hearing so much good things about it and my brother literally praising it, it couldn't be that bad, now could it? I decided to watch it when I really had the time for it, the movie lasts for more than 3 and a half hours after all and it is said to be one of the finest movies in the whole history of motion pictures. That is something that really grows up the pressure of the viewer; You just can't start watching it whenever you want to and without having any expectations on it, it's just that simple. Well anyways, I finally looked up a free spot on my calendar and decided the day when I'd watch it. So, I took my time and watched it like a week or two ago and to be honest I was in a pretty good mood too so nothing could go wrong. Well, I am glad to say that even after 48 years, still to this day, "Ben-Hur" is an entertaining, fine diamond and an excellent motion picture. You really have to relate to the time when it was made, but even without relating it's surprisingly good. Considering its age some of the things occurring in the movie are just mind blowing.The story in its wholeness is outstanding, it has everything an epic movie needs; Adventure, thrill, drama, romance, tragedy, just everything. And this is, indeed, an epic movie among the best. The story itself isn't just what described in the plot outlines; It has so many more levels of incomprehensible depth, so much power which takes it to an unexpected direction and based on what I saw I'd say it's undeniably one of the best epic stories ever seen or told on the big screen. Based on the novel by Lew Wallace, translated to a screenplay by Karl Tunberg it's quality writing and storytelling in an incredible level, from the beginning till the end. The film does get a bit heavy after the 2 and a half hours, which is really disappointing, as until that point it has a very good flow and the viewer doesn't get bored, but after that point it's slightly long-winded. Despite that the movie manages to be highly entertaining, so for the final rating and your overall opinion the heaviness isn't exactly as crucial as you may think. The music composed by Miklós Rózsa creates tension and comprehension while we progress throughout the movie and though it is as much as any other music in the movies made in the late 50's or early 60's it's still pretty awesome and it can not be ignored.The one significant thing above everything else is how well the whole movie is made, especially when considering its age. It's simply phenomenal how much time and effort has been put to this movie and it can definitely be seen from every single scene streaming across the screen, one after another. The props, the dressing, basically everything is an achievement like no other and the numbers just speak for themselves; 100 000 costumes, 8000 assistants, 300 props and the biggest budget at its era. This all, and more, brought the movie 11 Oscars and it was the first movie to win such many of them. No other than two movies have achieved that to this day; "Titanic" (1997) and "The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King" (2003). You have to bear in mind that back in 1959 there wasn't any kind of possibility for a such thing as CGI so basically everything you see on the screen has really happened and has been shot, so even that alone is a huge achievement which really deserves all the attention this movie has. There was this one particular scene that I will most certainly remember forever and that was the scene which probably awoke contradictory opinions and views back then because of its bloody yet realistic violence - The horse race scene. That is a scene I think everyone has heard of and I am one of those people who were left mouth open, as it is indeed fantastic. Honestly, I stood up from the sofa and gave a little applause after the scene ended.Judah Ben-Hur and Messala, played by Charlton Heston and Stephen Boyd, are very memorable characters and the chemistry between those two legendary actors is unspeakably overwhelming, as if the opposite personalities of the characters would compensate each other, which then forms that chemistry. Stephen Boyd is excellent as Messala, but Charlton Heston is even better as Ben-Hur and the role even brought him an Academy Award for the best actor in a leading role. It is no wonder. Like I've said before when I've reviewed older movies; The acting is totally different from the acting these days. It's a totally different art form of it's own and it just can not be compared to the acting this day. There is that certain extravagance if I may say it, it requires that relating to the age again, but it's still a real treat for your eyes and ears, giving you something different. It's like a fresh summer breeze."Ben-Hur" is definitely a movie worth watching, when first making sure you have the time for it, a movie which you can not stop and continue the next day. Though it does get a bit heavy like mentioned, it's still worth it in the end. The heaviness is the only reason why I'm not going to give this motion picture a perfect score. The film includes brilliant role performances, fantastic story and superior art direction, set decoration and costume design. If a movie like this was made now it would still work as butter on a bread, and that's really something, isn't it?


                
'Ben-Hur' is such a great film, it's a pleasure to report that the newly restored Wide Screen 4-Disc DVD version (which includes the 1925 silent screen film with Ramon Novarro) is right on the mark. The color has been restored to its original brilliance with every scene clearly in focus and the soundtrack gives full range to Miklos Rozsa's impressive score. More than ever, Rozsa's score seems to have an energy and force of its own, underlining all the drama inherent in a story of this kind. And Charlton Heston's work in the title role is sheer perfection. He captures the character so completely that he IS Ben-Hur.Not often does such an epic have human characters that are not dwarfed by all the spectacle. The characters are all fully-dimensional human beings--particularly the two antagonists (Judah Ben-Hur and Messala), once great friends but now divided by political loyalties. Charlton Heston and Stephen Boyd are outstanding in the leads (Boyd should definitely have won an Oscar as Messala for his chilling death scene alone!). All the other important roles are flawlessly cast. The chariot race is the most explosive and breathtaking seventeen minutes ever given to such a spectacular event--and all of the stunts look perfectly real. It's hard to believe that none of the stunts ended with more than minor injuries.The final scene, which follows soon after the chariot race, with Ben-Hur returning home and slowly climbing the steps to find that his mother and sister have been cured, still gives me goose bumps when I see it. As does the poignant scene in the leper colony where he insists on seeing their cave dwelling. Both scenes are strongly bolstered by Miklos Rozsa's brilliant score.Fully deserved all the awards it won. Should be released theatrically to show folks that even in 1959, Hollywood had all the technical skill to bring something like this off--with spectacular results! But in the meantime, this newly restored DVD is a keeper.


                
The same quality that made epics like "Star Wars," "Lord Of The Rings," "Les Miserables," and, ultimately, "Titanic" the memorable stories they were is present in spades in "Ben-Hur." These are stories, though told on canvases far vaster than the CinemaScope- or Panavision-sized movie screens they were meant for, succeed because, in their best moments, they focus on the interaction between and history of as few as two characters.What begins as a childhood friendship between a Roman boy and a Jewish boy in Roman-occupied Palestine, becomes, briefly, a politically-charged rivalry, and ultimately, a search for revenge by one upon the other.Charlton Heston(The Ten Commandments) and Stephen Boyd(A Hill in Korea) deliver the performances of their careers, and get to chew up scenery and sets of such grandeur that Hollywood could never afford their like again.This film, the greatest epic film ever made, deserves every accolade heaped upon it. The modern viewer may have to apply some patience, but at the end of the nearly four hour running time will find themselves to be vastly rewarded for it. You will find your life changed by both the scale of the film and the intimate message of friendship, betrayal, revenge--and the power of forgiveness 9/10


                
I had been meaning to watch this for a long time but had been put off due to the runtime. I finally decided to sit down and watch it as it was recently covered on the "Unspooled" podcast (which is fantastic) and im so glad I did as it was fantastic. The runtime went much faster than I expected and there were very few times I felt it dragged. The acting was absolutely superb and the character development was very moving and memorable throughout. Without a doubt the best part of the movie was the set designs, environment and authenticity of the time. Most classic movies age poorly and it's clear that special effects would help improve these, but I actually think the lack of special effects is what makes this movie what it is. The horse racing scene is one of the most memorable scenes I've ever scene watching films. The grand scale of the stadium, the crowd and the filming of the actual race is unbelievable. It is beautiful to watch but also brutal and scary. The destruction and injury that occurs is so natural that it makes it hard to watch in the best if ways. There was much more religious tones to the movie than I expected and to be honest I think it was a little bit of overkill in that area, particularly the second half of the film. While many will be put off by the runtime, this is a must see movie that will stick with you forever and I do think it's the single most well shot and set epic I've ever seen. The scenery, sets, crowds and authenticity really is something to behold and this strongly deserves to be known as one of the best movies of all time. Have given it an 8 rather than a 10 due to the length (could have been about 30 mins shorter), the amount of religious tones that come into it which becomes a bit too much in my opinion, and lack of rewatchability as I don't know if I ever will rewatch it. Despite that though it's a classic everyone should see once.


                
William Wyler's powerful giant of a film is not only the most appealing and most bearable of Hollywood's classic biblical epics but also the most well made that I have seen. It does not rise above its kind, keeping in the genre and period tradition of grandiose exhibition and theatrical histrionics, nevertheless this glorious entertainment utilizes these characteristics as well as they could possibly be done within the boundaries of genre, formula and audience. Unlike a Cecil B. DeMille film like The Ten Commandments, exhibition is not exhibitionism but a depiction of its story's large and adventurous scale. Moreover, Wyler does not sacrifice his masterful deep-focus cinematography and gracefully dramatic cuts for the sake of blindsiding the audience with spectacle.The pure degree of this movie, this event, in the days before digitally produced crowds and computer-generated process shots, is almost beyond belief. The film's vivid color, for instance, is insatiable. The chief action sequence, the truly timeless chariot race, remains breathtaking after half a century of visual effects progression, no matter what the cost, even an actor's life. After all, he died for art!As one can see as a definite pattern in Wyler's filmography, Ben-Hur is a memorable revenge tale, one that skillfully avoids two-facedness alongside its religious message of forgiveness. A less than savory person but an undeniably fine actor, Charlton Heston stars as the title character, a Jewish prince whose childhood friendship, and suggested hues of homoerotic attraction, with Messala, played by Stephen Boyd, turns to hate when Messala becomes a Roman officer who willfully betrays him and his family in spite of their loving history together.There is dense substance that I took from the film. Not belonging to any Christian denomination or any religion at all, I found myself to be very enlightened by the film's portrayal of Christ's crucifixion from the perspective of characters not involved in the Bible's stories at all. Although the life of Christ is sketched from his birth to his veiled life to his communal sermonizing to his passion and death, we clearly see or hear him. By the end, I found myself understanding more clearly than ever of what the exchange really consisted when Jesus "died for our sins." It is portrayed exceptionally and naturally, just like the film's striking image of the redemptive crucifixion. At the same time, it is done so reverently that it even made the Vatican film list. I wonder if they knew the director was a Jew.


                
Recently I had the chance to view this film for a film review class I am taking. Prior to seeing it, I had heard many good things about the movie. It did not disappoint.The cast was phenomenal as was the direction. Visually, I loved watching many scenes unfold before my eyes, and I had trouble tearing my gaze away. Perhaps my favorite sequence was the famous chariot race. I will not go into too much detail, but it did not disappoint.I wish more movies were like this one. By this I mean that Ben-Hur has substance behind it. Some movies seem made just to blow stuff up, but this one has a depth that I do not feel in many movies. I felt wonder, and awe and I was struck by many powerful moments. A large reason I gave it an 8/10 is because I think a 10 is given out way to easily. This was a great movie, but not quite 10 material. Still, I love it all the same.


                
As a teen, watching this movie made me wish that other movies today were as good as this one. It had depth which movies today definitely lack. I enjoyed every second of this movie. I cannot wait to watch it again, even though it is rather long. This movie was suspenseful yet romantic. I loved when Messala found out that Ben-Hur was alive. And the chariot race was even better. I would sometime in my life, would like to read the novel and see if it is just as good as the movie. It was so funny seeing how they did the war scenes then and looking at war scenes now. And how the technology has changed so much. This movie had it's sad parts just like any other movie, with the Crucifixion, and Ben-Hur's family being lepers. But in the end it all turns out well, at least for his families sake. This movie had a great cast including Charleton Heston, one of the most renowned actors of his time. WE NEED MORE MOVIES LIKE THIS ONE!!
I consider "Ben Hur" an inspirational picture. Many of us are like Judah, in that we are so burned up with hate because of the injustice of the world. We feel lost and cry out to God during personal unfortunate events, and feel Him with us. The best scene in the film is when marched to the galleys, Judah cries out, "God, help me!", and our Lord gives him water. That does it for me! I have this movie on DVD, along with "King Of Kings", "The Robe" and "Jesus Christ Superstar", all of which I consider among the best Biblical movies ever made! The movie itself is basically historically and Biblically correct (even though it is a piece of fiction). However, there are a few inaccuracies here and there, which by no means take away from the grandeur of the film. First of all, the Romans had no concept of "emperor" as the word is understood today. The Roman "emperors" were imperial dictators with a variety of powers (based upon Latin words), which were bestowed upon them by the Senate. They have been labeled "emperors" because one of the titles the Senate gave was "imperator", which in Latin means, "commander-in-chief". The other inaccuracy is the very nature of Tiberius. He was far from the benevolent figure portrayed in this movie, or in "The Robe". Tiberius was a paranoid tyrant, who had members of his family murdered on suspicion of treason. As this film wrongly portrays, he was also never in Rome, but had a private villa on the island of Capri, and left most of the affairs of state to his Praetorian Prefect, Sejanus. Always suspicious, Tiberius opened what he called "treason trials" where rumored enemies of the state were tried, convicted and murdered in cruel and unusual manners.That aside, this film deserves 4 out of 5 stars in my book!


                
Ben Hur is a timeless classic set in Biblical times. Beautifully shot, performed, and written, this film has many memorable scenes and moments. The chariot race is one of those memorable, gripping scenes. Another touching scene is where Hur is offered water by the Jesus character - a scene that is referenced later in the film. In short, Ben Hur is a story about suffering and loss, and it is a story of love, hope, and miracles. It features love and betrayal, revenge and forgiveness. In fact, it has all of the elements which make a good film. The only problem that I had with this film is that it feels like it is two stories in one. While the majority of the film seems to focus around Hur's misfortune and finding a way to get back home, another story evolves upon his return home. Direction seems to be lost here, after Ben Hur comes back home and then decides to locate his missing mother and sister. This second story is more spiritual and turns the misfortunes of the Hur family around, so we get a pretty happy ending. In conclusion, Ben Hur is definitely one of those films that have to be seen at least once. Chances are, you will enjoy it as most people tend to rate this film highly.


                
Ben Hur has entered into the mythology of film-making. More than forty years on it still remains a magnificent achievement, overshadowing all other epics to date. Without the technology of today, without all those special effects cooked up on computers, William Wyler's great classic is unstoppable. Barely 16 when I first saw it, and just turning fifty when I last saw it: my reaction has not changed one little bit. It goes on being captivating, astounding, brilliant story-telling, fabulously filmed, artistically directed and acted, an enthralling colossal monument.And as for the famous chariot race there is nothing new I can add. Even today it is probably the most brilliant piece of filming ever carried out anywhere. It just does not last long enough! It still today ties my heart up in a tight fist and I stop breathing. Nothing is comparable.I have never given a ten out of ten to any film, but surely this is one that gets very very near. Oh, by the way - the book is pretty good, too.


                
This dramatic documentary is a great denunciation of the evil nature of the Roman empire. Their conquests were extremely brutal and merciless. We are all very grateful that Judah Ben Hur won the horse race against the evil Messala.The scene where we see the back of Jesus is a spiritual elevation experience for the soul...


                
It is no longer possible to make a film like Ben-Hur.  Oh, George Lucas tries with all his computerized graphics, but this is a REAL spectacle, not some virtual one.  8,000 extras, tens of thousands of costumes, a $15 million budget (in the 1950's!), massive sets depict the power of Rome on the grandest possible scale.  It took six years to complete production. When you think of this film, the chariot race sequence in the Roman Circus shines as one of the greatest sequences ever captured on film.  Yet, its focus remains sharply on the detail, the private human experience of it all. The story doesn't get lost in the enormous vision of the work.  Charlton Heston gives a sensitive and intelligent performance, as does most of the supporting cast.  Ben-Hur's 11 Oscar nominations has been equaled by very few films.  There have been similar efforts in the past (The Ten Commandments, Cleopatra, etc.) but nothing matches the dramatic intimacy balanced with the epic extravagance of Ben-Hur.  Truly a film in a class by itself.  Yet, when I show this film to my friends many of them fail to connect with it.  Much of the acting, dialog, and style seem dated today. That is why it is so important to treat a great film (as with great literature or <U+0096> indeed <U+0096> any art form) on its own terms and view it by the standards of its own time.  In doing so, one broadens one's understanding of what culture was like only a few decades ago and one develops a deeper appreciation of how culture is best reflected in art.   This leads to the enrichment of oneself not only through connection with the work in question, but through the development of an expanded vision of filmmaking that is sorely lacked when judging today's efforts.  Perspective is lacking today. Too many evaluate films without it.  By such faults `greatness' becomes a rather common commodity, cheapened, instead of the celebrated rarity that it truly should be.  There is no better film by which to attain a greater perspective on the art of making movies than a mindful viewing of Ben-Hur. 10/10.


                
One of the great movies of it`s genre,Simply one of the great injustices in Hollywood Oscar awards,not giving it to Stephen Boyd who almost steals the picture from Heston(who was terrific).The galley ships and the battles were great.Just flat out a classic.


                
I hadn't seen this since I was a kid, and got it to share with some kids I know.  I was really surprised how much is in the motion picture that I was too young/inexperienced to appreciate.  Also, my young friends were transfixed by it, as I was 40 years ago.  The strength of Charlton Heston's characterization of Judah Ben-Hur carries a lot of the weight, but is born not only from his acting, but from the original story.  I've been thinking of Heston the NRA president lately, and didn't remember how boldly he plays compassion on the screen.  Now, the whole reason i'm writing this comment: i can't even believe the chariot race.  How it must have been filmed.  And wrangled.  And played.  And edited.  I am watching it again and again, to see the skill of the equine actors especially.  And so gratified by the affectionate appreciation Judah Ben Hur gives his horses after the race. From the barren landscapes to the spare, beautifully photographed interiors, and then to the massive arena filled with spectators, this is a film to get the kids' imaginations into a reasonably depicted Roman Empire, into the history of conflicting cultures, and into human questions like loyalty and responsibility.  And Jesus was around.  Can't say he wasn't.


                
