This movie is directed by one of my favorite directors, Milos Forman. When I saw it, I expected it to be a great film.  Indeed, throughout most of the film, there was a strong theme being presented, and the film was well-made. At the end however, I expected there to be a great conclusion or a big pay-off.  But really, it kind of turned out to be an "Of Mice and Men" kind of story where two guys dream of going far away and living good lives. This did not really fit in with the movie.  However, another part of the conclusion was good where the main idea of the movie was strongly portrayed. I won't say what it is because I don't want to give any thing away, but it involves someone other than the main character dying.  So, I would say that the movie is good, but not great.  It does not measure up to Milos Forman's other films like Amadeus, Man on the Moon, and Hair.


                
the book was much better. vastly overrated here on imdb (it's #12 right now.) probably wouldn't make my top 100. If you like early Nicholson you should check out The Last Detail. I thought it was much better than Cuckoo's.
7/10


                
I am an avid reader, and adhere to the belief that books paint a much more beautiful portrait than a movie ever can. And so when I finished reading One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest, I rented the movie, because I heard that it is one of the greatest films ever made. The characters are well cast and Nicholson's performance is haunting, but I was too distracted by all the deviations from Ken Kesey's novel to enjoy it fully. I recommend this film, but would strongly suggest that anyone touched by it should read the book afterward. In this way a deep meaning can be imbibed from the film, and by reading the book, the meaning will be reaffirmed and solidified on a more grandiose scale.


                
I must admit, I seriously loved the movie and especially Jack Nicholson's unbelievable performance. However, after reading the book, my opinion has definitely diminished a bit. The screenplay seems to consist simply of events of action only. The best parts of the book were the emotional rollercoasters the patients go through. Most of the best parts of the book were completely left out erasing much of the battle between Ratchet and McMurphy. I also missed the use of p.o.v through Chief Bromden's eyes. Overall, it was a great movie with unbelievable acting, however a sadly mediocre script seemed to leave out a great emotional story with an unbelievable theme.


                
Multiple Oscar winner is an astounding, gripping piece, although occasionally the material allows too much showing off for its star and the four-letter dialogue coupled with the bleak material can be exhausting. A softened (albeit no less hard-hitting) film-adaptation of Ken Kesey's novel about sex-deviate Randle McMurphy (Jack Nicholson) sent to a mental institution instead of prison, quickly butting heads with the stony head-nurse on his ward (a hissable Louise Fletcher playing Nurse Wretched--uh, Ratched). Ostensibly a downer, the film does get a rousing kick from Nicholson, going full bore with an actor's relish and infusing the movie with unpredictable, kinetic energy. Director Milos Forman helps us get to know the patients at this hospital, easing us through the preliminaries and yet sparing us none of the ugliness. Still, this plot is a bit thin on the screen; Forman does his best to "open up" the material, which was first produced on the stage, but the sequence on the boat is more an emotion-based relief for the audience's benefit than a logical turn of the story. Tough-going, compelling film is occasionally brilliant, with Nicholson and Fletcher both winning Oscars, as did Forman and producer Michael Douglas. *** from ****


                
The movie, "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" directed by Milos Forman in 1975, was definitely seven out of ten stars. The movie, based upon the book, One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest by Ken Kesey, is an original novel coming to life. Words from a page are turned into a pleasing visual film that makes you sit on the edge of your seat. As a classic novel, the book does not follow the original written novel as closely, the main character changes from the book to the novel, and the emotions held within the novel are less-existing in the movie. The movie does not follow the book closely, leaving out key-events such as; the black boys seeming excited to take patients temperatures, or the event in which Mr. Harding's wife visits. Both of those events are not present in the film. The main character changes in the film, in the film, the main character is McMurphy, a wild man who is avoiding jail, while in the book, Chief Bromden is the main character; Chief Bromden tells the story through his eyes in the book, and this is not present in the film at all, instead Chief Bromden is rarely present within the film. Lastly, the emotions within the book are less-existing in the movie. In the book, mostly the emotions held are less pleasant and humorous, while in the film, the director tends to lean towards humor in the film. All of these reasons given further explain my reasoning for the rating I have given this movie. The movie does not follow the book, and after reading the book, this is disappointing, while the characters and their point-of-view changes as well, also the emotions shifts from the novel to the movie.


                
He was a big boy when he moved to Hollywood and start making some US movies, so am I surprised of this? No, really. It's great such as his older movies from Czechoslovakia. But one of the best as he ever directed in America.


                
The bad nurse who treats the mentally unstable without humanity was existing in reality. Not only the doctors or nurses in hospital, but also everyone within our society should show some mercy to the unfortunate people sometimes. People are very confusing when facing to themselves. We need to give each others some courage to go along life.
It makes me so sad that movies cannot be the same as books. I understand that it's an entirely different medium and all, but still. I was unfortunate enough to have watched the movie after reading the book. Unfortunate in that because of this the movie was disappointing for me. The book is so complex and emotionally moving, as well as mentally stimulating, that although the movie was good, it didn't even come close to being as memorable. If anyone asked me which was more worthwhile I would unflinchingly answer 'the book'. And if they did decide to do a remake of the film, I reckon Tom Waits would be way better casting for McMurphy than Nicholson.


                
The movie "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest," director Milos Forman, I would give it a 75% because of the characters, plot, and introduction. The introduction started out in how McMurphy had came into the asylum without being pushed to shower and he never got the shot on his butt. The introduction didn't introduce the black boys giving Chief the mop so he can clean up because he already had it in hand. The characters don't really show the condition they have as in personality wise and why they are there. They do mention in the group the problems of the characters but some characters you can't really figure out what condition they have. The plot of the movie didn't go as planned when they went fishing he never asked if they could go fishing. The doctor and chief were never involved in the fishing trip but chief did help McMurphy up when he wanted to go over the fence. Overall the movie and the book did correlate with each other at the end of the book everything with chief escaping went as planned.


                
I am talking about everything. Everything is great in this movie, but it lacks one important element that always satisfies me when I watch any kind of movie.NB: Because English is not my native language, perhaps I didn't understand the main idea of the movie. If so, please correct me. Until now however my review is a bit objective.Jack Nicolson rocks as well as every other thing. The missing element is the lack of resolution.The movie goes well, it tells you what's the problem is about. However, it does not solve the problem! Which means that the message is incomplete. Every movie must offer the problem to find the solution for it, but in this movie Jack Nicolson had the problem being sick, and all the time I've been expecting how he's going to get cured there. Though, I was disappointed.Probably the movie was meant to be realistic and surprise you with un-expected endings, but it's not about that. I noticed the problem the message of the movie is trying to reveal, where is the solution? That Jack Nicolson died? Is that it? Because of this crucial missing element, I couldn't give this movie more than 7. Perhaps the message is: Life Is Tough, but we all know that don't we? But when we watch a movie, we try to know something new about life; for example, how to solve Mc Murfy's sickness, in real-life cases.


                
"One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" feels like a movie lost in time because it is, a 1970s release set in the early 1960s, influenced by the late 1960s and, if the IMDb is an accurate measure (and I think it is) as popular today in a culture drastically different from those eras mentioned above.Why is it ranked below only 11 other movies all-time as of this writing? I have no idea. It's an incredibly well-acted film, by a cast of no-names who would go on to popular careers (and two who didn't, Brad Dourif and Louise Fletcher, give the best performances). It masterfully builds tension, unfocused at first, to a point where it is barely endurable. There's nice bits of comedy to leaven the proceedings.Jack Nicholson, whose lead performance as inmate R.P. McMurphy is also something of a title role, tells the director of the mental institution where he is being admitted that he got into trouble because he liked "fighting and f---ing" too much.Normally a Nicholson film would leave it there, letting you soak in his rude, rough nature. Here the official gives the expected embarrassed nod, then raises his eyebrows. "In prison?" he asks, and it's McMurphy's turn to blush.Ken Kesey's novel "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest" came out just as the Camelot period of the 1960s was ending, and signaled the start of the "do-your-own-thing" ethos that permeated the rest of the decade and which Kesey himself preached. All that was just about over by the time the movie came out, and the message of doing your own thing had found widespread acceptance only in its mutated, discofied, coke-addled form.The film is so committed to its gritty, realistic aesthetic that it never makes clear who to root for. McMurphy, more in the movie than the book, is out for himself, his interest in shaking up the inmates having less to do with any humanistic urges than a desire to have more interesting people around him to steal cigarettes from. Fletcher's Nurse Ratched is widely accepted as one of filmdom's great villainesses, except Fletcher's nuanced performance suggests someone more blinkered than bad, sincere in her concern for her charges, even McMurphy. When she does commit a rather harsh act late in the film, it's so out of character it feels like a cheat.Maybe I'd like this film more if I was a bigger Nicholson fan, like everyone else. Especially in the 1970s, he always seemed to play variations on the R.P. McMurphy character. I'd be more impressed with Nicholson's career if he played Nurse Ratched. But it's a good film, very tough in the way director Milos Forman plays off the texture of the famous documentary "Titicut Follies." The acting is so naturalistic it's like the actors never knew when the cameras were rolling and just improvised.It reminds me in that way of another film made in 1975, "Nashville." Me, I would have given "Nashville" the best picture Oscar over this. And I would have given "Jaws" the nod over both of them. But according to the voters of IMDb, the "Cuckoo's Nest" Oscar was one of the most deserved in history. Agree to disagree; it's a good film, whatever era it's supposed to be about.


                
This eclectic tale of a sane man pretending to be 'insane' in order to gain a lighter sentence manages to make a few poignant commentaries on society, freedom and acceptance while also maintaining a dark core story that isn't afraid to be bleak but also isn't afraid to be fun. 'One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest (1975)' keeps a lighthearted and free-spirited tonality that allows for the more pessimistic points to have extra punch whilst never spoiling its overall 'live free' message. The fact that it is so free-flowing can sometimes lead to a lax pacing, however, and the increasingly tiresome escapades of the protagonist can become a little, well, tiresome after a while. The film ends up as an affecting and memorable experience, though, one that highlights the 'odd' in 'oddball' but makes it work wholesale with an amazing central performance from Nicholson alongside some surprisingly super supporting performances - including a few familiar faces, too. 7/10


                
There are a fair few people who commented on this film that don't understand the ending. This is understandable, as when you watch the film the only conclusion you can make is that the chief is putting McMurphy out of his misery. This is not the intention I perceived the book to mean, but this is a review of the film.In all, this is a rather empty film. There isn't a lot of subtle change in the characters, which is a shame, as the more obvious changes leave the audience feeling confused (due to the lack of noticeable time lapse). This film also leaves questions unanswered, such as McMurphy's initial bet that he could break the big nurse within a week, and the doctor's love of fishing. There was also too much concentration on the board group, who really didn't do anything, and not enough development put into the Chief, the narrator of the whole story (originally).The character of Billy was the only emotional input into the film and maybe Harding's anger. The directors choice of condensing the story so a number of major events happen at once was questionable, but it worked well overall.My advice is not to judge the story based on the film. It really doesn't do the book justice and I recommend it to everyone.
Randle Patrick McMurphy is committed to a mental institution, when he thinks he doesn't need to be there. He causes havoc on the place, but especially on the head Nurse Ratched (Louise Fletcher). Some of the people he lives with is Harding (William Redfield), Martini (Danny DeVito), Sefelt (William Duell), Bancini (Josip Elic), Cheswick (Sydney Lassick), and Taber (Christopher Lloyd).I really had no idea what to rate this movie: it's dramatic but not too dramatic, it's funny but not too funny. I felt inspired, but I had many complaints about it. First off, I felt like it didn't have a central plot. IMDb.com says: `A man sent to a mental hospital finds the head nurse a lot more dangerous than the other patients.' I agree, but we really have no connection between the two. Besides a few arguments, we have nothing to back that up. If it was concentrated more on that than on unnecessary sidetrips, such as when Randle took everyone on a field trip fishing. I see that that shows how he's connecting and how crazy he's becoming, but if it had been removed so more of the initial plot could come underway, it would have helped.Even without music for a lot of the time, I felt like I was being touched by this movie, mainly at the end. However, it doesn't have a central message or theme. It was heart wrenching at times, even over the littlest things, but for a lot of the time it was just `a movie'. I don't want you to think the wrong thing, I enjoyed and liked this movie.Nicholson, who is McMurphy, was excellent yet again. Fletcher was good, but would have been better if she was in more scenes, considering she's the second largest star of the film. She, as Ratched, wanted routine and routine only. I didn't really think she was `dangerous', but if it had been a longer movie, it could have worked. I thought that all of the mental patients were great, especially Lloyd (it was his debut, as was DeVito's).I did notice a few things that I didn't think would happen in real life. First, I wouldn't think that they would allow smoking in a hospital. Also, I noticed that throughout the entire movie, McMurphy didn't have the hospital gowns that everyone else had. Other than that, I would have to say that this movie is very good, but many flaws.My rating: 7/10Rated R for language, violence, and mental themes.


                
This movie hasn't been made for everyone. You have to be very mentally strong to take the destruction of human dreams and hopes this film represents. In fact it's but a symbol of the fight of a person against a whole world, a society (our society)which don't understand those who are different. The efforts of the main character to make happy everybody around him are responded with manipulation, even in the use of democracy, torture, and finally, the total killing of the personality, which leads him to a tragic end.


                
6.8/10 "One Flew Over A Cuckoo's Nest" is a serious, but sometimes humours movie based on the book, though you can tell several differences that I did and didn't like. The first part that I didn't like is the pacing. At first the pacing seems pretty normal, but during the end, which I won't spoil, has an extremely fast pace. My second issue is how the movie sometimes goes way off the book. In the book there are certain events like Cheswicks's death, or that Chief went fishing with them that happened in the book didn't happen in the movie. For my third thing, I did like the actors that were in it. In the movie Jack Nicholson really brought the movie to life, and brought some of the parts in the movie rememberal. In the ending, while the movie had its flaws, it was a humorous movie that you will remember for a long time.
Felon Randle McMurphy (Jack Nicholson) gets sentenced to a term at a mental asylum. He is not really insane but pleaded insane to avoid a harsher sentence. Once inside he discovers that it is no picnic, with the patients being ruled with an iron fist by oppressive head nurse Nurse Ratched. The naturally free-spirited, rebellious and extroverted McMurphy livens up the place, making confrontation with Ratched inevitable.Good, original movie. Decent dramatic plot with some great humorous detours. Maybe a bit too linear and basic to make it brilliant, but very entertaining nevertheless.Won the 1976 Best Picture Oscar. Also won Best Director (for Milos Forman), Best Leading Actor (Jack Nicholson), Best Leading Actress (Louise Fletcher) and Adapted Screenplay (Lawrence Hauben & Bo Goldman), making it the first movie since It Happened One Night in 1934 to win all 5 major awards at the Oscars.


                
In the book, story follows a man who is sent to prison for rape of a 15 year old girl, this part is not mentioned in the movie.Did not understand and appreciate the message in the movie first. I had to read reviews and articles on the movie to understand that the author was talking about life in general. Its not about the mental asylum only. It was fun to watch Danny DeVito play one of his first roles. Pace of the movie is excellent. Liked excellent portrayal of Nurse Ratched. Some excellent camera angle work can be appreciated. You feel attached to the patients due to their acting skills. Even the ending is not straight forward one has to conceptualize and understand why and what happened. This is one of the great film endings.


                
Entertaining, but felt it dragged a bit and did not capture the intense hatred towards the nurse, nor the inner world of the "chief". Fairly good adaptation however would not put this so high (16/29 ; 8.7). Perhaps it was revolutionary for it's time in the 70's. Still a good movie and worth the watch but if this movie can be in the top 20, what about cool hand Luke, good the bad and the ugly, Butch Cassidy etc p.s. , realise the movie is never the same as the book and I also loathe it when people say the " not as good as the book", but I feel the movie missed the real inner world of the chief and the vile nature of the nurse. Jack played an excellent role in the lead.


                
One Flew Over the Cukoo's Nest: well-acted, compelling, funny, and symbolic, but 5 main Oscar- worthy? I don't think so. Nichols gave a masterful performance (as he usually does), and was well-deserving of his award, but though Louise Fletcher was very effective as the cruel nurse, I didn't think her performance should garner a best actress nomination, let alone a win in the prestigious category. At best I think it could possibly have deserved a nomination for best supporting actress, and, in my opinion, that would be generous. Very solid ensemble cast, almost any one of the patients on the ward could've been nominated for best supporting actor. The story worked well, I was intrigued from the start. I loved all of the scenes with the ward meetings; the performers seemed to feed off one another and they all worked very well. Cukoo's nest also had its humorous moments and its surprises, and of course the psychological struggle for power between Nicholson and Fletcher, but ultimately failed to wow me. However, I still recommend it, it is without a doubt still a very well-made film.


                
This movie is simply about a man who has committed a crime to be sentenced to a mental hospital for evaluation if there is anything wrong with him. In the meantime, he bonds with the patients, gets on the bitch nurse's bad site and plans on escaping.This movie is good for what it is. The cast do very solid performances (I'm still wondering who's the best actor out of the lot) and it is well made and possibly heart-warming for some of the viewers (of which I can see why the high ranking on the Top 250 would be the case) although there are one or two instances of it being anything but heart-warming. Stuff like Billy's suicide and the ending.So is this worth a look? Yes it is. But in my opinion this is not worth the hype.
The 1975 movie, ¨One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest¨ directed by Milos Forman is a moderate movie because of the characters, how it follows the book, and the emotional connection is lacking between the book and the movie.
The characters are played well by the actors, but some of the characters changed in the movie. An example of this is that Chief is not a main character. The movie moderately follows the book written by Ken Kesey, but if you have read the book and loved it, then you may be a tad bit disappointed with the movie. You may be asking why? Well, one of the main characters, McMurphy, doesn't have red hair in the movie which is the one of the main reasons why people first notice him. The book makes the characters more memorable than in the movie.


                
One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest is a serious toned movie, with some mildly disturbing themes, but also has its moments of light hearted humour. The movie is of course based on the book, but without spoiling anything, I can say that they have multiple differences and many small things are left out or not properly explained. Without reading the book first, understanding some of the characters and the ending may be difficult or just confusing. OFOTCN is a solid movie with excellent acting, Jack Nicholson is always a plus, but is lacking in production value and a clear direction. It isn't clear what everyone's intentions are until towards the end of the film we get an idea of what just some of the characters want. The music isn't memorable and the movie's visuals having nothing especially different or specifically appealing about them. Another minor complaint is that the nurse never truly felt evil in the movie as she did in the book. In the movie, she seems to be a woman just doing her job rather than a control freak constantly abusing her powers. The hospital is an evil place as in the book, but it never truly feels evil like in the book. Chief explains things in the book through his own mind that allows us to see the hospitals "true colors" and understand just how evil it is. Without Chief's narration in the movie or any other visual symbolism, the hospital is just... a hospital. The viewer sees what it is from the outside and you can see how the inmates live, but seeing the hospital through their eyes at any point would've made for a much more interesting and in depth experience. When reading the book, I thought of the asylum as like the prison from Shawshank Redemption, which is an excellent film sharing many of the same themes. A truly evil place with a twisted leader, but the movie just doesn't deliver what the book constructed so well.


                
The movie, "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" directed Milos Forman in 1975, is an interesting interpretation based off the book and should receive a 7.1 out of 10. I will first start with the negatives of this movie that brought its score down a bit. As director Milos Forman did make it his own by changing up the script from the book, I think this negatively affected the movie. I feel as though Chief wasn't as involved in parts of the movie, and it makes it odd when he and McMurphy all of a sudden strike up an unlikely friendship. This would have been explained a lot better if Chief would've been allowed to go on the fishing trip and start bonding with the guys a little more. Also, Cheswick does not die in the movie, and the other inmates do not leave the ward at the end as they do in the book. I feel as though this takes away from the harsh life of the ward and the reason why McMurphy wanted out so bad in the end. What "OFOTCN" lacked in plot, it made up for in casting. The actors in this movie were quite fabulous. Jack Nicholson made a perfect McMurphy in my opinion and Will Sampson was the Chief I had pictured in my head all along. The movie kept excelling with its cast by sprinkling in actors such as Danny Devito as Martini, Christopher Lloyd as Taber, and Brad Dourif as Billy Bibbit. These actors fit their own "insane" quirks with perfection and couldn't have done a better job. "OFOTCN" kept the excellence going with its special effects. Lastly, I believe that the special effects in this movie exceeded its 1975 dating. Usually when one watches an older movie like this, you can see the cheesy special effects come into play. I thought that the boat scene with the water splashing everywhere was done very well. Also, all of the blood that came into play in the movie was very well done and didn't look fake as it so often does. In conclusion, "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest" was a above average film by a slight margin. If someone asked me the exact words I would use to describe the quality of this movie, I would promptly say that it was "pretty decent," no more, no less.


                
