The reason why this first part of Jackson's 'Lord of the Rings' is superior to his latter two parts is because of restraint. Jackson was restrained from over doing it with the CGI and "epic" battle sequences, which in my opinion does not make a story epic. Part of the reason was simply because Tolkien did not have very many battles in the first part of his book, which thankfully forced Jackson to focus on creating a believable world rather than a believable hack-n-slash action movie.I don't find much entertainment in watching people mutilate each other, but I love it when a movie engages me in a world, and 'The Fellowship of the Ring' does just that. Certainly the most breathtaking scenes in the movie are the moments of patient observation, when the camera pans around and captures the beautiful settings of Middle Earth. I must give Jackson credit. He did hire some very extraordinary artists that have envisioned one of the grandest interpretations of Tolkien's world.There are about five particular moments that stick out in my mind and gave me that tingle of goosebumps down my spine when I saw them for the first time. The first is the introduction to Hobbiton. After the somewhat awkward prologue, I was beginning to have my doubts to whether the movie would live up to the book. But the movie surprised me. Hobbiton is perfect. The houses have flower patches and old fences, the roads look worn and made through decades of travel, and the Old Mill spins with the laziness of a quiet town. Every color is vibrant and every moment looks as through it was taken out of a picture book. Although I still don't agree with the particular look of the Hobbits, I believe everything else in Hobbiton is worthy of Tolkien's words.The second moment comes after Frodo's awakening in Rivendell, and the third, during the exploration of the Halls of Moria. In both moments, the camera pans away from the characters and outward into a static shot of their surroundings. The moments make us feel like we're turning our heads and gazing at the world around us just as the characters do. The golden waterfalls of the elven city mark an interesting contrast with the dark halls of the dwarfish mines, but each are inspiring in their own ways and add to feeling of being engaged in a living world.My other favorite moments come during the exploration of Lothlorien and the passage down the Anduin. And while I won't go into detail about the scenes, since they really should be experienced without any prior expectations, they are monuments in imaginative cinema. 'The Fellowship of the Ring' is one of those rare movies that I always wish I could reexperience for the first time. Unfortunately, Jackson turned away from exploring Middle Earth in his next two movies, and instead, turned to fighting and warfare. He seems to take a lot of pride in the love story and battle sequences he created in 'The Two Towers' and 'The Return of the King,' but it is was in his first movie when he really got it right. In 'The Fellowship of the Ring,' it's okay if the characters are uninteresting and have silly dialogue. Middle Earth is the star, and the characters are the ones seeing it for the first time.


                
If you want to know how to do the impossible, watch Peter Jackson's Fellowship of the Ring. When I was growing up, I thought no one could translate such a sweeping book onto the screen successfully, and yet the man who brought us Bad Taste has done it. Just so you know in advance, the film takes plenty of liberties with the story; no Old Forest, Bombadil, Barrow Wights or Glorfindel. No Wargs in the wilderness - and you have to wait until the third film to see Narsil re-forged. In fact if the film has a serious fault it is that so much of the story is cut, it could leave the audience breathlessly hurtled from one action sequence to another - dazed, and maybe (if you haven't read the book) even a bit confused. But what the film does so successfully is recreated the atmosphere of the story - rather impressive considering the film is shorn of much of the textual richness found in the book. As someone who has read LoTR more times than a man of sound judgement ever should, I found myself more engrossed in the story than I had been for years. The film gets its atmosphere from the scenery, the camera-work and some beautifully adept computer enhancement. In many cases the characterisation was also richer than the original - both Aragorn and Arwen are significantly more "human" than in the novel, as is Gandalf. Tolkien's heroes are often to perfect to be truly interesting - after all, in Mallory, it is no co-incidence that Galahad finds the Grail, but two thirds of the book is about Tristan and Lancelot. In Jackson's LoTR we see the human frailties of the characters; Aragorn's self doubt, Gandalf's fear, Elrond's unconcern (basically, "you deal with it Gandalf, I'm off on holiday with all the other elves"). This is not to say the film is without its flaws. Whoever decided that elves needed...tooo...speak ....sooo.....slowly clearly needs shooting - as does the guy who thought that a WWF-style wrestling match between Gandalf and Saruman was a good idea. Indeed there are a number of moments when a lighter directorial touch would have been better. Galadriel's demon-witch impression, for example, or Gandalf's power-vocalisation at the Bridge of Khazad-Dum. Merry and Pippin have a rather disconcerting resemblance to Ant and Dec (all three films show an astonishing heightism, more of which later). Nevertheless, this film is an enormously impressive attempt do something I though next to impossible. At over three hours it was a long, but thoroughly enjoyable, action/fantasy film; it makes Star Wars looks like the kind of tenth-rate kiddie movie it is. And the best thing is, the special addition is even better. So not perfect, but 8/10 anyway
Beautiful environments with lovely costumes combined with superb characters and and an intense story...the result: The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring.Don't let the 3 hour + running time scare you of, like so many long movies it's very well worth seeing. Never has a fantasy world looked so realistic as in Lord of the Rings. All the sets are very detailed and have a realistic feeling as well as the characters and the different races of Middle Earth.The greatest strength of this movie is not the story itself. The story itself is actually pretty simple, basically it's just about the Ring and the quest to destroy it. No, the greatest strength are the characters, the look of Middle Earth and the action sequences. Rarely has an adventure movie looked so good and has been so tense and enjoyable to watch.But let's not over praise it, the movie has it flaws and weak spots. There are some unnecessary and boring scene's (especially in the Extended Edition) but for an 3 hour + movie that's maybe just unavoidable. And no matter how awesome everything looks, the special effects aren't always top-class, I'm a firm believer that the movie would have been better if ILM provided the special effects. But let's not judge the movie for what it could have been but let's judge it for what it is. Also, sometimes the Hobbits (Sam, Pippin and Merry) are border line irritating. Another thing that disturbed me was the editing, in my opinion it was extremely bad done in some of the scene's (For instance in the wizards battle between Gandalf and Saruman) but having some editing experience myself I might pay extra attention to this things...But in this case all those flaws and weak spots are forgiven, for The Fellowship of the Ring truly is a wonderful movie that you simply must have seen at least once in your life.Already a classic!9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
The lord of the rings- the fellowship of the ring is one of my favorite movies of all time. The special effects are amazing and the scenarios absolutely magical. The movie it's not very truthful to the book, and don't mention a lot of important characters, but still it really captures the universe of Tolkien. It has action, comedy and romance all perfectly together. I couldn't ask for a better director for this movie, Peter Jackson as a sci-fi geek as he is did his best to make a perfect adaptation of the book. the movie is long but it's worth it, and real fans will ask for more. The actors were very well chosen, specially Elijah Wood who did an amazing job playing Frodo Baggins. I recommend it to real sci-fi fans or to people who love good movies.


                
J.R.R Tolkein's books are wonderful, with memorable characters, an enchanting atmosphere, strong narrative and dialogue and an epic story. Peter Jackson's trilogy mayn't be necessarily true to them, but it does have the memorable characters, the epic story and enchanting atmosphere that the books do. The Fellowship of the Ring is probably the weakest of the three, but it is a very solid start. It is I agree slower in pace to the other two, and there are some talky scenes that drag it down a tad.However, I cannot deny that this is a great film. One of the many strong assets of this picture are the visuals. The cinematography is marvellous, the costumes are splendid, the effects are great, the makeup is immaculate and the scenery is fantastic especially with Rivendell which was like a Utopia. There is also the score, what an amazing score. As much as I do like Howard Shore, his scoring for the Lord of The Rings trilogy is his most memorable for me and probably his most complex as well. There are so many beautiful and haunting parts here, sometimes even at the same time, as well as the charming Hobbits theme, the ethereal theme played while at Rivendell and the sinister bombastic sounds while at Mordor.Now I am not going to say that Peter Jackson is a bad director or an outstanding director, but he has directed some wonderful films especially Heavenly Creatures, and this is no exception, where he does a very capable job directing. The story still has its epic scope, with standouts being the confrontation between Gandalf and Sarouman, the scene in the mines with Balrok and Boromir's death scene. I also liked the pursuit of Frodo and Arwyn and Frodo with the Black Riders which was beautifully shot. Then there is the dialogue, which on the whole is excellent, Gandalf in my personal opinion gets the best of it.And the acting is very good. I do think Frodo is developed more in the sequels than here, but Elijah Wood does do a likable enough job here, while Sean Astin's bumbling yet well meaning persona suits Sam well. Cate Blanchett is a lovely Galadriel, and Liv Tyler is stunning as Arwyn. And then there is Christopher Lee, whose presence always ensures that the performance is going to be good, and indeed it was, and Ian Holm is very good as Bilbo. Sean Bean also does well with Boromir, and John Rhys Davies is a welcome presence. Aragorn like Frodo is developed more in the sequels than here, here he is more brooding and charismatic above all else. Not a bad thing really, as Viggo Mortenssen does do that very well. The standout though is Ian McKellen, who is an absolute revelation as Gandalf, the delivery to the camera, the delivery of the lines, perfectly judged. In fact the only real weak link in the cast is Orlando Bloom, yes he is dashing and handsome, but in the process he does come across as a little uncharismatic and bland.In conclusion, a great start. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
A year before this came out I was reading the Lord of the Rings books one summer. It felt a little vague but I was interested by all the fantasy themes and the origins of most contemporary fantasy sagas, especially those under the Dungeons and Dragons brand. Elves, dwarves, hobbits, trolls, spirits, wizards, warriors, and rogues are all in here. I'd hoped there would be more good fantasy films after the 1980s' Willow and this was what we got. As the first film it really sets up the story for an epic series. Lots of good visuals and breathtaking vistas from New Zealand, whose landscapes are untouched by modern technology. Plus, there's a cast of likable stars. John Rhys-Davies, Ian McKellen, Sean Astin, and Ian Holm all contributed to this major event. The dwarves and the hobbits were just as good as the others and brought some comic relief to the story. If you're in the mood for a trilogy that could rival even Star Wars, this should be it!


                
The film that birthed a huge franchise, and for me this is easily the best. For me, the magic of something reduces the more you see it, and so future films just don't wow you in quite the same way. The slow building and exposition elements here are justified since it is our first taste of this world on screen. This applies to all the Lord of the Rings films, as they all have the same strong suits. The music is flawless. The film looks amazing, it's an absolute treat to watch. The world is perfectly realised and believable. Many of the characters are charismatic and fun, and all are performed well, by a very talented cast.Being the opening, this was the best suited of the three to be a film structurally. It's paced far better than any other, and keeps you moving through with evenly distributed character introductions, talky bits and big set pieces. I felt the early moments of this film featuring the Hobbits and the Nazgul were unique in tone for the franchise, and were filled with genuine menace. This film is also better humored than the other two, that are a bit more drawn out and harrowing.All in all this is one of the best blockbusters there has ever been, and perhaps one of the last truly impressive spectacle films if we keep moving towards CGI dependence which is much less work but also much less impressive.Nine out of Ten.


                
A very nice movie. Actually I liked the movie very much. Its a unique creation of director and writer.Sometimes its magical sometime its action. It also show us massages. It has three series all of them are amazing. And Its other parts Hobbit also a good movie. I will advise all to watch this movie once. Many of us may not like the beginning. Be patient. wait and watch full movie. Watch all the series then only you can understand the whole story. Its dialogs and script both are great. Graphics is also a nice. Story is strong and unique. Actor have performed their best. Some time you will find funny and sometime you will find sorrow. But I am sure you will enjoy this movie.


                
Let me start by saying that I've never read the books. During my childhood I belonged to the legion that read the works of Tolkien's friend and rival, C S Lewis and the Narnia Chronicles.  They got my imaginative juices flowing and I stepped over Tolkien's work.  The films came out and I had been aware of Peter Jackson's work but with all the furore and lack of money at the time I held back from seeing it for at least two months. Eventually I watched it, enjoyed it but it didn't set me on fire.  My favourite scene, Boromir's last stand, lingered in my mind and over time the desire to see it again grew.  The DVD came out and I looked forward to sitting down with my to brother (who had not seen it) to watch again. Wow ! 2nd time around this thing blew my mind.  Whether it was because I then knew the story and could enjoy the characters and appreciate everything else I don't know but it just rocked my world.  I was like a love sick pup with a constant smile on my face enjoying every scene.  I tell you this tale to qualify my praise and make clear that I wasn't a tolkien fan from the start.Peter Jackson has opened my eyes to this world.  I don't know how faithful he's been (and I don't really care) but you can tell from the passion involved and the love heaped on this film that he takes it seriously and is not out to make a fast hollywood buck.  I purchased the normal DVD and recently got the extended version which is even more fantastic. I don't feel cheated and owning both is worth every penny.  The film itself is great.  The characters are rich and full, well written and well acted.  I can't really say I have a favourite but Gimli definetly comes out better in the extended version and I am looking forward to seeing his developing friendship with the others and his painfully sweet adoration of Galadriel.  The relationship between Boromir and Aragorn is very well played, again displaying real depth and makes Boromir's sacrifice and Aragorn's renewed faith in man all the more powerful.  In fact the film deals with the whole range of human emotions and knowing that they will be developed even more over the course of the next two films just warms your heart. The action scenes are great and with real time invested in the characters you feel all the more tense and involved.  The world Jackson has created is lush and wonderful with special effects serving and enhancing but NOT dominating the story.  The musical score is perfection, complimenting the film at every turn.  Indeed my favourite scene with Boromir owes much of it's brilliance to the beautiful music that accompanies it.  I am wrapped up in this world and although desperate to see the next two am also slowly savouring the whole heady experience.  For those that haven't got it I cannot recommend the extended version enough, it takes what you love and just adds more.In summary this film is a joy to watch and Peter Jackson's direction and story telling is assured and confident.  For the first time ever I'm preparing myself to enter a theatre and observe two films without any thoughts of whether I could have done it better.  I have total confidence in Peter to deliver what I need to see and knowing his cast & crew's passion for the project I know they will deliver.  It took me time to appreciate this beauty and elevate it to my favourite all time film but sometimes you have to step back and look again to observe real genius.


                
This is a great film, unlike most films that are the first part of a trilogy you really do have to watch the remaining films to get the most out of the story as there is no sense of closure at the end of the film, it is merely the end of one part of their quest and the beginning of the next. This is not a bad thing; just make sure you'll have enough time to watch all three films fairly close together. The film is very long but I don't think there were any scenes that could have been removed or trimmed so the length is justified.I think the film followed the book fairly well, although I confess it has been a while since I read it. After a short prologue where we are given a history of The Ring. We then find ourself in the Shire, the home of the Hobbits; the wizard Gandalf has come to attend a birthday party for his old friend Bilbo Baggins. During the party Bilbo announces that he is going to be leaving the Shire, he then slips a ring onto his finger and vanishes into thin air. When he takes the ring off again he is confronted by Gandalf who tells him he must leave the ring behind when he goes as it is dangerous.Unfortunately his use of the ring has been noticed by the evil Sauron who has dispatched nine wraiths; horsemen who's sole purpose is to retrieve the ring for their master. Gandalf instructs Bilbo's nephew Frodo to take the ring to Elves at Rivendell. On the way he and three Hobbit friends meet up with a mysterious man who helps them flee from the riders although Frodo is wounded and needs the Elves to recover. At Rivendell the group learn that their quest is not over, they must continue on to Sauron's land of Mordor where they can finally destroy the ring. The group are joined by Gandalf, an Elf called Legolas, Gimli the Dwarf and a man called Boromir.This film doesn't go as far as Mordor, in fact it only shows the first part of the journey which will see our heroes battling Orcs, other strange creatures and their own desire for the power the ring may bring; not all of the group will survive.As this is a fantasy film they are a lot of special effects, thankfully they are so well done that they don't look like effects even though we know they must be, I especially liked how they made the hobbits look so small, had I not seen the actors in other films it would have been almost possible to believe that the actors really were that short. Peter Jackson did a great job on this film getting a good performance from all his actors; a combination of well known veteran actors and young actors who will probably go onto be stars although I suspect this is the film they will be remembered for.
Truly an amazing film - A mile-stone in cinema history, and, I think, could never be re-made to such a standard of which we know The Lord Of The Rings to be. Well done there Pete! Who could have thought you could make a film of such momentous talent from the best book that the world has ever seen. It is my all time favourite - ranking high no.1, and there, I anticipate, it shall stay forever. That is unless you can beat the best, while the years of my life slowly fade into an unwritten history. I think that it was Sam who was the REAL hero. Out of the three, The Fellowship rules on high - winning only by a neck over The Return of the King.


                
What a good movie! I have seen both this and the two towers in the theater, and may I say that that it is a one of a kind experience. My mom said that Star Wars was the best she saw in the theater. And I guess Lord of the Rings is our generation's Star Wars. It's impossible not to see this movie. You have to watch it. Otherwise, you're missing out on a wonderous movie.The Lord of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring9/10


                
The Fellowship of the Ring is one of the greatest films of modern times, and definitely should not be missed. Peter Jackson proved with this movie that he was not just a "splatter director" that couldn't handle such an epic project. In fact, he showed the world that he was the ONLY one who could handle it.Tolkien's first chapter, the Fellowship of the Ring, has young Frodo Baggins being entrusted to take the Ring to Rivendell. At Rivendell, he is called upon to take the Ring to the heart of Mordor, to destroy it, taking with him a group of comrades who shall aid him on his journey. Along the way are Orcs, dangerous creatures and the harsh natural environment; a perilous journey for any intelligent being. Tolkien's story is regarded as one of the finest pieces of fictional literature. So how does Peter Jackson's adaption fare? Everything is superb.The cast truly take on the role of their characters, and you couldn't imagine anyone else playing their parts (three cheers for not casting Sean Connery!). In fact, when you watch the movie, you don't see actors: you see the characters on their fateful journey to destroy the One Ring. Very few movies can do such a thing.The script is nothing short of masterful, that Tolkien should be proud. Fran Walsh, Phillipa Boyens and Peter Jackson have done a marvelous adaptation. Be it comical, sincere, or depressing, all the emotions Tolkien had weaved into "Fellowship" are here in full force. It is wonderful that the actors bring these emotions forward well.Visually, "Fellowship" shines like no other before it. Weta bring all the special and computer effects to life, rivaling even Industrial Light and Magic and Digital Domain. It is a shame that Peter Jackson didn't win Best Director from the Oscars for this, because this film is more memorable than whatever film won that back in 2002. From the sets of Hobbiton to Rivendell, each and every one is believable. The Dwarven Moria is dark, ancient and worn, whilst the Elvish haven of Lothlorien looks timeless and pristine. Kudos to Alan Lee and John Howe for conceptualizing and bringing to life what Tolkien only described.Howard Shore has done an amazing job on the musical score. His work on all three films could easily rival that of John William's Star Wars. An orchestra plays softly over sentimental moments, whilst the choir chants over big battle sequences; Shore has everything covered.Action junkies won't find much luck here: Although the action pieces in this film have never been on a scale like this before, they are few and far between. But the fight scenes that are there are nothing short of fabulous.The only gripe one could have against this film is that it clocks in at 3 hours: the extended edition being 20 minutes or so longer. Unless you have a very short attention span, you won't even mind it being this long, because every shot is just as intriguing as the previous one.Easily a must see and definitely a defining epic of our time. 10/10


                
This, the first of the three films has suffered in some eyes by not having a conclusion, but unlike such venerated trilogies before as 'Star Wars' or 'The Matrix'. These films are not collections of adventures in the lives of our heroes, these three are in fact one. They really cannot be judged individually as it would be like choosing The Booker Prize based on a random selection of chapters. This film would really take place in the first 30-40 minutes of a normal film.'The Fellowship of the Ring' opens the tale with the setting of the story, and the introduction of the main protagonists. The central ones here are not the mighty heroes Aragorn, Legolas, Gandalf et all, but the tiny little everyman-heroes Frodo and Sam. For it is only these Hobbits, who desire nothing more than to be left in the shire with full tankards, full pipes and most importantly full bellies, who have any hope of resisting the One Ring. For it is this lack of ambition to achieve great things and do great deeds that leaves the ring with little to latch on to in an attempt to control it's wielder and return to it's master. Its more profound effects on Gandalf, Aragorn, Galadriel and most especially Boromir prove this well.The action scenes and effects do not, as in may other cases, drive the film but enhance a well told story and there are plenty of elements for fans of the books to note.Deviations form the book do occur, as in all films it is impossible to fit the detail of many books into film although a better effort is made here than with films like Starship Troopers and most Bond Films. The deviations here can at least be justified for the most part, such as giving Glorfindel's role to Arwen in order to introduce the love story between the Evenstar and the Ranger/King Strider, and the skipping past of the whole Tom Bambadill section of the story (although there is no indication that it did not happen, we just don't need to see 100 pages where the book grinds to a halt for very little reason). The most impressive however is the subtle changes to the Mines of Moria sequence. Far more action takes place here than in the book but the visuals and the coming together of the members of the Fellowship as they are sorely tested for the first time gives birth tot the basis of other parts of the two instalments to follow. I also like here the decision to show the noble end of Boromir rather than just letting the remainder of the fellowship discover his corpse surrounded by fallen Uruk's but allowing him to redeem his honour in defence of Merry and Pippin after succumbing to the Ring's grasp so fiercely at Amon Hen.Peter Jackson has been quoted as saying that he could quite happily have made the full stories but this film in its self would have been over twelve hours long.I loved the books and also the films with equal measure. The cast fit emotionally and spiritually (if not, in reality, physically) their roles, the score was damn near perfect and the direction almost flawless. The only things missing are parts Two and Three.
I first saw TFOTR in cinemas and walked out after about 20 mins into the movie because of not getting enough sleep the previous night. A year later, I watched the first sequel and understood nothing. Now, when I went back to viewing the entire trilogy from the beginning, I was touched. It is without doubt, the most engrossing, the most entertaining, the most powerful and the most beautiful trilogy ever made. The characters are awesome, and the battles are breathtaking! Even when there is dialogue, it is captivating and keeps the tension towards the battles...building rapidly. Also brilliant is the score from Howard Shore.All in all, the greatest trilogy ever made! (Yes, even better than Star Wars).


                
As a lover of the book of long standing, some 22 years it was with a mix of trepidation and anticipation that I viewed this film. I had had my ticket for several weeks for the earliest showing in my region and the day off work booked. The only draw back was a late arrival back from Malta which meant that I got to bed at 5am on opening day and my ticket was for 10 am. This meant that Pro Plus and coffee were the order of the day, but I would not miss this film for the sake of sleep.Prior to the performance the cinema was playing the Beatles and I saw the SW ep 2 trailer for the first time, a confluence of 2 of my other great loves and obsessions.From the opening scene I was hooked and knew that Peter Jackson had produced a masterpiece as my eyes drank in the rich detail of the depiction of the bucolic nature of Shire life. As a fan I saw the small faults, the glossing over of 17 years between the departures of Frodo and Bilbo and the absence of Bombadill. However I also realised that this was a adaptation of the masterpiece and was functioning for a different medium so should be judged as a stand alone not as the book, I can re-read the book anytime that I wish.As the film progressed my expectations were surpassed beyond all hope culminating in the scenes in Moria which were simply the most exciting scenes I had seen on a screen up until that time. Remember when Sean Bean as Boromir says " They have a cave troll " we simply accept the existence of such a creature without question. We were IN Middle Earth!Over the next few days as I considered the experience my conclusions remained the same. This was a success beyond all hope, Aragorn was brought to life, Galadriel was terrible and beautiful but I believed that the character most brought to life was Sam Gamgee by Sean Astin


                
I have imagined every scene in the Lord of the Rings story after I read the book. After watching this movie, those imaginations came to my eyes. Everything that I have imagined so long has appeared realistic in the movie. This movie is a bit different from the book. Some places are cut, and some are changed. This makes audiences who have not read the book a little confused. I think this is not a bad idea to change and cut the story though. After cutting many scenes from the book, the movie is still nearly three hours long, if the whole thing is put into the movie, I guess it would be at least eight hours. I think it's a bit too long for a movie, and it will be really boring. Other than this, the modifications of the story are good. It made the story more suitable for a movie. A good example is in some fighting scenes, they cut some dialog and moves of the characters and added more action for them. This makes the rhythm of that scene faster and more intense. This movie used a lot of computer cinematics. I think the technique is very high. The one that impressed me most was Isengard. Those underground 'factories' of Uruk-hais was very detailed. Everything was minuteness, even the farthest and smallest object.


                
I LOVE this movie!!! I had never heard about it, when my husband told me "we're going to see The Lord Of The Rings"; I just thought "and what's that?". And I can't see it enough!!! I have the DVD normal version and special extended version, and I HAVE to watch it at least twice in a month. The pictures are great, the characters are GREAT, the story is the very BEST! It's just a pity that Boromir died, that makes me sad every time I watch this movie. I've seen the two others, too. And I just can say: best of the best. Of course, there're some mistakes, some goofs, but which movie doesn't have this? :-)I wish it could be like in this movie; it's really moving, to see how strong the friendship can be, how important it is to be there for each other, to know you can rely on someone...I don't know what else to say about this movie but: GREAAAATTTTT!!!!!


                
This is a brilliant shocking movie. It speaks to your soul. It was designed to be so. The visual impact of this movie only underlines the spiritual import of it. For, every human being is a small unsubstantial waif in the large world-that is, us. This metaphorical movie reaches deep inside our souls. Each of us is a hobbit who traverses this life and wishes to kill evil. We fail, and succeed in steps. We may meet Cate Blanchett-types , or Liv Tyler-types, but we must pursue life and be good. We are titanically set up up for failure-if we do not pursue goodness. That is the message of this fine film. All of life is a great trial. An adventure. It is within our grasp to pursue it with glory.


                
"The Fellowship of the Ring" is an excellent movie. Very charming and personified. The story at this point in the film seems well organised as opposed to the later "Return of the King" where the characters seem to get lost due to the size of the film.Undoubtedly there were a lot of deviations from the source material, but I think that only helped the movie gain more momentum which I feel is very important in any film-adaption. Jackson has a way of inserting funny little moments that also make the movie all the more memorable and already the action-scenes are very convincing although "The Two Towers" is undoubtedly the real action-packed section of the film-trilogy.If there's anything I don't like about this film is that the opening seemed to glance over many of the events quite quickly. Of course this was used as an excuse to return to these events later in the film and the series, but in comparison I had always liked Bakshi's LotR opening a lot better.Regardless, this is a fantastic film.


                
Being a die-hard Tolkien fan since my single digit years I have held on tight to my personal images of what Middle Earth is, what it looks like and who inhabits it. When Ralph Backshi came up with his misguided attempt at the trilogy my worst fears were realized, no one could make a film of Tolkien's work, at least not a good film. When Peter Jackson got the rights I was skeptical. How could any one artist envision Middle Earth in a way that could satisfy the multitudes of fans? I was stunned when I saw the film. It was a mixture of Tolkien's own drawings, the Hildibrant calendar art and the pictures in my own mind. How did he do it? Even the colors were desaturated just enough to give the world a serious and menacing tone. Had the colors been too bright it may have come off like those many Michael Moorcock/Terry Brooks style Fantasy epics of the 1980s like Willow and Dragon Slayer, (Too wave the magic wand, too fairy dust and D&D for Tolkien). Granted, Peter Jackson choose to make the world a slightly more dismal place than I imagined it, always pointing towards the drama of Sauruman and the foul births of the Uruk Hai, but I understand how he needed to make a gripping film, and how my images of comrades and hearty adventure was not enough to drive the action of such an epic movie. The Elves were the only near misses for me. Just a little too Star Trek-monotone for my taste (magical in an almost sterile way as opposed to being artists, lovers and the passionate livers of a huge life). But it's one small thing. Overall Peter Jackson created a world that was respectful and serious enough for the a vast majority of Tolkien fanatics to accept it as the visualization of their own imaginings.


                
This is my favorite film after the two next parts. I could say that in three long hours Jackson has made a well resume of the book. It has so much fantasy and is a wonderful way to tell the beginning of one of the greatest and magical stories ever told, written or filmed. It is about one hobbit named Frodo who guesses that he has a coursed ring and has to destroy it into the fires of a far volcano. A hobbit is a kind of dwarf.The movie has a charmed soundtrack and the especial effects and the sound effects are just fantastic. I recommend to go and see it now.David Rodríguez Sancho


                
Peaceful life in the Shire was broken by the ring with evil power. The Hobbit Frodo was forced to involve in the incident. When no one would accept the task to destroy the ring by throwing it into the volcano in Mordor, a little man stood up and said that I will do it. What an exciting moment. Although Frodo seemingly was weak, his determination was stronger than anyone else. In the other hand, maybe only his pure heart could resist the temptation of the ring. Even powerful Gandalf could not do it.So the huge task was given to the small Hobbit. However he was not alone. A nine-man-expedition formed. Their determination to protect Frodo from hurt and complete the task could not be overlooked. Even one of them was killed for that.In reality sometimes we are hesitating to make a decision. But once it is decided, you should do it firmly. No return, or gain nothing.It is the first film of TLOTR trilogy. A very good beginning that pushes you to watch the following one. 9/10
I waited a lifetime, literally, for this movie to be made. Ever since the first time I read the novels, I knew that it was only a matter of time until this epic was on the screen. I had no idea that I would have to wait so long.The wait was absolutely worth it. Peter Jackson doesn't skimp at all. The elves look right, the languages feel and sound correct to me, not at all interfering with the "mind's eye" or "mind's ear" that has already shown you the land, the people, and allowed you in some sense to hear the ancient tongues spoken. This is truly a film worthy of the legacy that J.R.R. Tolkien left us. I do not believe that he would be upset in any important fashion. The acting was, well, spot on. The landscapes were breathtaking, and the whole vision that Jackson is bringing to life is so filled that I now know that nobody else would have done such a wonderful job.If you love the books, if you love the characters, then this is a must see for you. If you love fantasy, but simply found "The Lord of the Rings" to be too much to consume, then this is the easiest way for you to digest its majesty. And when you get to the novels you'll see that there is more that awaits you. Nobody is disappointed in this excruciatingly faithful adaptation. Even the details, and plot points, that were left out are gone for reason: they detracted from the root of the plot. If it wasn't in the line of the main story, Jackson cut it out. Cutting out anything from Tolkien is tricky work, but the pruning was left at just the right amount. Amazing.I sincerely felt that this movie was not the length that it was. But the clocks didn't deceive. It simply moves so well that I still can't imagine how it was done. Usually, unless it is a movie of incredible stature, like "Gandhi" or "Shindler's List," the length would become a detraction. But here it is not.  This is proof alone that The Fellowship is a movie of great stature.There is little that I can add to the great reviews already here, except to give my vote and to tell you this: go see this movie.But how do I rate it? Will this movie withstand multiple viewings? I believe so. Is it of such quality that it will last as a testament to Peter Jackson and engage Tolkien fans for years to come? I think so. Will all following fantasy movies be measured against this, as the novels are used as the yardstick that fantasy writing is measured with? Probably.  Is it cinematic perfection? No, it is not.And that is why I cannot, and will not, give this movie a "10" rating. But that should not dissuade you from seeing how absolutely wonderful this is.As I look at the listing of votes that I have made for various movies, the list is intact and all films are rated to near perfection. Once I leave my vote, I do not change it unless something drastically changes my perception of a film. Anything less is an insult to the film and to anyone who sees the IMDB as a valuable resource.Up until now, there has been only one movie that is at the pinnacle of the chart, only one film worthy of a "9" rating from me.  This is the question before me: is The Fellowship worthy of sharing that spot?To say "yes" places this movie at, literally, the top of the craft; making it a film that experts will and must debate forever. It must be as good a movie as I could possibly imagine. There can be no flaws that I myself cannot justify in the name of the craft. It must be, by the very definition, the ultimate in achievement, with little room for any improvement. It must be, to me, a Tour de Force of all things cinematic.To say "no" by no means places this movie in a league of unwelcome company. There are movies that are adored by more than me that I have given an "8". Many movies I have given an "8" to are so good that I could not imagine being without them. Certainly, The Fellowship is in this class, at least. Indeed, once this is available on DVD I will possess it; placing this movie in a class that is by itself valuable: my collection.So now it comes down to it: "8" or "9". <Insert a three day pause>My vote is "9". Such a good job was done that there is little reason to not give it praise. I only wonder what I shall do if "The Two Towers" and "The Return of the King" are better by leaps and bounds.


                
This movie is amazing, the soundtrack is one of the best I've heard, the world is magical and the story so amazing. I loved the movie.


                
