I wanted to be fair so I watched all episodes in the three seasons of this show and I only laughed once, while chuckling perhaps twice that in the 25 odd episode run. It's just not funny. The characters are completely one dimensional, and worse, extremely annoying. A few shows in, you know exactly what they are going to say, destroying whatever punchlines this poor excuse for writing had in store. Pretty much every episode is copy/pasted from the last one. You got Father Ted, who's the "normal" guy, and the other three. If your idea of hilarity is some dirty old man yelling "DRINK! FECK! ARSE! GIRLS!" all the time, then I guess this bland show is for you. In case you are wondering which episode I thought was actually funny, it was "A song for Europe," when Dougal and Ted are writing their song. None of the characters develop at all during the course of the show. The closest is when they give up their vices for lent, and you see a different side of Father Jack. It would have been nice if Dougal wasn't a complete "fecking" moron all the time. It's frustrating really, along with Mrs. Doyle. I've watched other Britcoms and I liked most of them (yes I know it's from Ireland). I started watching it to have a talking point with my European friends, since most of them love this show. I was hoping I would like it, but it turns out I didn't. A lot of people seem to love it, and good for them, but I feel it just isn't entertaining at all.


                
Don't get me wrong, I'm a BIG fan of BBC comedy ! Maid Marian & Her Merry Men, 2Point4 Children, Bottom, Black Adder, Red Dwarf, AB FAB, The Comic Strip... etc; funny, witty and un-PC, in a distinct class of its own and universally appealing ! But that all came to an end at the end of the early 90s, and in its place we were left with all these inferior, mediocre, trendy and really-not-at-all-funny 'comedies' from the other UK TV channels, and this pile of crap just about tops it ! (Not to mention all that American Friends crap other kids my age seemed to like !)So, I watched this properly for the 1st time a few days ago afer finding a VHS in the charity shop. I assumed it would be crap, considering the year, channel of airing and excess mass appeal I remember it having. OK, so there was the odd moment I found funny, but for the most part it was the usual post-early-90's pursuit of sitting through a show and thinking "Was that supposed to be funny? Didn't hear a bloody thing funny me !" I think by the late 90's, which incidentally is when EVERYTHING turned to shit - not only the media but the entire socio-politico-cultural landscape - good old BBC + other traditional English comedy was considered too un-PC and we had to resort to this feeble apology for wit + humour !So I'll give it 2/10 for at least having the odd funny moment (itself typically of a slapstick nature rather than a genuine, classy and witty one.)


                
