Where to begin in praise of Father Ted?  This hilarious Irish comedy about three dysfunctional priests and their crazy tea-obsessed housekeeper came from nowhere to light up the Channel 4 schedules in 1995.  Then it was critically slammed but gained a viewer following right from episode one, where Dougal thought a spider baby was real.Episodes to come featured boring Father Paul, mad Father Noel, gloating Father Dick Byrne, accident-prone Father Larry, and the permanently bewildered Bishop Brennan.  But it was the core quartet of characters that kept you watching - Father Ted himself, the much missed Dermot Morgan; drunken and obscene Father Jack, Frank Kelly; vacant Father Dougal, Ardal O'Hanlon (who hasn't done much of interest since - 'My Hero' was awful); and Mrs Doyle, Pauline McLynn.Too many happy moments to list here but if you haven't seen this, prepare for a laugh.  Life is never without incident on Craggy Island!


                
The day I moved to Ireland, I didn't know I was about to discover one of the greatest comedy series of all times as "Father Ted" certainly is!The basic plot in itself is amazingly simple, a stroke of genius: three "peculiar" priests and a housekeeper in an island off the Irish West coast. It's unbelievable how much fun, irony, satire, surreal humour and great characters can come out of so little. And if you are of Catholic extraction, the fun is even greater (we all have met a Dougal, a Ted or a Jack at some stage...)It's even too hard for me to pick a favourite episode: Ted and Dougal entering the "EuroVision Song Contest" with the excellent pop hit (and video clip) "My lovely horse"? Ted is believed a racist by the islanders and organises a great multi-cultural event? Dougal becomes a milkman only to discover that his life is in danger at Speed 3? Father Stone comes for a visit and for playing a bit of mini-golf? "The Passion of St. Tibulus" is being shown at the local cinema? Cigarettes, drink and rollerblades are given up for Lent? Bishop Len Brennan is kicked up the arse? Impossible to decide. I would recommend to anyone buying the complete series 1, 2 and 3 as they come out in DVD. You can watch "Father Ted" over and over and still laugh your head off.One of my favourite quotes:Dougal: "Ted, was Jack really dead? How could he come back to life?"Ted: "I don't know, Dougal. I'd say he's resurrected from the grave...Like that fella...what's he called...E.T.!"


                
Never has there been a comedy series like this and never will there be one like this again. I've never been an avid fan of Father Ted (don't know why) but as a person who doesn't watch that much television anymore this certainly gives me an excuse to turn the tv on and be entertained. Has done for years. Extremely unique and funny i would gladly sit down and watch a Father Ted marathon and watch every episode back to back. What is rare for a tv programme/movie is that i actually havn't met a single person who dislikes Father Ted! My favourite episode is the one where the whistle gets stolen. Fantastic. Shame there will be no more series but thank ourselves lucky they made three fantastic series. An all time great.


                
With reference to previous comments, nobody in the Catholic Church (including me) has a problem with this show. It's absolutely hilarious, as will be evident to almost any viewer (assuming you have a decent sense of humour). In 5 words: Surrealist irreverent Irish priest comedy.


                
How anyone can fault this remarkably funny sitcom is utterly beyond me. The comedy ranges from the most crude to the superiorly intelligent. I particularly like Dougal's (Ardal O'Hannon) take on the death of Kurt Cobain, offensive as it was. There is nothing to dislike about this; the characters are lovable (especially Dougal), they're hilarious and it is the most Irish humour possible. It's a big pity this show was not as renowned around the globe as it was in Ireland.Eleven out of ten, just for showing us how unsophisticated comedy can win over every time.


                
I can only say that the TV will never be the same without Father Ted. I know it ended so long ago, but I have only just encountered this site. It had humour that only Dermot Morgan (Father Ted), RIP, could only have imagined. I remember seeing his work on the Late Late Show in Ireland as a kid growing up there. But not realising then what I know now is that he was a thoroughbred genius. Sadly to say we will never see the likes of him again. The comedy is class and it is only a shame that somebody someday will make a "remake" of it and it will be not a scratch on the original. Oh well. But there is still a lot more to come from the Emerald Isle, check out D'Unbelievables, they were in Father Ted, one of them wore the "I SHOT JR" T-Shirt and the other was the cinema owner and in another episode the Eurovision song contest compere.


                
'Father Ted' came out during a period when I seldom watched TV, so it was purely by accident that I happened to catch an episode whilst at my parent's place. At first I thought it was going to be a fairly typical middle-of-the-road British sitcom, but it soon became evident that this veneer of normalcy was a Trojan horse, allowing in the show's pointed satire of The Catholic Church, and its wonderful, off-the-wall surrealism, mostly supplied by the young Father Dougal, some of whose utterances had me almost literally in tears.Take this dialog, when the islanders are convinced that some kind of monster is prowling 'the moors', taking sheep."They say it's as big as four cats, and it's got a retractable leg so as it can leap up at you better and you know what Ted, it lights up at night, and it's got four ears. Two of them are for listening and the other two are kind of back-up ears, and it's claws are as big as cups and for some reason it's got a tremendous fear of stamps and Mrs. Doyle was tellin' me that it's got magnets on it's tail so as if you're made out of metal it can attach itself to you, and instead of a mouth it's got four arses. "Needless to say, after that, as a fan of the British surrealist tradition, I was hooked, and soon learned to love the other characters and the show as a whole.Perhaps what makes it so great is that it managed to combine satire and surrealism with other more conventional comic styles which appealed to my parent's generation (my mother is 71 and loved the show).If there was a finer sitcom to come out of the UK in the 90's, I don't know what it is. But then, I probably wouldn't.


                
I have to say that I was surprised at my amazement of enjoying this Irish comedy. Sadly, the actor played Father Ted died in 1998. But he left us with lots of laughter and unforgettable scenes. It used to be shown on WLIW and they began putting warnings before the show. Then, it may have gotten a little too offensive for a New York Catholic audience. But despite everything, it is a classic comedic series. You'll laugh more than be offended. Maybe a few people in the television audience might answer their true callings of priesthood and sisterhood. We need more religious people. Maybe in a way, Father Ted shows a fun side of priest life without the stuffiness associated with it. Priests can and do have fun. They're even hysterical to watch over and over again. You can't forget the wonderful Mrs. Doyle as the bit crazed housekeeper to the priests. Don't miss the Lent episode and Father Stone episode. They are just too funny to miss up this show's offer.


                
This is one of the best things to come out of Ireland since U2.  Dermot Morgan plays Fr. Ted Crilly, a priest on Craggy Island which is supposedly off the west coast of Ireland somewhere.  However, Ardal O'Hanlon who plays Fr. Dougal Mc Guire and Frank Kelly who plays Fr. Jack Hackett, steal all the shows as far as I'm concerned.Graham Norton appears frequently throughout the series as Fr. Noel Furlong. He is very funny and my favourite episode of the series is Hell.  This is where we meet Fr. Furlong for the first time.  Ted goes on holidays to a caravan and he is already there with some youngsters from a youth club.Some great one liners that will remain in the Irish psyche for a long time to come.  "Drink, girls, arse, feck", the immortal words of Fr. Jack for example.  You are missing out if you haven't seen this series.  Rent it out today or buy it.  It is definitely worth buying the series on tape.  Feckin brilliant.


                
When the sitcom idea to portray the adventures of three priests in Ireland - a drunk, a dimwit and the main character in between - was pitched to TV executives, the reaction was lukewarm at best. Religion, a joking matter? Impossible! But well, "The Vicar of Dibley" with comedy heavyweight Dawn French worked, so the OK was given, all doubts aside. And thus it so happened that Arthur Mathews and Graham Linehan, writers with an edge, set out to delve into the rural conservative catholic setting and run the gamut, starting from the custom sitcom weirdness to out and out absurdity in the parochial house somewhere on Craggy Island. Not with the intention to ridicule the catholic church, but to follow through with everything it has developed into, to satirize its reality and at the same time humanize its unbalanced shepherds. Interestingly, it works."Father Ted" gets off with a slow start, but once the characters and writers have hit their stride comedy-wise, the series delivers like no other. The Fathers Ted (Dermot Morgan), Dougal (Ardal O'Hanlon), Hackett (Frank Kelly) and Mrs. Doyle (Pauline McLynn) stumble from one farcical situation into another and the punch lines get sharper and wittier the longer the journey lasts. There's slapstick, well timed cartoonish back and forth, strong language and directness thanks to the naivety of the characters, yes, there's even cursing among priests and still it's entirely inconspicuous thanks to the changing of a vowel. And we get subversive social commentary served the fun way and it's, pardon the pun, a hell of a ride. If you book your trip to Craggy island you'll witness priests struggling through lent, have a crush on a lady visitor, go on a disastrous unholy holiday, turn into racists by trying to demonstrate the exact opposite and help to heal a depressed sheep. You can learn from priests how to get people to watch a raunchy movie thanks to their campaign against it, or how to kick a bishop up the arse - just pretend it never happened. Intrigued? Then off you go to visit undiscovered land in this highly original, creative, addictive and outright hilarious sitcom, a comedy milestone that will last for ages.


                
I know what Heaven is...Heaven is where they show endless, back-to-back episodes of Father Ted, non-stop, for all eternity. Now I'm going to be a good little girl, behaving well and obeying the Ten Commanments. That way, when I die, I'll go straight to Heaven, completely bypassing Purgatory (where they only run Seinfeld episodes). When in Heaven, I'll take my seat right there in the front row in the Heavenly Rec Room, right in front of THE VERY BIGGEST BIG SCREEN T.V. Wait...who's that blasted chain-smoker sitting next to me?! Why its Dermot Morgan!!! And because its Heaven, his smoke doesn't bother me in the least!!! And there we'll sit, watching eternal episodes of Father Ted...a very good reason to be at your very best behavior whilst still here on good ol' Terra Firma!


                
I didn't think it was up to much when I first saw this series but then again I was in a house full of people. Then I sat down one day and watched "Plague" on my own. Most peculiar! I thought the show merited further investigation. I then saw "Speed 3" and that put the lid on it. I now own every episode. Most definitely one of the most surreal and hilarious shows of all time. It's funny on so many levels from the subtle to the outright obvious. We shall never see its like again! If Dermot hadn't died I have no doubt that it would have become a successful series of films. The best thing to come from Ireland, ever! (even better than the whisky, and that's heaven-sent!) Like a good whisky it can be savoured again and again and still doesn't lose its flavour. I teach English as a foreign Language and I cannot recommend Father Ted enough as a video class. The students always love it. And the Spanish are also mad Catholics (no offense) who appreciate the jokes on the church, which plays such an important role in Spanish society just as it does in Ireland. It's odd that it doesn't really seem to offend the church. I suppose someone somewhere must be but I've yet to meet them. I love the Episode with "Father Ben!" I have heard that it was the top show amongst Irish priests but whether that is true only an Irish priest can confirm. Favourite moment? Just too many to say. Perhaps, as I'm an English teacher, the scene where Ted tries to teach Father Jack to say "That would be an ecumenical matter." For sheer talent and acting I think one of the most incredible and hilarious scenes is the one where the depressed priest listens to Radiohead. If that were from a film he would have been nominated for an Oscar! That's acting!


                
this is one of those rare strokes of greatness that only appear once in a blue moon. It's proof that the older sitcoms have always been the best ones. This is definitely one of my favourite sitcoms, it just has that right and rare mix of different attributes and characters which makes the whole thing work, and makes you want to keep watching it over and over again.One of the funny things I found about this sitcom is the fact that each of the characters has his or her own strong, comical personality attribute which makes you want to love them e.g. Doogle being comically dim, Father Jack being constantly drunk and Mrs Doyle with her obsession for tea and sandwiches, the only normal person is Ted himself. These are not the only characters with their personality imbalances, most of the characters you come across when watching through the episodes have their own comic charm to them, and also the fact that they are different from each other makes it work together. with the situations that they get into.This also adds to the general silliness of the whole sitcom genre. In fact I believe it's the strongest point of this sitcom, combining it with a strange world, strange places and wacky situations makes the whole thing hilarious. Having Grahamn Norton appear in some of the episodes was a very good choice. He played out his character really well e.g the episode in the really really dark caves (it's almost like being blind), the fact that he and a group was in a serious situation makes him stand out and very funny. Him constantly talking and talking and his version of Bohemian Rhapsody, while everyone else is depressed and worried makes it great.I recommend this sitcom for everyone, except Catholics ^_^;
On the small parish of Craggy Island lives a group of three priests. The head of these is the ambitious but frustrated Father Ted Crilly, a man who feels, nay, knows that he is better than his lot. His young support is Father Dougal McGuire, a man who feels confused by anything and everything; and finally the old guard Father Jack Hackett, a man who feels rage, lust or sleepy depending on how much alcohol he has managed to get down him that day. They are looked after by the persistent and serving Mrs Doyle as they try to deal with the daily problems of their parish and being a Catholic priest in general.Although about seven years have now gone passed, Father Ted still stands up as a hilariously surreal and inventive sitcom based around the live of three priests living together. The plots range from the strange to the completely weird but generally they all work because the humour consistently comes off. It is hard to describe because it is filled with touches of genius, references that are not obvious, plots that are clever and silly and characters that are very well observed. It is certainly not the sort of sitcom that I'm used to seeing <U+0096> although it does conform to a sitcom standard if you condense it right down to its base. As it is rather off the wall, it will not appeal to everybody but for those that get it the comedy is amazing consistent and I do struggle to think of an episode that I was class as "bad" across the whole run.Although his death was very unexpected, the loss of Morgan has allowed the series to simply stop and stand up as one of those programmes that went out on a high, rather than slowly fading away (like so many do <U+0096> a true class act knows when to leave). With his death the show had no choice but to end completely (as opposed to the everlasting "specials" hell suffered by things like Only Fools & Horses) as such was the reliance on the cast that nobody could really replace him. He is excellent as Ted, the more "together" character who is still all over the place and has a great sense of comic timing. He so completely gets the humour that he makes for a great lead. O'Hanlon will forever be Dougal and his career has suffered as a result <U+0096> his next project (the horrible "My Hero") essentially made him a Dougal-lite to significantly less effect. Here the writing is strong though and he really works well, contrasting nicely with Ted and often being a driver for the plot. Kelly has much more of a one-note performance but is still very enjoyable as such, while McLynn was always funny despite occasionally overworking her catchphrase. The support is roundly good from the other "priests" etc brought in as the plots require.Overall a manically imaginative comedy that conforms to the basic sitcom standards but vastly exceeds them in regards what it then does. The plots are rarely logical or sensible but within them the humour is sharp and rarely less than funny. Working with Catholic priests as its characters, the show could have just gone for easy targets but it doesn't and, although hardly respectful to the church, it is certainly not holding it up to ridicule in the same some think it is. An excellent series that deserves to continue to be seen for years and years to come.


                
The best thing you can say about Father Ted is that even though it is being constantly repeated on British and Irish TV channels it is still very funny. There is an almost irresistible temptation to watch an episode when you find one by accident while channel hopping.This is hard to explain to someone who hasn't seen the programme. Of the four main characters three are completely cartoonish. Dougal is thick, Jack is manky, Mrs Doyle is bizarre. Their characters don't change in any way but this doesn't stop them being funny.Perhaps it's the litany of even more bizarre characters that drop in on Craggy Island in each episode. The acceptance that the stories are surreal and not to look for any sense or realism in them will also help your enjoyment.Too much analysis from me. Whether you buy this DVD or just stop flicking to watch the second half of a random episode you will get plenty of laughs from Father Ted.


                
I must admit to never getting round to watching this masterful comedy series when it first aired on Channel 4 way back in the mid 90s. I guess it was because I couldn't see how they could make a sitcom using three Catholic priests and a manic housekeeper without having to tone down the religious content for fear of offending someone.As a consequence Father Ted passed me by for all that time until Ch4 repeated the 3rd series a few months ago and I just happened to tune in by accident, and the rest is history as they say.I wouldn't go as far as saying this is the best ever comedy series to come out of the UK (for me I would opt for Black Adder, Only Fools & Horses, Fawlty Towers & Yes Prime Minister), but it certainly ranks in my top five.Each episode is so skillfully written without any excess fat to slow or detract from the main storyline. But even a great script counts for nothing if you don't have quality actors to bring that story to life using their own masterful interpretation.I guess we all have a our favourite character. Some people prefer Father Jack (Frank Kelly),  the dirty old priest with a fixation for girls & booze and brought into the public consciousness the rather abusive but highly amusing "feck & arse".Other people love Mrs Doyle (Pauline McLynn), the housekeeper and general dog's body to the three dippy priests. But she has a heart of gold and a certain innocent charm for this rather naive & skitty middle aged lady.It came as quite a shock to the system to learn that Dermot Morgan (Father Ted Crilly) died just one day after shooting the final ever episode. But in spite of the sorrow we should be thankful to him for entertaining us & making us laugh out loud so many times with his rather bumbling & frustrated character. But  for me I would have to say that Ardal O'Hanlon as Father Dougal McGuire takes the honours as the most hysterically funny priest ever. His character reminds me of a Homer Simpson - a kind of naive charm, very slow on the uptake, innocent & childlike and yet from time to time comes up with the most amazing lines, ideas & suggestions that just take my breath away with laughter.Im glad, in a way that only 3 series were ever made (it was agreed between the actors and writers that series 3 would be the very last despite the death of Morgan shortly after completion). Had he lived the pressure to produce another series at some latter stage would be too great and I personally feel would not have been in the same league as the previous three. As the old saying goes, once you reach the top the only way is down. Three series, therefore, was just right to maintain the quality for the sake of quantity.Arse!****/*****


                
To this day my friends and I still quote this show on a daily basis.Dermot Morgan was an absolute genius delivering his part of the quirky Father Ted. Along with his fellow clergy men and of course his moronic house keeper, Mrs. Doyle, Graham Linehan created the perfect cast for my favorite show of all time.Although it has been nearly 20 years since this show was on TV, it is still regularly shown here in Ireland and many people still watch it. It even has its own annual festival on the west coast, that is its impact on this island.If you ever want to cry laughing, and have a silly sense of humor, watch any one of the episodes. I promise you won't regret it.Taken too soon, RIP Dermot Morgan.


                
... It's so much better. I've been looking for so long but nothing seems to come close to the brilliance of Father Ted.The jokes come thick and fast but are so deep that even the distant memories of them can make you cry with laughter. I don't believe anything will ever be made that is as perfect as this.Unlike most other comedy series, the jokes get better the more watch them and familiarise yourself with all the characters. Most of which have something to do with religion, but in the general sense of the characters and playing on stereotypes rather than being either for or against religion itself.It's such a tragedy that Dermot Morgan (Father Ted) died. This series gave so much laughter to many and in my opinion; it just kept getting better and better as the characters developed.So don't miss out on watching this rare TV treasure.. 'Go on, go on, go on...!'


                
If 'Red Dwarf' was the classic sitcom of the late 1980's, then 'Father Ted' lifted those laurels come the early 1990's.You just can't fail (unless there's something wrong with your sense of humour) to laugh out loud at some of the set-piece gags in this series. Four completely disparate people, a mad old priest, a young imbecile priest, and Father Ted as the comparatively normal one with whom we can often identify, share home with an almost equally bonkers house-keeper.Some of their adventures are quite surreal, whilst others are just grotesque parodies of the kind of normal dilemma most of us encounter from time to time.You pays your money and you takes your choice. Some episodes were only 'very good' and deserving just 8 stars. Others were beyond reproach and justified 10 stars. My award strikes a balance.Institutions are always good for poking fun. We saw this in 'Yes Minister' and many others. But religious institutions, with their overwhelming pompous vanity, are the stuff of absolute screams.If only Muslims had a sense of humour, what joy they could bring to the world. And no-one would have to be blown-up to do it. Or then again...
Now and again, you don't want a big sitcom with big casts, sets and story lines, like Blackadder 1 attempted, you want something simple, and nothing could be more simple than three priests, and their tea-maid, on an island, struggling through life. And with that simple start, comedic genius, as Father Ted leads Father Dougal (the simpleton) and Father Jack (pisshead) through one mishap after another. Its comedic genius is in its simplicity, a swearword, a fart, a cameo from Graham Norton or the lead of One Foot In The Grave, knowing that the Church must be cowering in horror at this make believe example of life, anything like that, just brings down the house, Its an Irish sitcom with British humour that anyone in the world can love.


                
Great! Too bad Dermot Morgan (Father Ted) died in 1998. Best episodes have got to be 'Cigarettes And Alcohol and Rollerblading' and 'Grant Unto Him Eternal Rest'. In 'Grant Unto Him Eternal Rest', Jack drinks a bottle of floor polish which (supposedly) kills him; it gives him all the 'symptoms' of death without actually killing him. In the end, Ted's reciting poetry in Jack's tomb then Jack comes up behind Ted and shouts 'SHUT THE F*CK UP!', at which point, Ted promptly faints. I know someone who is an Irish Catholic priest and he knows several people not unlike Jack Hackett and Dougal! No offence to any good catholic priests. Brilliant show! Such a classic.
I discovered Father Ted on BBC America and was attracted to it immediately. I have bought all 3 seasons on DVD and impressed it on friends and family to where they too are very fond of the show. The characters each stand alone but come together to form one of the best comedy series I have ever seen. It is so saddening that Dermott Morgan died the day after completing the third season in February 1998. He was so unique as Father Ted, that the show couldn't go on without him, thus ending before it's time. However, the show lives on weekly in my house and I am sure in many others. This is a hilariously funny show and I recommend it highly to persons with a good sense of humor!


                
I've only just bought Father Ted recently on DVD and i'm absolutely hysterical when it comes on. The sitcom is about three different priests who live together with their house cleaner in a deserted fielded island in where else but Ireland.You've got Ted Crilly (the main character) who though tries to be a true priest can never seem to be committed to religion. His frustrations come mainly from his fellow house mate Dougal MuGuire who has the dumb-witted and naive character of Homer Simpson and never normally understands what Ted is on about on many occasions. The funniest character in the series is probably Father Jack Hakett, an abusive and foul mouthed priest who has become excelled from his original nicer side to become abusive when woken up or pushed around and has normally shouted Feck, Arse, Drink or Girls. The final character is Mrs Doyle who is the maid in the house though she mainly gives tea for the three priests though always manages to get the better of them in the end if they ever refuse a cup-pa.Other people include priests like the accident prone priest Father Larry Duff who also seems to be involved in a car crash or being attacked by a Stapler. There's also Father Dick Byrne and his priest crew on Rugged Island who always seem to try to better Ted and the Craggy Island folk. The big boss of them all is Bishop Brennan who's loud and scary looking reputation has always bothered Ted but not Dougal who always refers to the bishop as Len while Father Jack has either told him to feck off or punch him in the face.My favourite episode is probably Speed 3 where Dougal becomes a milkman but the previous milkman has planted a bomb on the milk float so Ted has to convince Dougal to keep driving. Celebrities like Graham Norton and Richard Wilson (Victor Meldrew from One Foot in the Grave) have been seen in Father Ted which has become an all time famous sitcom and probably the greatest sitcom to come out of Channel 4.FIVE favourite Fater Ted moments. 01. Ted attempting to make Jack say the words That and Would 02. Man in crowd mumbling F***in hell after fixing of Sheep Competition 03. Ted and Dougal playing Sherrards 04. Mrs Doyle falling from balcony continually 05. Mrs Doyles tool in my box expression to Ted


                
Father Ted just blew me away when I first saw it and it still does today. It has Irish writer, Irish actors and an English TV station. It's the perfect mix! Any way, Dougal is one of the funniest TV characters ever! So Ted (The smart one but nothing goes his way), Dougal (The dumb one that everything goes his way but he doesn't notice), Jack (The drunk pervert that Ted and Dougal can't look beyond) and Ms. Doyle (Every Irish woman over 80) all make a great team. So it's a mix of stereotypical Irish people and real life Irish people. This show will entertain you trust me. This is my little review and if you see it on watch it.


                
Having just watched for the umpteenth time, the Christmas special edition of "Father Ted", I can no longer resist myself praising this wonderfully funny British sit-com from the mid 90's.How the series ever got the green light for production (a comedy about three priests and their housekeeper ensconced in their remote manse) still beggars belief but of course it's all in the scripts and the characterisation. Throw in wonderful acting and comedic timing by the, at the time, largely unknown cast and you could almost believe that somewhere in a remote part of Ireland, these lovable oddballs really do exist.It's been said many times before how desperately sad it was that Dermot Morgan died so young, although the last series did come to a loose-ends tied-up conclusion anyway. He is simply wonderful as the straight man to almost every other character in the piece, blithely unaware of his own priestly failings (with his gentle lusting after women, lofty ego and even craving for money - although that money was definitely resting in his account!) as he gets through everyday life. In support Ardal O'Hanlon is hilarious as the "strange idiot boy child" Father Dougal, while Pauline McGlynn is equally so as the tea-making, fiercely loyal but ever so slightly deranged housekeeper Mrs Doyle. The only turn-off for me really is the awkward character of Father Jack, whose boozing, swearing boorishness palls quickly.Not every episode is completely on the money, of course, particularly those from the last series, but the best of them, for example the ones involving Dougal's Milk Run ("All those women were in the nip!"), the Eurovision Song Contest, ("I can get this!") the crashing aircraft ("Don't push the red button") and especially the afore-mentioned Christmas Special ("Some of us like the misery") are almost laugh-a-minute-out-load and for me will never date.This is a superb, occasionally subversive, comic masterpiece showing that it's possible to make fun out of the sacred cow of religion.


                
