I really wanted to like this show. I've read so many good reviews by many well-respected media outlets and I cannot figure out why. This script is so cheesy and just ridiculous. I have a legal background and cannot keep track of the legal blunders....hugely distracting already. Also, why does John Travolta's mouth seem to be almost completely wired shut? Shapiro didn't, and doesn't, talk that way! That's a mannerism that would be more appropriate in an SNL sketch....not in a serious drama. I'm utterly disappointed. On a final note....please FOR THE LOVE OF GOD, STOP plugging the Kardashian kids every chance you get. They do NOT belong in this storyline anywhere and it makes me want to vomit. Just stop and try to stick to the facts....and get some video footage for John Travolta to study.


                
This is horrible. Schwimmer is horrible, Travolta is ridiculous and Cuba Gooding is just plain bad. I almost keep thinking it's a parody of the trial and not the dramatic biography that it is suppose to be. I love Travolta and Cuba Gooding (normally) but this may be their worse acting yet, neither is right for the role and Schwimmer really just ruins it for me. I really think if they had maybe 3 unknown actors to play these roles, it may have been a bit better. Travolta is trying way too hard to look and behave like Shapiro and it just ruins it for me.Too much "Kardashian" pushing this. It always amazed me that their claim to fame was because their dad was friends with a murderer. Our wonderful society..... And, I'm not sure if it's Schwimmer's horrible acting or true, but Kardashian basically puts OJ on a pedestal, but why?? What did Kardashian get out of it?? Just the license to say he was friends with OJ Simpson?? Ridiculous.I am shocked at how many viewers are praising this. I'm watching because of Sarah Paulson and Courtney Vance. They are making it watchable.


                
Watched episode 1 last night. The worst acting, and writing I have seen for a long time. This is B grade schlock. It plays out like a poorly produced 'recreation' that might be used in a documentary. I kept waiting for it to shift to a 'How to Make a Murderer' type perspective. I could not believe that the 'dramatisation' was really the show itself.And this is up for awards, and has an 8.6 rating on this website? It's like some kind of bad joke. The guy from Friends and Travolta look like they are having a contest to see who 'act' the most wooden. Travolta wins this contest but had a head start due to his plastic surgery.This show is for watchers of daytime soaps only. The police and the court procedural aspects are simplifications. The directing is formulaic. In one scene the prosecutors are trying to look professional despite the infantile script. How to do this? Have them walk briskly down a hall while talking! The worst television series I have seen all year. I will not be continuing on to the second episode. My partner was literally laughing out loud about how awful this production is.


                
A star-studded cast, a plot to die for (if your name is Nichole or Ronald) and a budget big enough to recreate the fashions of the time. The first failing is the script. Trite and obvious. And totally lacking in any venom or surprises.Yes, we all know how it ends, but most have forgotten the surprises that came along the way. The Bronco chase was just silly, frustrating and utterly unbelievable. The second is the miscasting. I love Cuba but he is too small, too cheeky and not the least bit threatening. When he tries to look dangerous he looks like a toddler having a tantrum. Hey, OJ is a cold-blooded killer. We SHOULD be frightened of him. Instead I giggled. Since Pulp Fiction, I have pretty much been a fan of Travolta. He is a great actor and quite the chameleon. In this, however, he just looks old, bewildered and like a poster boy for not having cosmetic surgery. Schwimmer? Oh dear. If he is out of his depth in a piece of fluff like Friends, how can he be expected to shine in a highly charged, highly emotional and downright scary docudrama? He comes across as gormless and wet. Finally, the directing. That should be the lack of direction. When they sat down to work out what they wanted to do, I would have hoped someone would have said "This is the result we want to see out of this series". That could have been to explain how (really how?) was it possible for OJ to be convicted, or how the police actually fabricated evidence against him or that the prosecuting was so far out of her depth that she should never have been put on the case.. anything really. Instead we have a chronology of events interspersed with bad dialogue and bad acting. I didn't bother watching after the second episode.


                
Look, only one episode in, but man is this show ever hilarious. The show looks great from a production standpoint. The writing however makes the affair feel somewhat amateurish. About 3/4 of the way through the first episode, in a 5 minute period, I jotted down these three events that literally had me laughing out loud. While Marcia Clark and her cohort are questioning potential witnesses, there are two consecutive witnesses who seem to incriminate OJ. In both cases the "oh my god, he's guilty look" they give each other is absolutely hysterical. The only opportunity missed in the moment was the sweeping Duh...Duh...Duh orchestral score. What a shame, it would have been perfect! Then within 2 minutes, we're at the funeral when Faye Resnick and Kris K decide they must divulge in the most ridiculous expository conversation ever overheard at a funeral. Faye: "Did you ever see the pictures of her face after he laid into her...and you know she hid them away, just in case something happened?" No Faye, her closest friend in the whole world had no idea about that, but we just needed to make sure the audience was in on it. Then mere seconds later when a paparazzi asks "Who the hell brings their lawyer to a funeral?" It comes across as soooo corny. Yeah, we get it writers, he's sure acting guilty. So I say, adjust your lens, if you view it as comedy, we may have a classic for the ages!!!
Conceptually, it fails because when you have the most documented and talked about crime in American history, reenacting it cannot contain drama since there cannot be any surprises unless you contain new information or a biased slant. This show does neither. JFK the movie, for example, worked because it incorporated all the conspiracy theories into one coherent movie, it was a unique statement on an overexposed part of our history. The People v. O.J. Simpson, contains almost nothing that hasn't been repeated ad nauseam for decades.The script is lifeless. Even the best actors can't infuse life into it and there are some great actors trying desperately to give the script CPR and looking ridiculous in the process. David Schwimmer is mesmerizingly bad. It is like watching a comedian die on stage and while you are cringing and feel pity for him, it is hard not to watch him implode. In a bad show, the quality plummets instantly the second he says a line. He's not a dramatic actor. It's Ross being comedically bad at acting. Cuba Gooding Jr is a decent actor trying too hard to raise the quality of the show by himself. No lead could make a show with such a huge cast good by himself, and Cuba's acting looks contrived and unconvincing as OJ, somewhat because physically he is so miscast. OJ's presence was partly due to the way he looked, he was a big man with perfectly chiseled looks, Cuba can't fill his shoes. The repeated cutaways to the Kardashians is a desperate and tacky way to stay topical that always is a sharp break from the narrative.
I honestly don't get it. First of all, let me just say: I really wanted this to be good... Honestly! I mean, we're all fascinated by the original story, so it obviously had potential. We're two episodes in at this point and I don't even know where to start. I guess my first question is: why on earth are so many of you in awe of this show? I'm beginning to suspect that I'm center stage in some sort of version of "The Truman Show". Why? Because this production is a complete farce! Quite simply a parody of epic proportions! First of all: the atrocious plug-fest of the Kardashian-family is the most embarrassing thing I've seen on TV since I can remember and the numerous "dramatic" fast close-ups looks completely ridiculous, but it's not just that. Literally every line uttered on "American Crime Story" is so cliché it hurts... The acting is downright laughable across the board, but there's honestly no need to blame the actors. They're doing the very best they can with a script that reeks to high heaven. The telenovela-style directing obviously doesn't help either. But still, most of you seem to love it... Are standards slipping? Are reviewers "forced" or paid to praise certain shows? I don't know.What I do know is that this could've been a top notch criminal drama. It could've had us on the edge of our seats despite the fact that we know the outcome, but no... It's a soap opera of the lowest possible standard. By all means; the sets look nice, the production value is good, the resemblance to real-life characters is not bad, despite the obvious point that Cuba is a bit too small. Maybe he should've borrowed the box that his former co-star Tom Cruise uses to stand on to see eye-to-eye with his co-stars? However, like I said, that's not the problem! The script is simply ridiculous. I can't emphasize this enough! It's truly so over-the-top that it feels like a parody skit!Now, of course: I have to continue watching to see if A) it gets better or B) it gets worse... I'm having a hard time picturing how it can get worse, but hey... We'll soon find out! In the meanwhile, let's all chant: "Kardashian, Kardashian, Kardashian"... and then throw up!


                
It's one of those shows I'd not heard of, but happened to find and thought could be an interesting way to pass an hour or two.Sadly, the only thing one wants to do after watching two episodes of this is pass out from bored, loathing and sheer horror at the terrible acting, script, kardashians everywhere, and John Travolta's bad plastic surgery, mannerisms acting.In the two episodes I've seen there has been nothing new put on the table in terms of the story other than details that are in the main available elsewhere you might want to look. Cuba Gooding Jnr is performing about as badly as everyone else in terms of acting, and as others suggests he is simply unconvincing as OJ given he is seeming a foot shorter than everyone else, which of course OJ wasn't.The Robert Kardashian character (David Schwimmer) proves without doubt how the entire Kardashian clan are so completely vile, other than the not great acting yet again, he is just an annoying, whiny bitch and the flashabouts to his equally horrid family are just annoying. This is a man who should have been locked up years ago for just being himself, ideally it would have happened long before any of the Kardashian children were made, but alas, wishful thinking.The shows plays into all the stereotypes - black actors screaming, ranting and raving all about the place about racism, prejudice and the injustices of the LAPD and the world at large, white lawyers with Merceded Benz's in nice houses with frustrated looking wives, and a whole plethora of standaround hangeron types that I imagine would be the sort of people someone like OJ did associate with.My suspicion is the kardashians were financing this rubbish because I fail to see how any sensible production company would greenlight the finances for it - in a world full of poverty, famine, war, crime etc, I can only imagine the Kardashians are narcissists enough to get something as bad as this made.If you're really bored, and are contemplating a night of slashing your wrists versus watching TV and this show is on, I'd probably go with the former option. It really is that bad.


                
This is a negative review. No spoilers here. This show is a waste of air time / space. Created account today just to warn you how bad it really is. How can this show get any good reviews. Has anyone watched it? Must be show's staff writing the positive reviews... This played out in real time on live TV and that coverage was more interesting. Guilt or innocence aside why watch this misery? Can't Hollywood produce something more entertaining? I'm curious to see who actually liked this junk made for TV docudrama. Sky TV has had it's fair amount of lemons but this is the worst drivel. I was expecting more from American TV producers.


                
To me this series is a joke. You can see it anyways in each episode every actor laughs Simpson especially after his arrest a lot. Why on earth such a strong real life scenario was directed like this? Why Travolta has to prove that he is old and his acting so bad? He is like gather all actors and shoot in one day.And this with his hand habit should be a remain of dancing!!!Why lawyers are presented as a Gang? Why Simpson is acting like on vacation? Why......? 0/20. Plot? Ha!Travolta tests evidence gloves with bare hands Then everyone is wearing protective gloves not to destroy evidence!!!I hope and wish another series to give good answers
This has got to be one of the worst television events I have ever seen and, believe me, I watch a lot of television. The acting from every single cast member is cringe worthy and the casting of Cuba Gooding Jr is hard to fathom, he's whiny, tiny and sniveling in almost every scene, it's hard to believe he has an Oscar. David Schwimmer is equally as pathetic and is used as a vehicle to drive the God awful Kardashian clan needlessly into the action. it's like watching what Ross from friends did after the rest of them moved on. Hateful. The script is shocking and you can literally see people waiting for their cue for their next line. It dampens the seriousness of the race relation difficulties by forcing this down our throat at every given opportunity and portrays almost every black character as shouty and angry. I really don't want to watch anymore but cannot drag myself away from the comical horror show of it all. If you decide to watch be prepared to watch the Kardashian devil spawn sing a song about their name ( I nearly punched myself in the face just to lessen the irritation ) and to hate the word juice forever more.


                
The second season is the biggest let off I've seen . If your life depended on watching this show, JUST DIE , it'd be way less painful than watching this piece of garbage


                
Maybe it's because I had really high hopes for this show but I really don't like it at all.It's poorly written, poorly directed, doesn't draw you in visually, maybe in the first episode at the bloody parts but blood always captivates attention you don't have to specially work to make it stand out in one way or another. The story is amazing, very interesting, very shocking but it seems to me as though they are trying to sell it of off the story which is a shame and a waste. Also Sarah Paulson is an extremely talented actress she has given plenty of amazing performances through out American Horror Story but for around this time I find her performances a bit exaggerated and at times even insincere.


                
This show should just be renamed " the Rob Kardashian story" It makes more Kim references than anything else. This show is solely made to remind people who he was.. not important. you can tell there are other motives behind this show besides covering the OJ story after watching the second episode. Could have been good but its whack as hell. Just stroking eogs. hes dead and her stepdad has a brand new vagina. Whatever, life continues. Ill just want for season two to come out , in hopes that it covers another story. A great example would be Fargo. Make it entertaining and stop stroking egos. We don't give a flying fudge about the kar whateverians.


                
I thought the entire story had been told in the first two episodes!To my shock there's more. And it is repetitive and so poorly written and acted I gave up half way through the fourth episode. Because everything had been told in the first two episodes.The Assassination of Gianni Versace is just a limited subject that is being stretched to the limit.


                
This is being shown here on TV in England at the moment and I was curious to see at least some of it as I remember the whole thing, and the TV footage of the trial, from when I spent a few years living in America in the 90s. Also, a colleague of mine told me she has been watching it and that she thought it was good. Up to now though I haven't seen any of the episodes but it was on tonight and when I was channel surfing I came across it and decided to take a look. Oh my god . . . where to start?! Firstly, Cuba Gooding Jr as OJ? Really??? Whoever thought that was a great idea should be fired! He's a pretty good actor but physically doesn't bear any resemblance to OJ, save for the fact that both are not Caucasian! As others have pointed out, OJ was physically commanding and with chiselled good looks - Cuba Gooding Jr is much slighter and his looks are not chiselled, more furrowed and slightly mushy! Then, David Schwimmer as Kardashian - huh? Again, he's not a bad actor but seems very miscast in that role. I also don't buy John Travolta in his role. In fact, from what I saw of this particular episode pretty much all of the actors didn't come across well in their roles and the acting across the board seemed stilted and not believable.I have to say, this was so bad to me that my toes were curling with cringiness and I could only bear to watch about 15 minutes of it before I had to switch to watching something better! The only positive thing about what I've seen of this show was that it made me laugh - which presumably is not the reaction the actors, producers, etc, involved in the making of it were hoping to elicit from the audience!


                
Cuba Gooding? OJ Simpson? Why is this story being hyped yet once again? What exactly is wrong with the American viewer? Are you kidding me? These searing questions will not be answered by this film, only by your own inner voice. I feel that the Khardasians must be the active force behind this film, as the plague of their presence on the world begins with this case. Not much chance of a spoiler here, as everyone knows how this story turned out. Personally, ANY film that has in it Cuba Gooding is a film I avoid seeing. In this film he is not believable for a second. That this tawdry production is receiving a high rating at this esteemed site is depressing. I don't understand it. If you decide to go against the wave and refuse to watch this contrived production, you will feel better for it.


                
Okay, I'm sure my review will be the least helpful review to the early 20 somethings and below, but to the rest of you? Well, come on. First off OJ is still alive, so it is so very tasteful for you to reenact the trial that acquitted him, but not really. The public has been hating The Juice since the day he took the stand...strike that, the day they saw him in cuffs in his backyard for a minute before the cops realized they had no probable cause to cuff him just yet, but that's what they do to all black men in Los Angeles county in the 80's and 90's that I personally know of. I lived in Los Angeles during this volatile period in history and got a front row seat at the Donut shop I worked at, as the only graveyard shift front counter help. Cops would visit the shop, which was the first of two shops* owned by an ex-cop ( who incidentally quit the force, in part, because of how it was ran. He was an awesome guy!).Now what I am about to say is going out to the world, but I assure you nobody at this shop or it's second location is responsible for it, just the two cops I heard on several occasions talk about beating up black guys and my ears that overheard it being spoken to the donut maker, who was an old guy in the 80's so is probably dead by now. One story I recall was that they made sure the 'N'word was down below the counter out of view of the camera before they beat the crap out of him. No lie, it's what I heard with my own ears. I knew it was no surprise that the riots would happen a few years later. I heard other stories first hand, but honestly that was enough to remember! The rest of the stories registered emotionally, but personally I don't like the weight of hate so the stories disappeared as I heard them, I just remember the cruel laughter and the emotion of the words coming from these officers of the law.Okay, so is this a review of the series? Maybe. We still have a long way to go in changing our society for the better so long as we watch ANYTHING that portrays people in biased ways from the reality. This series is doing just that IMO.By the way, the donut shop you see in the film TANGERINE is the 2nd shop my boss opened, it was the first business in that building and I was the first graveyard counter person. Ah' the memories of busting up tricks and fending off unwanted flirtation. These days I'd settle for any. lol


                
