Darren Criss as Andrew Cunanan just Amazing!!! The writing excellent!! The whole cast just mesmerizing! This series continues to surprise me!


                
The People v. O.J. Simpson is a look at the murder of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman, for which O.J. Simpson was found not guilty.For those of us who lived through every second of it, it brings back a lot of memories -- the Bronco chase, Mark Fuhrman, the verdict, and everything else in between.If you are too young to remember, the O.J. trial took over the airwaves for months. It also dominated news and talk shows.This is the story of the case, but also some behind the scenes drama. I'm assuming some of that is at least partially true.David Schwimmer plays Robert Kardashian. Kardashian was on O.J.'s dream team for support -- thanks to the prominence of his family today, I imagine he'll be front and center. His ex-wife and children are, and I don't remember them being mentioned originally. Kardashian finally decided O.J. was guilty and stopped speaking to him, even refusing to talk to O.J. when he was on his deathbed.Courtney Vance sounds just like Johnnie Cochran, a brilliant attorney who was responsible for getting O.J. found "not guilty" by distracting the jury and changing the trial to one about racism. Of course, that opportunity was handed to him by Mark Fuhrman. Before Fuhrman testified, Cochran approached Chris Darden and said, "Chris, don't put that white boy on the stand." They did, and there went their case.Don't ask me what John Travolta is doing. Normally he's an excellent actor. Sarah Paulson does a terrific job as Marcia Clark. Kenneth Choi is so much like Judge Ito it's scary. The casting is astonishing. You feel as if you are watching the actual people.Bruce Greenwood is Gil Garcetti. When we were watching all this take place 20 years ago, this was a perfect role for Clint Eastwood. There is one part where the casting seemed wrong - Cuba Gooding as O.J. He is a good actor, but unlike the rest of the cast, he does not really embody the character. O.J. is handsome and charismatic, not to mention a bigger man in stature. Billy Magnusson is good as Kato. Kato got 15 minutes of fame out of the trial and milked it.Some of what takes place in the film isn't quite correct, as I recall it anyway. No one called O.J. and said, "your wife Nicole has been killed." I remember that as being a big part of my belief that he was guilty. He was called and told, "Your ex-wife has been killed." Well, he had two, but somehow, he knew it was Nicole right away. As far as him asking how she was killed, he probably didn't.In the beginning, the prosecution seemed to have O.J. dead to rights, with his blood on the sidewalk and the gloves showing a mix of his and the victims' DNA. But they were undergunned. And frankly, the charisma of Johnnie Cochran was overpowering. I think a lot of the jury was mesmerized by him. Chris Darden, on the other side, went to his funeral. A powerful adversary you couldn't help but admire.Barry Schenk's complete ruination of Dennis Fong is considered one of the great all-time cross-examinations - here it was truncated but still powerful.This was the beginning of Schenk's Innocence Project, which has, through DNA evidence, been able to get twenty innocent people released from prison. Unfortunately it couldn't get O.J. in prison. Too new back then, I guess. But the verdict went beyond the DNA, if what went on in the jury room is to be believed. Four hours of deliberation? And why did the people who believed him guilty cave so quickly? It seems like everyone wanted to go home.In the end, this trial was a big waste. Johnnie Cochran put the LAPD on trial, and as Chris Darden tells him, "They're still going to beat us, arrest us, harass us." History has proved him correct. There were people on the jury who had no intention of voting for O.J.'s guilt.So other than reality shows for Faye Resnick, Kato, and Kris Jenner, a huge book deal for Marcia Clark, franchised offices for Robert Shapiro, private practice for Chris Darden (once he recovered from a near-nervous breakdown), a brain tumor for Johnnie Cochran, and more golf games for O.J., what was accomplished for Nicole and Ron Goldman?The last half hour or so of the final episode has some of the most stunning moments on television, particularly the very end. Very emotional and thought-provoking.I was surprised to read that some younger people had no idea O.J. played football. I don't know why I should be surprised. There are people on this site who think Gandhi was a fictional character.Whether or not you're familiar with the case, the series will prove fascinating.
This is just excellent.First rate productions are the best way to attract a first rate cast. Excellent writing of course, brilliant dialogue as well as character design. Another reviewer said that it was better than the real thing - it is. I remember absolutely hating Marcia Clarke and here she is very well played and not overly done. She is very watchable - in real life I had to turn her off very often.The actors Kenneth Choi and Mr. Courteny B Vance have roles of a lifetime and they are running with them. The intricacies of Judge Ito and the boundless energy and passion of Johnnie Cochran are captivating and very well casted. Particularly informative is interactions between the lawyers on both sides. It is well paced and focused, it flows cleanly from one scene to another. I wish more programming could flow from FX.


                
Sarah Paulsen (Clark), Sterling Brown (Darden) and Courtney Vance (Cochran) are absolute stand-outs in this excellent TV series. Great writing and terrific acting. The one criticism I have is Cuba Gooding, Jr, although a wonderful actor, doesn't have the physicality required to convincingly portray O.J. Simpson. Other than that poor judgment in casting, excellent direction and production make this a series worth watching. Even if you believe you know everything about the case, you'll gain a deeper sense of the sorrow the families (and still are) lived through. And a greater respect for the district attorneys, who by no fault of their own, found themselves under the microscope while working inside a circus ring. Like Nicole and Ron - the LA District Attorney never had a chance.


                
I absolutely enjoyed the first season,,,, even though the OJ simpson case has been played out to death, the writers found a way to keep it fresh, and Sarah paulson absolutely deserved all the awards... But versace is just not as engaging- the acting is exceptional but the story is told in achronoglical order and it's a little confusing to follow at first- the first episode and last episode were good, but everything in between was meh


                
Everyone remembers the mid 90's 1994 and 1995 and how they were glued with the culture and happenings of the O.J. Simpson murder case. And the criminal trial televised live on TV would fascinate and captivate a whole nation as did he do it, and the trial would spin on to race, police cover up and evidence tampering. I must say that this new FX series captures all of that near perfect. As the chemistry between the characters in is top notch form. As the actors playing the real life players look so real as the mannerisms are captured just perfect. And it shows how the defense team plots to make the trial about race and evidence tampering, and behind the scenes you see the power struggle with O.J. defense lawyers. And you see the head strong Marcia Clark make legal blunders and the real life news footage shown takes you back to the media circus of the trial of the century. Overall this series is near addictive watch it it's entertaining and a behind the scenes joy of the most talked about murder case of our generation.


                
American Crime Story: The People vs. OJ Simpson -- From the creators of the mediocre and always disappointing miniseries American Horror Story? That's what I thought when I began to see ads and promotions for this series. What I thought was a unnecessary vapid idea actually turned out as a gripping and outstanding drama series. This series had definitely caught me off guard. What an outstanding and fresh new series we've have got. So far, the episodes are fast paced, excellent and well executed. The editing is spot on, the direction for each episode is good and the series easily has one of the best screenplay on television today and (from my knowledge) does a tremendous job doing reenactments of the actual incidents. But who am I kidding? The best aspect about this show are the characters who are brought to life by the incredible performances by each of the cast members. Most notably are David Schwimmer and John Travolta. Granted, we are only two episodes in, but the two give outstanding performance and are sure to be nominated (and who knows? Perhaps win?) for numerous awards for supporting actor(s) in a miniseries come Emmy's and the GGs. But of course, the man who easily steals the show is none other than Cuba Gooding Jr. as OJ Simpson, who gives a marvelous and intelligent performance not seen since........ well Rod Tidwell in Jerry Maguire.The only aspect I seem to dislike about the series are the cameos given to kid-version Kim Kardashian and and kid-version Khloe Kardashian. Coming from a man who despises the sad creation that is Keeping Up with the Kardashians, I see no reason for constantly bringing back these children. In no way do they help progress the story forward, so the only reason I could think of the children to be in the show is for their publicity bought by there $$$. Despite this, ACS: The People vs OJ Simpson is a great new series and highly recommend it.I highly anticipate what crime event American Crime Story will dramatize after season 1!


                
Whatever critics say, this season indisputably has one thing - it has style. It's provocative. It has enough truth to it to make it believable and enough lies to make it memorable. That's exactly how legends are made.


                
Season 2 of ACS was a mess the main cause of that is the time lapse of the series, they were moments i couldn't follow the events because of the non stop back and forward. Second problem is the backstories of the victims of Cunanans, we get an episode of Jeff Trail in army , memories of the childhood of Davide, backstory of Cunanans father backstory of almost everyone . that was tottaly boring, i would prefer more time about GV backstory rather than all the others. Finally for me the biggest problem is that the season leaves you with many questions...Does Andrew Cunanan have Aids (as implied in episode one,the scene with the scars in the beach), did GV and Andrew have talk once only? Did they have a relationship? Did GV infect Andrew? Was Versace suffer from ear cancer or Aids? who was the girl with the blue dress passing in front of camera in the tv news ? When and why Andrew live with Elizabeth ?
Except all that the casting was excellent.
4/10
The people vs. O.J. Simpson is an enthralling, dramatic look at the trial of the century. The cast in particular is dead perfect. Gooding Jr. in particular brings drama and heart wrenching emotion to the image of O.J himself. And "Friends" star David Schwimmer plays a prefect Rob Kardashian, bringing a devastating look at the downfall of his best friend. This show is nothing short of amazing. As a person who did not personally live through the trial, this is a greatly informative show. Every minute in the show feels planned and while that kind of structure can be strict and stringent in many shows/movies, this feels like the stricture only adds to the drama. The show is extremely well written, and a perfect look at the end of the football hero.
I just want to say this mini-series has been excellent. I remember back in the day where I was when the Bronco Chase Began. I was watching T.V. I think it was The X-Files, when the news broke. I was shocked, and like most tried to follow it as best as I could. I was working when The verdict came back, and my jaw dropped. I couldn't believe it, I thought sure it was going to be a guilty verdict. As one who worked in the Criminal Justice system, our justice system is flawed when it comes to those with power.As for this show, it is outstanding. The actors involved look so much like the real McCoy's, WOW. When I watched the premiere I was hooked. The show takes you back to the night it happened. The Bronco chase, The creation of the Dream Team, and currently we are at the trial. Here's something I didn't know. I wondered how the Kardashian's became a big name. The father was part of the dream team, and they were very close to the Simpsons. A great mini-series I highly recommend.
Great cast like season 1 ! Could be even better only 4 episodes in and already thinking it could be.


                
My greatest quibble with this series is just that it's inherently exploitative.
Otherwise it's excellent in virtually every respect.I have not seen season one, but I've just watched season two.If the aim was to show us how the killer could choose to do what he did
While not excusing his choices one bit I think it had some success .Many people are troubled and angry in many ways.
To me choosing to kill often comes down to incredible selfishness.
The killer wants to kill so he does without truly caring about how such would effect others
including the victim.
This is to me the main thing what separates a seemingly regular guy from a killer-
In other words it's the choice taken to kill-
The action itself-
Which defines the difference.
And I think that's played out here.The going back in time set up was very powerful in this story .The sets were fabulous. Versace's home is a character in itself.


                
The level of violence in this series will shock anyone, no matter their age. There are different kinds of violence. You can fast-forward or mute scenes of the killings. You can't fast-forward or mute scenes of the emotional and psychological violence, which exists on two levels and from two sources.I don't know how so affable and kind an actor as Daniel Criss obviously is could sustain the rage of narcissism required for the length of the series. This raging narcissism is emotionally violent from the first scene of Cunanan until the last. But second, the depiction of two class systems, one rich, one poor, deflects from 90's inequities regarding treatment of gay men. The opening montage of Gianni Versace in his last moments of life, the stunning splendor... was it meant to be offensive? It might not have seemed intended that way, if not for the fact that the series takes the designer's name for its title.Flashback narration only heightens the series' dread. This choice of narration is sensational but extremely effective. However, the inclusion of Versace's back story, and the frigid, stagey presence of Penelope Cruz as Versace's sister, doesn't seem aimed at creating sympathy for the 1%'ers. And that made me wonder: exactly what was the point of this series? An indictment of obscene wealth? A chance to point out that obscenity works both ways?If the series was meant to tell us that inequities create psychopathic monsters like Cunanan, it succeeded. But that's when this series becomes very troubling, because psychopathic killers aren't making statements about injustice when they're killing. They're just plain killing. To suggest even remotely this profoundly disturbing pre-millennium crime spree can be explained by anything other than bloodlust and narcissism is just plain wrong.More respect would have been shown to Gianni Versace if the series had a different title, because in the end, never-ending scenes of the opulence he enjoyed tends not so subtly to argue for sympathy for a devil.


                
An incredibly interesting and captivating story based on true events. In the beginning I thought the way of storytelling a bit confusing but once you get used it, it enhances the viewing experience immensely. I can imagine watching it a second time around and then being able to fully take advantage and enjoy it even more.
Huge shoutout to the actors who gave incredible performances. Especially Darren Criss needs to be mentioned but also supporting actors such as Ricky Martin, Penelope Cruz, Finn Wittrock and particularily Cody Fern.Only in relation to season 2!


                
The People vs. O.J. Simpson is a television series that is based on real life events. In 1994, Nicole Brown Simpson, the ex wife of O.J. Simpson, and her friend Ronald Goldman were murdered. O.J. Simpson was the prime suspect of the crimes, and after his trial, he was found not guilty of both of the murders. In the series, the storyline follows both O.J. and his team of lawyers and the prosecution as well. So far this season, the crime itself was investigated, O.J. was chased on the highway in his teammate's white Bronco, and the trial has begun. A lot happens in these episodes and it is hard to look away when it gets really engaging. At this point in time, what I have seen from the television show has been not the least bit disappointing. First of all, the show is full of many great actors and actresses. They play the roles so well that I will occasionally think Cuba Gooding Jr. really went through this process. The show exemplifies many different perspectives throughout each episode. The story follows both the prosecution and the defendant.The civil right that I have been researching is the right to a fair trial. In this show, there are many examples of when there has and has not been an opportunity for a fair trial. For example, OJ was put into handcuffs at one point in time before the trial in the show. A cameraman captured the moment on video and soon the whole world saw him in handcuffs. Naturally, handcuffs are a symbol for guilt and wrong-doing, so if the whole world sees him, everyone assumes that he is guilty and it eliminates the possibility of remaining innocent until proved guilty. The media was all over the Simpson case before it even happened, and if the jury ruled another way, there very well could have been a huge outburst.I chose to use this series for my subject because of many reasons. To start, this story is very famous, but I did not know a whole lot about it so it was interesting. I had heard allegations of O.J. Simpson killing his wife, but I wanted to hear more of the story. Also, I wanted to pick a story that was relevant and known so that I had background information, and this story was perfect for that.
When I first saw ads for this miniseries, my curiosity was piqued because it boasted what can only be described as a star-studded cast. Almost every major role is played by a well-known face, if not name. What especially caught my attention, and elicited initial skepticism, was the fact that John Travolta had been cast as Robert Shapiro, and by the looks of him (all done up in bushy, dark eyebrows and chestnut wig) I believed the show would be way too campy for my liking; and in all honesty, his portrayal is the weakest link here and could very well be described as just that, campy. However, much to my pleasant surprise, I was thrilled with how masterfully executed American Crime Story is!The series opens with the discovery of the murder of Nicole Brown and Ron Goldman at Bundy Drive and progresses quickly to Simpson's home on Rockingham. It's not long before O.J. is the prime suspect, based not just on the premise that the spouse is always the number one suspect in a murder until disqualified, but on the overwhelming amount of physical evidence. The prosecution believed (and rightfully so) that they had a slam-dunk case and, as we all know, 22 years later, they couldn't have been more wrong.Over the course of 10 expertly-crafted episodes, the series follows the now-famous members of the prosecution, the defense team, and the defendant as they struggle to control the narrative of the trial. Was O.J. Simpson, the heroic, revered football player and African American icon a cold-blooded killer as the evidence devastatingly proved? Or was he just another black man being framed by the L.A.P.D., which was struggling with numerous charges of racism and brutality in the wake of the Rodney King beating?Peripheral characters like Kato Kaelin and Faye Resnick make sporadic and brief appearances as a small reminder of the immense scope of the trial and the various conspiracy theories that were floated, but this show belongs wholly to the legal teams and Simpson.I remember watching the investigation and subsequent trial coverage faithfully as it aired on every major network for weeks on end back in 1994 and 1995, and every facet of the story covered here was familiar to me, but I still appreciated the breathtaking expertise in putting together a well-written, skillfully-edited, and astonishingly well-cast show. At times, I was convinced I was watching actual trial footage. Sarah Paulson as Marcia Clark and Sterling K. Brown as Christopher Darden are eerily (almost unbelievably) authentic!I highly recommend this series. If you think it's just another retread of an old and hackneyed story, think again. You're in for a real treat.


                
I've watched season 1 and just about done with season 2 and I cannot believe how good this show is. I love American Horror Story but I think this is even better since the storytelling is incredible, especially season 2 since they kind of go backwards. I also think they get amazing, realistic actors so all around this show is top notch in every way.


                
Yes, I remember exactly where I was when the white Bronco car chase was broadcast live to everyone's amazement. It was like watching a mystery unfold in real time. And then there was the trial, with its headline-grabbing sensationalism and the racial overtones.I wanted to watch this dramatization to discover if it might be biased toward either the prosecution or the defense. After two episodes, I am pleased that the dramatizing, which is necessary, does not favor either side much.For example, after the police call O.J. in Chicago and notify him of his ex-wife's death, we see O.J. sitting on the edge of the bed crying. No one witnessed his actions after the call. He might have been shaking uncontrollably. But it does not change the central truth of the story much either way.The writers have done a good job to couch the narrative in the prevailing feelings of the time, especially with regard to the Rodney King case and the reactions of some citizens who rushed to judgment. One of the most noteworthy aspects of the case--and the thing that contributed greatly to the final verdict--was the way opinions were sidetracked by items of non-evidence. After the first episode it is obvious that O.J. is guilty if all one looks at is the evidence. The defense's only possible explanation for the evidence (before they even start looking at it) would be a story laughable for its convoluted assertions. And yet, we know the final verdict. The defense kept asking the jury to watch one diversion after another (and ignore the hard evidence). Much of the public was likewise diverted from the consequential to the irrelevant. Even posters on this site still argue about O.J.'s motivations for the car chase and bigotry within the LAPD when those things are mere diversions from the voluminous evidence that was inarguable. And that is what makes this story so interesting. The actors are doing an amazing job. Discussions about suitability of particular actors are understandable, but the real story is being told as much as one can determine. And even those who watched the entire story unfold years ago can learn more about the timeline and the "backstage" happenings. I am hoping the rest of this series is as devoted to reality.Update 2/28/16: After four episodes, I am upping my grade to "9". This show is riveting. The only significant miscue so far is the miscasting of Cuba Gooding, Jr. as O.J. Not that his acting is bad, he just does not have the same presence that the real O.J. had, like his physicality or his smug demeanor. Some of the other actors are really channeling their real-life counterparts, like Courtney Vance as Johnny Cochran.


                
American Crime StoryThe People V OJ SimpsonA mighty old familiar tale rebooted and upgraded in a more than a cinematic way where the process, execution, cast and the craft touches the high scale of dreadful emotions, dysfunctional characters and a divergent point of view.


                
I went into this series without many expectations; I had heard it was well done, but I was not prepared for the tour de force I saw. What could have been trashy cable schlock turned out to be not only a cultural artifact, but a work of art in and of itself. I was in college when the OJ trial happened, and while I was never obsessed with it (as many were), it was nonetheless inescapable. I even had a sociology professor who made us watch highlights in class every day. Everyone was talking about it. It was a defining moment of our generation. This series captured SO MUCH of the feeling that surrounded the trial; the chaos, the morbid fascination, the passion, the dread. It was all laid bare on the screen and masterfully presented with an insight and sensitivity that frankly shocked me. The writers and director somehow managed to sustain incredible dramatic tension throughout the series despite the fact we already knew how the story ends -- in fact, I'd even say that the tension was actually heightened for that very reason.The casting and acting was likewise perfect across the board. I've read a few complaints about Cuba Gooding Jr. not being the best choice for OJ, but I strongly disagree. While he's not exactly a dead-ringer, he embodies the character so completely and does such a good job with the role that after the first episode you stop being bothered by his lack of physical resemblance. It's rare that I'm so pleasantly surprised by a production, but this was a standout. Bravo to all involved.


                
I unexpectedly loved this series. If you would have asked me about a mini-series about the OJ trial I wouldn't have thought much of it. But once I saw the first episode I was hooked.Keep in mind I was around at the time of the trial and watched parts of it on TV. In particular will never forget the final day when the verdict came out. This series was both very entertaining and educational. And even my wife who was not old enough to see the original trial was fascinated with the show as well.For the most part the show was done very well. High production values, the actors did a great job, etc. The only one I thought was a little off was Cuba Gooding Jr. Nothing wrong with his acting mind you, he actually did a bang-up job of it! But while most the actors looked really close to their real life counterparts, Cuba is probably just a little too small and didn't look athletic enough like OJ is/was. They could have done the usual thing (like they do with Tom Cruise, in Lord of Rings, etc.) and filmed him from a lower point, propped him up, etc. And he could have worked out to loose some body fat, etc.A good thing about a show like this (although obviously dramatized and who knows how much untruths the filled in the blanks with) it gets you to think and reflect.As I watched this, there is still something eating me that I observed from the original trial. Why did Judge Lance Ito let the prosecution walk all over court? He literally let them get away with murder (pun intended). He seem/ed to have little backbone at all. Now I'm sure he is supposed to be neutral in frame of mind, but he ignored the fact the prosecution was deliberately trying to drag everything out. And they abused the court time and time again. He totally lost control over the court. Plus he let political things going on outside the case effect his judgement, etc. It's as if he just wanted to bask in all the attention and media frenzy. I can only wonder would have happened if there was a better stronger judge instead..


                
I have read a lot of negative reviews that says that the series doesn't add anything to what they already know from the news, but for a person like me who is not American and was born in 1994, it is really good. I actually have never heard of O.J before this series. The show is a very good documentary for a historical event.


                
First off, I'm going to say that I haven't enjoyed a show as much as I did with American Crime Story in a long time due to the overwhelming number of trashy shows produced recently. I didn't expect to find this spin of the Trial of the Century so interesting when considering that I already had a lot of knowledge on the topic, however the show- writers managed to include a lot of details about the case in the show that changed my perspective of it entirely. For example, I personally did not realise the sexism that Marica Clark faced from Lance Ito and the press, nor the nature of the relationship between the two prosecutors: Chris Darden and Marcia Clark. I was particularly impressed with the casting in American Crime Story as the physical resemblance of the actors to their real life counterparts was at times uncanny, and with the exception of John Travolta who plays attorney Bob Shapiro, I found that their portrayals of the characters were brilliant. I think a special mention should go out to Courtney B. Vance's for his performance as Johnny Cochran. My final comment is that the show also had a really good balance between background drama and the events occurring in the courtroom. I find that many shows often make the mistake of focusing on the drama at the expense of the main story-line, but this was not the case here.
Purely based on the acting skills and the story telling American Crime Story deserves a high rating. I watched the whole first season in a couple of days. From the first minute I was hooked on this show. The actors did an exceptional good job with their respective characters. But at the end of the show I was so angry, like I've never been before after watching a series. Even days after I am still angry. Angry about the whole American justice system. Angry about the obvious racism there was, and still is, in the law enforcement division. Angry how a trial becomes a media circus. I hated some characters so much, but in a good way. Not because of bad acting or so, Au contrary the acting was brilliant, but just because of the despicable humans they turned out to be. And to me those characters are Robert Shapiro, Johnnie Cochran, Mark Fuhrman and O.J. Simpson. Robert Shapiro because he's just a selfish disgusting person that will do anything, morally correct or not, to defend his client. Wrong or not, he will just try anything to hide the truth. Johnnie Cochran, that I respect for trying to defend the injustice minorities have to deal with, but in the Simpson case he's just as bad as the ones he accused before. Blaming everybody else for the murders of two innocent victims, just so he can get his moment of fame. He's a vile and disgusting person as well. Mark Furhman for being the racist cop he is. A guy that has chosen to be a law enforcer, and that obviously is not partial when the color of the skin is more important then the crimes they commit or not. He's a despicable human being that deserves of rotting in jail. And instead of that he has a job at Fox News. It doesn't even surprise me, when you know that the media, especially Fox, is as corrupt as the whole justice system in America. OJ Simpson, for the two faced liar he turned out to be. Him getting away with those murders is just scandalous. Him ending in jail in the future was just an inevitable thing, because he's just an evil human being. That he can get paroled in 2017 makes me sick. He should rot in jail until his last days on earth. I am a convinced atheist but for the first time in my life I wished there was a heaven and a hell. And then I wished all those people would rot in hell. Especially the jury, for acquitting a guilty murderer, just because the police force are racists. There is no way that OJ Simpson would get away with this in Europe after all the DNA evidence there was. The jury should be ashamed of themselves. I hope they rot in hell for what they did. The lawyers and media in America are disgusting. Trying to discrediting the prosecutor in the media has absolutely nothing to do with OJ Simpson and the murder case so playing that game is just disgusting. As well as portraying Cochran as a wife beater. Even if he is, it has nothing to do with the murder case, and so it should not be brought up. The whole media circus around some cases are a shame. Americans viewers are just voyeurs, happy to see the misery of others. It's a disgusting world but the series itself is brilliant.
