Most watchers will compare this series with other international big-budget successes such as Breaking Bad, the Sopranos or the Wire. I think that this is the first mistake that the Romanian audience makes. The second one is referring to the language that is used as being to vulgar or non-representative for the street (illegal) activities that occurs in Romania. The third mistake is emphasizing the lack of character development.On the first case, this is a low budget series, with its main aim being entertainment. If it plays well, then the future seasons will, most likely, be better. Comparing apples and oranges is one thing - they're both fruit, but comparing sledgehammers and ponies is a totally different thing. This series was created for the Romanian audience, not the American one, and because the watcher's used to American series, then he is part of the American audience.Secondly, on the language used, referring to it as exaggerated means not seeing the chain of events. Each episode has 45 minutes and it reflects 45 minutes of events, which happen to be the ones that demand that type of language. Again, this is due to the lack of experience the Romanian audience has with this type of native- swearing. We're used to foreign street language and we consider it natural, but when someone talks like that in Romanian its, somehow exaggerated. Thirdly, the lack of character development might be seen as an issue, but, to my eyes, this is what makes the show entertaining. You don't know what to expect from the main character, especially since he's an anti-hero. Not being fed with the way you should feel about the main character gives this story an upper hand. Nevertheless, I must say that I'm writing this review based only on the first five episodes, but even so, I personally find this show highly entertaining with more than just a few glances of genius writing and acting. A definite must for Romanian speakers and highly recommended for those into the anti-hero underworld drama series.


                
First of all, I'm an avid TV-series watcher. It's pointless to name them all but believe me, I've probably wasted years of my life watching series of all kind.Second, I just can't believe the quality of this show. Romanian shows are cheap soap operas, cheap comedies or just plain bad cheap stuff for the masses.It is the first time a Romanian show (original show) pays attention to details such as: - music - lighting - perfect sound - editing and special fxI've seen the shows other reviewers mention: Breaking bad, The Wire, Sopranos, 24, etc - more than once. UMBRE is not a copy of those shows. But now, in 2015, after millions of movies have been made it is almost impossible to say a new show is totally original so of course you feel the need to compare them.UMBRE has the Romanian touch to it - the long scenes where all you see is a bit of the normal life of a character - the type of scenes that give you a sense of reality to it. You don't have these in US shows.The actors do a wonderful job and I don't need more character development, it's not a novel it's an action-comedy show not a theater play.The slang might be too much for some but when was the last time you spend some time within that social class? When you watch The Wire there are scenes where all they say is "fu*k" for 5 minutes, continuously. I really want this show to continue - it's a new breed of show in Romania and I want to see this one succeed and other to appear afterward. I'm just sick and tired of shows about communism, Romanian tragedies, telenovelas, etc.


                
I have to admit I'm not familiar with the Romanian cinema, but it seems they have some serious talent. Story follows a cab driver, who works as a debt collector for a local gangster and, of course, things get complicated rather quickly. Some people compare this with Sopranos, but it is in my opinion very different. Maybe it's the east European setting, cheap cars and run- own houses, but it sells the idea that he is doing it just to survive. There is no glam gangster life present in Sopranos, no pools, no expensive cars, just making the ends meet. The production value is high. Good acting, writing and directing. I think it helps seeing actors you've never seen before,because it makes them more believable and you can enjoy them without prejudice. Nice little change of pace from the same old, same old American TV shows.


                
Great director and great acting performance. Maybe the characters are not so well developed, maybe the script is sometimes lacking consistence. In the same time the Director compensates with incredible talent and flair. Igor Cobileanski is a huge surprise, HBO people were lucky to find such a talent who was practically unknown. Serban Pavlu is playing like Relu is his alter ego and Maria Obretin, even as she has theater written all over her face, she performs like she has been doing TV movies for her entire life. Quality of the movie is in the same league with Breaking Bad. The image is brilliant, the D.O.P. does a marvelous job. Some audiences consider the language too violent, in my opinion language is very realistic considering the nature of the characters. I believe it is the best Romanian TV series ever made. With a better script, I would have given a 10.


                
I just started watching this, saw the first 3 episodes. I wasn't expecting it to be good or bad, but being HBO I was confident it wouldn't suck. What I found is a good show, it resembles The Sopranos in many ways but with the exoticism of Romania it's not that visible. There are many funny moments, some great scenes, some nudity (ofc, it's HBO), all in all I recommend it if you liked The Sopranos or similar shows, or if you want a taste of Romania and its criminal organizations. I'm looking forward to the next season and I hope it continues for the classical HBO 6 series (or more) because there's some good stuff here.


                
I was pleasantly surprised with this series!It was recommended to me by one of my friends ,and described as "The best Romanian series he ever saw", even though I was quite doubtful at first, as I saw the first episode I was convinced he was not exaggerating that much.The plot is pretty good for a low-budget series , certainly better than in many Romanian films, the director and the actors are amazing, especially the main character, Serban Pavlu. At first I thought the language was a little bit over the top , but as I watched another American series I realized that the amount of curses was not that big at all, and if you listened to the actual street language in Bucharest you would find it very similar. In conclusion, this is one of the best Romanian series ever made.It made me look better at Romanian films/series and it made me proud that I am Romanian! As a Romanian would say:"Uite ca se poate!"(It can be done!).


                
This drama is centered around an odd family man who must balance the life of an enforcer with that of a husband and father of two. Every twist and turn derives from this double life and it's by no means a new idea. Unfortunately we don't see too much character development which could have added a lot more depth to the story but nevertheless it does it's best to construct a plausible scenario.It abounds in street language which feels a little bit forced at times, giving the impression that the screenwriter wanted so much for this story to look and feel authentic that he over did it at times. Nobody squeezes so many clichés per minute of talking in real life (much of them being street language stereotypes from the 70-80s, so a little out of place).Overall it's interesting and worth watching but it could have been so much better with just a little more effort and a more seasoned screenwriter.
Definitely a gem! Too bad it is so little known! It deserves a better promotion, since it is one of the best "mafia" movies I've seen lately. Seriously! It is close to Sopranos when it comes to the vivid imagery (e.g. the scene when the main character was about to get his head chopped in a bathtub was absolutely breathtaking), but without the glamour and wealth of the American mob. A great plot! It feels authentic and it is immersive! You will see a slice of real life with cheap cars, decayed buildings, ruthless thugs ready to kill for few thousands. The language is brutal but full of authentic and often very funny expressions (it helps if you speak Romanian)You will not be able to resist the binge-watching temptation. Highly recommended!PS: I hear HBO Europe is planning a second season. Looking forward to have it also on Amazon, as soon as possible.


                
It was about time that a show like this appeared on our TV screens and I believe that everyone working at it did an amazing job captivating audience and keeping them on the edge of their seats for the next season. The main character is Relu, a money collector working for a local mobster. He is played successfully by a very good actor, <U+0218>erban Pavlu, who had to do a significant transformation for the role including gaining some muscle. At first I didn't trust his capability to play such a role because it was very different than every other before but he managed to surprise me pleasantly with his performance. The rest of the characters do a great job introducing us in the atmosphere of crime life in Romania, which, I might add, is very different to the point where it cannot be compared with the one in America. The harsh language is present in foreign films too but we just got used to it and see it as being normal. There's no reason to be offended by curse words present in this show and change the channel when the plot is so expertly written and the funny dialogues melt so with the dramatic scenes creating maybe the best TV series in Romania at the moment. The inspiration from Asian action films is clear. The fighting is often done with unconventional weapons such as a hat-stand or some car keys, this spontaneity of the characters in their actions adding more realism to the story. You won't see clichés such as big guns or explosions but you will still be entertained, I assure you. In the end, I would like to add that the season finale was fantastic and I am sure that the seasons that will come will attract even more fans. It is definitely a show worth watching and I would recommend it to everyone who is willing to forget about the abundance soap operas in our country and try to appreciate a different kind of show, a more professionally made and more original one.


                
One Romanian TV-show made by HBO Europe which combines drama, thriller and crime. I powerfully recommend this TV series for it's story line and actors. Really love that minor details such as romanian music, romanian radios which is played when someone is driving. There are so many other details but I let you find them. 10/10!


                
At the time of writing this review, I have watched 5 episodes. The first season is 8 episodes long and we don't know if there will be a second season at this point, I'd say it's unlikely.First of all, it's an ambitious project. It borrows ideas from series like Breaking Bad, which feel refreshing for the Romanian audience, but are definitely not original. Therefore, it currently stands at 9.2, which is way too high for what it had to show so far. A 6-7 would be more appropriate.The main character is a taxi driver who's also working as a street collector for a local mobster. To be expected, it gets more and more difficult for him to hide one life from another, as they tend to become one and the same.Most characters unfortunately feel like cardboard cut-outs, following stereotypes that we've all seen in plenty of movies and TV series before, however most of them are passable. Serban Pavlu's performance isn't outstanding but it's solid enough for a lead role. He's a struggling man with two sides, a loving husband and overprotective father and a ruthless money collector, so that gives him quite a large range to work within.Stefan Velniciuc delivers some funny lines as Nea Puiu and he's definitely the highlight in some scenes, providing most of the comedic tone in the show, lightening up the mood whenever it gets too tense.Andreea Vasile plays the kingpin's apparently cold-hearted underling as Nico and Doru Ana plays Capitanu', a feared kingpin who everybody respects and listens to religiously.The supporting cast generally does a poor job, with some exceptions (Gabriel Huian as Tedy comes to mind) and that isn't helped by the script, sometimes resulting in some awkward scenes.The dialogue feels forced, due to the overuse of street slang that is unlike anything you'd actually hear in real life. It's mostly "by the book" slang and it feels artificial, even though it's intended to be genuine. This is probably my biggest complaint, since it constantly breaks the illusion that you are watching real people and not a TV series.There's some smart use of music at times, which is always nice for people who appreciate such details, so it's worth mentioning.The story progresses at a relatively good pace, but the character development is pretty much non-existent, which is a shame, because there is potential.As it stands, unless it's taking an unexpected turn, it's an average "man with money issues who would do anything to provide for his family" story which is refreshing because it's set in Romania, that being the only reason to watch it.


                
Totally surprised by this show, it's as gripping as anything I've seen. The image looks shaky but it does it's job well, the editing must be at least correct since it doesn't attract attention in a bad way. The coloring and lighting must be fine since the atmosphere is correct. And the acting must be pretty good since I feel those characters are pretty real. The swearing might be considered too intellectual for gangsters maybe, but I see it just as a nice touch, in tune with the slightly comedic aura that the events have. It's nice to see some quality swearing instead of "f--k you and f--k your mother's". And that wouldn't even be realistic.I also like how the actor's faces reflect their role. People generally have a look and even if it's not polite to tell people 'you look like a crazy bastard, or you look insane, or you stupid and insane,' I guess actors have to be told. :)The only moment I didn't like so far was the "partying" at the end of the 6th episode. It was a bit off-tune I guess.
All of the other Romanian films are made in a manner that only the Romanian producers/writers like and this TV Show, Umbre (Shadows), is finally made for the audience's preferences. Yes, the audience is asking for cliché, American action/drama cliché, but I got used and bored of all of these and this is why I am not rating it with a better mark. Buut, I have to say that all of these clichés are actually making it a little bit more interesting.The acting performance is well done by all the actors, especially the old ones.The movie budget is high and this is why we have to thank HBO, we have some good moments in some of the episodes which require a big amount of money to spend, but they have to work more.About everything this TV Series has, it has to be better and they have to work more on little details because, after 3 years of nothing between season 1 and season 2, the audience is expecting for more. And I think these guys can do a lot more than that !


                
It is not easy to depict the underworld. Especially the underworld of an ex communist country. The plot is great and it resembles reality more than many people would actually be inclined to believe. There is a huge cultural and social gap between the ex communist countries and theier western counterparts. Watching it is quite an experience. The slang is well researched, the actors are doing a great job, the directors wow captured the essence of the criminal life in Bucharest down to an almost impossible level of detail. Great job. Can't wait to see the next season.


                
The first season was so good. It was incredibly authentic with characters and actions taken from the romanian reality. Just an amazing experience watching it. Unfortunately the second season was kind of destroyed by the real poor and shameful acting of Laurentiu Bãnescu who is impersonating the most unrealistic cop ever, Emilian, who is a police officer from a completely different universe than the rest of the story. It's such a shame that a really bad actor succeeded in destroying such a great tv experience..


                
This series has been compared to The Sopranos, here's why it's not.Even though Tony Soprano was a totally disreputable character, you found yourself rooting for him. He was a thug and a murderer, but he showed humanity. He showed affection for his daughter, and sometimes his wife. He had a sense of humor, and, at times, he showed real compassion.Relu Oncescu has no redeeming qualities. He may care for his family, but you would never know it. He's is violent to his wife and kids. He is completely humorless. I watched the entire series, but I never felt anything for Relu Oncescu. I didn't care whether he lived or died.


                
It is a movie wich transcending in a perfect way the reality from the Romania country.Corruption at all levels,the fight for surrviving,low level of education for romanian citizens, problems that most of the families are living daily, the abuses and the malfunctions with which the system works for its own citizenz.A verry good movie that will blow your mind and will make you to think that,after all, the things are everywhere the same, also people.Great movie with the best anonymous actors wich the're playing the're roles perfect.You can bet that they were made to play in this movie.And the second season... by far,better than 1st.


                
By far the most entertaining Romanian series that I am aware of, especially 2017 releases.


                
I've seen over 100 tv shows and this one clearly gets in the top 5.
Since it's made by HBO, you just have to expect top-notch stuff and so it is.
Umbre is a well-paced, gritty and violent show with solid writing and great characters that create memorable scenes. The actors seem to be born for their parts and everything runs smoothly.
The second season is even better than the first one, especially thanks to a new amazing character played by an actor who does a really impressive job. 
All I can say is that it is must-see show and the rating is more than fair!


                
I have never visited Romania, have no acquaintances there, probably have seen a couple of Romanian films, but definitely no Romanian TV-series... And now this - wow! Umbre did not captivate me from the very first minutes, but then it started working on me: its characters, performances, scenes, intertwining of people and events...Some stuff may seem bizarre, but bearing in mind their standard of living, corruption index and problems with the EU, I am sure most things are not exaggerated. There are lots of lines, glimpses, sights, occasions, etc. that are essentially tragic, but you find yourself giggling, and all the cast is just something... bold and assiduous, even minors, and the reactions of the characters to surprising outcomes are worth recording.So, if you like something original and different, including raw scenes, then Umbre is definitely for you!


                
It's a pity you stopped shooting this gorgeous series It was an excellent movie


                
