This drama is centered around an odd family man who must balance the life of an enforcer with that of a husband and father of two. Every twist and turn derives from this double life and it's by no means a new idea. Unfortunately we don't see too much character development which could have added a lot more depth to the story but nevertheless it does it's best to construct a plausible scenario.It abounds in street language which feels a little bit forced at times, giving the impression that the screenwriter wanted so much for this story to look and feel authentic that he over did it at times. Nobody squeezes so many clichés per minute of talking in real life (much of them being street language stereotypes from the 70-80s, so a little out of place).Overall it's interesting and worth watching but it could have been so much better with just a little more effort and a more seasoned screenwriter.
At the time of writing this review, I have watched 5 episodes. The first season is 8 episodes long and we don't know if there will be a second season at this point, I'd say it's unlikely.First of all, it's an ambitious project. It borrows ideas from series like Breaking Bad, which feel refreshing for the Romanian audience, but are definitely not original. Therefore, it currently stands at 9.2, which is way too high for what it had to show so far. A 6-7 would be more appropriate.The main character is a taxi driver who's also working as a street collector for a local mobster. To be expected, it gets more and more difficult for him to hide one life from another, as they tend to become one and the same.Most characters unfortunately feel like cardboard cut-outs, following stereotypes that we've all seen in plenty of movies and TV series before, however most of them are passable. Serban Pavlu's performance isn't outstanding but it's solid enough for a lead role. He's a struggling man with two sides, a loving husband and overprotective father and a ruthless money collector, so that gives him quite a large range to work within.Stefan Velniciuc delivers some funny lines as Nea Puiu and he's definitely the highlight in some scenes, providing most of the comedic tone in the show, lightening up the mood whenever it gets too tense.Andreea Vasile plays the kingpin's apparently cold-hearted underling as Nico and Doru Ana plays Capitanu', a feared kingpin who everybody respects and listens to religiously.The supporting cast generally does a poor job, with some exceptions (Gabriel Huian as Tedy comes to mind) and that isn't helped by the script, sometimes resulting in some awkward scenes.The dialogue feels forced, due to the overuse of street slang that is unlike anything you'd actually hear in real life. It's mostly "by the book" slang and it feels artificial, even though it's intended to be genuine. This is probably my biggest complaint, since it constantly breaks the illusion that you are watching real people and not a TV series.There's some smart use of music at times, which is always nice for people who appreciate such details, so it's worth mentioning.The story progresses at a relatively good pace, but the character development is pretty much non-existent, which is a shame, because there is potential.As it stands, unless it's taking an unexpected turn, it's an average "man with money issues who would do anything to provide for his family" story which is refreshing because it's set in Romania, that being the only reason to watch it.


                
All of the other Romanian films are made in a manner that only the Romanian producers/writers like and this TV Show, Umbre (Shadows), is finally made for the audience's preferences. Yes, the audience is asking for cliché, American action/drama cliché, but I got used and bored of all of these and this is why I am not rating it with a better mark. Buut, I have to say that all of these clichés are actually making it a little bit more interesting.The acting performance is well done by all the actors, especially the old ones.The movie budget is high and this is why we have to thank HBO, we have some good moments in some of the episodes which require a big amount of money to spend, but they have to work more.About everything this TV Series has, it has to be better and they have to work more on little details because, after 3 years of nothing between season 1 and season 2, the audience is expecting for more. And I think these guys can do a lot more than that !


                
