I don't know if these positive reviews were paid for but I wouldn't be surprised. This is one of the stupidest shows I have ever seen in my entire life. I know there has to be an element of suspension of disbelief but his show requires you to but your brain in the trash bin while you watch this. Plan not using it all. The characters are so stupid and pathetic and one dimensional. It's sad to see Spain so influenced by the worst of american culture and movie making. El Tiempo Entre Costuras is a great show, much better than this crap if you want to see a good spanish series. I don't want to include spoilers because I truly want to warn as many people as possible from this horror show of stupidity. HUGE waste of time. The only thing that got me through it was knowing I was going to negatively review. The worst part about it is the ridiculous show doesn't wrap up at the end of the season. They are trying to stretch another season out of this pure garbage.


                
Let me start by saying, I think like many others, I was duped into watching this by its high IMDB rating. And because of this series I am 100% convinced that Netflix is paying people to give this show a high rating. I understand that people's tastes vary, however, if you enjoy stories with countless plot holes, unlikable/irritating characters, bad acting, pointless monologues, and complete nonsense, then this is a must watch. In fact, the only reason I watched the whole series, was because of how ridiculous it was. It frequently sent me into fits of laughter.This did have the potential to be fairly interesting, yet it seems the writers went out of their way to produce complete nonsensical drivel. The story focuses on a group of supposedly highly experienced/intelligent robbers, who plan to take over The Royal Mint of Spain, in order to print and steal vast sums of money, over a two weeks period. Yet, this group of professionals couldn't be more incompetent. They spend five months prior to the robbery, in a boarding school style setting, run by an equally incompetent professor. Not only are they treated like children, but they also do a good job of acting like children. During the robbery, each of them take turns in making completely pointless mistakes, putting the entire heist in jeopardy. There are many boring monologues between the characters, which offer little substance. A good series would normally have at least one likeable character, either good or bad, where the audience can follow them on a journey and become engrossed in the story. Unfortunately there are no such characters existing in this series. The writers attempt to use the 'sex sells' approach throughout, hoping that the audience will be enticed by random cleavage shots, and hilarious sex scenes.The lead investigator/hostage negotiator was what really took the biscuit for me. Throughout the series she constantly makes wrong decisions, taking her lunch breaks in a nearby tapas bar, where at one point, she even drinks wine in the middle of her working day. This women is irrational, unstable, and appears to only care about getting laid. Not only has she had a 15 year affair with her closest colleague (who is married), but she also manages to bed the professor, after suspecting him of being in charge of the heist. The plot holes are really endless, and I could go on...If you enjoy watching high quality productions, then stay well clear of this. On the other hand, if you fancy watching laugh out loud rubbish then get stuck in!
What is this??? This series has absolutely 0 credibility. The script must have been written by a bunch of 10 years old teens (they will forgive me), full of non-sense and totally incoherent. Characters are as convincing as dummies, with no past, no depth, no real personality. It looks like they were just taken out of a manga or borrowed from a cartoon, for the sake of their supposed coolness. This is a cardboard series. If you like being a fool and be treated as one, just watch and enjoy.


                
The show has its merits. The camera work and aesthetics are very well taken care of. I enjoyed it as a visual experience.
The problem are the characters and the story.
In a similar way to the TV series "Lost", at the end of each episode there's a forced suspence-generating situation. This is not bad per se. What I didn't like is that the suspense situations most times get resolved quickly in the next chapter and in an absurd way, in a deus ex machina style, without any intelligent plot integration.
About the characters, I found most of them very irritating. Many times during the show I thought "how silly/ridiculous is what he/she's doing!".
Most women are depicted as impulsive and irrational, and only men display an adult use of their brain without the interference of their hormones. This promotes gender stereotypes. Why can't women think coldly and rationally? The main female inspector is particularly irrational and careless about respecting police protocols.
Also the spanish police is depicted as very incompetent. Most of their snipers wouldn't be able to hit an elephant at ten meters of distance.
I believe that this show is overvalued, or that most rankings aren't coming from a trustworthy source, otherwise I cannot understand the hype.


                
This does not even deserve 1 star, should be 0 stars. It´s sooo bad. 20 hours I'll never get back. Ridiculous plot. The writing is terrible. How on earth did it get such a score? What a joke... Don't waste your time on this drivel. Now I understand why in Spain this show was a failure.


                
How on earth did it get such a score?
What a joke...


                
I watched 3 episodes and here my description of this title: a dumb professor hires a bunch of dumb paranoid impulsive criminals putting the biggest idiots in key roles of the heist hoping that these imbeciles can follow his plan and no, it is not a comedy. The whole thing is just too dumb, I agree that it is definitely original, in the dumb way. If you watch Ocean's Eleven 11th time you get a lot more entertainment then this parody. This does not even deserve 1 star, should be 0 stars.


                
According to the ratings, this show should be on par with series like Black Mirror or Stranger Things - but, if you enjoy the latter two you will find this to be complete gibberish. The writing is as poor as it gets and it requires you to completely suspend your reason and logic in order to follow the plot. I personally found myself unable to sympathize with any of the characters, they are badly done and none of them is even remotely smart or complex. I am still only half way through watching it, and if I do finish watching it, it will be merely to be able to form a complete critical view of it. But my mind is made up already about what I have seen so far.
The writing is as poor as it gets and it requires you to completely suspend your reason and logic in order to follow the plot. I personally found myself unable to sympathize with any of the characters, they are badly done and none of them is even remotely smart or complex. This is one of the stupidest shows I have ever seen in my entire life. I know there has to be an element of suspension of disbelief, but his show requires you to but your brain in the trash bin while you watch this. Plan not using it all. The characters are so stupid and pathetic and one dimensional. DON´T WASTE YOUR TIME. Spanish audience seems to be smart because, in Spain, this show was a failure.


                
Don't let the good score and reviews fool you.La Casa De Papel IS NOT about a heist. La Casa De Papel IS NOT about their plan. La Casa De Papel is just another teenage drama speaking spanish rather than english.I love the european cinema. It always calls my attention because contrary to Hollywood, I have the feeling they always try to innovate their formulas, and La Casa De Papel is no different.As I mentioned, it's a teenage drama. And yes, it's innovative because of its heist background-a merit I can't deny.But don't get me wrong: their innovativeness fails in every aspect but the innovation itself.Characters are all dumb, including acting-except Berlin,-omnipresent plot holes, stereotypes everywhere, and the problems they face aren't intelligently or logically resolved.Most of the solutions are improvised-despite the months on planning to actually perform the heist,-gambling-based, or poorly developed. When they can't think in something that doesn't fit any of these categories, there's the last resort: a very stupid, irrational bi-polar character called Rio which is the xXYoung_HackerXx that has the superpowers of create bombs, bypass any security system created by the most advanced security companies of Spain, go to the gym and shoot with guns-all this alone, by the age of 19 and at once! The new McGayver is Spanish!If you like a teenage drama, go for it. It really has the merit of entertain, but hardly fails when it comes to seriousness. If you are looking for a detailed, well-executed with great acting heist piece, just forget it. There's no brilliance here. At all. And oh, the ending is just... bad. Predictable to say the least.


                
I know many will think why the 1/10 rating but i just feel this show does not deserve the rating of 8.6/10 not at all. I watched both season's,it is a good show but no more. Its predictable enough and it does not even seem real in many cases(example. The Cop Shootout ,all that shooting all that bullets and only 1 got hurt after a lot of time, its like the cops random shooted) In other words there is no element of violence in a armed heist,the main actors are not even afraid of a gun pointing in their head, clearly dont get me wrong this show is good but not even close to shows like Vikings,Breaking Bad,Game of Thrones,The last kingdom , the show deserves a rating below 7.9/10 its a shame that it surpasses Vikings rating, I just feel the target audience for this show is young aged that give those ratings.
Rating for Casa de papel 7/10
Rating for the marketing team 8.6/10
Thats the truth.And if you dont agree with me and you think this show really deserves that rating i got one question for you.Is your agony for the next season the same with game of thrones and Vikings new season's?


                
Not sure how this got such a great review! Lot of plot holes. The Spanish police is portrayed as a very incompetent.( The snipers especially) I won't be happy at all to see such a series if I was a Spaniard!


                
After watching 5 episodes I found myself actually searching for bad comments about this series. I couldn't believe that I was the only one who found this series very very very bad.
The acting is worse that the average soap series. The professor is irritating. The main characters are fighting all the time and make really unlogical descisions. I noticed that I was getting irritated by the stupid choices...."the dad needs some fresh air, so they go up to the roof with 30 hostages...???? Please tell me why....
I will not spend more time on watching this and I suggest you don't either.


                
My first review here. And only because I was lured by some friends to watch it.Well, you know the feeling you have, when you start to want all the protagonists to die? In this series this is what you will think most of the time if you don't fall asleep.Most of the things are done childish wrong because this suited the script writers. You can see this in every episode.You are hyped to see this genius plan by this genius "professor" and what you get is a soap opera with deux ex machina that saves the day.The professor is not only a "genius", he is also a kind of super agent that can solve any critical mistake in a matter of minutes or even seconds.I believe there is no point to start numbering the obvious plot holes. It would take 10 pages at least.The hardened (teenage looking) pro robbers have no issues to come in sexual relations with the hostages. Really? I thought they are all committed to their cause driven by personal dramas that would make them work like a machine.
What you get is teenage behavior that would make this story end badly for them in episode 1.The most ridiculous scene so far was this one: There is a robber-girl (Nairobi) that is telling her drama at Tokyo. (She lost her child and now wants the heist to succeed so she can get it back.) She is crying and very depressed.
And what they are doing next? They are drinking Tequila, get dressed like they would go out to lure men, start twerking and slap each other's asses.Nice.
When I watched the trailer, I thougt it's goona be an interesting TV show. However, it is filled with studpid plots and the characters make tons of unbelivable mistakes. They seemed so professional in the trailer, somwhow they're just some dumb amatuer robbers in the show. If you really want to watch this show, remember turn off your brain when you watch it. Otherwise, you will be as mad as I.
Netflix's recommendation algorithms clearly need some work if they think this was a 98% match. The initial premise is interesting but became an interminable endless series of: - ever widening plot holes and layers of implausibility - some of which have been mentioned in other reviews. Will I recover from a gunshot wound as quickly as some of the characters here? Where do all the pizzas and food come from? Is the Mint cafeteria still operating during the heist? Why is the lead investigator running around doing her own thing while the whole world's media watches the siege?
 - the repeated use of the Long Arm of Coincidence to move the plot along
 - levels of incompetence among the lead investigator, Spanish police and intelligence services which make the Keystone Cops look like a highly trained SWAT team
 - cut-out characters whom it is impossible identify with, let alone like.I hate-watched to the end to drink a shot of vodka each time another plot hole or implausibility came up, but ran out of alcohol long before this unnecessarily long series came to an end. Such a shame that the Spanish can cliche drama as badly as the Americans.
Many, I included, use this platform as a way to be efficient with time and try to seek out what would seemingly be the best TV-shows and movies with little research needed. Apart from niche types of films which are either loved or hated, IMDB used to be a very reliable source, but as time passed and as it grew in popularity, we see more and more instances of unworthy titles getting flooded with 10-star ratings which (sometimes) get balanced by just as many 1-star ratings, leaving you with a funny inverted Bell curve. This isn't how things SHOULD work, but unfortunately, this is what we get.Let's start with the good first. I initially found the story interesting, since the general plot is original and ingenious. And that's about it. This could've been a great series, so let me tell you where I personally think things went wrong: 
It all starts with the writing. The writing is ATROCIOUS. As I stated above, although the GENERAL plot and story were great, as the entire thing unfolded mistakes upon mistakes started piling up, forming plot holes, hilariously impossible and nonsensical scenarios. The characters seemed all one or two-dimensional, and most never even saw the shadow of any sort of character development. As I kept watching I soon came to realize that this show was made to be mindlessly watched, catering to the masses with their daily dose of sex, violence, and tension, while delivering very little substance to reflect on. And to make all of this worse, couple it with some (very) bad acting (not sure because of the directing or the actors themselves). In the end, La Casa del Papel is entertaining for those who seek to procrastinate filling their time with nothingness, but if you're actually looking for a complex and well-written TV-Series you might want to look elsewhere. (the two best examples of this I could give are Westworld S 1&2 and/or True Detective S1, a true masterpiece).
True rating: 5/10


                
After watching 4 episodes I went back the the ratings on Google, I just cannot understand how this is ranked so hi, other than these are false reviews. This series is absolutely ridiculous, the writer director just fills up 50 minutes of mindless dialogue with a boring storyline and then says " cut " 
What a waste of my time and the producers money. I am starting to get the feeling Netflix just wants to produce hours and hours of content and nothing of quality. Shame on you Netflix!


                
Childish plot, totally unrealistic and full of plot holes. Mr professor should give us the lottery numbers as it seems he knows everything before it happens. The perfect robbery is getting the money and escape as soon as possible. On this earth at least...


                
It shows how stupid the police are, and tokyo is the most annoying character. It was good at first 2-3 episodes but then it gets worst.


                
Countless plot holes, underdeveloped characters and idiotic storyline - don't waste your time on this tv show and don't believe the high rating scam orchestrated and paid for by Netflix!


                
The girl Tokyo can not follow the plan, I want to jump scenes with this character.


                
Ridiculous plot. 20 hours I'll never get back. The characters are thin and shallow. The cops are all made to look completely incompetent. The writing is terrible. The actors do the best they can with a poorly written plot and script. Don't waste your time on this drivel.


                
If you're on adult, you'll start wondering about IMDb's excellent reviews of this very naive and complete nonsense series after episode 1. But then you notice the reviews are paid by Netflix, all phrasings very similar, no effort, all 10 points. The series would've had a lot of potential, interesting theme, BUT either this was made for teenagers or the creators have ignored one major fact: mastermind criminals who have been training for months aren't loose cannons after only 48 hours, having sex with everybody, dwelling on their personal problems, hostages don't develop a Stockholm syndrome in 48 hours, leading police detectives don't go for dates (with criminals!) during a massive hostage drama, and police officers don't turn into drunks and commit suicides in 48 hours. It's just so hilarious that all these people behave like the hostage drama had been going on for weeks and months. One of the funniest things is that the gang takes the eyeglasses of of of the police officers and installs a bug on the frame in front of the police officer, and he doesn't notice anything!! It doesn't help that everybody is overacting so much it hurts. I suppose this was meant as a comedy or a thriller for teenagers. I'm kind of angry that they ruined a good idea this way.
I don't know whats going on. I feel scammed by these ratings. It almost feels like somebody pushes the hype around the series just to get some good votes. To me this series was a complete waste of time. Too many plotholes, too poor of an excecution. Generell idea is good, but thats it.


                
