This series gives a lot of big messages.
First of all, Dali masks are not an ordinary choice. Dali is a genius painter who inherited life that is contrary to popular morality and common customs. He has never accepted the imperatives from the society and the right to wrong moral codes. The masks represent this irregularity.Red overalls represent socialism. The wearers are socialist comrades and fighting. Mint and cops represent capitalism. In capitalism money sets everything. Even morals will set money. So when someone attacks the money, those people are declared bad. When attacked by money, capitalism is waging a war against the attackers with its armed and visual mechanisms.The professor is symbolizing the scientific perspective and accounting. After all, scientific thinking and accountability overcome all kinds of problems. But love succumbs.I have not seen such meaningful socialism for a long time. Moreover, Salvador Dali's tactic was used in the series. You think you are watching the events, but every time you have a deep meaning and message. Ciao Bella is the symbol of socialism.Fabulous work. It's not just a movie or a script. It is a wonderful work as a philosophy. There is a great slap in the capitalist system. 10/10


                
This has been a real treat! An amazing series, great acting, direction and such a suspenseful story it's really one of the very best I've seen ever. I love heist movies and I just found this one in Netflix and I literally couldn't stop watching through the night. The characters are simply amazing! Don't miss this!


                
Congratulations to the actors, director, writer and anyone who made this season of episodes possible. Every episode had it's gripping and human slow moments, such a wonderful balance. Couldn't wait to see the next episode. Each one had surprises, no standard script, which is so enjoyable. 
The actors played so well, better than many of the better known Hollywood names.
Hope the next season is coming up soon.


                
This must be one of the best series I've seen lately.
It is so thrilling and unpredictable in every single episode, that you have no idea how it will end.


                
This movie is a MASTERPIECE. It has every characteristic of it: Good actors, great story, very funny, extremely emotional, you feel like jumping from joy, crying with them... Impossible to stop watching.
Must watch !


                
I think it's Really Awesome in every angle. All of actors were very professional & perfect.


                
Lacasa de papel is one of the greatest TV shows of all time.. awesoe acting and genius writing..
Elprofessor character is one of the best characters I've seen


                
This is addictive to the point that you don't understand how you've watched it all at once.It's unpredictable, it's suspenseful, it's twisted, it's AMAZING!Why it has so many mixed reviews here I really don't get it. Probably because of some inaccuracies with the plot.I for one sometimes need a show that gives me those extreme emotions. This was one of them, I enjoyed it a lot.


                
One of the best series I've seen in a long time, it's exciting from the first to the last episode, I love it! 
Berlin character for me was the best, I had some great laughs with him.


                
This is my first review on imdb, I just had to write my thoughts. It's a brilliant show, an absolute gem, might be my favorite tv series ever (matter of taste, obviously).Intelligent cat & mouse game with tons of twists and excellent characters. You have no idea what will happen, it's full of suspense and chances are you won't be able to stop watching.I watched 10 episodes on Netflix in one night, which didn't happen to me since the first season of Prison Break (with which this show is very similar).PS (for those who didn't watch it all): There are 15 episodes of 70 minutes each. Netflix took the first 9 and transformed them into 13 shorter episodes for Part One. So there are actually six more 70 minute episodes left for Part Two. Hopefully it catches a wide audience and we will get to see more of this.


                
I started watching it due to how well everyone talked about this show, and let me tell you I was impressed. Great acting, plot, soundtrack...A true masterpiece that kept me begging for more. Keep it up Netflix


                
Do yourself a favor and watch this series. Mindblowing, speechless, amazing.


                
I would take a bow to the person who thought of this story! This is a brilliant series, you will not be able to think what next is coming. One of the best series in the world.


                
This is an amazing and exciting series. It's wonderful to see the actors playing so well. I love heist and robbery movies or series so I've enjoyed this one a lot. I liked even the end that in a lot of series the wordt part is the end bcause they don't know how to end it.


                
A gem of a TV show. Part 1 and 2 were maganificent! Well written! acting was phenomenal! Binge worthy! This is in my top 3 best TV shows; along with GOT and DARK. This covers everything you need in a TV show with action, thriller, suspense, love, and bits of funnies especially with Berlin. Ignore the negative reviews, trust me, I'm a stickler for reviews, watch it, this won't disappoint you. Thank you Alex Pina and others for La casa de papel. Bravo!


                
This show is amazing, truly a piece of art. It is extremely hard to stop watching this show, it nabs you and settles you in for a great ride.


                
I watch whole 2 season in a single go. Before I start, I saw some people rate low this series. I honestly highly recommend other not to consider negative comment. If this series isn't best then no series will be good than this. Anyway, heist planning and making and acting all was tremendous. I enjoyed every piece of episode. Director knows how to make TV series. I have been always fan of crime, thriller and twists. This series was perfect for my taste. No other series can beat it. I liked Breaking bad, Game of thrones, The sinner, Dark but La casa de papel (Money heist) is exceptionally good. I highly recommend everyone to watch this show. Worth time spending on this show. One more thing, this is a TV series not a true event. I know something which can never be done in real life, but who cares. May be it can be. However I enjoyed this show very very much. And I want to congratulate all actors and directors and all production crews. Mind blowing job guys. Keep it up! and Make this type of TV series more and more. I am still very much excited :D Many many thanks for my heart.


                
Every episode will make you want to see more. Amazing mind blowing masterpiece. Is like a mix between Death Note with a Heist. I don't know what is wrong with the people hating it or saying that the reviews are fake or paid. If you hate this is probably because you don't like hearing spanish actors (or you are a racist). Spanish is my first language so this was natural to me, I was concentrated on the amazing actors and story (and i don't normally watch Spanish TV shows). Give it a try you won't regret it.


                
I don't usually rate 10/10. I only do that under extreme circumstances. This show is perfectly planned and executed. The direction is simply amazing, the soundtrack is breathtaking and the scenes are extraordinary. It's a true masterpiece. Choosing the Dali masks was a smart choice since he was a brilliant painter, some might consider him "irregular" or "weird" or an outcast, that's what the are. I think the whole "people on our side" thing represents socialism and fights capitalism. Making the whole heist practically a non stealing from the people job is just brilliant and needs to be praised. TL;DR : 10/10 Show is brilliant the the characters and scenes leave you with your mouth open at the end of every episode making you feel hooked on a TV Show.


                
I just finished this on Netflix and what can I say. This series is a masterpiece. The professor is really good. Anyway, i really enjoyed watching this, you should try too.


                
One of the best series I've seen. Every single episode is more exciting than the other one


                
This is one of the greatest Tv series that I have seen in the last a few years. I persistently recommend you to watch it :)


                
This series was one the best ever thriller i have seen in recent time. It's was like an addiction to binge the entire series. The characters are extremely well chosen and they play an amazing part through the entire play.


                
For a theme that has been widely covered in movies and shows, Lacasa De Papel is refreshingly unique. Any fan of Prison break or shows of that ilk will enjoy the intricacies of the plot and the intensity of this show. Every show has its flaws, and while there are some unrealistic moments, it is still an enjoyable watch. The acting was phenomenal, (big up to Pedro alonso for his part as Berlin) the plot was exciting and unpredictable and the action itself was thouroughly entertaining. 
This show had so many twists and turns that even in the episodes where not a lot was happening, I was on edge because there was just no way to tell what was going to happen next.The reviews bashing this show are mostly about slight innaccuracies and minor plotholes, don't listen to them. Listen to me. Lacasa de papel is intense, emotional, and action packed. One of the top 3 shows I have watched for sure, and I generally don't enjoy movies/shows in other languages. The only thing I would say is if you plan on watching this show, don't watch it English dubbed, it takes a lot away from the brilliant acting. Use English subtitles instead! Enjoy! Bella Caio!


                
I see a lot of negative critics here on IMDb. On the opposite side, everyone I encountered in real life told me to start watching this series.
I just finished season 2 and I regret that I didn't started watching it earlier. I am not used to watching series (I watch mostly movies) but I can say for sure that when it ended it left me fulfilled and with a big smile in my face. I want, of course , to see the 3rd season when it releases.
My advice? Stop overthinking a series/movie. All have they plot holes or their letdowns from time to time. Every single person thinks and thinks again the plot holes and the thing that went wrong. If professor had it all thought perfectly then the show would be boring and with no thrills... just a perfect heist...
No one forces you to see it yet a lot of people didn't like it and continued till the end of all episodes... for what? Just to write a negative comment? If I don't like a series or a movie I turn it off.. no watch it relentlessly till it ends, just to say bad things for it...


                
