SPOILER: Immediately after watching 2-3 episodes of S01, I started getting a feeling that there's something not right about this series. I didn't want to judge on spot, so I continued watching. The more I watched, the more it turned out to be as I expected, an amateur, shallow, and weak script, performed by not so interesting characters.Berlin is good, but the others are meh.So, this series about a robbery that has been supposedly planned for so long, yet you discover how foolishly it is managed and operated. Many times you see 5-6 kidnappers out of 7 in one room, and you wonder, who's left watching the 40+ kidnapped persons.The operations room where the detective runs the rescue mission detects any telephone signal within a 30 meters area, yet the assistant manager had a voice recorded injected in his eyeglasses, and he's at the tent, but nothing triggers any warnings! It's not a static voice recorder, it's TRANSMITTING voice signal to the professor!Lots and lots of simple and stupid overlooks like that make me question the capabilities of the director/writer/producer. I'm not a police officer or IT expert, but I mean it's common sense to consider such details. It blows my mind to see such TV series and similar movie being rated 8+ on imdb. How? Just HOW?


                
All the characters in this series are idiot. I expected to see some smart people solve some hard puzzles. But there are only problems created by idiot characters. And these problems are getting solved by another idiot, the professor, with the most idiotic way.Stay away from this series if you think you have couple of brain cells.


                
Bad Story. Bad plot. Bad characters. 
This is the worstest series I´ve ever seen.
I just gave two stars for the sharp images ... ;) 
All charakters want be professional hijackers or professional cops.
 
But I never ever saw a movie or a series with so many stupid characters. They occupied a bank. For days. OK. And the cops don´t cut of the energy supply of the building???
Seriously?? 
lol.
Overrated, the most stupid plot twist ever, how can the director miss these crazy major details. and how can these actors pass through the filters of the auditions. How come spain is empty of good actors. I couldn't stand watching each episode without hitting the wall because how was stupid I am to listen to the one who advised me to watch this.The only reason that I'm giving it two stars instead of one, is that I liked the soundtrack at the credit of each episode. Even the only good think they made it 20 seconds only.DO NOT WATCH THIS SERIES AND STOP YOURSELF BEFORE MAKING A BIG MISTAKE


                
8.8 it´s a bad joke only made possible due to a strong campaign from Netflix´s payed critics.
This show is teen targeted but it doesn´t have to be this childish, full of one dimensional characters, hollywoodian cliches and absolutely predictable.
Great movies came from Spain last two decades, movies that haded new blood and somehow redifined some genres like horror for instance, REC. is a good example , Abre Los Ojos or La Comunidad, even some spanish directors as Amenabar, Almodovar or Alex de la Iglesia are top notch movie makers.
This show break with all the good that was done in recent years in Europe and is just trying to pair with american productions that are way superior like Prison Break.
Three episodes after, three hours of my life that I will not get back, what a let down.
Thumbs down 2 out of 10


                
I don't know why there are so many positive review seriously... Watched the whole season before writing this.
Acting is very good but...the plot is not. Most of the robbers reactions are stupid. If what you want is watching high quality content don't watch this. There's no social criticism or whatever...really.SPOILER : Tokyo's voice over will spoil the end of the show on episode 1 in the first minutes.


                
The show starts with an interesting plot but then I found it unbearable to watch even after the 2-3 episode.
These characters were chosen for this mission because they were good at what they do and that the whole plan should go swiftly. In addition they prepared for months for this heist. However nearly all decisions are made stupidly and for no good reason. How come there is an affair for months among these 'clever' people, staying in the same house all together. 
Weren't they expecting some reaction from the hostages? Why try to execute the woman immediately after the incident and why didn't Berlin gave the mission to one of the muscle boys and started a family drama? (Weren't Berlin the one with good social skills.) And how can you even beat one of your own 'gang' members after a mistake; aren't they all supposed to be equals? The gang could be in fact clever but could had problems because the police chef is also clever or few of the hostages were witty to alternate their initial plans. 
I can go on more but in summary, I think the show doesn't deliver what it is promising. The only reason I am writing this review is the fact that it has 8.8 on IMDb and it is in my opinion overrated.
The holes in the scenario are SO many! There are things so unbelievable that it is obvious that are occuring just because the writers wanted to reach a predicament, they make no sense! First of all, the thieves leave the hostages alone all the time! Hostages try to help themselves escape in the most ridiculous ways, and no one hears them?? And all the while people are having sex with each other in there? And all the while the Police chick has time to go out on a date???So very flawed it is hard to watch.


                
This is the most overrated show i have ever seen, the downhill is so hard that it hurt me psychologically. The romance is very bad and stupid with no sense plot. The characters in the beginning seem to be very pro and you can find later that they are a bunch of amateurs, they will make you hate the characters instead of develop them, the insteresting ones...well... you will see the show calls you for the plottwist and the drama but there is like only 2/3 things that happens that you will think "damn nice..." the rest is only them arguing and pointing themselves with the guns lol. the ending is cliche and the story plot has many fails. its sad because it had potencial but they just downhill the show.
This is not a good show by any stretch of the imagination. Plot-holes, continuity errors, disregard for veracity (I mean, the Serbian mercenaries and the assault-squad police actors grab the weapons incorrectly, and that's just 1 small thing).Browsing through comments, you can find many dupes, even the same comment 5 times: "masterpiece", "as good as breaking bad". These are certainly bots.I told my wife, this series is so poorly written and directed, that it's like they had in mind an audience that doesn't question anything and is content by being spoon-fed cliches and ridiculous mini-cliffhangers in each episode, you know, like our moms and aunts, a non-critical audience that doesn't know any better.This is truly a waste of time and the high ratings are evidently the result of tampering, DO NOT BELIEVE ANY RATING ABOVE 5 STARS.


                
This show wants so much to be taken as a serious crime caper, but lacks any kind of believable hard edge in its execution, so much so that that were the sex (needless) & violence (comic book) removed, it could easily be rebroadcast as children's TV.The "heist" itself could be (and should have been) whittled down from 19 episodes (13 in Series 1 + 6 in Series 2) to about 3. There is more filler in this than in your local DIY store, so much so that what little drama actually remains is diluted and left to drown in an ocean of ponderous navel-gazing, tedious monologues and largely irrelevant side stories. The lesson seems to be that if you are ever invited on a job with a group of Spanish robbers, along with your M16 and explosives don't forget to pack some Belgian chocolates, a dozen red roses and a box of condoms. Just in case.But, of course, the real elephant in the room: even non-criminals these days know that a large amount of unaccounted for cash is basically worthless. Didn't the phrase "money laundering" ring any bells with The Professor or, more importantly, the writers? Try buying something relatively small like a new car with cash and see how far you get without having to first prove where the money came from.Modern professional thieves are more interested in precious stones, rare metals or untraceable bonds and steer clear of large amounts of paper money. Yet here we are in 2017 and a gang of dimwits think they are committing the crime of the century running off with nearly a billion Euros in freshly minted paper currency, 963 million of which is in the same denomination. It's the crime of the century all right, but the last century - not this one. Years of planning and they'd all be caught and banged up within a matter of weeks.


                
This show is too much alike to the movie "inside man" of 2006 in wich Denzel Washington and Clive Owen make a perfect interpretation.
The same turns... and the same tricks to fool the police... there are so little differences. 
They could do something diferent but the copy the same thing.
If you are thinking of watch this show... better see the movie "Inside man" that is way better than this one and is original. 
The performance of the actors are ok... 
Is well filmed..
But is a copy ...


                
The series starts off well. The idea and the details in the beginning are well worth watching. Sadly, the creators only care for the HiFi and don't give a crap about the LoFi. Quickly the the characters become stereotypes from a Venezuelan telenovéla and the story evolves into something that more and more resembles a soap opera much like "mi gorda bella". At the end, I have to say I'd be scared as sh** if I lived in a country where during the biggest heist in modern history, the police was so reluctant to do their job that they felt the urge to go on a romantic date with a stranger and waste time and energy on lover's quarrels and jealous outbreaks. The fact that the robbers would be equally as disorganised and incompetent wouldn't worry me less. All of the people involved seem to be utterly incapable of prioritising, which is strange, seeing as they've spent weeks preparing for the heist...
Bottom line to the moral seems to be: Real men are violent and know how to throw a punch. Women are emotional and irrational. Abortion is wrong.
..or maybe this is just the case in Spain...


                
Let me first start off by saying that the rating on IMDB is very misrepresentative of the quality of this show. La Casa De Papel is an exercise in poor acting and negligent storytelling; favouring flamboyance and clichés above all else. There is a noticeable Fast and Furious influence to the show as the director tries to evoke the same type of camaraderie and attitude amongst the group of outcasts that is the heist operation. It's all for naught however as the characters are shallow due to bad performances and a poor script. Yes, even the acting in the Fast & Furious series can best what is on offer here. Briefly leaving the acting aside, the plot could have been executed with much more cunning and maturity; alas this is not the show where you will find these traits by any stretch. The director seems to have favoured emotional outcomes in most of the decision-making of the characters that detracts from the realism and does a disservice to the supposed calculated effort that a heist of this magnitude should represent. As the scenes roll on with outcomes that aim to be sensational over something more sensible, you lose respect for the show. The lack of talent in screenwriting is further emphasized by the narration done by one of the heist operators that comes and goes throughout the episodes. These passages try to put greater emphasis on how impactful a scene should be yet it nearly has the opposite effect. The cooked up drama of an event in the show for which you have a hard time being emotionally invested in is further disparaging when a voice over is describing what is going on in melodramatic fashion. It's heavy handed, period. There is a lack of professionalism and intelligence from the cast which makes it impossible to take La Casa De Papel seriously.


                
This is one of the most overrated shows I have ever seen. Full of non sense, the Spanish security authorities should stop this series because it visualizes them as some idiots. Imagine the investigation of this kind of robbery is led by a lady how is the sexually hungry and can sleep with someone she just met three days ago. A very week woman and awkward man (Angel) next to her are investigating the robbery of the place printing Euros!!!. Some co-incidents are fabricated to prolong the serious and continues the scenes. Overall, very awkward piece of work.


                
The positive first: cinematography and camera work are good and I also liked the soundtrack. The premise is pretty decent as well even though they ripped it off from Inside Man. And that was it. Why do people behave so stupidly when they plan a heist for such a long time? Why does the Professor put people like Berlin in there that are obviously not able to control themselves and stick to the plan? Why does the Spanish detective go on a date with some guy she met in a cafe during a raid that is international news? Why is the bug in the glasses not detected since it transmits to the professor? Why is Angel written like a telenovela character? Why is almost EVERYONE behaving so goddamn stupid in this? Arturito wants the SWAT-team to storm the building so they get rescued??? Everybody would be shot that way. Gunshot wounds heal in 10 hours. Women are generally emotional and irrational and need to show their bodies for no reason. The close calls are sometimes totally unbelievable. The positive reviews cannot be real because this is just a pretty soap with guns.
The first 13 episode was extreamly good, but the last 6 was the oposit. its ok, the first part has some big mistakespoilerlike the professor portrait scene with the russian, but the serial is good, i give a chance and was unstoppable to watch an other episode.but the last 6 episode is just annoying. drama, drama, drama, the jokes are missing, the pro robbers become amateurs. the episodes become lame, like all the convesations. talk talk talk, but nothing interesting. poor serial. :(
li
It's so predictable, the plot is just weak, but the most irritating and frustrating part are caracters. They're completely onedimentional, stereotypical, which gives to the series the vibe of a chilidish game. I've hatewatched the first season and started the second one in hope I finally see what most of the reviewers saw. But I just can't stand it anymore...
The only positive aspect of it is that I could practice my Spanish a bit


                
Storytelling very poorly crafted. Bad acting. It's ridiculous. If you don't want to waste your time, don't watch it.


                
I hate watched this over the last two days. I wanted to watch a fast paced action story that wasn't too deep or dramatic, that I didn't need to think too much about. And it starts off with some promise, but by episode 3, I had to skip parts because they were so bad! As it went on I skipped more and more, mainly the terrible back stories and cliche character development scenes.This should be used as an example of how not to write. Every awful cliche and trope you could think of is contained in this series. It's so over the top, so cheesy, and so very LAME. The worst dialogue ever put down on the page and with so many plot holes. Bad directing, some ok acting, a lot of terrible acting, ok camera work, good soundtrack, but with the worst writing ever. The lead female character is constantly making the most stupid mistakes that threaten the whole plan and she spreads her stupidity to all the other characters. How am I supposed to relate to her and want her to succeed when all she does is make the stupidest screw ups that threaten to derail the whole story?There's also the sexism and chauvinistic garbage littered throughout. "You made that mistake because you're on your period." -Actual dialogue! Why are there so many scenes with women in their underwear, sometimes with absolutely no reason why they would be. It's like it was written by a 14 year old boy with no experience with women and all his education from porn. It's possible that the fact I watched it with over dubbed English is responsible for some of its problems. Maybe the Spanish actual dialogue is not so terrible and cheesy.It's also possible that the reason this frustrated me so much is because I believed it could have been a very good show. It had promise. I would love to do a rewrite and make it what I think it could have been. I did actually like the ending - but my god was it painful to get to! The first time I groaned and cursed that I found out there was a part 2 and another horrible 9 episodes to get through until I could finish it.People who rate this 10/10 need their heads examined. It's awful. LAME!


                
Não faz sentido algum a história desta série.
Trata se de uma trampa


                
2 Stars because I found two of the characters likable. Both of them played the role of criminal. One was like a "Gus" from Breaking Bad. The criminal mastermind. The other, the most likable, was a narcissistic sociopath. He is described as having no empathy, but you, the viewer, will realize he's the only sane being in a world gone mad. You will feel his pain, i.e. you will empathize with the sociopath. Every other character was pathetic and hackneyed, and completely inconsistent. 
 This gang of fools would change allegiances and principles on a dime, just to add discourse and plot twists. This made for frustrating viewing. The writers are not your friends. I did finish the series to see how my two anti-heroes made out. Although, for the final 5 episodes I only watched about 5 out of 45 minutes each, just to advance the plot.This is more than a review, this is a "self help" posting.
If you are really curious, and you want to give it a chance, here is my recommended execution:1. Watch the first 4 episodes entirely. You will know the plot and all the characters. 
2. Spend about 15 minutes, each, on the following 3 episodes. At that point, you'll be ready for step #3.
2. Completely skip the next 14 episodes. The same things happen over and over again. Don't put yourself through it. 
3. For the grand finale, watch the last 15 minutes.
Hay cosas que pasan en la serie que me parecen absurdas!!!!
Looks good but it is not!!! Very bad script!!! If you have watched a lot of TV shows ang have high standaeds don't waste your time with this one. I cannot believe this show has higher rating than Prison Break and other much much better shows.


                
The complexity of the planning is enthralling but there are many naive plot pony's and the whole thing is WAY too long.


                
