I really like heist movies and I thought I was really going to like this show. I watched both part 1 and 2 and in the end this show proved to be a hit and a miss.
Positives
Most of the times it is entertaining if you don't take it seriously.
Some of the actors are really good.Negatives
Huge plot holes. I will not mention all of them because it would take too much time. For me they completely ruin the main story.
*** WARNING Spoilers ahead ***The biggest plot holes resolve around the so called "intelligent" Professor:Why does he tell Angel where he lives? Or at least, in the vicinity of where he lives. Because Angel shows up on his front door soon after that.Why does he let Angel in his hideout??? This makes no sense whatsoever. Angel can not be sure that Salva is in the building. He could be out, he could have the wrong building. It is really easy to simply not open the door. Angel does not have a search warrant. Also at the same time there was a crisis in the heist so it makes even more sense not to let him in. Still, he lets him in and this allows Angel to take his fingerprint and test the cider. This decision causes the coma of Angel and also lots of suspicion from Raquel.Why does he let Tokyo take part in the heist? She is completely unstable, cannot take orders or stick to the plan. She is a ticking time bomb and should be nowhere near a heist. Also why does she go back to the Casa after she was set free by the Serbians? A place surrounded with police, snipers and trained gunmen... By some miracle she is not shot (seriously, how can they miss her?) but she still ends up causing Moscow's death.Why is he alone in the hideout? He hired Serbians but only uses them towards the end. The only smart way to handle the heist is to stay put in the hideout and let the Serbians do the dirty work like remove fingerprints from a car they used or dig. He should have also kept Rio with him in the hideout. The guy is a dead weight in the heist but is a hacker so could be useful working behind the scenes.Why didn't he let the Serbians dig the hole further towards the vault before they even started the heist. Perhaps someone would notice the noise but i doubt it. Even so, he could have asked the Serbians to start digging again the second his team enters the Casa at the beginning of the heist. El Professor keeps saying that gaining time is key to the success of the heist. Focusing on digging seems obvious but again, this focus comes only at the end.Why did he make Berlin the leader of the heist? He definitely has leadership qualities but he also ordered a kill of a hostage when there were many other options. Also, the guy is a maniac and litterly rapes a women on the show. El Professor keeps saying that the public needs to approve of the heist but that is difficult with a guy like him. (the character Berlin was a very interesting character played by an amazing actor and a great addition to the show but it just doesn't make any sense to pick him as a leader).How did he escape to the Filippines? They know how he looks, he was even on TV. They could have easily closed the city streets. And as an extension, the borders/airports etc.At the end El Professor says that his plan was perfect except for the fact that he fell in love with Raquel. But of course this is complete horse crap because his plan was ridiculsly flawed. It was actually a miracle (and bad police work) that so many of them got out.The list goes on but you get the point. I can take a few plot holes to force the story to go from point A to B but in this show has a crazy amount. The show simply lacks realism.
SpoilersMoney Heist (English translation) is a well made, well acted, expensive looking production which does a great job of balancing tension, action and character. You get into the heist almost immediately and, unlike many shows, the flashbacks to planning sessions and earlier episodes in the characters' lives rarely overstay their welcome. It's an interesting premise, the bank robbers (in this case Spanish Royal Mint robbers) are the ones who need to buy time in order to complete their heist, and they are the ones deliberately delaying any possible resolution with the police rather than the other way round.Yes it's not hugely novel. There are clear influences from any number of heist movies, from the senior cop talking to the senior robber of Heat, to the shadowy 'how to infiltrate your enemy' of any number of spy films. And, if you've watched the Spike Lee Joint Inside Man, a part of you must wonder at what point do the creators of Money Heist start paying Russell Gewirtz royalties, not to mention Clive Owen and Denzel Washington.So what's the problem? Well, there's one major problem: the characters' motivation. But it's an issue so glaring that I gave up on the show half way through season two, feeling like I'd be conned out several hours of my life (it certainly takes it time in certain scenes).Why is this? Well, from the start, it's suggested that the heist crew are a highly motivated, tightly knit group who have lived, breathed and bonded with each other for months in preparation for the heist. They have total trust in their man on the outside, the Professor, and absolute faith in his plan. The Professor himself is portrayed as an outright genius who has anticipated all of the counter moves by the police, to the point where early episodes of the show make seeming disasters turn into major triumphs for the heist crew. It's very well done and appears totally organic.Which is why the Professor shooting off in order to cosy up to the lead investigator of the police, the woman running the counter operation, is so inexplicable. What is he doing? Why is he repeatedly exposing himself to the exact person who is best placed to identify him? When a single repeated phrase or unexpected piece of knowledge could reveal him in a heartbeat? And, by all that's holy, what on EARTH is the senior officer in charge of the negotiations doing drinking alcohol in bars, meeting a new man whose surname she doesn't even know, and sleeping with him DURING the heist!? There's no planet where that kind of behaviour is understandable and it causes the escape of multiple hostages and the death of the least characterised character in the whole show (seriously, he barely has five words during his entire involvement).And this craziness extends to all the other characters. Tokyo is setup as this badass fiery warrior who flies off the handle a lot and seems to relish cutting off her nose to spite her face. Why is she selected for the heist? She has no special skills other than making unforgivable errors and she breaks all the cardinal rules: no personal details, no intimate relationships. Her lover, Rio, oscillates wildly from puppy faced devotion to Tokyo followed by adolescent pique and regularly gives away vital information to the police and the hostage. Helsinki, the hard, gay, Serbian soldier who should be tough as nails and friendly as cancer is portrayed as a great big teddy bear. Denver, admittedly only present because his dad needs him there, shoots from 'stick it out till the bitter end' to 'we must leave now' whenever the show needs a second crazy robber to mess things up. And Moscow, his father, disappears for episodes at a time, but turns up in order to have a panic attack and get someone shot, before disappearing again. Critics of this piece will say Moscow has a task to do and that's why he's off screen, but that's no excuse to make him disappear for episodes at a time, that's just bad writing.Meanwhile Nairobi is initially one of the few robbers keeping it together, but starts doing the same moronic actions midway through season two because the writers think 'we need someone to do something really stupid now and we've already pushed the other characters too far.' Which leaves us with Berlin. Inexplicably this rapist psychopath is by far the most sympathetic character throughout, maintaining the same set of principles (faith in the plan balanced by a desire to survive) from the beginning to the point where I stopped watching. And he gets repeatedly blindsided by every other robber, including the Professor, comprehensibly failing to do their job. And the less said about the opposition (going through various stages of lovesickness, horniness, sexism, aggression, and occasionally stunning insights from a completely irrational basis) the better. Plus don't get me started on why the loudest, most awkward hostage, who has ADMITTED to being part of an escape attempt, continues to be allowed to wonder around unsupervised by the robbers.All this adds up to one thing: bad writing, which is a real shame in a show with a very strong premise that is put together genuinely well. This is one of those programs in which the writers make characters do things not because the characters would do them, but because the show needs the error in order to generate tension. My expectation is that, by the conclusion of season two, all the questions about why the Professor has seduced the lead investigator will be answered and everything will be neatly wrapped up, with a few deaths to make things painful for the viewer. But I can't keep watching a show that doesn't respect my intelligence and I genuinely believe you shouldn't either.Do yourself a favour. Give Money Heist a miss.
I expected far better than this. This Tv series is far too long, too much "fat", useless moments and characters, the playing is awful, unbelievable at the most, and this TV show is not brutal, not bloody enough for this kind of subject, of scheme. The producers intended to involve the largest audiences possible. Home audiences, the whole family. This brought cheesy situations, for sissies. NOT FOR ME. But I admit that there are good story lines, in the basic scheme, I mean, and interesting situations. But the whole is jeopardized by this non sense destined, I repeat, for the largest audiences possible.


                
Yaeh ok, the idea was so nice, the thieves that steal from the money maker, nice. But, the characters were so poor and quite always they react impulsively, like Tokyo. And u will get to point that you are going to hate this chooses and tha unreal ones too. The end is a bit hasty, with no explanation and with a big cliche, like wow. There are too many scenes useless, with no point to be watched, just to "make this episode longer" and this make the watcher to skip them. Also there is a lack of plot, between the professor and Berlin, are they brothers or what? And is Berlin the kid who felt so bad when he was young? Probably we Weill never know. I ended this series becouse of the character of Berlin and the professor, they are the highlight part. The inspector character is like too round at the end, in just 5 minute she just changed all her ideas, let her daughter and went away. So realistic choices. I'm not going to advise this series to someone, too banal and in my opinion a bit bad, acting was good.
How can this be rated so high! I sat through the entire 1st season hoping for something, anything good to come from this. It's awful.
It is so fake, cheesy, and the plot is just dumb. The acting, dialogue, I just can't say how bad it is. Save yourself the disappointment and just watch Oceans 11.


                
Started watching it as everyone else was talking about the show and how fabulous it is, the characters aren't convincing, the story itself is not well-written, the acting can be ridiculous sometimes, many actors have been really heavy on me and so dumb so that I had to skip many scenes only not to get bothered by their appearances, especially the detective, some actors are good, Berlin for example.
overall, I didn't complete it as I found it to be a waste of time, maybe you can do a movie with that story, but a series is too much for it, repeated contents and gaps everywhere, didn't convince me, HIGHLY overrated


                
..im not sure why i watched this till the end.. ..maybe because the idea itself isn´t that bad..
..maybe because i didn't expect so much romance..
..maybe because i had already spent to much time not knowing the end when there was more romance and love making going on then developing the story..
..but seriously..the actors aren't very good, the plot at some point just turns ridiculous (why would captors fall in love with hostages at one point..same question goes out to the police), the ending is more than questionable and theres so much insignificant stuff going an which really makes you sleepy often. i watched part II in 3,5h with a-lot of skipping....if you wanna polish up your rusty Spanish - this might me a thing. but dont expect to much..better watch something like fargo.. or WGN´s Outsiders from 2016. but this is not your first choice when it comes to action, crime and mystery - in fact..can someone explain to me "mystery" here? TY.


                
What a Hype! And then this....unreliable story board, bad actors (Raquel), clumsy realization. Sorry guys, not what I expected after all this fancy Reviews.
Inside Man remains my first choice.


                
It sucks. everything they use is a played out trope. i wish i could say more, but every plot element is just so shoddily placed like a "love conflict" does nothing to spice up the plot. definitely for the novela fans. certainly nothing to appreciate artistically.


                
I felt obligated to leave a review after seeing the 8.8 rating on IMDB. this is a wannabe Oceans 11 that fails miserably. the plot is so fakey. season 1 is 13 episodes & nothing happens. save your time. almost every character is awful. the dialogue & character development is embarrassing. I really wanted to like this but it was impossible.


                
As other reviewers here, I was drawn in by the high rating. The initial idea had promise but from the start the English dubbing gave it a weird artificial tone. I gave it a few episodes to improve but it descended into absurd story lines and increasing poor acting. I, too, wonder if people have artificially inflated the ratings.


                
The show revolves around a stupid mastermind professor along with his dumb apprentices. And dumber police forces.


                
How can it be this series has such high ratings?It starts good but quite soon it drops to a very very long registration of the so called perfect heist which is everything but perfect... because....everyone is dumb as can be..The police, swat members, intelligence, you name it. And that goes that deep that it's impossible to see this show as a serious story telling drama.Acting is mediocre at best...Only 'Berlin' takes it away at times. The 'Professor' is really one of the worst character in the series.Not very sure why there's a season 3 in the making...


                
Overall, I think the show was average. I definitely got hooked into watching it through to the end because I wanted to see how it all turned out. But very early on, I realized that I needed to throw all logic and common sense out the window, otherwise I was going to start throwing things at my TV :). I feel the amount of suspension of disbelief and latitude taken here are over the top.Why didn't the police just cut power to the building? That would have immediately shutdown the money component of the heist. One might argue that a mint may have internal backup generators to counter this argument. Okay, maybe I could buy that one, but with enough capacity to run all that equipment?We're given the impression that the police continue to deliver meals on a regular basis, although we only technically see this being done the first time. Why would they do this?Hostages are left alone and unsupervised through huge portions of the show. All or most of the heist crew is often seen together in the same room while the hostages are presumably in 2 or 3 separate other areas of the mint.The whole love story between the Professor and the Inspector is so over the top. I get why it's essential to the story, but it's unfathomable that during the most important crime of the century, the Inspector would have so much free and alone time, and be totally unreachable for such long periods of time.Tokyo's motorcycle ride back into the mint just drives me crazy on so many levels. Are you telling me all of those police offers are that terrible with their weapons that they can't even land one shot anywhere on her?The Inspector takes the Professor back to the original training house instead of to the police station? Makes no sense.During all of the various shootout scenes, barely anyone (in the big scheme of things) on either side is ever injured.Why did the Professor and Berlin suddenly acquire a wireless headset connection all the way at the end? Why wouldn't they have used that from the start? This was sort of explained way that it was encrypted and would take only 2 hours to decrypt.There are probably other things I've already forgotten about. I will watch the 3rd part because I can't help myself. Like watching an automobile accident :).
So predictable and boring. no thief would act like this. this is more a love story. typical heist movie without killing a hostage...better watch heat.


                
This was truly paiful to watch and I was struggling to even finish it.


                
Upfront: this is a Spanish series, and I'm an American who watched this on Netflix with the English dubbed over. It's likely much more appealing in Latin markets, but missed the mark for me. The initial few episodes are intriguing, as they set-up what appears to be a relatively intelligent heist series. What develops is a melodramatic soap opera with pathetic character development and plot holes galore. If you enjoy mindless afternoon soaps, this series is for you. If you're looking for an intelligent crime thriller, do not let the first episode sell you like it did me. I'm disappointed in myself for having wasted the 20 or so hours and laughed at 90% of Season 2 to get myself through to the end.


                
Not as good as rating.
Only "Barlin" is interesting.
Others are boring.
Prefessor and inspector has no chemistry between them.
Police are too weak.
Everybody is making unthinkable mistakes. Really!!!


                
All we know what this series...is hugh, fantastic, a masterpiece, very good..etc..but is nothing we don't see before, is the perfect mix between good and crazy characters and the popular fantasy of the big hit or big robbery, every one of us dreams with make a hit like that, is something universal, stole to the rich with out damage some one.All the series rest in a characters history and his dramas, while we see a perfect plan same to films like to, ocean's eleven saga, in sometimes too much dialogues and less action.By fortune all the conflicts of characters are resolved, is a perfect escape, die who have to die, and some couples runaway togetter ..and that is it, is no more.give to this serie other signification is denied the hide desire to the universal fantasy to be a "big hit". thats is the crucial and essential plot of the drama, same like "breaking bad", "back to the future" saga and many others...so don't confusse and just enjoy what this serie is, a mirror of your own fantasy...with a very crazy friendsgood actors, the design production is very high, good photographic..perhaps 
the director sought to say many things and give many lessons and not a one clear message that inspires the viewer, for example "breaking bad" ...all for the family, "back on the Future" movie, we build our own future...so what is the lesson?...after to see Casa de Papel..With all conflicts resolved, creating a third season is literally ....burning the paper


                
One of the worst Netflix productions, La Casa de Papel is a combination of lame Novelas with Steven Segal action, supported by basic cliffhangers and a remarkably good direction (my only reason for 3 stars) and cinematics (for continental Europe standards). It's a shame that this is praised as good Spanish entertainment, when Spain and Europe has so much better to offer.


                
Poor acting 
Plot has plenty of weak points and nothing original
If you watched inside man, one movie is 10 times more authentic and thrilling than this weak show. 
Unless you never watched any great American show in the last 10 Years then go ahead and enjoy it


                
Don't expect any realism or characters acting like they are real human beings, hostages and police officers. So many plotholes. Its unbelievable. The writers didnt spend enough time with the script and with logic.So many things just happen for entertainment's sake. It makes me angry and want to shut it off, but....The story and idea is indeed amazing and Im curious how everything will turn out. It could have been one of the best shows I watched this year. Its cool and entertaining if you accept the flaws and missing logic!2nd season really starts with the most annoying episodes Ive ever watched in a series!Hope it will get better!


                
Cheap entertainment. Lazy script, completly inverosimil scenes. I've did'nt understood why Tokio act like that. What's her problem?. Was very good idea, but completly wasted.


                
The show started with promise and the concept was good. The first few episodes were not bad but by the second season it was seriously dragging and I couldn't wait for it to end. I felt like I was invested given that I watched the first series to go to the end but the end actually makes the whole series look much worse1) The professors only mistake was falling in love. What? He made so many mistakes. Why did he start talking to Angel and let him into his factory? Why do he appoint a bunch of morons to do the heist? Why do he only use the Serbs at the end? 2) Most of the characters are morons. The inspector is in the middle of a major heist with national coverage and spends half her day getting coffee or hanging out with a guy she just met. She has a daughter too who she leaves with her Mum with Alzheimers? She also changes her mind every 2 seconds and just because she saw a red hair on his jacket she knew that he was now the killer instead of someone she fell in love with after 2 days? What?3) The romantic relationships were ridiculous. Tokio and Rio makes no sense at all. Monica, supposedly a refined, smart lady falls in love with a total moron after 2 days and then starts shooting at the police officers? Really? The other girl starts sleeping with Berlin because she is scared even though they act like they are all mates half the time and bring them pizzas (from where?)4) How many stand offs can you have? It was obvious they weren't going to shoot anyone so why did they keep pointing guns every two seconds. It loses its meaning when you do it every 2 seconds. Also why did Denver shoot Monica in the leg? He could have just not done that and I think everyone would have been OK with that it was not part of the plan and is very unnecessary.I could go on all day.By the end you hate all of the characters and you will happen they will all take each other out just to end the show and make sure they don't do another series.
Compare to all the great and well written tv shows out there to choose from, this one feels like it was penned by a 1st year film student trying to make the grades. It was written so poorly and so amateurishly, I had to quit watching after the 5th episode. When you watched shows like Daredevil, Better Call Saul, and The Expanse just to name a few, then watching this after is like night and day! It's just pure garbage writing, you simply can't! This show is way behind on the curve, the writers seem to think they wrote a clever, smart script but in reality, they didn't. The main story line and sub-plots were uninspiring and boring to say the least! The characters are bland, one-dimensional, cliche, just simply uninteresting and for the most part annoying! There were several story arcs that I tried my best to get into but I just could not because I simply did not care for the characters! Bad writing is all to blame here! For it to get above 8.0 rating is mind boggling. This is horse manure story writing at its best! Don't watch this it will be just a waste of time. Trust me. And for the producers who think they made a well thought out tv series, think again! Your viewers are ten times smarter than this and can see right through all this garbage. Stop wasting both of our times, go back to school, re-invent yourself, and stop giving us this 5th grade writing!


                
