Creator Alex Pina's last one results to be a splendid series with great cast and manificently made. This Spanish thriller deals with a group of armed people in disguise who try to steal a mint . Moving heist crime thriller filled with intense set pieces, nail-biting action and swiftly paced . This exciting , intriguing , suspenseful series takes place in Madrid , where occurs the spectacular robbing and kidnapping, it is carried out by a bunch of cunning delinquents : Ursula Corbero , Paco Tous , Pedro Alonso, Alba Flores, Miguel Herran , among others , led by the mysterious Professor: Álvaro Morte, who is controlling out of building . The takers must scramble a lot of twisted incidents , risks , dangers and violent happenings . At the same time , a clever Police Inspector : Itziar Ituño , will stop at nothing in getting catch them.This is a thrilling narration of a stirring mint assault with exceptionally fine camera work , skill editing , several flashbacks and twisted plots . The series mingles action-packed, drama , suspense , love stories and spectacular sequences. This is a tricky great series about a coordinated hold-up that get worse when a Police Inspector , little by little , goes discovering the complex tracks of the twisted heist .The robbing is covered by various incidents , family relationships as the mistreated Inspector , her mother : Kiti Manver , who suffers Alzheimer , as well as other happenings , as corruption , political events , disturbing lives of the thieves and many other things . Here stand out the three main starring : Ursula Corbero , Itziar Ituño and Alvaro Morte , they are the real stars of this top-drawer series , this trío gives top-notch acting , developing perfectly their meaty roles . Other chief excitement of this successful series resides in watching the excellent plethora of secondaries delivering attractive performances , such as Alba Flores , Paco Tous, Jaime Lorente , Pedro Alonso, Enrique Arce , Juan Fernández , Maria Pedraza , the veteran Kiti Manver , and several others.It contains a colorful and atmospheric cinematography by Miguel Amoedo , mainly shot in interior , Antena 3 studios . As well as a pulsating and stimulating musical score from Ivan Lacamara and Manel Santiesteban. This in another superbly powerful thriller series created by the great showrunner Alex Pina who previously made other good series , such as : El Barco, Vis a Vis , Los Hombres de Paco , Los Serrano and Periodistas . The series was stunningly directed by Miguel Angel Vivas , Jesus Colmenar , Javier Quintas , Alejandro Bazzano and Jesus Colmenar . This series will appeal to adrenaline lovers and those young people looking for strong emotions.This is the kind of series in which thriller enthusiasts will enjoy immensely , it's a must see.


                
Despite some of the more ridiculous contrivances, I appreciate how suspenseful and entertaining this series can be, and being able to keep that up through the series as well as La Casa de Papel is a great feat. Even better, they managed to wrap it all up with a satisfying ending that... what... there is gonna be a series 3?Viewed in Spanish language with subtitles.


                
I am very happy that i watched it and i have already recommended it. But the reason i have rated it 8 and not 10 since i ideally think this is a masterpiece keeping in mind the intelligence behind the series. Every detail was figured correctly and the screenplay was apt too. However there are illogical stuffs added which i think takes the charm away but its okay .. they are much avoidable and it doesnt really hamper your exprerience though since its after all cinema so dont apply much brains to a few scenes.
PS - loved the background scores


                
A great story well told .
Everything about this series is faultless .
Acting , direction , plot , thrills .
I finished Season 1 last night and can't wait for Season 2


                
Loved the acting, sound tracks and of course the suspence.


                
I loved this series and watched over a couple days. Don't take too serious and you will find an exciting and original series. Only complaint for me was the English dubbing. wrong voices for most of characters and was pretty annoying. Would prefer to see the original with English sub-titles.


                
This is the best show I've seen lately. Good unpredictable storyline, great actors, plot twist,excitment, action, in one word - masterpiece. You will enjoy in every minute of this show.


                
"La Casa de Papel" is one of the most binge-worthy shows Netflix offers. It is a nerve-wrecking, lightning-paced show that is brim full of twists and turns, both stupid and smart. It requires the highest suspension of belief; within these expectations, the show is an absolute firecracker.The show has a powerful social message, terrific acting, a soundtrack worth repeating, and enough cliffhangers to leave the most ardent viewer glued to Netflix for hours or days. The pacing is quick, weaving well-shot action, tense dialogue, sex, violence, and narrative twists.Plenty of the problems that occur could be avoided easily, and lots of twists are impossible. It is similar to "24" where the quickness of everything that happens overshadows the dumb it happens.Overall, "La Casa de Papel" is definitely worth watching. It is a satisfying, relentlessly paced, and action-packed show that despite its incredulousness, never stops to be fervently entertaining.


                
I have watched all season 1 and most of season 2 so far. Its nice change from the usual US serials, with a nice story reminding me of Ocean 11. The key element of the serial is the mind battle between the organizer of the heist and the police. Directing and Photography is very good. The scenario has a few flaws but that does not take away any of the its entertainment value. As for acting, its quite decent, some better than the restI would recommend it based on what I have seen so far. I am a bit sceptical of the extra season that Netflix will produce, since this is a heist, how much can you drag it till its resolved one way or the other. Enjoy!


                
A must watching TV series. Fall in love with Berlin characte..


                
Just watched tonight at the end of this Spanish production, which had a priority in my list since it began to be broadcast on TV in Spain, the final conclusion is that it was really very good.The first episode captures us, holds us in this game of chess that begins soon by promising so much, with this will endure a 2 or 3 episodes that follow without the same adrenaline and perfection, until we conquer again and arrest us again inside the paper house.
Until the end.I could understand the little frustration you can feel because either in the script, or in the work and interpretation of one or another character the thing has not been at the level it deserved, what could take this production to almost perfection, but we can´t focus on the failures or defects of something so good.So many entrancing characters, a plot full of drama and vibrant adrenaline, very well crafted.Always with great suspense.The best that has been seen in recent years, whether in movies or TV series, has come from various latitudes but less and less from Hollywood.the eclipse of Hollywood allows more and more people to realize this quality and open their horizons, it´s the positive sign to withdraw, to see more and more people seeing high quality productions from other countries, continents and languages.Final note, an eight that could well have reached nine or even ten, because there was so much potential for that.


                
Despite some of the more ridiculous contrivances, I appreciate how suspenseful and entertaining this series can be, and being able to keep that up through the series as well as La Casa de Papel is a great feat.


                
To be honest, i've expected so much when i watched the very first scenes.I imagined to see those pro experts criminals run a genius robbery plan. But it all fell down since Tokyo's appearance.
This show absolutely have so many unlogical flaws like there're many scenes that we can't see any members watch on the hostages (??) The fool of some member (Tokyo & Rio, somestimes Denver) make us feel very disappointed and annoying.
But on the other side, i have to say i love this show. Why? Because i love Berlin's consciousness, professional and super cool attitude of Nairobi (You don't know how much i love her!), the brilliance of Professor's genius head and i feel so pity for the inspector Raquel.So with this show, i still annoy with stupidity of Tokyo & Rio (I sympathize for Tokyo cause she's iconic in commercial side) but i also thrill to see what will happen next. I do see many flaws but yet i still love this show.


                
The series is enormously exciting! Perfect cliffhangers. I watched it within the blink of an eye. Although, the conversations between the characters, which are in love, seem to repeat over and over again, which is - sorry 'bout that - quite annoying. It's therefore the only negative aspect, I can report. The rest is purely fantastic: The idea, the acting, the directing, the visualization...


                
Testing and testing testing testing testing testing


                
Just Saw inside man. (2006) compare. Ache. Akward. Copycat? Sew them?


                
The story is great, just like the heroes, acting. But the impression is that after writing or shooting about 5 or 6 episodes as a whole, for some reason it was decided to extend this series artificially and so they added a whole bunch of "philosophical" dialogues and speeches, which mostly have nothing to do with the main great (!) story line, thus turning this show into a total of 15 episodes!Nevertheless, this is totally worth watching (often fast-forwarding the long talks :) )


                
When my friend told me about this TV show, I was like eeeh I won't watch it because the story didn't impress me .. But I changed my opinion later after watching the trailer and also because I wanna learn Spanish.
After finishing the two seasons, I can say that It's one of the best series that I have seen lately without any doubt. 
I loved the characters especially '' Berlin + El Profesor + Nairobi " but Berlin was very special, It's like watching the Spanish version of Joker.
You guys should watch it, You won't regret.


                
I would say this is one of my top 5 tv series i've ever watched. It starts with a good plot. The acting is perfect and there are no random/boring scenes to just extend the episodes. I watched all the episodes in something like 3 days, very interesting. If you are bored and want something to watch, watch this! You'll not regret!


                
Leaving out the fact that this, is one of the greatest things Spain ever made (after some horror films), I must say that I wasn't fully satisfied about some logics during the episodes. "El Professor" obviously was the most intelligent character of the series, but some dynamics they were left to chance. Fortunatly, everything ended up to his advantage, but I hoped that nothing was by chance, like I said. Apart from that, the final left me a little bit down, like many others because during the episodes they made me fond of the characters for leaving me with too many questions. Anyway, I really enjoyed it and hope it's not the last season!


                
Watching the English-dubbed version it's a little hard to get into it but things pick up after 7-8 episodes. The "second" season has much more action and rapid pacing, leading to a satisfying finale. Underlying theme is a little socialist, printing and stealing money out of thin air, compared towhat the Euro Reserve Bank does on a major scale.


                
This spanish series in one great heist TV show that i totally recommend. It shares some resemblaces with Prison Break but it´s more about the personal relationships of the robbers, it's a more emotional story, but it never get's boring. For someone who want's to diversify from the usual american culture and TV, this is a very refreshing and original series.


                
Entertaining master crime and crazy implausible love story (stories). Spain must have worst shooters in the world, rubber bullets and clueless police. Satisfying, cartoonish wrapup. Watch with subtitles.


                
This is the type of show you need to sit back and enjoy without thinking too much.If you do that then it's a highly enjoyable fun heist plot with some interesting twists and a decent balance of calmness and action. I really enjoyed it.Of course at the same time in your head you will be thinking..... why don't the police just do this? why on earth is this person so utterly incompetent? (both police and robbers).But let that go and the show thoroughly deserves its place as the most watched non-English show in the history of Netflix.Hugely recommended


                
I was really surprised by this series. When I was watching the first episode I thought that this cannot be a good series. I mean, another story about the heist, loads of planning, loads of shootings and big escape. Well, I was wrong and I enjoyed the show very much. The concept is really simple, but with many twists and additional plots. The characters are interesting and we can't really predict their actions. Also the way in which the series was shot deserves a recognition, maybe except shooting scenes. I feel they went too american-style on these. We can also find some slow-motion scenes and to be honest they seem a bit overdone, but not completely pointless like in an American heist movies. The fact that the actors speak Spanish is also a nice addition (of course if you turn off the horrible dubbing), and even though I don't understand it (watching with subs), I got a feeling that it feels really nice to hear all these emotions that the actors can express in their native language. Also, you get a feeling of something new and different from that.


                
