I begin my review by saying that I respect the history and the events that took place in WW2 and I have the utmost respect for the guys who gave their life for that cause. Having said that, let me tell you my opinion about the movie. And only the movie.Well, first of all I found it dull and uninteresting. The actors were fake. The scenes looked like rehearsals and uncut material. It was split in two half: the first was about nothing (well you could say stubbornness and stupidity because I was made to fell nothing for the main character except annoyed and uninterested) and the second about guts and gore. Did I said the actors looked FAKE? Oh, yeah. But man, oh man that was the main problem for me. The actors looked fake and the entire movie looked like a poorly made joke.The plot was something like this: let's establish the motives, good. Now the cause... good and now the effects. Perfect. Now we can move on. The audience got it. And so on and so forth. Now lets slip in some romance. You can't have a movie without romance. Good, check! Now let's be jerks about it and make his life uncomfortable in the army, check! But hey, he got beliefs, check! ONE BIG CHECK LIST. No emotion, no heart, no nothing. A dead flat feeling.Let me tell you few spoilers from the movie that I found to be really bad.the scene where he meets the guys from the army in the barrack. Why in the hell should you put a naked guy (no brains, just muscles) to do pull-ups naked? Why? Because the target audience appreciate it? Little girls can't watch a movie that has no naked buff guys in it? I can only imagine the guys who made that crap scene: OK, guys I have an idea! We will introduce a stupid character that will do pull-ups naked in the barrack. But why? Doesn't matter, but it will be very funny and in that way we please the target audience. And check that out. We will make him run naked outside the barrack because the sergeant wouldn't let him get dressed and he will be forced to run naked during their exercises. Ha ha, so funny, NOT!.the scene where they fight the Japanese. At some point the tough guy in the unit picks up a half dismembered body to use it as a shield and charged the battlefield killing 20 Japanese. WTF? At that point I was laughing and couldn't believe how bad this looks. Mel is becoming senile.another scene when some doctor got wounded and Dodds wanted to give him plasma and the doctor says "No, give it to the other guy I don't know!". And he did. After several minutes we see a scene where Dodds asks about the doctor and another guy says "He didn't make it. He didn't have the plasma". And he makes a stupid face and we as the audience understand everything. WOW that was very educating. It was explained to us like we were some retards and didn't understand the sacrifice he made. Very poorly done. Cheap.The battle looked like it was made by acrobats all jumping in spectacular ways, turning, twisting. All was about guts and gore. The more gore the better. Its as if the film was thought to get better with every gruesome scene over and over again. But it got worse. At some point after seeing so many body parts it became a joke. It began to fail and I was made to smile at how stupid this looks. Every scene made me think how the directors were scheming and constipating with ideas that were suppose to shock us until they run out of ideas and they just put more guts, gore and blood. That will shock them.I can continue to rant about this movie as every scene has flaws and doesn't deliver. I wouldn't call this movie an Oscar or even a mention. Mel's only good movie was Braveheart and I stand by that. I cant believe how easy people fall for this violence nonsense mixed with religion and patriotism. Could it be that this a recipe for successful movies? Or we are ashamed to admit this is a crap movie because we are afraid that others will look upon us and accuse us we don't respect history and heroes? Wake up people!
Focuses too much on the simple premise rather than creating a good story around the circumstances. So the main character doesn't like guns, okay we get it. All this movie does is hammer this idea and try to make something profound from the character's religions motivations. The result is quite boring."My bible! My bible!"... prepare to cringe. I can't recommend this movie, there's no reason for a feature to be made from this.Regardless of how many people the guy saved, he still put his comrades at risk by not arming himself. He got lucky, so what? God had nothing to do with that. I'm not sure if this film is suggesting that this was God's miracle or just a religious nut-case who got lucky.Either way, the story is not inspirational, and the actual film wasn't very creative or elevated beyond clichéd American patriotism and stereotypical supporting roles.


                
I was so disappointed with this film! After hearing all the Oscar carry on and stories of standing ovations etc I was so looking forward to seeing it. Firstly, the main character who plays Doss is so achingly awful in the beginning of the film that it is hard to watch. The scenes where he interacts with the woman who later becomes his wife are so cringe worthy I wanted to turn away. The action scenes in the film are pretty amazing but it just lies flat. The scene where Vince Vaughn is killing the Japanese while Garfield pulls him along on some type of material while rescuing him is just ridiculous and more suited to a teenage video game. Its an interesting story but the ending just leaves you with nothing. They spend a huge amount of time including his love interest in the story and then you never hear from her again. I also found it weird that they included the scene where he almost kills his brother at the beginning and then discounts this scene by saying he chose to never touch a weapon after he held a gun to his Father's head. I love war films but this was disappointing on all levels. Unbroken, fury etc. are just far better films. I really don't know what all the carry on is about. Its lazy and the ending is cop out. Meh!
Hacksaw Ridge is ultimately a good film made about a great story that squanders much of its potential with wooden dialogue, countless clichés, and telegraphed punches rather than foreshadowing.When I saw the movie, I didn't know much about it and somehow missed in the opening credits that it was directed by Mel Gibson, but as I watched, I remember repeatedly saying to myself, "Man, someone has a persecution complex." Doss' pacifism was a central theme; it was so integral to the plot, that nobody could have missed it if it had not been treated so heavy-handedly. This would have been much better if it had been a war movie in which the protagonist takes a philosophical stand, rather than a movie about a man being persecuted for his beliefs (often fairly) with the war going on as a sub-plot and vehicle for it.The grisly violence portrayed in the war scenes failed to create the atmosphere of a battlefield in the same way that better directed movies did; the reliance on graphic violence served to highlight the lack of tension and fear that should have been palpable, as we've been given in Full Metal Jacket or Saving Private Ryan, for that matter.Still, the backbone of truth in the story is strong enough to overcome many of the film's shortcomings. Though most of the characters were just cartoon sketches of real people (many of them pretty cheesy), they were hard not to like... especially Doss himself, and his broken father.


                
This is somewhat of a random series of thoughts rather than a cohesive review. But here it goes....Garfield's portrayal of Doss is creepy and unnatural. I found myself annoyed with the main character to the point where it was hard to watch. The supporting characters were underdeveloped except for Doss' dad. Everyone else starts out as an army thug jerk, who turns out to be a good guy in the end. The action is comically bad. At one point a guy picks up a dead body and storms into the battle blocking gunfire with the corpse...?!The setting of the battle is ridiculous. The Americans have to climb a rope ladder what looks to be about 100-150 ft to the top of the ridge where the Japanese are hiding out. There is nothing stopping the Japanese from cutting the ladder down, or standing at the top of the ladder and raining gunfire down on the Americans. Also, when you google the actual ridge, its about 20-30 ft maximum. The whole battle and setting lacks a sense realism for me.Every aspect of this film feels unnecessarily dramatic. It's kind of hard to describe but everything from Garfield's performance to the combat scenes to the love story is slathered in a think layer of drama. I guess it's to make up for the lack of a compelling plot but after a while it starts to feel kind of dumb (for a lack of a better word). You get taken out of the story and the remarkable act of bravery to the point where you almost have to laugh (and eye roll) at how bad some of the scenes are. The true story the film is based on is amazing and needs to be told, but I feel like this movie tries too hard and misses the mark.I guess you have to watch it because of it Oscar nominations, but its really not that good.
I liked how the movie started (the story around desmonds father and the love story with Dorothy). But in this moment the battle begun, it's getting ridiculous! 
During the training they all make fun of Desmond. "Skinny boy", "beanpole", etc. But on the battlefield he carries his fallen comrades on his shoulders all night long. ...under fire, on a rough terrain. No sorry, this is just stupid! Did you ever try to carry your buddy like this over 50m? Hard enough, huh?Tbh, I don't believe, that Smitty kicks desmond down the wall during the drill. It's a classic and 1000 times seen "scumbag turns into buddy" scene and it's so damn obsolete and implausible!There's only one way up and when the japanese soldiers reached the edge, but they don't cut the ropes or throw grenades down there. Come on! *facepalm*Human torso shields... are you kidding me?Grenades was kicked and slapped away. ...please!After a while everybody down in the camp notices, that Desmond is all alone on the battlefield to save as much comrades as he can, but not a single man climbs up to help him? No one? Really?Just read the other reviews with low ratings and you'll read about a lot more stupid scenes. Sorry Mr. Gibson, but seeing this movie and read something like "a true story" at the beginning, feels like insulting my intelligence.
Mel Gibson really does seem to love his blood and gore, the passion of the Christ was notorious for it's unflinching scenes of gratuitous blood and violence. I know this is a war film but do we we really need to see such graphic detail? I actually think it detracts from the narrative, this is indeed a great story and one which should be told but it is spoilt by poor direction. The characters seem so unreal it is difficult to relate to any of them or to have any emotional connection. Andrew Garfield does an OK job playing the main character WWII American army medic Desmond Doss, but I quickly lost interest due to his lacklustre performance.


                
I had to write a review when I saw that this movie was rated 8.2 and was rated better than movies like Casino (1995), the Wolf of Wall Street (2013), the Big Lebowski (1998), Gone with the wind (1939), Fargo (1996), Nemo (2003), the Thing (1982), Kill Bill Vol. 1 (2003), Into the Wild (2007), There Will Be Blood (2007), Gone Girl (2014), Shutter Island (2010), Hotel Rwanda (2004), Mad Max: Fury Road (2015), 12 Years a Slave (2013), The Grand Budapest hotel (2014), Million Dollar Baby (2004), Jurassic Park (1993), The Truman Show (1998), Rocky (1976), Donnie Darko (2001), La Haine (1995), Barry Lyndon (1975), Jaw (1975), Internal Affairs (2002) or Sin City (2005). I told to myself 'there is something wrong in this rating'. This movie does not deserve to be better rated than the few examples I mentioned. Even if the story of Desmond is truly heroic, the result is so bad. The scenario is so simple and has many flaws and lacks. This movie barely deserves a 6.5.


                
Once again, raves from reviewers who, obviously, never experienced a military boot camp, let alone combat, lulled me into sitting through this snoozer. But before you could say G'day Mate I was more interested in trying to determine which Australian actors DID NOT get a payday from this ludicrous and clichéd-filled alleged retelling of the life of Desmond Doss.Somebody deserves to be court martialed for the miscasting of Vince Vaughn as Doss's platoon sergeant. But I knew this movie was bodgy and not dinkum when the assault on the eponymous ridge begins by scaling a cargo net up a cliff face and blood drips down upon the climbers supposedly foretelling the carnage they're about to face. Thankfully, the Japanese decide to cut Mel Gibson a break and leave this avenue of assault in place for later use in the movie.Andrew Garfield was adequately puerile in the prologue to combat (which includes him playing hacky sack with a grenade) in the obligatory meet cute with his future Aussie (oops I mean American) wife and his angst ridden Aussie parents. Another director should give a burl to the amazing story of Desmond Doss and until then I'd recommend going directly to Wikipedia. P.S. - Nicole Kidman and Hugh Jackman, you missed out on an easy check.
Your amazing war movie and Mel's "triumph" would cramble to pieces if the japs were not just some stupid screaming heathens and one of them had actually cut the rope ladder with his katana... How do you proceed to make a big budget movie like this when your whole story is based on this weak concept?I watched it with 4 more people and the question was the same from everyone... Why they don't cut the rope? P. S. Hugo Weaving's performance was once again superb.
Not much to say. Poor dialogue and poor directing lead to a cheesy final product that is unbearable in its first act but tolerable in the third act. Weird casting and glossy cinematography make this one an unfortunately funny watch for what should be an emotional film.


                
This is just another war movie and there's nothing special about it except it attempts to create a "peaceful war hero" with its premise. They use a country boy from the South because that lends to the Bible-carrying character that they would have you believe wants to go to war but without a gun. Yeah....... That's what I said too. Ridiculous. We have the stereotypical drunk father and saintly mother for his parents as we've seen in countless other Hollywood narratives, but we are to feel sorry for his father because he too was in a war. That always makes it OK to beat your wife in American movies so the writers play that up to the best of their ability, which is not that impressive and frankly lacking in believability. What would an American warmongering movie be without a love story thrown in to attract the ladies, huh? I mean surely every guy who signs up for war has a beautiful woman waiting for him back home, right?! Well, this crap of a movie is no different, like I told you from the beginning. The hero always has to seem like a coward or at least a weakling until the bullets start flying and then he comes into his own as a courageous bad-ass with no fear. That's here too, in case you were wondering. It's filled with popular actors, American and otherwise, so you'll feel at home with the characters.This and all other ridiculous American war movies are meant to make YOU want to go and "serve" your country with all of the pseudo-patriotic rhetoric that you can stand. It's a narrative needed in order to convince stupid 17 and 18 year olds to go across the oceans to another man's land and get blown to bits to make a few rich white men that own defense companies even richer. If you're white or a sympathizer of the white man's predicament, then you'll most likely want to see this to justify your own savage nature. But if you're a person of color whose people have been at the unpopular end of his bullets, you can safely skip this carnage-filled propaganda-based picture and simply know that when this type of movie is released, you can bet that another war generated by America is coming soon to a war theater NOT near you. ALL white nations will be using subterfuge and "divide and conquer" techniques to create fear of non-white peoples("terrorists") so that they can justify kicking out non-whites from their pathetic nations that love and adore violence so much. Since you can see violence EVERY night on whatever "Law and Order"-type show is popular at the moment, I'd suggest saving your money and just watching the carnage on TV instead of buying this crap.
This movie was so bad I went through password retrieval process just give it a low score.This is Hot Shots! realism portrayed as drama. There is seriously a character that grabs a body from the ground, uses it as his shield while shooting his Browning AR one-handed with perfect accuracy. When the "Japs" are on screen they are either screaming like they are possessed or executing wounded soldiers on the battle field. And why the love story?? 1/3 of the movie is dedicated to the main character finding love which adds no value to the rest of the movie. Even found a post dedicated to how unrealistic this movie is: quora.com/What-are-the-most-unrealistic-parts-of-Hacksaw-Ridge- 2016-movieI can't believe this movie has an 8.2 rating while Saving Private Ryan has only a slightly better rating at 8.6.
I am the first person to appreciate and admire Doss's heroism and for me the best part of the movie is its very last minute, i.e. the real life footage with Doss going over some of the craziest things that happened right there. The rest is just a mix of poor dialogues, gory war scenes that fail to deliver, and idiotic CGI. I think this should have been a documentary, so that we could have really appreciate Doss's words without the poorly written stuff surrounding it. Besides, kung-fu with grenades? C'mon...
Letters from Iwo Jima / Flags of our Fathers are both much better movies


                
This was one of the worst films of 2016. Sure Gibson did a nice job with the combat scenes and that's the only reason I gave it a 3 and not a 1 but the rest is just garbage. Andrew Garfield is a mediocre actor at best and the story is just laughable. Gibson lets his own religious bias shine through and portrays Doss as some kind of Jesus figure even adding that ridiculous light shining on him at the end. Anyone who believes Doss never picked up a weapon of any kind while rescuing those soldiers all by himself and surrounded by Japanese troops are either stupid or so gullible they believe in the same imaginary friend as Doss did!


                
Sat through the turgid cheesy opening half expecting some decent war film action in 2nd half. From the over the top stepping through heads and entrails to the never end stream of slowmo shots of machine gun shooting while screaming, it made Tropic Thunder look like Apocalypse now. Yes it is based on true events but really, is this the way to portray true heroism ? When the Thin Red Line exists, from the same theatre of war, which depicts the reality in a much more gut wrenching way. Who thought Vince Vaughan could play a tough drill sergeant, who thought up the dragging through the mud, rear gunner style machine scene could be taken seriously, who thought the scene of a soldier volleying a grenade away was anything other than laughable, probably the same director who stole all the component parts of other war films and stitched them together into a parody that is totally unaware of itself. I would go so far as to say it is an insult to the genre. It gets a 3 based on some technical flair and the heroics of the true story.


                
Others have noted how the violence is gratuitous and excessive. The story could surely be told without this, as evidenced by so many better movies about World War II.However, I haven't seen any discussion of why Gibson and co. shamelessly copied Kubrick's drill sergeant hazing scene from Full Metal Jacket. This is far beyond mere homage, to a lengthy repeat of the nicknames ("Joker"), war face/yell, love-for-your-rife, etc. I found this copying outrageous and boring.On the score of tedium, that goes for most of the film. The love story is without passion, although I grant that Garfield is a talented actor. The only drama is in the final exchange between Doss and Smitty.Does anyone really believe that a veteran or anyone could interrupt a court martial and address the presiding judge? I guess this has to fall under the heading of total suspension of disbelief.Finally, Hacksaw Ridge as depicted in the film is pretty dramatic and resembles Banzai Cliff on Saipan. But the Maeda Escarpment in Okinawa was apparently where Doss's exploits occurred.


                
The only reason this movie is receiving 3 stars out of 10 is all hinged on the last 5 minutes, where the real heroes talk from the real experience and I saw the pain in their soul.You can find what I am talking about on my Instagram (@dyeman888) but I will also outline them here.1. How in the hell are you going to cast Vince Vaughn as a drill sergeant? He can barely perform in comedies where he has creative lead. Maybe it is worse than that, it could be all that good actors turn down said roll.2. There is no organic character development, Andrew was thrown in a cell for less than a day (maybe it was more but it was missing any note of time passing; i.e. Sun changing position, clock, etc.) and he is flipping a bed, punching a door.3. The battle was way to grotesque, too much gore and violence and cartoon levels of "scary", vid examples on my Instagram. So much I became bored of it and lost any tension of failure or loss of an actor, and I say actor because there were no characters out there.Overall a totally over rated movie and will only entertain you if you are from/ in the military or some sect of the Christian religion; if that's you, great, be you and I love the movie.Beyond those 2 demographics, don't see this movie.
Mel Gibson, you must be one zealous, stuck up git to ruin a film like this. Despite an amazing true story and momentous historical context providing a perfect foundation for a great film, Mel Gibson screws it up by turning it into folksy, formulaic, religion-soaked dross. Gibson's incessantly preachy tone, predictable clichés, and almost complete neglect of the greater historical and strategic context of the setting spoiled it all. Beats me how this film won any awards at all.


                
This movie is terrible! Don't waste your time, and especially your $$$$
A hypocritical film that glorifies violence and sets forward dubious notions of religious and national superiority.


                
