Great graphics and high budget, of course. The standard boring music doesn't even matter, after you notice the big bad problem: there is no scenario, absolutely no intrigue or plot, nothing actually happens, there are no negative characters, there is no actual threat or problem to be solved, no twist, no surprise, nothing. So: boring. Predictable. Heroic. Anachronistic. Full of cliché-s. No plot whatsoever. Poor simple guy has small childhood trauma, grows up to be a fine man, goes to war, is a hero. Now, this might be a summary of a great movie; but in our case, it is everything you will find out in this one. There is, literally, nothing else. I am afraid of saying unrealistic as well, because the character was probably pretty much as depicted. Still, the portrayal is anachronistic, quite false. In fact, we have this huge powerful invading American army, smashing through all defenses of the small bad sadistic Japs (as expected) (no surprise here) (difficult to sympathize, but anyway, need to have some baddies around). And here we have an unarmed winning hero saving the poor lives of the poor victors without consideration to his own life, while his mates massacre their enemies all around, and supporting through his actions the whole round massacre, for a not-really clear reason. I mean, we love Gibson and he managed to do some great cliché heroic movies, so I was expecting more from this one. Just ain't.


                
I was looking forward to watching this film. I heard about Desmond Doss a pacifist war hero was awarded the Medal of Honor. I believed a great story could be told without having to go over the top. It must have been very strange for the other soldiers training and fighting with a man who held such strong beliefs against killing others. I expected the director to look at Mr Doss and his colleagues from a psychological point of view I was hoping to see something akin to Platoon. No! What we got was more akin to Captain America. In the hands of Mel Gibson, Desmond Doss was more of a cartoon character than a real hero. It was so over the top I was actually embarrassed. Now for a fictitious character this movie would be OK. It was well made, well acted, with lots of action. Mel sold this film base don Desmond Doss and then he failed to tell his story. Don't watch this film expecting anything special it is a generic American war film.


                
Did I see the same movie as everyone else? An 8.2 rating for this holier than thou, self righteous yawnfest? Movies like these make Slaughtered Vomit Dolls look like Oscar material. Never in my life have I ever seen a movie as manipulative as this nonsense. Flooded with scenes that could make a grown man hurl, this unrealistic claptrap of a film is only worth viewing once, and of course, that's for the intense and magnificently- rendered violence you can always count on Brother Mel to produce.I guess there were just too many scenes that were pilfered from other movies that made me groan. The influence of Saving Private Ryan, Thin Red Line, and especially, Full Metal Jacket, were WAY too obvious. Would it have killed Brother Mel to not portray the Japanese as one-dimensional, blood thirsty conquistadors? Left a bad taste in my mouth. Hacksaw Ridge. Sigh. A film only Donald Trump supporters could love.


                
Hoo-rah! If it weren't for the admittedly intriguing story of an extremely religious man serving his country by helping the wounded, with no firearm, this would simply be yet another war movie glorifying America while their enemies, in this case the Japanese, are faceless and all the same, serving only as objects to shoot at. Enemies.But let's head back to the beginning. The movie sets the tone by beginning with a fiery scene, in which we see destruction and mayhem on the battlefield. Our main character Desmond Doss begins to narrate, quoting scripture, which gives us an idea where the film is heading. We are then taken back to his childhood, where we learn why he refuses to wield a firearm.This serves a nice introduction into why Desmond is the way he is. What doesn't work though is that barely 15 minutes into the movie, he meets a girl. Ten minutes later they want to get married.Given this is a two hour movie, this entire sequence could have been snipped, making for a snappier movie, while also allowing us to not suffer through the awful, sentimental melancholic bullcrap that we are forced to watch.This section of the movie honestly feels like a bog-standard romantic comedy, not to mention it feels very out of touch with the tone of the rest of the movie. It feels like it was shoehorned in, by someone lacking any ounce of filmmaking skill.After this trite, we move to the army barracks for training. Desmond's refusal to carry a gun is seen by most of his comrades (and superiors) as cowardly, and his religious beliefs are mocked. "This is war" he is told, implying that God's commandments don't apply on the battlefield.As if we are watching a remake of Full Metal Jacket, the next thirty or so minutes is dedicated to obstacle courses, a drill officer screaming insults at the privates (with little humour, unlike Kubrick's classic) while Desmond is alienated from the group. A religious, southern Private Pyle. Only Desmond's fate is far different, as we know.Soon we find ourselves in the battlefield, as the film borrows another scene, this one from Band of Brothers, as the fresh soldiers see the battered men retreating from their goal: to capture and hold Hacksaw Ridge. Much like the entire film, this scenes has no semblance of subtlety at all, as the camera focuses on the trucks carrying dead soldiers, all conveniently placed so that their heads are at the end of the truck, where we can see them. Oh, and their faces are all covered in a ton of blood - and not dried blood either.I'm not sure how dead men can bleed fresh blood either, but this film doesn't seem to have a great relationship with the concept of logic.The final part of the film is where the action takes place, and it seems clear from the start that this is made for the Call of Duty crowd. Soldiers are killed all over, but since we don't get to know any of them, their deaths have no impact at all, and are dismissed in a one minute conversation that night between the men left. The same can be said for the men Desmond is able to save. Who are they? Mel Gibson takes some cues from Passion of the Christ, as the battle scenes are needlessly bloody and gory. Multiple shots of legless men, intestines lying on the ground, rats eating maggots out of a corpse<U+0085> it is far too much.War is hell, we get it, but dwelling on the physical impact so much affects the rest of the movie. There should have been a lot to say, as Desmond's story is an incredible story of bravery and dedication. The fact that he had no gun on the battlefield is barely explored at all either, nor the situation of a religious man obeying the ten commandments on a war-field.There is nothing intelligent here. Simply another war film that screams "GO America!" to the rest of the world, as we watch them incinerate their enemies in slow motion, with swelling, orchestral music in the background.I liked Blood Father. But this film is a joke.www.epilepticmoondancer.net


                
Watchable but don't expect Band of Brothers or Saving Private RyanA lot of clichés and over the top behavior about a conscientious objector. It's as if they were expecting none of their recruits needed to be medics.Somehow the concie goes to war with his recruit platoon, seemingly without going anywhere for any medical training. The first battle scenes could have been so good. But they were spoiled for me by fire pot explosions instead of high explosives. It would seem also that US soldiers thought it was a good idea to stand up and completely expose themselves to enemy fire.Was looking forward to this because it's been nominated it must be good right. But oh dear. It's not Oscar material. But that does not matter as the Hollywood lovies always prefer to go mad about a film about themselvesToo syrupy for me. Spielberg and Hanks have spoiled me for realism


                
I came to Hacksaw Ridge hoping for an interesting and realistic portrayal of the life of Desmond Doss, a conscientious objector, who saved the lives of countless battlefield wounded, as a medic.What you get instead is saccharine, hero stick, smothered beneath thick coatings of religious rhetoric. Its painful stuff, that had me squirming in my seat within the first five minutes of the film's opening scenes. Just as bothersome is the assumption its "OK" to be a behave like a nihilistic, cruel drunk (the father character) because "hey, he served in the war". This is such a common excuse, in US made war films and television that really does not hold up to close scrutiny.The war scenes in this film are well shot (it does come with a huge budget) and the acting is of a good caliber. That said, there's little of substance on offer here, aside from romanticizing brutal and awful events, that, in my mind, deserve a more somber, down to earth treatment. Four out of ten from me.


                
saving private Ryan rating in IMDb is 8.6 this pile of "American heroism with SIX Oscar nominations" is 8.3 all you people rate this movie above 5 , deserve a special place in hell, and give me back my two hour ! this man is a American war hero , for sure , but please , when you rating a movie, please be a little bit neutral , how , just how this movie worth 8.3 i will never know , SO boring , you cant show brutally of war just by showing people's intestine . i been using IMDb as my movie watching guide for years , most of movie rating are fear, but WHENEVER A MOVIE ABOUT American HERO , no mater how bad this movie is , its always 8.0 . this is a F class movie . with all that said , and i have to pointing out , i only say this MOVIE is bad from a movie viewer point of view , not that the army medic is bad or anything , he even save couple of Japanese , if this movie show a bit more about that , it maybe a little better . but .


                
I am not sure exactly why I am so disappointed with this movie. Maybe as I had greater expectation, maybe because of respect for Mel Gibson, but finally I went to see this movie in a cinema and for the first time I have left the place before the movie ended. It was truly unwatchable and when you wait for more than a half of the movie with really bad excuse for acting, than the real nightmare starts. If watched as a comedy, it does deserves a 4, but for the movie what it should be, I would like some rate with 1, but higher than that, it is just false, but the majority have decided that it is a more than a good movie, so be it!


                
...watch All Quiet On The Western Front.My main disappointment is that this story could have been so much better. It's an intriguing tale that I've never seen made into a movie before. Unfortunately, here it falls flat.The characters are stereotypes, assembled from a boxed set for kids, complete with pastel paint shades. The dialog consists of predictable clichés. I literally predicted whole sentences in advance, word for word. And I wasn't even trying. There are anachronisms galore. Not so much the clothes or sets, but the vibe. For example, the boot camp training was Vietnam-era rather than WWII. And the enlisted men didn't act in a way that was true to the time period, either. It'll be close enough for people who don't know the difference, but if you're actually familiar with the era it is obviously inaccurate. This fakeness made it impossible for me to get immersed or to suspend disbelief. It was like watching a high school play, albeit with better special effects.
In years past a movie of this "fine" caliber would have gone right to DVD or Cable TV directly from production. However, this movie shines or even monkeyshines compared to such 2016 "hits" such as"Revenge of the Low IQ," "Lets Spin-off Sequel Number 10," or "The Great Wall of Chinese CGI." By monkeyshine I mean that this movie is a bad joke being played on us by the producers who are quite convinced that their "shiznit" doesn't stink because the word for excrement has been banned on this and other reviewing sites.Everything is relative thus this review had to be curved; sort of a grade inflation for a film review lest every film get one star. I am of the mind that over inflated reviews must be hit on the head with a standard deviation or two. Looking for good movies in 2016 was like finding Claude Rains either in the "Invisible Man" or the " Sudanese oasis of the "Last Outpost."


                
Well it just had to happen . A couple of days after reviewing FENCES a film that just screams "Oh look at me please get that armful of Oscars ready" . I self righteously claimed that I leave my politics and religion at the door of the cinema when I watch a movie . You can guarantee very soon a film will come along making a reviewer eat their words . HACKSAW RIDGE is that movie and from the outset it went out of its way to contradict anything I might have written recently I find it impossible to separate Mel Gibson the film maker from Mel Gibson the human being . If nothing else movies directed by Gibson have their own unique voice but it's what the voice is saying that rattles my cage . From the outset Gibson nails his world view to the mast and this cinematic ship sinks under the weight of the message . You have a film opening with graphic images of war along with a voice-over about the strength of God . Do I have to point out here's an ugly irony watching this in the post 9/11 world ? But hey Gibson doesn't do irony There is an interesting true life story at the centre of the film featuring Desmond T Doss , a pacifist who joined the US army despite being opposed to violence . Now unlike Doss I have never served on a frontline - but then neither has Gibson - so I'm not going to criticise someone who risked their life every moment of everyday in a war zone . He's a decorated hero . End of discussion . The problem is the story should have been told much better . The obstacles faced by Doss religious belief is constantly over done amongst the constant clichés . Stuff like this totally undermines the character study of a man doing things he doesn't agree with but nevertheless contributed to the greater good . Instead while watching HACKSAW RIDGE I was continually reminded that I was watching a predictable , old fashioned Oscar bait of a film which over eggs the pudding


                
Where do I begin, can not believe the IMDb score this film has achieved so far, its a good story poorly told, directed and acted. The fighting scenes on the island with the Japenese will please many but for me they are the only reason I didn't rate this film any lower. The characters were not believable, I mean had the US army stopped demanding short hair cuts in ww2m because we have a main character with an Elvis hair style going up against the Japanese...come on now, give him a guitar and we have an Elvis film and Vince Vaughan...whoever cast him should quit casting. I love Vince Vaughan films ...especiall The Watch ..but he was poor in this....but is that down to the Director not getting the best out of him?? Very disappointed ...I expected so much; Having said all that my utmost respect the the very brave man this film was based on..no spoilers but what he achieved on that island was a miracle x


                
War movies need to be violent, they need to show the brutality and suffering one faces in a war zone. However, at the beginning of the first battle in 'Hacksaw Ridge', we see 2 men shot through the faces with CGI bullets, their heads explode, and it honestly looks like a scene from "Who Framed Roger Rabbit". The war scenes would have been 10 times more effective if Gibson and his crew eliminated the use of Computer generated blood and gore. Every time a CGI blood burst was on screen, I was taken out of the film. It looked like a cartoon, which is a shame, because there are also scenes where stunt-people have clearly been set aflame and the production utilises truly realistic practical gore. Besides this complaint, the film is entertaining and keeps your attention. I am by no means religious, and the trailers for this film looked preachy and corny. Yet by the end of this film I felt nothing but admiration and genuine respect for Doss and his accomplishments. The first half of this film is almost as corny as a lifetime film, yet the acting by Garfield, Palmer and Weaving is so pitch-perfect, that I couldn't help but get sucked in to their personal conflicts. Garfield and Palmers relationship in any other film would be sickly sweet, but they are so believable and likable it somehow is the best element in the movie. Where the film loses points is in it's supporting cast, primarily the bland, uninteresting soldier characters who even in their most emotional scenes, are dull and forgettable. Vaughn is miscast as the Sergeant, and Sam Worthington's US accent kept slipping. There were several green-screen shots, especially towards the beginning, where the boys were on top of the rock ledge, that were embarrassingly obvious, and the acting by the kids was not much better. While this film was certainly entertaining, it doesn't get anywhere near the heights of war classics like "Saving Private Ryan", "Paths of Glory" or even "Full Metal Jacket" or "Jarhead". If I had to choose a contemporary war film 'Hacksaw Ridge' was equal to, it would coincidentally be Gibson's "We Were Soldiers", both are entertaining and have some shocking scenes, but neither have the impact a truly good movie has. All-in-all, Hacksaw Ridge is an entertaining film. It is as if Hallmark hired Mel Gibson to make a lifetime movie. I like Gibson as a director, but 'Hacksaw' does not reach the thrilling heights of "Apocalypto", or the quotability and memorability of "Braveheart". Give it a watch, but don't expect a modern masterpiece. The current ranking on IMDb is bafflingly over-the-top


                
it was the slowest war movie i have ever seen,it just moved slow, the dialogue bored me i guess he didn't care enough to get the right people in to really invest the proper time developing a good script.i guess the action didn't move me enough.It was maybe because i didn't see anything that interest me. I do understand that if it's your money you do what you want to make a buck but don't expect every one to want to see your work if there is no inclusion for most of us. I didn't spend a dime to see this movie so it was a OK to waste a little time. i don't see why closeted racist even comment on these movies if they/you are gonna have a negative response but that wouldn't be right if they couldn't do that,at least if they are NOT smart or MAN/Woman enough to confront the person or company they spew their hatred towards why say anything?!?Oh right.it's always SAFE to do it from behind the keyboard.


                
If you didn't know this is a Mel Gibson film you know soon enough. You'll know not because of an anti-Semitic rage, but the tramping over entrails scattered over the battlefield.At just under two hours and twenty minutes the movie is too long. The battle scenes are long, brutal and redundant. The hero is often lost while soldiers take their toll. The Japanese are portrayed as fierce and sneaky. The line "they didn't make it" sums up the American attitude toward wounded prisoners.If you take a date to this movie see it in a mall. When the action moves to Okinawa tell your date to go shopping and meet you in about an hour. The level of violence is extreme.The end sequence featuring the real individuals is interesting and informative. There was one clip that looked like it was from "This is Your Life". If so they told the story in a half hour.Looking for a good time at the movies this isn't it.
If you expected to see another Thin Red Line, Private Ryan or Platoon then save your cash.This movie was pretty much Hollywood rubbish with background music smaltzy lovey dovey and yes a few gory scenes. Pretty much an insult to the men that lived it.DVD will be on-sold to the next sucker this weekend.


                
of course i do not want to blame the story of Private Doss.I'm sure about his courage.The matter is the movie..............first part was so boring,pointing on the faith of that guy in a compulsive-like way.OK Faith is strong ,wichever it is ,and it's something that can lead a man in whole his life. I do not discuss that the story narrated comes from real events.....but....lets get a look at the battle scenes....well done of course,...but sometimes they fall on ridiculousness (the way he throw back a bomb just like a tennis hit (seriously)?!...The way he save his sergeant,dragging him while he was still shooting against enemies. Vince Vaughn trying' to emulate r.l. Ermay on full metal jacket was the saddest part.A soldier that , ignoring his life, came back just to save a Bible book........come on ! I have NO DOUBT that Desmond Doss had been a hero,but, in the movie, his character is transformed in something like a new prophet.And who the hell taught japan army to shoot? One billion shots and the guy had no scratches.If I were American I had consolation that , after all, this is an Aussie movie. Sorry,but,few times, it looked like more a science fiction than a war-dramatic one. Sorry for my bad English


                
I've been on IMDB since years and have never ever written a review. This incredible movie begs for an exception to be made. Me and my wife were looking forward to see this movie. We used to be watching movies every night ... but since the birth of our daughter we don't get to see films that often anymore. That's why we only pick the special ones. And oh boy ... this turned out to be very special.The story of Doss is very gripping for sure, a true hero. Unfortunately it's very hard to take this film seriously. The first part of the movie is so extremely corny that it became a caricature of itself. Sugar was dripping off the screen in gallons. Not even the cheapest soap opera would be this tedious. Doss is from a troubled family, his father lost his friends in WWI and couldn't cope with that ... Doss decides to join the army as a medic and refuses to touch a weapon because of his beliefs. The army doesn't like that and Doss takes it all the way to court. He's very determined. Sounds like a strong guy eh ... but he's continuously presented as the biggest victim of the universe. Ow poor silly Doss, how did you end up in this conflicting situation? Why don't people understand? Second part got even worse: strategically the entire battlefield didn't make any sense. After the assault the army pulled back and Doss sticked around to help and save his buddies. Somehow it doesn't trouble him at all that people are killing each other. Good for him, just one more to save! I'm sure the real Doss was a strong hero. In this movie he's presented as retarded guy that has some disorder making him help people.At some point the Japanese only needed to cut some ropes and throw some grenades down to get red of the Americans. But of course they didn't. On top of it all Doss was gifted a shower scene that belonged in Bay Watch and slapped a grenade away as if he was playing women's tennis at Wimbledon Sorry for putting my thoughts down in a pretty random order. In short: Saving Private Ryan ambitions turned somehow into a very cheap way less funny Inglorious Bastards rip-off. Want to see a good WWII movie? Watch Das Boot, Longest Day, Letters from Iwo Jima, a Bridge Too Far, Patton, Dunkrik, etc ... Want a good laugh with your buddies? Watch Hacksaw Ridge.
