Impressive performances all around and Andrew Garfield is surprisingly very effective and who the hell ever saw Spider-Man suiting up as an army medic carrying wounded soldiers overnight?.Hacksaw Ridge's detailed gruesomeness brought the added heaviness in its story, you'll see the bombs producing a destructive force and flying legs comes with it and bullets penetrating into the skin to the flesh of its victims.This is Mel Gibson's first movie to direct after a some sort of hiatus in movie directing after Apocalypto (2006), Hacksaw Ridge is indeed his comeback film and he definitely earned a lot of respect again. Gibson has a thing with gore, his The Passion Of The Christ (2004) also dealt with a lot of blood and pain, same thing we saw in Hacksaw Ridge, both were great films in its respected area, so I think, gore is what his signature style should be 'cause he's good at it.The movie is a decent retelling of one of the most heartfelt and incredible stories during the WWII, the part I'm looking forward to see is Doss saying these words: "Please Lord, help me get one more. Help me get one more." and God! That was my favorite slice of the film.
Based on the true story of an army medic who insisted on never carrying a weapon, 'Hacksaw Ridge' tells a slice of World War II history that dares to redefine traditional notions of bravery. The graphic battle scenes are very well done with Gibson never shying away from the severity of battle wounds and how precious life in war is. For all is virtues though, the film often feels preachy with the protagonist's religion-motivated pacifism (and how this repulses everyone in the army) repeatedly brought up. A formulaic romance also weighs against the film and some of the casting is downright odd, with Vince Vaughn especially awkward as a drill sergeant who is hardly fearsome and seldom angry. The casting of Hugo Weaving as the medic's father is a stroke of genius though with Weaving stealing every scene as a former war veteran plagued by inner demons and horrific memories of World War I. Andrew Garfield is fine in the lead role, though against 'The Social Network', '99 Homes' and others, it is hardly his best work. Overall, this is an easy to film to recommend for those keen on unflinchingly realistic battle scenes and detailed insights into military bureaucracy. It is hardly a flawless film and perhaps a little message-heavy for its own good, however, it says quite a lot that the movie manages to pack a punch even when one knows about his heroism to come.


                
This story deserved better screenplay. The film tries to glorify the war where in reality it is very traumatic for soldiers of each side. But this movie tries to portray Japanese soldiers as zombies who don't have any feelings and they just want to kill or killed.
The movie ignores the reality like a plague. The US soldiers are marching forward without any cover. Japanese have dug trenches but Americans don't bother. They use a point to climb over the ridge etc.. The list goes on you get the idea.
I had high hopes for this movie but it turned out to be a disappointment.


                
"A single man, driven by faith endures all possible torments without giving up hope." I think this works quite well for most of Mel Gibson's films from "Braveheart" (1995) to "The Passion of the Christ" (2004) and the brilliant "Apocalypto" (2006). "Hacksaw Ridge" is no exception telling the story of another man of faith and determination, a man who "sticked to his guns" however this idiom sounds particularly ironic in this case because the man in question, corporal and U.S army medic Desmond Doss achieved military glory while being a conscientious objector that refused to carry or even touch a gun or any other weapon."Hacksaw Ridge" is structured like many army and war films. The warm prewar life (here however haunted by a complex relationship with Mr.Doss Sr.) Second act is the obligatory Boot Camp scene with the always enjoyable routine barrack inspection and training chin deep in the mud. Third (and fourth) act is the lengthy battle chapter in which Gibson almost revels in a gory dance of torn limbs and fire and smoke pyrotechnics. What makes the difference is Doss, the atypical hero, lanky and a bit goofy, but whose courage is not simply innate but fuelled by his compassion his sense of duty and his unflattering faith. If you think about it this definition works for most of Mel Gibson's films.
Hacksaw Ridge was a very enjoyable (based on) true story, but almost two different movies. The first half focused of family and love and the second half was a bloody war scene depicting true bravery by a determined idealist. I would recommend seeing it on the big screen for the sound and cinematography. It received nominations for Best Drama Picture, Best Actor in Drama and Director.


                
Ten years has fleetingly passed since Mel Gibson's last directorial outing APOCALYPTO (2006), HACKSAW RIDGE is his fifth feature in the director chair, just debuted in Venice, out of competition. It is a WWII drama about the US war hero Desmond T. Doss (Garfield), who is, quoting the film's tagline, one of the greatest heroes in America History never fired a bullet, is it an undisguised retort to Clint Eastwood's trigger-happy American SNIPER (2014)?Desmond's persuasion of refusal to kill people is ingrained by his religious upbringing and cemented by one childhood incident when he accidentally injured his brother during a tussle. In peace time, it is a precept without any question for every citizen to follow suit, but, not during wartime when massive killing obviously becomes a default means pumped up by jingoism and triggered by human's violent nature.Instead of being a conscientious objector, Desmond volunteers to join the army as many young men of his time, driven by patriotic enthusiasm, even though his father Tom Doss (Weaving, strikingly upstages his co-stars with searing potency) is a WWI veteran and has been traumatized by his encounter with savagery ever since. and doesn't think Desmond's ideology can find a toehold in the army. But Desmond has his own plan, galvanized by his romance with nurse Dorothy Schutte (Palmer), he decides to enlist as a medic, to save lives instead of taking them, so that he doesn't need to relinquish his principle.As one can imagine, his singularity is regarded as an unthinkable defiance in the eyes of his peers and his senior officials in the boot camp, he is picked on, verbally abused, beaten up, even subjected to imprisonment, simply because he refuses to touch a rifle or any lethal weapon. Against all odds, Desmond sticks to his guns, but it is Tom who pulls the strings, to seek permission to allow his son entering the battlefield without a weapon, which singles him out as the most conflicting character in a film suffused with one-note display of military discipline and war heroes.The next thing is the real deal, the close-combat between USA and Japan on the Hacksaw Ridge in Okinawa, Gibson doesn't refrain from bombarding his spectators with rousing spectacle where death and injuries escalating exponentially in both warring parties, bullets-flying, blood-spurting, limbs-flapping, hell couldn't be worse than that. After the failed attempt to take over the ridge, which costs US army grave casualties, Desmond, lucky enough to be alive-and-kicking at that point, receives an epiphany from God. He plunges himself into the combat zone again rather than retreating with his troop, taking advantage of the night time, under the eyelid of Japanese army, he begins to drag those injured soldiers one by one to the edge of the cliff and send them down to the ground in rappel, in one night, he heroically saves over 75 lives of his comrades (some Japanese too) and miraculously survives from enemy's scouting, which immediately revitalizes the dwindling esprit de corps, in the subsequent attack, they triumphantly conquers the ridge, Desmond is wounded by an explosion, but it is not lethal, later he is awarded the Medal of Honor.The movie sends his anti-war message lucidly with its no-holds-barred delineation of the visceral cruelty in the front-line and valiantly advocates Desmond's peace-loving philosophy which makes wonder in the face of extreme adversity. Andrew Garfield gives a commendable impression as the wide-eyed hero, gangly, unsophisticated, dogged in his belief, fearless when he is doing the right thing, the only gripe is that he seems to more like a poshly shoehorned exemplar of individual heroism, than a complex personage survived from the ordeal of war. Another gnawing fact is Mel Gibson's politically problematic treatment of the enemy side - cannon fodder plus emotionless killing machine, which fails to bestow this engaging war movie a discerning conscience, especially when a blatant white-flag hoax is intentionally orchestrated to underline the rival's duplicitous nature, it indeed boomerangs and undercuts the empathy of this hagiography. Mel Gibson still gets his faculties to produce a pleasing blockbuster, but if we want a pièce de résistance with enduring impact, in all likelihood, he might not be the one we can bank on.
An overrated film with two faces : rather boring and cliché in the first half and a good war/ heroic film in the second half . Not even close to grate films of the kind like Saving private Ryan and the Thin red line. You can watch it , especially for the unbelievable true story of heroism and faith that it has to tell you , but don't expect too much.


                
WWII American Army Medic Desmond T. Doss (Andrew Garfield), who served during the Battle of Okinawa, refuses to kill people, and becomes the first man in American history to receive the Medal of Honor without firing a shot.Based on the posters and previews and such, I really thought this was going to be a war movie. And, of course, in many ways it is, since much of the second half takes place on the battlefield. But there is much more here -- romance, morality, and the strong will of Doss, an unusual Seventh Day Adventist.What made this film especially great was the inclusion of Vince Vaughn. Although he never turned the film into a comedy, he brought a humor to the story that really made it well-rounded and enjoyable. That was a fine bit of casting.


                
You hardly see World War II films get the spotlight like this and Hacksaw Ridge shows that those types of films are far from dead. I struggled to get into the film for the first hour but when we finally arrive at Okinawa, that is where the film shines brightest. The long start and the fact the film is more "based on actual events" than actually portraying them is what holds this film back from anything higher.


                
...Stunning in so many rights, but unnecessarily historically inaccurate in many others. While not a documentary, any film which takes on the mantle of re-creating a true story on screen (especially one about war) should, in my opinion, feel compelled to pay attention to detail. Some brief research online suggests this wasn't the case. I also think one-sided war films are a dangerous way to stir nationalistic views to modern audiences. I'd have much preferred to see both sides tales somewhat represented. In saying this, the very fact that this memorable film brings the story of one man's conviction in his faith leading to him saving 75 lives, deserves immense respect.


                
The action was true to form as a Mel Gibson directed film. From the research I have done looks like a fairly accurate representation of what happened. The usual Hollywood exaggeration aside many true to life stories. There are a large number of 10 star ratings and a number of 1 star reviews. This always amazes me that you can have that disparity. Then I realized the10 star ratings were those who were truly moved by the movie.while the 1 star ratings were those that thought the movie should somehow be a documentary with real footage exclusively. One genius self proclaimed vet of multiple wars had a problem with the cargo net used to ascend the ridge being in his view as not at all plausible. Well turns out there are photos of the real Doss on the ridge with, wait for it,,,,, a cargo net, albeit not near as high as the movie cliff. This was a great movie for those of the Christian faith and a very good movie for those that like action and heroism in a war setting. The acting was very strong, directing, pace and back stories were also good. I try and use reviews and trailers to pick what I watch. It is becoming more difficult to do when you have reviewers that either had no clue what movie they were about to see or believe they somehow have their own story that is so much better. 
Hard to believe that a winner of 2 Oscars is a 1 star movie.


                
Based on a true story: Desmond Doss (played by Andrew Garfield) was an American pacifist who served as an unarmed medic on the battlefields during World War II. The film tells of his struggle to serve as he wanted to and his very unusual status as a war hero.Doss's story as a conscientious objector is very unusual. In most cases, this situation was used to avoid military service entirely. In Doss' case, he truly wanted to serve but without holding or using a weapon. The uniqueness of this story goes further in the rare situation of a main character being ostracized due to faith (Doss was a Seventh-day Adventist) and principle. The story is further enhanced in its exploration of World War I veterans (here displayed by Desmond's father) who remain bitter from their war experiences and can't stand the idea of their sons going through the same hell.Garfield does a fine job in displaying the naïveté and innocence of a rural Virginia boy with ideals that seem hopeless at first but who truly knows better by the end. Other stand-out performances include those of Hugo Weaving as Desmond's troubled father and Vince Vaughan as an over-the-top drill sergeant who's rather funny with his insults.The battle scenes in Okinawa, Japan are very well orchestrated by director Mel Gibson. But sadly, these scenes are so long and frequent that their horror can end up numbing the audience who are well aware of the accuracy of such a tragic part of history - not only for that war but those that followed and those happening now."Hacksaw Ridge" is a fine war film with a very different twist on the meaning of heroism.


                
Mel Gibson is a very good film director, and a very fine actor, although not without failures or errors on his way. His resume is fairly spectacular, and here he touches upon a very delicate and a very serious subject - the conflict between religious beliefs and military duties. Desmond Doss was a very famous Seventh Day Adventist who took part in Battle Of Okinawa and due to his belief never took up a rifle and never killed anyone, but he saved as many as 100 lives of wounded soldiers and officers. The film is about this modest and brave man, who spared no effort to save his comrades. Was the film a success? Well, with all the coming Oscar nods, and with Mel Gibson and a stellar cast behind, this is very tough to be very critical. Let's say this - the movie is good, but not awesome, good but not perfect. This is not Saving Private Ryan or The Longest Day, for sure. Why? Well, there are some almost cringe-worthy pathetic scenes, that awake all the worst clichés of Hollywood, the battle scenes are impressive but hardly anything but already many times repeated gruesome bloody things. The slower part of the movie is often boring and too slow, and the main actor, well he is OK, but sorry, not higher than just average. This is a good film that must be seen at least once.


                
I really couldn't get over the fact that there was no attempt by the Japanese to cut down the professional climbing nets which gave the Americans access to the ridge!! Surely that would have been their most urgent task when they rested at night.. A very moving story however but to write ten lines about it is expecting too much. All I wanted to do was make the above comment.I really couldn't get over the fact that there was no attempt by the Japanese to cut down the professional climbing nets which gave the Americans access to the ridge!! Surely that would have been their most urgent task when they rested at night. A very moving story however but to write ten lines about it is expecting too much. All I wanted to do was make the above comment.
One word, legend. It was the movie with the best battle scenes I've watched so far. I have never watched another battle scene so realistic, so vibrant, so vibrant for so many people. Er Ryan has a famous landing stage. There's a better battle scene than him.At first I have to say. The movie looks a bit like Kubrick's Full Metal Jacket. Especially in terms of first and second half. The first part is not a severe psychology like FMJ. But it is similar in structure. It's more emotional and funny in places. But from the moment the second episode began, I was buried in the seat. I almost fell into the war.A silence and a bullet. Here you hear the voice of the buzzer. After that, doomsday. The bullet is passing by the head. Human flesh is flying over. The man's brains are bursting. A few feet away the man has no legs. Bombs are flying in the back. That's what he was. A bullet. Nobody has any idea what's going on. Only the flying bullets, the blood and the rest of the human remains. I can go back to the cinema for that episode so I say. Just for that episode. And also whoever did the vocalization, give it to the man Oscar. Speaking is perfect in the real sense.I guess the best of war movies in terms of visual and sound. There are other things missing, but get it. Acting is not very good overall. But in the father role, I love Hugo Weaving. The film has a little Forrest Gump, a little Saving Private Ryan, a little Full Metal Jacket and a little Paths of Glory. He's got something all the time. But in essence it's a movie of its own. Watch, watch. Good looking ...


                
LIFF30 2016 #3"In peace, sons bury their fathers. In war, fathers bury their sons".Hacksaw Ridge may seem like another Oscar bait "true story" biopic that we get every couple of years. The trailers didn't help at all, as it made the film look corny and very award bait. But guys trust on this, it's nothing like that. There's nothing glamorous about this. When it was over, I left was speechless. This is such a great movie.Say what you want about Mel Gibson controversial past and behavior, but I think we must judge the art, not the artist. This guy is an excellent director and a great actor. And you have no idea how glad I am seeing Mel back, as he is the most talented man in Hollywood right now. The most impressive part of Mel's directing in this movie (besides the battle scenes), is he's decision of an old version approach to the film making. The movie literally looks and feels like it was made around the 50's. Also how Gibson would let actors deliver the emotion of what their feeling and it could meant a lot of things that isn't just terrified. It could be happy, regret, or just thinking of home. And I got all of that. Andrew Garfield is an actor that's been non-stop blowing me away recently. And he gives one hell of performance as Desmond Doss. I would say it's one of his best since "The Social Network". Even in the battle scenes I thought he was brilliant, as he had this scared, tired, but brave look to him. He's accent in the film I thought worked pretty well and wasn't distracting like I thought it would. The chemistry between Garfield and Teresa Palmer was so charming and sweet that it didn't came of too corny. Hugo Weaving plays Desmond father in the movie and he was outstanding. Such a powerful and emotional heavy performance. Weaving is the type of actor that deserves so much respect. I mean, we all know him as Agent Smith, V, Megatron, Elrond, and Red Skull. But for him to give a small supporting performance as the alcoholic father who's dealing with conflicted within was quite moving. Vince Vaughn was so good in this movie that I wish he would come back for dramatic roles, as I really did brought his performance in this. The comedic one lines were pure gold and it was very "Full Metal Jacket". But he isn't like that the whole movie. When he's serious in the movie, it actually works and doesn't feel out of place for the rest of the tone. Now the battle scenes in the movie...wow, it's pretty rough and disturbing. It's right up there with "Saving Private Ryan" for graphic and shocking depictions. What I always love in these type of War films is the loud sound, actors, and the camera work, which this movie nails at. I've heard some people say that the movie glorify's it's violence despite the theme of the movie being against violence. I honestly think these people have really missed the point here. All the battle scenes are depicted more as this horrible event than a flawless victory. After the movie was over, everyone in the cinema started clapping. The last time that happened was when in saw "Up" back in 2009. While I never saw the point of clapping or booing at a movie, but for this occasion, I'll let it Slide. The ending was a very nice touch and pretty heartfelt to honor the soldiers that fought in the war. It was deserved. I haven't got a lot of issues with the movie. But if had to pick, I would probably say that Sam Worthington Australia accent kept slipping in and out in a few scenes. And don't get me wrong, Worthington isn't bad in the movie, but he was pretty good. The same can go to some of cast (as most of them are Australia), but I can easily look past it as the actual performances were all great. Overall rating: "Hacksaw Ridge" is not perfect, but it positives really do weigh out it's flaws. It's the best War movie I've seen in awhile in terms of it's execution and pay off.


                
You must give the movie a rating. No choice. Those little stars are the first thing everyone sees and for many the last. Today, that's not what I am worried about. My concern is I will look back, see all those pretty stars, and feel like a complete sucker.Hacksaw Ridge is the true story of "conscientious cooperator" Desmond Doss (Andrew Garfield). Doss felt compelled to follow his brother and countless others by serving in WWII, but his religious beliefs not only prevent him from killing, but even carrying arms. This causes friction within the 307th Infantry, where many believe his convictions violate the code that binds the unit. Doss remains indomitable despite persecution from all sides and is able to participate as a medic at the Battle of Okinawa.This story breaks a popular war movie paradigm. Hacksaw Ridge defies the natural pro/con label, even refuting the classic argument that all war films glorify violence by making it exciting. Doss is a hero because he refuses to let the war happen to him. This transcendence inspires his comrades. Many people like to reject war heroes, but Doss aspires to a higher notion: that one must always remain truth to oneself. On a more mechanical note, Hacksaw Ridge is beautifully shot. The combat scenes feel like half the film, but they are always vivid, intense, and uncompromisingly graphic. It is a spectacular break from recent superhero action. I have grown tired of your Wolverines and ilk eviscerating countless nameless without an ounce of blood or consequence. Combat in Hacksaw Ridge might over utilize slow motion and overly dramatic scenarios, but it was never unexciting.Hacksaw Ridge is going to earn some comparisons to classics like Apocalypse Now and Saving Private Ryan. This will be complete madness. Hacksaw Ridge, for all its qualities, is about as sophisticated and nuanced as American cheese on Ritz crackers. Desmond Doss is the Simple Man. A touch slow and awkward with women, but otherwise immaculate. Doss drops the smile once, when the army denies him a pass to attend his own wedding as an act of intimidation. Oh yeah, there is a female lead. She is blond, blue-eyed, and perfect. Their courtship is also perfect. The only grey character in the entire film is Doss' father (Hugo Weaving), but grey in a Hollywood way. He is a veteran of WWI who lost all his comrades and turned to drinking. Highly original. The unit itself is never really developed. There is one humorous scene when the crew first meet, but for the rest of the movie they are collective plot points. First they haze Doss, then they are won over, and finally they become the men he must save. The enemy are also surprisingly dehumanized in this increasingly politically correct world. The Japanese are evil, psychopathically violent, and exotic. Most notable is an act of Seppuku intercut with combat. Certainly dramatic, but equally derivative and exploitive. And despite all of my whining, Hacksaw Ridge unquestionably works. The story is not forced, as if it needs to be told. Desmond Doss is a hero. The war is beautiful and terrible. Each image of Doss scaling a ridge with his brother, his wife, his comrades, and the final shot, all work. Despite the cheesiness, Hacksaw is in a better class of war movies.


                
Hacksaw Ridgeunlike any other biography, it doesn't waste any time on showing different episodes of the lead character's life. the whole "hacksaw ridge" incident is a build up of the movie which is not only dreadful but also well detailed; the execution is spectacular.


                
Lately, I had some free time, and I decided to spent it in my old way- binge watching. Hacksaw was on my list from the moment I saw the trailer. Add to it, I read good reviews in a daily. Andrew Garfield has a smirk on his face, that is annoying, during the entire length of the movie. The movie is about a man who has this personal code of his. He wont fight, he wont do wrong, he wont hold a gun. Two incidents portrayed in this movie shaped him to be as he is today. With an attitude like that, Garfield is an outcast. He is different. America enters into war. Having a father who was a veteran in the war, Garfield should expect some cajoling to not join the army. But the euphoria gets him. He wants to serve. But he does not want to break his code. So he decides to enroll and serve as a medic. His visits to hospital fascinated him and yes he found Palmer. Garfield and his values make him an aberration. Nobody likes aberration. He is given tough time in training. Although sound, an army unit needs each and every member to follow orders and act consistently. It is as strong as its weakest member. But then again diversity does some good. It helps you think. Garfield is thrown into war, without his gun. He runs around battlefield saving soldiers in scores. He has his bible with a photo of beautiful Palmer which is a source of constant motivation and reminder to do good and get back home safely- not sure about the last part. Garfield is the first person to receive medal of honor without lifting a gun. It definitely motivates people to follow their heart. The problem comes when you think too much.Overall, it is a good movie. It was not boring. The war scenes are well shot and choreographed. And you have Vince Vaughan! A few scenes do send goosebumps....so i will recommend a watch.My favorite moment is clichéd, and it is the lowering of injured soldiers from the ridge by Garfield in face of grave danger-one man army. Reminds me of Rambo.
Just I wonder. American troops go up the Hakcsaw mountain through rope stairway which was the only way to go to the top of mountain. however Japanese didn't cut the rope stair. Also i did;t recognize the point of Dose why he don't want to catch a gun although he volunteer in Army. if he was against violence he wouldn't volunteer at all. finally it is great movie.
Hacksaw Ridge is a film based on a true story about a Seventh-day Adventist and turned U.S. Army corporal, a pacifist who won the Medal of Honor for his outstanding bravery on Maeda Escarpment during the Battle of Okinawa without firing a shot as a combat medic and "conscientious collaborator".
It is an astoundingly violent film, reminiscent of director Mel Gibson's previous films and of Sam Pickinpah's style of violence in conflict and war mixed with the notion of faith. In a way, it is a film that feels like it is at war with itself for the opposing moral codes it exhibits. The film's style is questionable at times, not for the mayhem, gore and graphic violence, but for Gibson's compulsion to use explicit threat and violence in scenes that are uncalled for and feel out-of-kilter even away from battle. Scenes of violence on the battlefield sometimes suffer from tension exhaustion because of their sheer length. Yet, Gibson has the sensitivity to leave out some scenes of Doss's bravery because they might have been deemed too unbelievable by audiences, even though they certainly were not.
Nonetheless, Andrew Garfield delivers a careful performance as Corporal Doss and the film has a strong supporting cast of good performances.
Mel Gibson, still hard at work under the ritual of expiation, is still a competent filmmaker of traditional Hollywood blockbusters and this film is his best film direction since Apocalypto.


                
Hacksaw Ridge is the violent, inspiring and audacious comeback film that Mel Gibson has needed for over a decade, and the end results have certainly paid off for him. Scoring many award wins and nominations, as well as critical acclaim, Gibson is back in the good graces of Hollywood after many personal controversies. And with this film, it is clear why: it's a biopic on someone who hasn't received the recognition deserved, features explosive war scenes, and has a great cast, but it is quite far from perfect.Gibson's overall direction is mixed. The action scenes are where he shines brightest here, as the length and brutality of them harken back to a time where Gibson was one of Hollywoods best and most transgressive directors. However, the entire first half of the film is very much average, where the characters are being introduced and developed. The film occasionally delved into schmaltz, which ruined the flow of the film. The writing of Hacksaw Ridge is also very average. The dialogue throughout the first half is nothing special, and the plot feels disorderly. The big climatic final is awkwardly written and directed, as if it could be removed from the film and have no real difference. Andrew Garfield gave a good performance, but his character, although based on a brave and truly awe-inspiring person, sometimes seemed like a punchline rather the heart and soul of the vicious film he was in.The acting as a whole, like much else of the film, went for average or passable rather then go for great. The cast was splendid, and appeared to be having fun, but the acting wasn't great from any single person. The editing was poor in many of the earlier scenes, and the sound mix was murky at times, making it hard to hear dialogue. But there was a lot to love about Hacksaw Ridge. Again, most of the second half (sans the final ten minutes) was amazing, with the war scenes continuously shocking and petrifying audiences for its long durations. Andrew Garfield always portrayed real life hero Desmond Doss' religion and beliefs with respect, even if sometimes it felt directed differently. And for all of its faults, it was a darn entertaining movie with enough humour spread throughout to not let the audience fall into a deep pessimistic pit of despair once leaving the theater.If nothing more, Mel Gibson is back, and perhaps he will now get a bigger budget next time to truly take us back to his Braveheart days. Hacksaw Ridge is a good film that does a great job of exploring how a real person's ethical and spiritual beliefs were tested by World War II, even if the film did feel average in its earlier scenes.3.5 / 5


                
Desmond Doss (Andrew Garfield) grew up with his brother Hal, his loving mother Bertha (Rachel Griffiths), and volatile drunken father Tom (Hugo Weaving) who returned damaged from the Great War. His mother's religious upbringing and childhood traumas lead him to be a Seventh-day Adventist. He falls in love with nurse Dorothy Schutte (Teresa Palmer). To his father's dismay, Hal joins the military. Desmond joins anyways but he insists on being a conscientious objector. His view clashes with Sergeant Howell (Vince Vaughn) and the military commanders. He even faces court-martial. During the Battle of Okinawa, he becomes the last man to leave Hacksaw Ridge after being over-run and ends up saving many of his comrades.Andrew Garfield does his aw shucks puppy-face acting which I find a bit annoying. It's deliberately naive at times. A corollary of that happens with his reasoning for joining the military. He seems to join out of embarrassment. I want him to be more resolute in his religious belief and I need him to state his need to save more directly. There is a comparison to Gary Cooper's Sergeant York whose religious conversion is spelled out more clearly. The solution is all right there in the movie. He needs to save his brother or somebody like his brother. He just needs to do is say that.Mel Gibson is a highly skilled director and the action is top notch. The movie can be heavy-handed at times. On the other hand, the heaviest-handed moment of him walking alone into a field of artillery fire is probably the best moment in the movie. It is a balancing act. It works most of the times but Mel can push it too far into overwrought territory. Overall, he has created a movie in his own vision and that's pretty compelling.


                
There's a certain charm about true stories adapted for cinema. Because, while the fiction lacks absolute constraints, giving the screenwriters more liberty and allowing for some laziness, true stories must remain true - and at the same time must be told captivatingly to keep you thrilled. Finding the right balance between the naked truth and the gloss of creative imagination to make the truth shine is a real art.However, some true stories don't tell us much besides what happened, omitting the "how" part. Such stories are basically legends, no matter how ancient or contemporary. And in this case, it's up to the movie creators to recreate the how, often not based on bare facts but on their own perception. And that, in my opinion, is what happened to Hacksaw Ridge thanks to Mel Gibson.Hollywood has made quite a few war movies, genres varying from dashing black humor like Inglorious Basterds to eerie surrealism like Apocalypse Now or Full Metal Jacket. Yet what Hacksaw Ridge reminded me of first was Malick's The Thin Red Line. Stylistically very unlike, both these movies still tell a story about the same war. And it only makes it more obvious how different are Malick's and Gibson's takes on that story.Malick's war was a useless and ugly thing, a notion that fills everyone's minds, transcends the boundaries between people's personalities and unifies people on both sides of the front line. It's a stain that lies upon you no matter which side you fight for, and corrupts you from within, to the point when there's no good and evil anymore and everything is a single grey mess and everyone is an equal part of it.But Gibson's vision is different. This man has been long known for his fascination with pain and violence, from the explicit focus on his own character's torture in Braveheart to the gory details of Jesus' fate in The Passion of the Christ. This man's obsession with showing pain and death on screen may raise questions about his morals or sanity, but at least he's being thorough and consistent with it.And Hacksaw Ridge was yet another proof of that. With all the beautiful healthy faces put in the middle of the carnage of war, with blood, guts and brain pieces splashing out of gun wounds like little fountains, with cartridge cases ejected from rifles and machine guns like some confetti, Gibson creates a hymn to the war, as if it was a holy gift, cleansing the unworthy and leaving the pure intact. And in the middle of that hymn, is the figure of Desmond Doss, portrayed by Andrew Garfield in a way Saint Sebastian would be jealous of, with his face glowing with some perverse naivety and conscious righteousness. The hybrid erotism and holiness of Gibson's vision of Doss are further enforced by two landmark scenes of the film: the scene with Garfield alone on that ridge, pulling the ropes and letting them loose, with his lean figure against the dark smoky sky, sensualized to the point you'd rather expect from the likes of 50 Shades of Grey, and the scene of Doss slowly sliding down the ridge in a stretcher, with a strong parallel to some divine experience you simply can't help coming to think of.Still, at the end of the day Hacksaw Ridge is a story of a real person who has performed an unbelievable feat in a middle of a true bloodbath, has done something that nobody ever expected of him. And that achievement is a fact that no director's vision could distort or negate. We'll never know for sure where the real Desmond Doss was taking his courage and strength from, and, to be honest, it's the kind of spiritual privacy a person is entitled to. But, private or not, I would still prefer the fact-based stories to follow their roots instead of becoming a victim of a storyteller's inflamed imagination. And while Hacksaw Ridge literally smells of Mel Gibson's own personal beliefs and tastes, apparently it's that rare case when the spirit of a story is so strong that, no matter how hard you twist it or bend it to your own will, it remains true to itself where it really matters.


                
When confronted with the word "hero", different people picture different men in their minds. Some think of superheroes, some think of immensely strong and fearless soldiers and some think of remarkable generals and leaders. We seem to forget that the key aspects of a true hero are bravery and selflessness. Mel Gibson's first film in over a decade is the biography of such a hero, a man who wasn't particularly strong or skilled, but was ready to risk his life to save others. Hacksaw Ridge is an inspiring story based on true events although at times it seems too romanticized.The story begins with Desmond Doss' (Andrew Garfield) childhood in Lynchbourg, Virginia. Desmond and his brother Hal grow up with their religious mother (Rachel Griffiths) and their troubled father (Hugo Weaving), an alcoholic who is still haunted by his WWI demons. When the United States entered WWII after the attack on Pearl Harbor, Desmund and his brother decide to enlist for the army as most people in their age did. Desmund joins the 77th division and starts his training, but has a hard time there as he refuses to even touch a gun. Killing another man, even in a war, is against his deep-rooted beliefs and his only purpose is to serve as a medic, saving people instead of killing them. The film then moves forward to 1945 and the battle of Okinawa where amidst a living hell, Desmund Doss saves numerous lives and shows what he's made of.I had read and heard about how good this film was and since it was one of the most nodded in the Oscars I had high expectations. I have to say that watching the first part was quite disappointing. Everything about Desmond's life before he enlisted seemed too Hollywood-esque. He appears as the perfect man, even though he had a difficult childhood growing up with an alcoholic father (which is not true for the real Desmond Doss' father), he falls in love with first sight with a beautiful girl and after two days he makes her fall in love with him too. It's like the screen writer preferred to please the audience rather than telling the true story. Fortunately, there was Hugo Weaving's performance to redeem me. Such an underrated actor, I really felt that he should have got at least a nomination for this season's awards. Everything got better after Desmond goes to the training camp, but still I could see nothing great about the picture.Much to the film's credit, I forgot everything when the battle scene started. The scene was breathtaking! The pace was excellent, the sound and directing kept me in the edge of my seat, the cinematography and costumes were perfect. I didn't know the historical details so I had no idea what the result would be and the film kept me guessing until the end sustaining suspense to the highest level. Desmond's heroic act was masterfully showcased and the footage in the end made for the perfect epilogue.Andrew Garfield was very good in this film and the supporting cast was solid. It's a great return for Mel Gibson who got his first Academy Award nomination since 1996 when he won two Oscars for Braveheart. Although it's not the masterpiece some people had me believe, it's still makes for a great war film which can both affect you with its touching story and thrill you with astonishing action moments.More reviews on https://reflectingoncinemablog.wordpress.com


                
