We knew already that Mel Gibson is a filmmaker with a powerful vision and the craftsmanship to go with it. Extraordinary battle scenes. Violence, Gibson style, which means Peckinpah plus, because here there is such a personal intention that makes every frame, utterly compelling. The only drawback and I have to say it, Vince Vaughn. Why? In the moment he appears, this extraordinary film becomes a movie. It took me completely out of it. When you look at him you see an actor, acting. On the other hand, Andrew Garfield. Sublime. He makes totally believable a character that could be fictional. The humanity in Andrew Garfield's eyes makes everything real. It tells us, in no uncertain terms, that at the very center of it all, there is love. Love!


                
As someone from Sydney, Australia I was proud at the way this was filmed. Using the Hollywood model, there would have been lots of sets but using actual buildings allowed a lot of warmth to come through in the natural light. Gibson is a fine director, I was impressed with his framing, he shoots very closely for the acting stuff (more head and shoulder) which is quite interesting on the eye. Using more natural light it is quite beautiful. I suspect Gibson will not yet have been forgiven for his personal life to get the recognition he deserves.This movie could have been another Forest Gump, it could overly sentimental, instead, carries an appropriate amount of sincerity. The backstory is a major part of the movie. Doss is portrayed as uneasy with the girls who fell for the first pretty thing he saw. This could have been so Forest Gump-like but strikes a nice chord.The cast was excellent. Hugo Weaving was perfection. He carried the first half of the movie as the battle-fatigued (PTSD) WW1 vet father. Some may complain that the women are poorly portrayed as are the Japanese, who are largely like ants coming from their mound or canon fodder.As brutal as the second half is, I am sure it could not convey how truly gallant Doss was or brutal it was in reality.


                
Just watched this movie at the pre-screening and feel like I owe it to the creators to write a review. Having read other reviews, it is hard to stay original, so first are few thoughts that I shared with the others. Great to have Mel Gibson back in the directors seat. I will be surprised if we don't see this film in a few Oscars categories. Now, few thoughts of my own. The movie depicts brutality of war in gory details, so much so, that I had to turn my eyes away from screen couple of times. However, I do understand why this was important to the story line. It was done so that we could truly appreciate Doss's act of bravery, feel it like we were there and witnessed it firsthand - nothing was left out. The story grabs you from beginning and does not let you off until very end - after the movie I turned back and half of the girls in the theater were still wiping tears. Bottom line - instant classic that will find it's place on the shelf next to the likes of Saving Private Ryan and Band of Brothers.


                
Hacksaw Ridge is the latest film from the infamous Mel Gibson and it is as electrifying as one would come to expect. Telling the story of Desmond Doss, an Army medic that refused to carry a weapon through the hell fire of battle in Okinawa at the height of World War II. The untold story of Doss is one that is of the finer war hero stories that anyone could tell. Starring Andrew Garfield, Vince Vaughn, Sam Worthington and Teresa Palmer, Hacksaw Ridge is a beautifully acted and viciously portrayed war film that will stick with you from the minute the film starts until the second the end credits start. It will leave you clawing your seat, wiping away the sweat from your palms as we see Garfield's Doss save as many lives as he possibly can while dodging bullets and hand grenades. The film starts in the most somber of times in American history, the second world war. Desmond Doss, the son of a PTSD-riddled alcoholic Army man (Hugo Weaving) who served in World War I, is also as much as a devout Christian as he is a patriot, leading him to join the fight against the oppressive Japanese military. Doss is in love with a small town girl Dorothy Schutte (Teresa Palmer) who is scared that she'll never see Doss again, especially after the persecution he is sure to face. When in training camp, Doss refuses to touch a gun and is actually court marshaled for his refusal. This leads to a trial in which he is allowed by his superior officers to go into Okinawa with no fire arm to protect him. Much of the film is steeped in realism, something that Mel Gibson specializes in when it comes to violence. While the story and plot line may sound very traditional, the way it is portrayed is a fresh burst of life into a tired genre such as this. That, coupled with the amazing true-life story of Desmond Doss being portrayed on screen, makes Hacksaw Ridge a wild and brutal trip down the path to Christianity and the power that faith can give a man. Gibson, a devout Catholic himself, would be the director to bring this story to life. His religious views seep through his very being, especially through his films and this film is no exception. The film settles in the idea that God is literally protecting Doss, not only physically but spiritually as well. Doss is constantly tested throughout the film, almost needing to take a life (which is the ultimate sin to him) in many scenes. The fact that this man did not fire a single round and saved as many men as he did is astounding and the film really does an amazing job at showing the harsh realities of war but also showing the good that can be brought out in a man through his faith. The film itself, is one of Gibson's less preachy works which makes it more accessible. Even if faith-based films are not your thing, you can appreciate the craft that went into making this film. Hacksaw Ridge displays war as atrocious as it truly is. There is blood, there is gore and there are a couple wounds that will cut even the strongest of men down. This is an extremely violent film but it is extremely violent in the sense that there is enough going on around us to never make us truly settle in the violence which would take away a lot of the impact that Gibson is trying to portray. The film is paced very nicely and does feel more like a traditional war film without it really being the traditional World War II film. The filmmaking is traditional but the story is unique and is definitely the driving force to run out and see this film. The performance from Andrew Garfield is amazing. He sheds any sort of preconceived notion and really embodies the roll of Doss quite well. He is far from a revelation but he is on the right track in delivering a very fine performance. The screenplay is tight and taught. Like I said, there are scenes that are heart pounding in this film. Personally, I found myself holding my breath during some of the action sequences. It was THAT intense at parts. While I do have great things to say about this film, I will say, I was a bit disappointed in the performances all around. While I thought Garfield did an amazing job carrying a film that was not Spider-Man, I wish he was a little better. I felt the same way with the rest of the cast. The melodrama that is portrayed very early on in the film is something that does begin to corrode the realist efforts of everything else. However, once the action starts, so does the really great acting on everyone's parts. Gibson is an actor that revels in the moments of pure chaos and he expects the same thing from his actors. It makes for some intense scenes that are elevated by the pure realism that the actors portray. You actually feel as though you are watching these people go to war. It is a testament to Mel Gibson as a director. He really knows how to put you in the moment and Hacksaw Ridge just solidifies his talent. Overall, I felt Hacksaw Ridge was an extremely brutal and visceral war film that brings up questions of warfare, humanity and religion while displaying Gibson's excellent eye for technical accuracy and assaulting imagery. Say what you will about Gibson as a person but as a director he is sharp, gritty and a master at what he does.


                
I was fortunate enough to see an advanced screening of HACKSAW RIDGE in Hollywood and was impressed. The screenplay is authentically-driven to the last detail and portrays the horrors (and prejudices) of wartime conduct. I knew we were watching an epic film when at the conclusion, the audience was stunned so much so that the applause was delayed.If you consider yourself a true patriot of America, this movie portrays YOUR values in a blessed light. For ONE gentlemen, amidst extremely adverse treatment by his own comrades and even more deadly hated by his enemy to have save SO many men... is simply epic.I watched the advanced screening with members of the military and faith community alike. At no time did anyone retract from the horrors of war or add asinine political commentary. We all understood that soldiers fight for one another before they fight for a cause and that hatred of war is universal; even among soldiers.


                
For well over a year now I have been waiting with baited breath to see this movie. I have been a fan of Desmond Doss from a child. Having the privilege of the movie being filmed in my neck of the woods, and even getting to watch some of the scenes being filmed and meeting Mel in the process (ever so briefly), escalated my enthusiasm. When you are that pumped and euphoric, you are usually deflated when the moment finally comes<U+0085> but not this time.Although there were a few aspects of the story that were not as accurate as I would have liked, I realize poetic licence is necessary in some ways to give the real essence of the story. And truth can be so much harder to believe then fiction sometimes. Mel managed to portray the man Doss so very well. Some people are worried this is a religious propaganda/anti-gun movie and I assure you that is not the message of it at all. However there is no getting past the truth of who he was and it is the reason the story is so powerful. He was a man with an unmovable moral compass and it doesn't matter if you don't point yours in the same direction, you can't help but respect him for his courage, bravery, and unwavering faith. The movie starts laying the background of the man that will be the hero of Hacksaw Ridge. It is both witty and endearing. Andrew Garfield nails the roll as the gentle scarecrow of a man. He is a bit gawky and yet charming. His accent is true to the real Desmond, awkward though it is at times. He really draws you into the character and shows you what a fighter he was, non-violent but a fighter just the same. It is well explained what personal experiences have lead him to his discussion to not touch a gun.Hugo Weaving masterfully plays Desmond's alcoholic dad, battling with his demons from WWI, and Rachel Griffiths plays his devoted Christian mother trying to hold them all together. Teresa Palmer plays Dorothy, a nurse that captures Desmond's heart. Sometimes cheesy, but then again in reality it would have been, and it is very amusing to watch. Teresa's Dorothy is a beautiful and charming addition to the movie.Vince Vaughn plays the roll of Drill Sergeant Howell. He adds humour with his name calling, and humiliation of the soldiers, but is a very genuine - just a guy trying to win a war and keep his men alive in the process - kind of guy. Luke Bracey is a fantastic addition to the cast as private Smitty, the more traditional war story soldier.True to his reputation Mel does not hold back with the battle scenes. The devastation is already extensive and the ground strewn with bits of bodies by the time the 77th arrives. The shattering reality of war is dizzying and full of impact, moving so quickly you can barely identify the characters in a whirlwind of panic, pain and death. But amidst the chaos, Desmond Doss's character is revealed to everyone and even his harshest critics realize how wrong they were about him. Watching the story change from having the battalion hate him so much that they try to have him imprisoned, to refusing to go on the battlefield without him, is so moving and inspiring it leaves "It's A Wonderful Life" in the carnage on the hill, getting eaten by maggots along with the dead soldiers Desmond sifts through looking for "one more" soul to save.
This is really adorable movie and you can find something beyond the war in this movie 
my father even cried for this movie
the writing of this movie is fab
Saving 75 Lives out there on the war field is nothing less than a miracle.Another brilliant biopic of 2016.Desmond Doss had a belief of non violence and he sticks to it even after getting into the US army, serving for the nation. Its no less than a heroic tale of an Army Man who refused to kill on the war field and instead chose to save. Desmond has a troubled childhood getting beaten by his father every day and his father was an ex army drunkard who used to beat his sons and wife. Desmond decides to join Army and serve his nation being a medic. He is bullied and beaten in the Army by other men but he doesn't give up...shows courage and tenaciously stays
Ten years since his last directorial effort 'Apocalypto' and many were wondering if he could match the excellence of his previous work, especially since this hiatus consisted of many controversies for the actor/director. Well, I'm pleased to say that Hacksaw Ridge is most definitely one of the best war films of this century. A bold claim such as this needs proof, and I always say "proof is in the pudding". Detailing the efforts of Desmond Doss, a conscientious objector who refused to carry a weapon, during the battle for Hacksaw Ridge against the Japanese. Illustrating the heroism, valour and bravery of one man who, through inner strength and conviction, saved the lives of many wounded soldiers. I am a sucker for good old fashioned Hollywood stories about a hero who defied all the odds. Everyone and everything was against Doss, including the rest of his unit at first, which automatically creates emotional investment towards our protagonist. You want him to succeed in his endeavours, you want him to prove all the naysayers wrong. He does...and then some. Through visceral direction from Gibson, who honestly directed the heck out of this, Doss was portrayed enigmatically by Garfield. Balancing both innocence and conviction in equal measures to produce a character that breaks your heart. Every facial expression and action Garfield makes feels natural and racks up to be one of his best performances. Supported by an excellent cast, particularly Vaughn, Weaving and Worthington, who provide backstory and development to what could've been expendable assets. The battle scenes were breathtakingly claustrophobic, the usage of blood and violence contradicts the religious subtext in the narrative which further enhances the ideologies of pacifism. Countless bodies on fire and limbs gliding through the explosions, just relentless filmmaking. The overuse of melodrama during the first half did provide an unusual tonal shift for the second half, took me a while to adjust. But, in the end, all I have to say is "Mel, welcome back!".


                
It is easy to misunderstand Mel Gibson's "Hacksaw Ridge" as a glorified war movie. At least that is what I used to think every time I gave this movie a pass in the past looking at the poster. I was so wrong.."Hacksaw Ridge" is a movie which takes you back in time. A time when men left their homes to attend to war duties and made great sacrifices. In that context the movie sends out a clear message for everyone who watches it - "Strong convictions precedes great action". And this message is shared by depicting the true story of a hero - Desmond T. Doss. It's an inspirational story. The story teaches you to stick by your beliefs and stand up for the good even when the world is against you. It's a great watch.


                
This movie took me by surprise. I had heard of it, but since I rarely go to the actual theater to see films these days, it wasn't really on my radar. My husband and I were looking for something to rent on a rainy night and we chose this one. I like history-based films, including war films, even though I kind of hate films with gratuitous violence. Well, this film is brutal, but there is nothing gratuitous about it. It takes a common and very effective approach by telling a true, harrowing story through the lens of one individual, what got him there, and how he lived it. I like that the movie addresses the main character's childhood and what drove him to become a faith-based conscientious objector. I also like that he is an actual person, an historic figure. "Saving Private Ryan" was probably based on someone, but we don't know exactly who....or at least that person was never interviewed or identified. It was an effective film, a great one. But I liked this one better.I would never have believed this guy was real had I not seen him interviewed. It seemed impossible to believe. But again, when you see the historic backdrop, it comes into focus. It was a different time, a different country. You come to understand how he came to believe what he did and was able to do what he did without ever losing his humanity.The battle scenes are absolutely brutal, but entirely real. My brother is a huge history buff and knows everything about WWII, and he can attest to that. The visuals take your breath away, though not in a good way. You see a lot of what are now considered "war tropes," clichés, in this film. Well, now you see their origin, and why they are for real. Anyway, this is a vague review because I don't want to spoil anything. I am not saying this is a perfect film. It has its flaws. I am no fan of Gibson as a person, and it probably helps that I didn't even know he had was the director when I watched it. But that's another matter. Garfield is excellent, but honestly I was also impressed with the supporting cast and particularly with Vince Vaughan. I have always liked him and he fits this role really well. Like his character, he never takes himself too seriously. It works for the film.If you like character-driven films, based on true stories, and can handle terrifying scenes (IMO), then watch this. It's an eye-opener.
Once again Mel Gibson delivers a masterful film and a breath of fresh air in the war film genre.Hacksaw Ridge hits on every aspect that a war movie should, action, drama, suspense, and heartbreak. But within the insanity of war, lies a story a true hero and patriot, Pfc. Desmond T. Doss. A man who risks his life and puts himself last in order to save the lives of others.This movie is a true inspiration and juxtaposes that even within the monstrosities of war there can be true hope and beauty within the battlefield and teaches us that violence is not the only answer and that it is honorable to refuse to commit murder in the act of war.The cinematography is beautiful and captures the essence of each scenario beautifully, whether it's a dark and gloomy war ridden Okinawa, or a small town in the USA, accompanied by an amazing score and very good editing. I would say this movie is a very emotional thrill ride that will leave you inspired, heartbroken and speechless. See it.


                
Desmond Doss is a hero. In the middle of total carnage he is out there saving lives. This should serve as the basis for a great movie. This movie comes close to being just that, a great movie, but just misses the mark. It has lots of action and excellent acting set in a time and place that is still known and remembered with reverence today. But most of all, it is about a man who stays true to his principles, and against all odds triumphs. The battle of Okinawa is depicted in all its gory violence. Soldiers on both sides are dying by the hundreds. Through it all, Desmond Doss does his duty, which, as a medic, is to save lives. Nothing stops him, not even a grenade. And if that isn't enough, he's married to a beautiful young lady who adores him and whose photograph he carries in his Bible, which she gave him as a present and which he takes into battle. To tell this story, the director Mel Gibson, pulls out the stops. It is Hollywood through and through. From the confrontation scene in the barracks, to the presence of the overbearing sergeant, to the inclusion of the devoted girlfriend, the hero perseveres and finally proves himself on the battlefield, proving all his detractors wrong. If someone wants to become a hero, this is the movie to watch.


                
Hacksaw ridgeLooking back over Mel Gibson's career the quality of the work that he has produced is staggering. Movies such as Braveheart, Apocalypto and The passion of the Christ show what a serious film maker he is. Such a shame then that Hollywood fell out of love with him. There is no denying that Gibson has made several films with such skill that he can be regarded among directional giants such as Spielberg, Scott and Scorsese. Gibson's return to the helm is welcome with Hacksaw Ridge. A true story about war hero Desmond Doss a conscientious objector who enlisted into the army during World war 2. Played here by the Oscar worthy Andrew Garfield, Doss refused to use a gun. Branded as a coward and a loon by his fellow comrade in arms he believed he could do more good by serving as a medic. The film depicts the struggle and persecution of a man who would prove to be a hero. A hero who would stand by his beliefs no matter the cost. One of the most fascinating facts about this film is that it struggled to get made because of the lack of consent from Desmond Doss. He believed he wasn't a hero, just a man doing his duty. I can honestly say that this film does the great man justice and sir you are indeed a hero.Gibson's film is superbly realised on screen with epic performances by all cast members. Hugo Weaving is mesmerising as Desmond's broken father. A man who also served and is crushed by war. He begs for his sons not to enlist and wants to spare them of the horrors that he has witnessed. Vince Vaughn is terrific as Sgt Howell. Refreshing to see him acting in a serious role instead of the mediocre comedies we have become used to seeing him in. Sam Worthingtons faded star gets chance to shine once more as he plays a Captain who is so against Doss's beliefs. It is heartfelt when our hero proves him wrong and the Captain must humbly beg for his forgiveness.Gibson's direction is good here too. Even if the film starts down the path of a sickly sweet Hallmark movie. The film soon becomes deadly serious when the art of war is displayed in full high definition on screen. A gripe I have is that the CGI explosions and dismembered appendages look a little too polished. Maybe a stripped back approach using more practical effects would have given the film an extra layer of authenticity. This is nitpicking though as the action scenes are epically staged and immerse the audience in the moment. Sound design is ear shatteringly good as bullets whizz passed the ear. I think Hacksaw ridge compares well to other modern classic war movies such as Saving Private Ryan, although it may not be remembered with the same affection. SPR was a game changer in this particular genre and will always be regarded as so. Hacksaw ridge can be remembered for it own merits. A compelling story about a true hero. Wonderful performances by a superb cast and a return to form for one of Hollywoods finest talents. Mel Gibson I salute you.
This is based on a true story, which makes it even more amazing when you think about everything that happens. Of course you could start to question the motives and the morale of the main character (real person). But you would derive yourself of a really powerful but also violent movie. Teresa Palmer and the personal life may seem like a footnote, but they also show a strong personality.And while we can understand why there are so many people who try to discourage our main hero, we get a bit of an inside what makes him tick. Very early on in his life he had an inciting incident. One that scares you for life, one that is really paving the way. So the set up is clear, the action scenes on the other hand are very dirty and very brutal. But that is war, it's not for the squeamish. And while you may have issues with Mel Gibson and his private life (decisions), you can't fault the movie ...


                
Having just watched 'Hacksaw Ridge', and then immediately after the 2002 bio-doc about Desmond T. Doss's life, I can easily understand why Mel Gibson needed to give this story the Hollywood treatment. After a little research, almost unbelievably, this 'myth-making' Gibson movie turns out to be an accurate portrayal of the man, and a pretty accurate account of history. The movie isn't perfect, but it's pretty damn good. What affects the viewer more than the brutal violence of war on display, more than the performances of the cast, more than Gibson's direction, is the unflinching determination, unselfish bravery, compassion and faith the real Desmond Doss showed throughout his life. What a character.Hats off to Desmond. A fine human being and an example to us all.Everyone should know his story.11/10 for the man. 8/10 for the movie.


                
Despite all the controversies that Mel Gibson has around him as a person few will argue about his immense talent as a filmmaker. He has proved himself to be one of the most consistent directors working today and Hacksaw Ridge is some of the best work he's done in his entire career The core story of this film is simply fascinating, a man who went into one of the worst engagements of the Second World War without any kind of weapon to defend himself with and this story is one that the viewer can easily get behind because it is so well established why Doss feels the need to do this while not shining him in a truly heroic light. Plenty of time is devoted to his opponents and it's also made clear why they oppose his views as it is understandable why they wouldn't feel they could depend on him to defend them in battle and there is room for the audience to decide where they stand in this argument. One of this films greatest strengths is the fact that it's puts all its characters, as well as the actors who play them, first. Andrew Garfield, in my opinion, gives the best performance of his entire career in this film he just perfectly played Doss' constant inner struggle while always remaining optimistic. Vince Vaughn's role in this film had made me curious in the lead up to this film but it's easy to say that he exceeded all of my expectations, not only was he hilarious as a drill instructor but he gave some very good serious moments that made me like his character all the more and makes me want to see more of this kind of role from him. Teresa Palmer was also great in this movie she had excellent chemistry with Garfield and I absolutely bought her as a love interest. Hugo Weaving blew me away in this movie, I've never seen this kind of work from him, he was so believable as this torn up man who has had some much taken away from him by war.He first half of this film mainly focuses of Doss' romance with his future wife and his motivations for his pacifism and while it's defiantly a bit slow and cheesy at times it worked very well. I loved the romance between Garfield and Palmer it was such a sweet relationship an one I could easily get behind. When we eventually got to the training portion of this film it became all the more engaging, seeing Doss face opposition at every turn was extremely engaging, you got a clear sense to both sides of the argument and perfectly set up the horrors that were to come in the next act. This film switched from an engaging drama to a terrifying experience in an instant and it worked to perfection. Everything the war was built up to be came to ahead and made it clear just how hard it was gong to be for a Doss to keep up his pact but it was no less engaging and was even more so. Mel Gibson directed this film masterfully, he directions action like no other director working today. He doesn't show the battle of Okinawa in a glamorised way but as it was, as a hellish experience with very little hope of survival for the soldiers who thought in it. Even when bullets aren't flying he kept a consistent tension throughout this entire act that never let up. My only real issue with Hacksaw Ridge was some aspects of the way it concluded, it feels as if Doss has proved something to his fellow soldiers and feels as if more could be explored now that he has but instead the film concludes in a very abrupt way that left me feeling as if they're was still more waiting to be explored and experienced. Despite some aspects of its conclusion, Hacksaw Ridge worked on every other level. It was incredibly touching, harrowing and intense. While it was easy to get behind Doss as a character there were plenty moments where it felt as if they're was room to see the perspective of others in his views. When the war sequences begin they are depicted as they should be and in no way way that is glamorous or clean. I adored Hacksaw Ridge and I can't wait to see what Mel Gibson does next as a director. 9.5/10-A (Phenomenal)


                
In this Mel Gibson (Braveheart, Lethal Weapon) directed film, screenplay by Robert Schenkkan (All the Way, The Quiet American) and Andrew Knight (The Water Diviner, Full Frontal), Andrew Garfield (The Amazing Spiderman, Never Let Me Go) stars as Desmond Doss, the WWII American Army Medic who refuses to hold a weapon. Brought up as a Seventh Day Adventist, with a drunken wife-beating father, possibly because he is former soldier and survivor of WWI, Tom (Hugo Weaving: The Matrix, The Lord of the Rings) and God-fearing mother Bertha (Rachel Griffiths: My Best Friend's Wedding, Saving Mr Banks), Desmond vows never to raise his hand in violence. Following a serious accident where Desmond uses his belt as a tourniquet, he meets Dorothy (Teresa Palmer: I Am Number Four, Warm Bodies) a nurse, who he immediately falls in love with.With the outbreak of War, Desmond feels he must fight alongside his fellow man and joins the Army where he meets several other new recruits, such as Hollywood Zane (Luke Pegler: Fool's Gold, See No Evil) and Smitty Riker (Luke Bracey: Point Break, The November Man) and his commanding officer Sergeant Howell (Vince Vaughn: The Internship, The Wedding Crashers). All goes well until weapons training and he refuses to pick up a gun. When threats by Howell and his Captain, Jack Glover (Sam Worthington: Avatar, Terminator Salvation) and a sustained campaign to get rid of the 'coward' do not work, the Army takes him to court, but with help from his father, it is proved to be against his constitutional rights. Once the company makes it to war, the 1945 battle of Okinawa, his comrades begin to see what Desmond is really made of.This powerful film, based on a true story, is a little gem. From the very beginning we see, through the eyes of the protagonist, the joys and heartaches of life, love in it's many forms and the brutality and ultimate futility of war. Not for the squeamish, for me the war scenes evoked echoes of Saving Private Ryan for their authenticity of what man can do to his fellow man, but never in a glorified way. But it is the highs and lows that Doss experiences in this part of his life that really pulls you along on this emotional journey with him. Dealing with all the issues surrounding war, including the psychological impact and after effects, by both the father and son.With exceptional performances both from Garfield, who truly proves his acting chops in this movie, and the supporting cast, including a sublime Weaving and surprising Vaughn, where all the characters get to be more than two-dimensional, this is a courageous film that deserves to be ranked with Saving Private Ryan and Band of Brothers.
Hacksaw Ridge is a 2016 biographical war drama film about the World War II experiences of Desmond Doss who was a Seventh-day Adventist Christian, refusing to carry or use a firearm or weapons of any kind. Doss became the first conscientious objector to be awarded the Medal of Honor, for service above and beyond the call of duty during the Battle of Okinawa.There are many hidden description of the vicious Japanese. Desmond Doss climbed with the troops to the top of the Hacksaw Ridge. All they can saw was the smoke everywhere with much body on the ground. They even could hear their breath sounds. The build of tense atmosphere here is very good. Suddenly someone was killed then I found the degree of tragic more than I imagined before. There are many soldiers were killed by Japanese and also a lot of soldiers were wounded. Desmond Doss tried his best to save people and he never give up. After a whole day, the US military was beaten back by suicide attack but Desmond Doss lost his time to retreat because of saving people.In the next night, the US military found that many wounded on the top was hanging down one by one. That's what Desmond Doss did. No matter how he got tired, he still never give up. He just said: Let's me save one more. And when he saved more than one, he just repeated of these words: One more.You can see it on HTTP://www.yidioo.com/ for free. No one thought he could survive after the war. But He became the most dazzling light in the team, greatly encouraged the morale.
Hacksaw Ridge chronicles the true story of Desmond Doss, a World War II US Army enlistee who refuses to touch a gun. Doss is a conscientious objector who, nonetheless, feels the responsibility to serve his country as a combat medic overseas. Facing adversity in the service and balancing personal relationships, Doss is determined to live and die by his principles and complete his mission as an American Soldier. This film shows that true heroes do not wear capes, and in this case, do not carry guns.Mel Gibson's fifth directorial credit is a triumph. Gibson has taken a true story of personal interest and with it created an all around great film. The pacing is excellent, beginning with an element of romance, carefully developing the story and characters, and tactfully builds toward a series of masterfully shot, fast paced yet suspenseful war sequences. I give this film a 9/10. I believe it is among the top war films of this century and certainly joins the ranks of Apocalypse Now, Full Metal Jacket, etc. -LM-


                
Directed by Mel Gibson, I knew this was one movie to look forward too. Starring Andrew Garfield as war medic who chose to serve in World War 2 but not to kill, the movie explores a very unique side of war. In the first part of the movie, we get to know Desmond Doss, our protagonist played by Garfield. We see his trials and tribulations (literally) for following his beliefs. In the next part, we see non-stop action where Garfield's character proves his bravery in battle. The casting choice was brilliant and all the supporting casts have a chance to shine. Hugo Weaving, an already talented actor gave a great performance as Garfield's troubled father, while Vince Vaughn gets to shine as a no-nonsense Sargeant ( which is surprising considering I used to see him in comedic roles). Sam Worthington was also great as Garfield's superior. In the movie, Gibson is able to display the gruesome violence of war without really criticizing war. This is not exactly an antiwar movie, it is just a movie about how a pacifist can apply his beliefs even in war. The soldiers in the movie are portrayed as real humans, with fears. Even the nameless Japanese fighting our protagonists are shown as normal people fighting for their lives. You can say it is an antiwar movie without looking like an antiwar movie. It does not preach pacifism, it just focuses on one pivotal moment in the protagonist's life and this focus makes the movie engaging. The war scenes are really gruesome, as you would expect from a Mel Gibson movie, but the gore serves to heighten the stakes, and not done for just the sake of gore. In short, this is a terrific war drama that delivers without being too weepy, and contains a lot of action and tension. Looking forward to the next Mel Gibson directed movie.
Oh my god, this movie was BEYOND AMAZING. Includes a few spoilers.First I don't really wanted to see this movie because I didn't like Andrew Garfield in Spiderman, but I pretty liked war movies, so I decided to give that movie a chance and it was the right decision. I don't want to explain the whole story again, so here are my pro's and con's about Hacksaw Ridge.+ The cast. Andrew Garfield at it's best. He plays the jerk in the beginning so well, his smile, his eyes, everything seems so real to me. His voice and how he turns into a soldier more and more is unbelievable. Also liked Teresa Palmer and Sam Worthington. But well, everyone was great. + The story, because almost everything is true. It's simple but so gross and sad. It's not like there's much backgroundinformation to know about, it's just the story of a young soldier saving people in a part of the 2nd ww. + simply: the setting. Everything's dusty and dark and totally destroyed, you can almost feel how hopeless everyone is because the environment is bombed and full of corpses. + The love story. Usually I don't like love stories like this, but I think it's an important point to show what Desmond is going to give up to follow his opportunities. It was simple but so cute and perfect. + The music. Not too much, not too less. Only at the parts where it was necessary and it fitted perfectly. + The original speeches of the soldiers in the end. It almost brought tears to my eyes. + That it wasn't too patriotic. Don't get me wrong, but I don't like movies where people are like "we are the heroes, everyone else is the pure devil" + It shows how gross and sad the war is for everyone, not only for American people. + It don't portrays the Japanese people as some kind of faceless killers without a soul.What I don't liked: - That everyone had it's special role. I don't liked that, for example, in the hobbit, too. There's the small one, the young one, the old one, the I don't know one. Here we've got the teacher, the thin one, the naked one, bla bla. Hm, not that cool. - They should've done the film a bit longer, I don't know. It doesn't showed that much of a character development and for example the love story, it was like: HEY THERE - married. You know? - They don't showed a few important facts in the end. In reality, Desmond rolled over the.. (don't know the word) and wanted to save other people first. Actually he got hit by a sniper, but Gibson don't wanted to show that because it might look too unrealistic to be true.To sum up: Hacksaw Ridge is an almost perfect movie for people who like love stories and war movies at the same time. It's so inspiring that someone did believe in something so hard and became a hero, even if the conditions are the worst. It was kind of sad, interesting, terrifying and funny at the same time. Really well done!
First of all, and maybe the most important, this a true story! That should be underlined in my review as much as it is in a movie. And I'll try to do it.Hacksaw Ridge is by far one of the best war movies we have right now and probably in a whole movie history. It can easily pair Private Ryan with no doubt. Let's start with graphics and scenery. It is just amazing. It almost feels like you were there with Dos while he was running around dead and violated bodies of his comrades. The horror of a WWII and pretty much any war is depicted awfully realistic. Not for a weak stomach.Let's head back to the start to say how touching and loving romance we have there. I think that love story of Hacksaw Ridge can make anyone jealous. Their love is so unconditional and without borders. Cute in a way, funny at a moments and truly great. I like that fusion between slow, nice beginning and chaos afterwards.Notable thing when it comes to war and this movie has it is an objectiveness. Japanees are not described as monsters like in many war movies that are entirely black and white. Good guys are totally white while bad guys are monsters, murderers, invaders, psychopaths... Enemies in Hacksaw Ridge are people that only stand on an opposing side.Acting of the whole crew is for an award. Andrew was amazing pick, even though he misses a mustache. His courage, defending of his ideals, faith... it all just made him an astonishing character.Sticking to the original story made me give this movie a big plus. Even the dialogues, prayers, I think even screams were, or at least tried to be, real and just as they actually have been. And again, the bare fact that is is a true story, which is confirmed at the end, is just an amazing fact and definitely something that will sell this movie to anyone who likes a quality acting and a great, true story.
Mel Gibson has done it again.  Just got done watching this.  If you haven't seen this movie I highly recommend it.  I experienced the entire gamut of emotions watching this very realistic movie based on a true story.  The only caveat is there is some very graphic war violence in it, not gratuitous, just real.  But it was balanced with drama, suspense, comedic scenes, romance, and faith. 


                
Mel Gibson directs this bewildering and remarkable war offering. This World War ll film focuses on a conscientious objector named Desmond T. Doss (Andrew Garfield). The horrifying war is messing with America's attitudes and patriotism and who would ever think that a non-violent man would go from ridicule to admiration. Doss refused to touch a gun, but knew he could serve his country's efforts as a medic. During one of the deadliest battles in all of the Pacific Theater, the Battle of Okinawa at Hacksaw Ridge, the unarmed medic saved 75 wounded soldiers, dragging them to safety. Doss would be decorated by President Truman for his bravery.Kudos to Gibson. This movie is arguably one of the most graphic, gory and violent war films in a very long time. Deserving of the R rating. A stirring feel-good movie.The strong cast includes: Vince Vaughn, Sam Worthington, Teresa Palmer, Milo Gibson, Jacob Warner, Luke Bracey, Dennis Kreusler, Michael Sheasby, Goran Kleut, Firass Dirani, Luke Pegler, Hugo Weaving and Rachel Griffiths.
