I wish I could appreciate this movie as much as most film buffs seem to.  I do admire some of its imagery--the cut between the bone and the space vehicle, the star child, etc.  The use of music is very effective.  And I suppose some of the special effects were impressive at the time.  But from the standpoint of storytelling, 2001 really leaves me cold.(1) The pace, at times. . .actually the whole time. . .is excruciatingly slow.  This includes several endless minutes of ugly and gratuitous special effects that start immediately after going into the monolith near Jupiter. When people talk about the the movie's technical superiority, they never seem to mention this part.  I guess I don't mind a movie taking its time to get to a good payoff, but this crawling progression is ridiculous. Additionally, no payoff ever really comes, which leads to my next complaint.. .(2) I don't care for the way the film fails to explain itself.  I truly defy anybody to understand what the monoliths are, or what happens in the end, without having read the novel.  I read the book several years after first seeing the movie, and was filled with much more wonder by it.  If Clarke did not mind revealing what his story meant, why did Kubrick have to be so stubborn in making it all so mysterious?  It's one thing to be ambiguous or suggestive.  It's another to make no sense at all.(3) There are no characters that can be identified with.  While others say this is part of the film's genius, I heartily disagree.  The expressionless humans are actually more creepy than HAL.I met an aspiring director once who told me he thought 2001 was the best movie ever made.  When I asked him to explain why, one thing he mentioned was that it was great to watch in the 70s with a room full of people who were stoned.  Maybe I was born too late.


                
Sure, the special effects of this movie were pretty good, even in the year 1968, but c'mon, what else is there to give it praise for? The movie was overlong, boring and made absolutely no sense. I didn't find myself caring for any of the characters, it was horribly directed by Stanley Kubrik and was a poor execution. Call me contemporary, but I like a film where there is a little dialogue, not a complete hour of total silence. I have lots of patience when it comes to film (I enjoyed Citizen Kane, Casablanca and There Will be Blood) but I found this film to be super overrated and shouldn't even be on IMDb's Top 250 List. The Even if they cut an hour, this movie would've and could've been way better. I also heard that Stanley Kubrik cut about 20-30 minutes to make the pacing faster. What pace? It took 2 and a half hours to tell an hour long story. I would sometimes fast forward and I would find that I missed nothing. You'll notice I didn't mention anything about the acting. That's because there was little acting. The only thing we see is actor's expression and small amount of dialogue. The only reason I gave this movie 3 stars is for the HAL storyline. That is the only interesting part of the film. And if you're going to give this film a 10 simply because it has great special effects, then give a 10 to Avatar and Star Wars (OK Star Wars may deserve it, but you get the idea). This film proves that special effects cannot save a film that has horrible directing and a painfully slow story. If any, this is a film that is only for hard core Sci-Fi buffs. Anyone else will be bored completely out of there heads without a fast forward button handy.


                
First off, this a very slow movie. Don't mistake a slow pace for art. Although it starts off very intriguing, the movie is a train wreck towards the end. It makes no sense, and yet it is praised for being visionary exactly because it makes no sense. It undermines the achievements of mankind and attributes them to a vastly superior species. Humans are depicted as boring, sterile, pitiable creatures with no souls. HAL on the other hand is more human than any actual human on screen, albeit misguided. If you cut out the monolithic black rectangles and everything after HAL is deactivated, you would be left with a decent movie, but as whole the movie only satisfies the "artists" who can't explain why it is a good movie, it "just is". Call me crazy, but I don't find a film that mocks humanity tasteful or entertaining. All in all, you will probably like this if you like the Rocky Horror Picture Show. For everyone else, it's OK to watch once so you are familiar with a landmark film, regardless of if it deserves to be or not.
So space-age airline food is every bit as gruesome as ours. Too bad. The good news is they still drink coffee in the future, and from a giant thermos too. I take comfort in that. Don't get me wrong. This is one boring monster of a movie. I mean, you'd be halfway through most other pictures before Kubrick gets to the first line of dialog. In essence, this is a three-hour visual essay on how man sets out to fathom the far reaches of the solar system, but all he finds is himself. Sort of like "Star Trek The Motion Picture" meets "Contact", perhaps with a slightly better color scheme. It all comes down to what you want from a movie, but if you're looking for action, emotion, a sense of humor or any plot, this isn't for you. People will go on about how "2001" made history when it came out, but I'm not buying it. Pharmaceutical history maybe. It's a twelve-reel sleeping pill.


                
I have to say I found this very dull and boring and I did zap through at least a third of the movie to keep myself awake. The only reason I give it a half decent rating is for the special effects (must have been amazing to 1968 audiences) and the cinematography. The story is non existent and the acting nothing special.It was impossible to feel any attachment or empathy for the characters as everything is so clinical and cold. Maybe that was Kubrick's intention and if so then hey he succeeded with me at any rate. The HAL storyline could have been even better but at least there was some semblance of a story to that bit. The rest no way.Like at least one other reviewer said already on here this is for hard core SCI FI / Kubrick buffs only.


                
This movie, hailed my many as an all-time classic, does have a lot going for it. It is beautifully photographed. The special effects were for its time revolutionary. And there is a truly fascinating story there to be told. Unfortunately it is in the storytelling that 2001 suffers. The film raises many questions, then spends over two hours not answering them. For much too much of that time absolutely nothing happens. But you stay with it because there seems to be the possibility of a great payoff at the end. Yet the ending frustrates just as much as all that came before it, perhaps more so. You may well find yourself saying "I waited two hours for THAT? And what the heck was that anyway?" I do not believe a movie has to lay all the answers out for you. Some of the best films of all time are very much left open to your own interpretation. But the answers we are given here are so unsatisfying and ultimately confusing that we wonder why we went through the trouble of watching at all.Again this movie does have a lot going for it and it is easy to see why so many praise it. It certainly seems to be one of the most polarizing films of all time. Love it or hate it, there is no in between. While I would not recommend it I must say the movie sets up a fascinating premise. The opening sequence which takes place in prehistoric times goes on a tad too long but is rich with symbolism and intrigue and sets up well the themes of the movie. Many are fascinated by the evolution of man, the questions "Why are we here?", "How did we get here", and "What exactly is it all about?" In this film, man sets off on a quest for answers to these questions. Unfortunately the answers don't satisfy. If it is answers you seek perhaps you should see the sequel 2010 which if nothing else sheds some light on what in the world the last twenty minutes or so of 2001 was all about. If you want to see the true genius of Kubrick then Dr. Strangelove or A Clockwork Orange will do quite nicely. Enjoy what is good about 2001....the beautiful photography, the special effects, the great and fascinating character of the computer HAL. But be forewarned that this long journey does not lead to a satisfying destination.


                
BORING. The effects were amazing for the era, but the film itself is too drawn out and boring. Too many scenes with only music. Too many unnecessary scenes that stray from the story. I think it could have been edited into a more efficient and equally stunning 90 or 100 minute piece.I admit I'm not an avid Kubrick fan, and maybe if I were more biased, I would've watched this with more intrigue. I've only seen The Shining, A Clockwork Orange, Full Metal Jacket, and Eyes Wide Shut. None of those lagged; all kept my attention and felt like worthwhile cinema.I just do not have the patience for movies like this, and I'm sure I'm missing out on a lot, but I watch movies that either make me laugh, make me think, make me smile, or make me cry. Not put me to sleep with classical music and drawn out scenes.


                
While I'm generally a fan of Kubrick's movies ("A Clockwork Orange" and "Full Metal Jacket" are masterpieces), I think this one of the most overrated movies ever. The basic problem to me is that "Space Odyssey" isn't really a movie but more a series of moving images with some music. Granted, the images are very beautiful, the effects are spectacular for the time, and the excellent music fits the visuals very well. But no amount of audiovisual flair is enough to save over 2 hours of movie if there's just nothing else going on. And to me, that's the case here. There's virtually no plot, no character development, or anything else to really keep you interested. Sure, there are some hints at a deeper meaning, but they are so vague and ambiguous that they can be pretty much explained however the viewer wants. I'm not saying that there might not be some amazing message in there, but so far I've yet to find somebody who can come up with a really convincing explanation. Most of the time, people I talk to who like this movie completely fail to explain why they like it or what's it about. Should it be about something? To me, yes. To me, movies should either entertain, tell a good story, or have a good message. This movie seems to do neither. It's too slow to entertain, it certainly doesn't have much of a story, and it also doesn't appear to have much of a message either. Still, I can understand that people like it just for its visuals, but then again I suspect that there are also many people that claim to like it because they don't want to appear stupid. In the end, I'd say this is the movie equivalent of an empty piece of canvas that is turned into a piece of art called "the vast emptiness". It's a clever trick, but it's ultimately rather pointless, and many people only see a meaning behind it because they want to see it, not because it's necessarily actually there.** out of ***** (because of the amazing visuals and sound)


                
Kubrick has made some great films. He also made this drivel - a space film that moves at a snail's pace and has no plot or meaning. The first third of the film, including the never-ending opening sequence with monkeys, is mind-numbingly boring. The last third, a psychedelic trip across space and time, is fascinating - if one's on drugs. Only the middle part, featuring that funny guy HAL 9000, is somewhat interesting. To the masses who adore this indulgent nonsense about monoliths and star babies, it supposedly reveals great truths about life, the universe, and everything. The real truth is that the emperor is not wearing any clothes.


                
I finally saw 2001: A Space Oddysey about a month ago after almost a lifetime of hearing how great it was. How it changed the art of cinema, and is Stanley Kubrick's Magnum Opus. Then a little bit before I watched it, I saw the review by Confused Matthew. Confused Matthew, for those who don't know, is an internet reviewer who mostly reviews movies that he didn't like, that the mojority did like, examples include: Back to the Future Part 2, The Lion King, No Country for Old Men, Minority Report, and this. Normally I disagree with him, but unfortuantly this time I agreed, while 2001: A Space Oddysey is no where near terrible, it is probably one of the most over rated movies I've ever seen.Really the best way I can review this film is to just tell you to go watch Matthew's review, because he pretty much says what I think.Now I do agree that this film did change cinema in terms of direction, visuals, all that. This truly is one of the most beautiful films I have ever seen, had I never known, I never would've guessed that this movie was made in 1968. Kubrick is a great director, and now that I've seen a some of his movies, I can consider him one of my favorites. But really, the best way to describe this movie is "empty." I literally fast forwarded through an hour of this movie, I nearly fell asleep twice, and it is because half of the movie is just spaceships flying across space, looking at landscape, people walking around. And sure, the visuals look nice, but look at the six Star Wars movies, they looked nice, and they actually had plots. Even though I fast forwarded through an hour of a 2 hour 14 minute movie, I didn't miss anything.They go to Jupiter, the HAL 9000 goes crazy, kills most of the crew, then Bowman goes through the stargate finds himself as an old man and then turns into a fetus. What does it all mean? You know what, I couldn't care less. Sure HAL was pretty cool, but he really was only in about twenty-thirty minutes of the movie. Yes, I know that I'm pretty much repeating what Confused Matthew said, and I tried to give it a chance, I even came on to MFC right after watching it and saying it was basically OK. Yes, the visuals are amazing, but if you want to see a really good Kubrick movie, go see THe Shining, that's a brilliant movie. Hell, go see A Clockwork Orange, it was weird, but good, I think. Full Metal Jacket, sure the first half is far better than the second, but at least stuff happens in that second half.I know that this film is loved by millions of people, and to be honest, I don't hate the film, but I don't see myself ever watching it again. If you like it good for you, but I'm with Matthew on this one.
Its more than 2 hours of nothing. Completely nothing. If you want to throw away almost 2,5 hrs of your live watching how someone is walking for 10 minutes or the first 5 minutes of the movie when everything is black so you go check your wiring to see if you got your PC connected to TV. I think the point of the movie is to get you bored as humanly possible. I watched more than 1st half of the movie and I swear to you nothing - NOTHING happens. And I wasn't anticipating action, but when you're watching a man running in a circle in space shuttle for 15 minutes it makes you wanna throw your remote in a director's head. And when you say the movie sucks, you are probably told how stupid you must be that you weren't able to comprehend story. I want to know exactly what do people find so good/interesting in this movie that they call it one of the best Sci-Fi.


                
I finally got around to watching this movie last night. Actually it's the second time I had tried to watch it, but the first time I actually finished it. And I have no desire to ever see it again.I do have to say that 2001 has amazing visuals. The space scenes of all sorts are simply stunning and hold up quite well even today. There was obviously a lot of effort put into them. Definitely the highlight of the movie.The effects are also amazingly realistic. The scene where Dave has to blow the hatch on his pod and momentarily be exposed to space is realistic in a way I've never seen in any other movie. First off, there is no sound of an explosion or anything else, which makes perfect sense since there is no sound in a vacuum. He also doesn't explode or be severely injured, unlike every other movie set in space.2001 is a ponderously slow film. But that's not my main problem with it, though. I can watch slow films so long as I have a reason to keep watching; as in an investment in the characters. There is a severe lack of character development and none of the characters, even the infamous HAL, are shown long enough or in a way that allows me to have any sort of attachment to them. The only character that got any development at all was mankind itself in the first part of the movie, and I can hardly sympathize with a primitive, brutal character as portrayed there. The individuals later in the movie were shown as being largely expendable, with no real reason to be anything but indifferent about their fate. HAL itself was the only character I had any shred of sympathy for, ironically showing himself to be more human than the crew members aboard the ship. Yet I was still largely indifferent when he was disconnected. Yes, "indifference" is a word that describes my attitude towards pretty much all the characters in this movie.Because of my indifference to the characters I had no reason to really ponder what the story was beyond what was shown on screen. I did not care what the purpose of the monoliths were since they affected characters I did have any investment in.As a visual feast this movie fares quite well. As a means for telling a story, it falls flat. A story needs characters and that's what 2001 sorely lacks.
People may say that in film everything does not have to be about plot, that some how you can just have pretty images on the screen and it is thus a good movie. Me? I don't think so this movie was too ahead of its time, not in visuals, but in audio any movie from this era suffered from the fact that any sound that can be made no matter no pleasant or unpleasant, can be made into the most shrill, annoying sound you will ever hear, and in this movie there is plenty of that not only do you get to listen to heavy breathing for about 20 minutes, but you also get to hear the air hose, which was extra special.Again like all movies of the time the score sucked, the classical music that was pared up with the scenes conjured up an air of fantasy, something you don't want to do in a film about the future.Yet again another movie killer, the acid trip scenes, what is with those, was every one high in the 60's 70's? I mean come on, did people back then really want to see 20 minutes of what looks like what happens if a clown exploded. yea all the colors are pretty, but enough is enough.The end puts you at a loss for words, I honestly believe the director just made up a random ending and said "Interpret this, I'm not telling you what it means"One last thing, the pace of this movie was SSSSSSSSSLLLLLLLLLLOOOOOOOOOOOOOWWWWWWWWWWWWW there are so many pointless scenes in this movie, if I was watching it in theaters I could go home , cook dinner, bring it back to the theater and then eat while I wait 10 minute for something to happen. But, some people may argue that the scenes where long and boring because of the "beauty" and that every scene (no matter how long, and I mean long) has to be part of the plot, well WRONG, every scene longer than 10 seconds HAS TO be part of the plot, otherwise it's "I have a huge budget, look what I can do." Its a movie, if you want beauty go to your local science center there are plenty of movies without plots but beautiful scenery,(and some with beautiful scenery AND plot, who knew you could do both"The good parts of this movie that didn't have me reaching for my ear plugs where actually quite decent and if the whole movie has like these few parts it would have gotten an 9/10, but all this is, is 1 hour of movie one hour and a half of visual effects. I just with they made the movie part longer.


                
Artistic? Sure. Entertaining? This has got to be the slowest moving movie I've ever seen, probably due to the fact that I grew up in the era during which the technology showcased in this movie became a reality. The idea of exploring mankind's origin in the movie provided a good plot, but the storyline/script (what little of it there was), was not plausible even as fantasy. If I wanted to watch a 1960's movie which highlighted 'futuristic' technology, I guess I should have watched an original Star Trek feature.....at least the dialogue in that wouldn't put me to sleep as 2001: A Space Odyssey did. Granted, you'd have to have an 'acquired taste' for movies which involve overstated, over-emphasized artistic detail much like one develops an acquired taste for beer. As I was watching the movie I simply became overwhelmed by the conundrum of combining a plausible story idea with a weak, almost non-existent dialogue from the actors. Big yawner!


                
It's incredible how this movie is so overrated. Maybe because some people don't want to hear that "they didn't get" what the movie tries to say, or because it's a Stanley Kubrick film and no one can talk bad about his pictures. Actually, it's because of that i'm writing this,I don't usually write reviews for movies, but for this one I had to do. I went watching the movie thinking that it would be awesome, everybody say it's incredible, and because i loved the amazing films by the great Stanley Kubrick. But this one is really weak, it is not as nearly as entertaining, there's some pretty images and an interesting soundtrack, there's a nice story with HAL, but there's no plot, there's no character development and there are a bunch of pointless scenes that you want just to turn of the TV and go to sleep. I gotta say that there is a nice "tension" along the whole movie, i watched it always expecting that something would happen, and the soundtrack is good because it contributes to that, but nothing happens during two hours and a half. There are too much boring parts, 15 minutes of monkeys and an uncountable number of minutes with ships landing. However I still recommend this movie, because somehow it became a classic, and if you're gonna hate something you got to know why, but if you're gonna watch it have two things in mind: 1-Forget it's a Stanley Kubrick film. 2- Forget what other people say about it. This two facts will affect your judgement of the movie, and if you're gonna say you liked, you also got to know why, and because everybody says "it's art" is not a good reason, actually is not a reason at all. Really, I would rate this movie like a 4 or 5, but I gave 1 because i think it's grade need to be lowered, it can't be compared to the other Kubrick's great works.
If you want to know where some of the inspiration of sci-fi media originated then go for it. But I should warn you it's a really long movie with BARELY something happening.You have this spectacle of scenes with classical pieces that give you this ominous feeling, yes, but after 4-5 mins contemplating the same image... it gets boring. This happens quite a few times. I must say I'm not a Stanley Kubrick fan since I have watched plenty of his movies and I've liked none... so my opinion is biased.Still, I say that its outdated in terms of the story. Nowadays media in general, and especially videogames, have expanded the topic "what makes us human" and developed it better.I acknowledge the fact that it was an inspiration for many many directors and writers but:-if you like the topic and have been exposed so much to it, i don't think this is for you.
-If you think you can appreciate what it meant in its time, then it is.


                
Ah, the sweet irony of a vast "Savannah" of pseudo-intellectuals in worshipful praise of a film with Darwinism as a central theme! And after watching this thing, painfully, for the third time the only imagery I'm left with is a bunch of baboons sitting at a keyboard with pipe smoke swirling overhead ranting on about the stunning grandeur of it all. Please. You want to be one of the sheep, or a shepherd? If evolution exists then one can naturally conclude that part of the process is the ability to think for oneself. Apparently that's not the case. If you want real entertainment, pour yourself a drink and take an hour or so to read through the reviews posted on this site. But keep an "open mind" OK? I guarantee you more entertainment value than you will find by sitting through this borefest. 2001 is an example of technological craftsmanship and that's about it, other than a monument to a director's out of control self-indulgence.
But I have an idea of how we can add some entertainment spice to this film-let's make it interactive...sort of like Rocky Horror. We can do a "shirts and skins" thing, and pass out Mastodon femurs to all the patrons, pro and con, then sponsor a free-for-all about halfway through the movie with the winners deciding whether it's worth sitting through the balance of this "masterpiece." I'm betting that all we "troglodytes" that despise this movie will win that battle everytime, no matter how greatly outnumbered. Now there's a statement about "evolution" that you can sink your teeth into.
OK, now that the brawl is over let's look at Kubrick himself and what his true vision for 2001 may have been. If you consider the balance of his most successful work they all have insanity or some sort of personal haunting dementia as it's primary theme...the insanity of war, destructive obsessiveness, etc. And if you apply this thought process, or "vision", to 2001 then the natural conclusion one might arrive at is this.....it's already interactive, Kubrick designed it that way to inspire the natural selection process in his audience thereby segregating us into two classes-the one group that will identify with James Mason's "Lolita" character as an obsessive,  sexually repressed perverted intellectual, and the other that will no doubt be driven insane after sitting through this overlong snore-a-thon.... thus connecting us all eventually to the quirky genius behind camera. I like Kubrick for the most part and on balance I suppose I can even forgive him for butchering "The Shining" but in the final analysis "2001" is a dull and lifeless space opera that may fire off a neuron or two but it doesn't pass for entertainment. 5/10 SKINS RULE!


                
2001: a space odyssey has long been a movie I wanted to see, perhaps mainly for the reason of it being one of those classics you have to see. In general I have enjoyed Stanley Kubricks work on The Shining, A Clockwork Orange & Full Metal jacket, and I guess I still do<U+0085> but:In this case there are way too many drawn out scenes of e.g. an astronaut floating through space for almost 5 minutes, while we listen to his breath, or the endless scenes in the space station where background music is substituted with a series of high frequency noises (this was actually so much that I had to turn down the volume), or again the full 5 minutes of a music track, that is used to show a spacecraft land.I am completely aware that this movies was groundbreaking in visual effects at its time, and most of its content where based on the amazing visuals, and well-crafted scenery made for it.But, the fact that I, multiple times, actually ended up fast forwarding through scenes, or had to turn down the volume because of obnoxious sounds and music, spoiled it for me. Sorry.


                
"2001: A Space Odyssey" has been acclaimed as one of the greatest films of all time that is nothing short of a cinematic miracle. How? This film lacks any surreal visual literature and has absolutely nothing to show for besides a cutting-edge visual portrayal including groundbreaking cinematography, clear sound and stylish visual effects. The visual evolution in film is interesting to study and when considering that in 1968 this was considered a visual miracle, you'll feel very granted to live in a time where visual effects are mostly eye-popping all the time. "2001: A Space Odyssey" is about three different space stories about evolution within animals, mankind and technology. When the world is ruled by apes, one particular group discovers a mysterious rectangular monolith near their home, which imparts upon them the knowledge of tool use, and enables them to evolve into people. A similar monolith is discovered on the moon, and it is determined to have come from an area near Jupiter. Astronaut Dave Bowman, along with four companions, sets off for Jupiter on a spaceship controlled by HAL 9000, a revolutionary computer system that is every bit humankind's equal--and perhaps its superior. When HAL endangers the crew's lives for the sake of the mission, Bowman will have to first overcome the computer, then travel to the birthplace of the monolith. This story isn't handled well. It's all over the place. First we see apes evolving, next we get this space mission with absolutely no character development, hardly any dialogue, a lame plot who's only support is visual effects. Not one scene is gripping or directed well by Stanley Kubrick, who makes the film extremely quiet causing the film to sooth you into a deep sleep. The extremely long length and boring plot with scenes that are never started or ended at the right time caused me to count down the entire time of how many minutes were left until I could be free from this snoozer. The film doesn't tackle any themes of persistence, teamwork or risk like many space films do. Instead, it's all plain visuals. We see the visual portrayal of a space mission instead of the depth taken by mankind. The fact that this is being praised as one of the greatest films of all time shocks me greatly. This just simply cannot compete with other classic films that are handled in a better subject and don't make you tired and bored to tears.


                
This is a Stanely Kubrick "classic" and I use the term very loosely as this film is both unbelievably tedious and boring.The film in broken into segments starting with the evolution of Man and a subsequent space mission gone awry. Sprinkled among these four parts is some of the flattest acting you will ever see which is strange because Kubrick was a master at getting the best out of his actors. The only two cast members that add any life to it are Douglas Rain as the voice of HAL 9000 and Vivian Kubrick as the adorable daughter of Floyd.The film is many things: long, slow, meandering, flat and redundant. These negative traits affect almost everything the film has to offer from the story to the performances and the score. The only thing NOT affected is the special effects which are pretty convincing.In conclusion, although the story has promise and it sparkles every now and then, the film is just plain dull.


                
hi everyone this is my first post and am from ghana.i have cable TV and so watch a lot of Hollywood and independent movies.2001 now i know many film scholars and critics(well some) will tell you this is one of the greatest films ever made ( especially with the breakthroughs in fields of special effects).but i have a BIG problem with the pace of the whole movie.I've seen it three times on TCM .Each time falling asleep one hour or so into it.The only time i wake up is when i hear the glass on the table at the end of the movie break! ANOTHER THING COULD SOMEONE EXPLAIN THE ENDING TO ME? i really don't get the whole point of this movie.


                
This movie very overrated. The best scenes fiction of all time is Godzilla. This is just hype. It is very slow and the last 20 minutes a confusing. It not as bad as the 1978 remake of Invasion of the body snatchers. But it is not at good. It is not well written. It is very slow past. This movie is a wast of time. It is also a wast of money. Do not see this movie. Do lesson to people who hype it so mush. The Star wars movie are a lot better. The King Kong movie are a lot better. Godzilla is a lot better. Do not see this movie. It is not a good movie. It is a very bad movie. Some people are traveling thou space. And it nothing as good as Star trek. Not even close. The sequel 2010 is a better movie. And that was not a very good movie either.


                
To start out with, Stanley Kubrick was one of a kind and great at what he did. He made many great movies that really set the bar for what film can do and all of it was out of the box. But, this movie is no good. To todays viewers it is too slow, too vague, and too boring to be worth watching. What makes this movie special was that it was the first of its kind and nothing like this had been done before. Now it is old hat. I sat through this movie hoping there would be at least some tiny redeeming plot at the end, but there wasn't. Most of the symbolism didn't come through. I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone unless they were really interested in film. This is unlike anything I have ever seen before and just for creativity and quality alone it deserves at least a 4. But otherwise not worth it.


                
I never saw this when it came out, but thought I ought to take a look. So I got it through Netflix. I must be the only one on Earth who didn't think this was a great movie. Most of it was music, noises and special visual effects that looked like they were ripped off from the colorful weather storm patterns you can see on any weather website today. I simply didn't get this movie. There's hardly any dialog, and a lot of space ships floating around, seen from many angles...I understand the description of what this is about (the philosophical question - the concept - of the nature of advanced civilizations), but I failed to see this made apparent in this film. To me, it's very disjointed with no clues as to what is supposed to be happening or why. I wonder whether a lot of people gave this rave ratings because they were afraid to say, hey, I didn't get it. I gave it a 4 just to be nice.


                
So i recently decided to watch this movie and i really do not get why people like it so much. It was very boring and some scenes just kept going and going... I actually fell asleep. I'm not kidding. And you know what the worst part about it was? I don't think i missed anything when i woke up.
This seems to be one of those 'if you dont like it you just dont get it' kind of movies. Or people have been saying that people are just too impatient if they complain about the long scenes. However, I've watched the extended version of the lotr trilogy but i enjoyed those movies. I just don't get it.
I did however think the special effects were great for 1968. That's the only reason why i'm giving this snorefest 4 stars instead of 1


                
