I have seen thousands of films ranging from foolish humor such as harold and kumar to brilliance like Requiem for a Dream. I've been wanting to see this film for years and after building my new home theater I deemed that this would be the film I would use for its opening.Wow.I found myself fast forwarding (Something I've never done in a film) through many of the so called 'visual masterpiece's' If it wasn't for HAL I would have broke this garbage into a thousand pieces. Don't get me wrong I love every other one of Kubrick's films, he just missed on this one..terrible.


                
I honestly don't get what is so great about this movie. Sure, it covers controversial topics like evolution and A.I., but it is all done through images rather than dialog. Many people that I know like this film from that very reason; well, no offense, but when I see a movie, I look forward to actors acting, and a clear storyline.Visuals are great to have, which this movie certainly fulfills, but it is not enough. All it took was classical music and a green screen to make this movie. I can understand it was a big deal in the 1960s but come on; any fool can do that. This is all I got out after seeing this movie: -The first five minutes are of blackness with blaring classical music. The next twenty minutes of the movie is nothing more than apes jumping around and using bones to beat one another senselessly.-When this FINALLY ends, the next five minutes is a distant shot of a modeled space station that the camera zooms incredibly slowly towards it with some pretty music. After this, there are actually PEOPLE in this movie. Wow<U+0085>it only took a half hour to see some people! -So these people are on some sort of mission, which makes up the next thirty minutes of nothing more than boring dialog (at least there was some talking). Then all of the sudden, they all die for no reason. The next hour of the film is the introduction of the ACTUAL story with the protagonist Dave and the computer A.I. Hal. Predictably, Hal malfunctions and decides to kill everyone, forcing Dave to be the hero.-Now that two hours have passed, I sleepily wonder what the rest of the film is. Well, I'll just say that the next ten minutes is what John Candy quoted from Spaceballs, "They have gone to plad." Following that, the remainder of the movie is an old man in robes eating at a table in a white room muttering to himself, and then a swift change to an alien baby sucking its thumb.I did not get a single point from this movie, just a borefest of pretty images that I can find in any Terrence Malick film. There was nothing captivating or enchanting with this movie. I wish I could get the two and a half hours I lost from watching this waste of a so-called "classic science-fiction film". 1/10 -If I was able to, I would give this a fat zero.
This film is slow. There is a better way to listen to classical music then watch a film for 2 hours. There is no plot. This film is only for those art types who pretend that they really see the "deep" meaning and the "amazing" technical blah blah blah...it is like the emperors new clothes. I am not afraid to admit that i hated this film. It is slow and pointless! The emperor is naked! There you go, say it. Don't be scared...PS I love all other Kubrick films


                
Stanley, Stanley, Stanley. I love Kubrick. Strangelove is one of my fave films of all time. Paths of Glory was devastating. Clockwork Orange scarred me for life. I even appreciate Barry Lyndon not Ryan O'Neal, but I digress. 2001 IS important in film history, i firmly believe Star Wars would not exist if not for this film. But this film is so antiseptic. You have music, then ten minutes of darkness. Then primates come shrieking on the scene, throwing bones, killing pigs and screaming at the monolith, which seemed to like a chocolate bar on steroids. Then one throws a bone in the air and presto! It is a space vehicle. When the actual humans in the film speak, my sister said "can you turn the volume up?" I did and it did not help. Everything happens so slowlyyyyyyyyyyyy in this film. In the end, HAL ended up as my favorite character, with the screaming primate coming in second place. Like I said, I APPRECIATE this movie, I LOVE Kubrick, but no one is perfect. 8 stars for its important place in history and Kubrick's sheer audacity. Cheers Stanley
I was a young married man in 1968. My wife and I saw this movie in the theater. I remember it well, as it ended we looked at each other, and one of us said, "We must have missed something." So we sat there, didn't move out of our seats, and watched it a second time. We still didn't "get it." I suspect a lot of theater-goers in 1968/1969 didn't "get" this movie.Now I was able to see it again, thanks to the recently-released 10 DVD set of Kubrick films. I have the set on loan from my public library. Maybe just because I am older, have lived a lot, it all seems much clearer now.The movie starts in prehistoric times when the most intelligent animals are black, hairy, and ape-like. They are meek, huddle together for comfort, and forage for food. One day they awake to find a black monolith in their midst, they crowd around it, they touch it, and soon after they "evolve", they learn to use bones as tools and clubs, they fight, they eat what they kill. These apes have become early man, by virtue of their encounter with the black monolith.Is it a supreme being, God? Or is it a far advanced race of intelligent life that provided the monolith and its spark of evolution? I suppose the answer depends on whether one is a theist or an atheist.Then, what many call the longest "fast-forward" in the history of film, the story advances to about the year 1999, and we join a space plane on its trip to a base on the moon. It seems modern instruments have detected an unusual magnetic field and they find buried 40 feet below the surface a black monolith, apparently just like the one the apes encountered millions of years earlier. The monolith is sending a strong signal towards the planet Jupiter.So this 1999 encounter with a monolith must be considered to spark the next evolutionary step, and 18 months later we join a mission to Jupiter, five astronauts, three in a "hibernation" mode. They are led by Keir Dullea as Dr. Dave Bowman and with a state of the art, thinking and reasoning computer, the HAL 9000. There isn't much dialog in the whole movie and the most memorable is between Dave and HAL.Finally, as Dave is the only survivor of the mission, there is yet another monolith, in orbit around Jupiter. Dave's encounter with it results in a 10-minute light and special effects show on film, representing his encounter, where he is placed into an environment designed to mimic home, much like we humans capture zoo animals and put them in a habitat that mimics their natural environment. After some accelerated aging, Dave is re-born as a type of star child that represents the next evolution of mankind, and as the movie ends is being sent back to Earth, ostensibly to preserve it from destruction by Earth's own inhabitants.The DVD has an interesting special feature which is commentary by the two main actors, and their insights are very interesting. One thing they mention, it was filmed in 1965 and 1966.Good movie. Even though many scenes are slow and very drawn out, in all it didn't seem as long as its running time would suggest.
I used to think "2001: A Space Odyssey" was a Great Movie, but now I'm not so sure. Now that I've seen it a few times, I feel like I've gotten all there is to be gotten from it, and the thought of sitting down to watch it again triggers my brain to begin thinking of all the other things I could be doing with my time. Is that the sign of a great movie? Shouldn't we be able to revisit great movies again and again and find something fresh about them years after they initially hit the screens? I don't know.Anyway, "2001" is at least a terrific movie and an important one. No science fiction film made since can deny the influence of this movie's vision of space. Many of the special effects look more realistic than the computer generated effects of today. And while I defy anyone to truly explain the meaning of this film with confidence (I wonder if even Kubrick could have), it certainly makes you feel *something,* even if you're not sure what that something is.On the first viewing, the pacing of the film seemed stately and fitting for a film about drifting through the cold depths of space; now it just seems ponderous. It's even more pronounced now how little the human actors register in this film, and how HAL (which is just a voice, really) steals the show. And when I was younger and more eager to accept the opinions of film scholars and other purported know-it-alls, I thought the ending was profound and full of meaning; now it seems pretty obtuse and vague.But when it comes right down to it, Kubrick's worst movie is anyone else's masterpiece. His movies never feel comfortable with human emotions, so the fact that this movie could almost exist without humans at all comes as little surprise. His style has always been slow, but it comes as a welcome change from all the frenetic, hyper crap being produced now. And at least this movie makes you think, even if it doesn't provide any answers, which again is more than I can say for most of the movies playing in theatres this weekend.So I may not rate "2001" as highly as I once would have, but I fully support its place as one of the most audacious and significant films of all time.Grade: A


                
this films is quite revoluitionary. it has some of the best visuals ever seen on film. they have the most extraordinary sets. the creation of the spacecrafts and interior is quite simply a work of art. from the space suits to the electronics to the visuals in space, it is as good as it could be.
the way the astronauts move around in their spacecraft has never been done before. and how they managed to do that in the late sixties is beyond belief. they way the walk vertically, and in all different angles is excellent. this is without doubt one of the best looking films ever. 
the story howver, can be confusing,  boring and long winded but this is not how the film is intended to be viewed.it is a work of art, like the best looking painting you ever saw. and as such is as good as it gets.and the film has stood the test if time. it hasn't aged at all and is unlikely to in the future. it sets the standard for sci-fi films and motion picture in general.


                
Short and Simple Review by WubsTheFadgerFirst off, the film is a story of humanities evolution and is a philosophical work. Stanley Kubrick was reticent about offering up a definitive explanation for the movie and encouraged audiences to interpret it for themselves. I would highly recommend watching an explanation video after finishing the film. I found one on YouTube by LondonCityGirl - Knowledge. She really helped me understand all of the symbolism and helped me fully understand the very complex story.With all that said, I found the film very confusing. After the film ended, I was left perplexed at what I had just witnessed. The story is very complex and has many symbols. Symmetry, shapes, alignment, and time all play an important and sometimes subtle role in telling the story. I found the plot extremely interesting and the eeriness and surreal-ness of the film was great. The music choice is stunning. The music that plays when we see the monolith/sentential is creepy and eerie. The acting is very good. Keir Dullea, Gary Lockwood, and William Sylvester all perform very well. Douglas Rain, who voices HAL 9000, performs the best in my eyes. His performance as HAL left chills running down my spine and he brought an almost humanlike aspect to HAL.The pacing is very slow. There are a number of long scenes that are merely a black screen or a docking sequence. These can be tiresome. The runtime is also overlong. There is a lack of dialogue but the symbolism behind the heavy breathing and moments of pure silence are there for a reason. The CGI is okay. I know this is an old film but it doesn't hold up to the standard that Star Wars created.All in all, this film is a great work of fiction and is a defining movie when it comes to cinema.Pros: Complex story, great use of symbolism, eerie music, good acting, Douglas Rain's performance as HAL 9000, and great directing by Stanley KubrickCons: Slow pacing, an overlong runtime, okay CGI, the story is extremely complex because of the use of symbols, and the ending is very confusingOverall Rating: 8.3P.S. This film reminded me of Interstellar, they both have a similar ending. Interstellar is much easier to understand but I would still highly recommend this film to Sci-Fi fans


                
Watching 2001 Space Odissey requires a special sweet taste or so I was told before I saw the film for the first time. My friends constantly banged on the idea of this movie being a landmark for science fiction, one that belong to that category of works or art which won't be understood by everyone but a few chosen ones. Then a doubt came to me as...but then what are the qualities that one must have in order to catch the meaning Kubrick's work of art? The answer came just as easy as the doubt: none special characteristics or personality traits are needed to enjoy it. Even if they were essential to grasp the message that 2001 is trying to get across I don't think it would be worth the effort. My mindset, personality...is the same regardless of the films I watch.Having said that, the films is a seminal work for science fiction. It's like the discovery of the atom for Physics. At least, it was so for me. It's not only about a plain and straight evolution from monkeys living Earth barely aware of their own existence into advanced, technology-driven human beings. Stating that the films is only about that is pointing out something quite obvious. However, it can be understood on many distinct levels: psychological, technological, political....And the lines often blurred enough for us not to be able to see where one starts and other finishes.


                
I remember seeing this quite young in the theatres and even though I did not understand it - I was blown away by so many of the sequences. The art direction and the special effects in space were stunning for their time. I now own a copy of the film and every now and then I just put it in the VCR and it doesn't matter where it is, I just watch and am blown away by the consummate film-making. Kubrick was a film genius who made great films (Paths Of Glory, 2001) admirable ones (Barry Lyndon) and messes (Eyes Wide Shut, Shining, Lolita). I just showed Paths of Glory to my wife for the first time and man, what an amazing film about war and madness and cowardice amongst officers.


                
What the meaning of the black monolith is in 2001: A Space Odyssey has been puzzling moviegoers for generations. I confess I haven't any better idea than any of the others who have written on this board. I guess Stanley Kubrick and Arthur Clarke wanted everyone to make their own evaluation. A little more evidence could have helped.The awesome visual affects of 2001 for which the film won its only Oscar in 1968 have blinded a lot of viewers to the ultimate incomprehensibility of the plot. That big black rock means something a whole lot different to the prehistoric caveman than to the futuristic astronauts. To one it means power, the other understanding. It's like some all powerful creator has left this touchstone for mankind to take another leap forward.The film begins with the cave people who are struggling to survive against animal creatures who are better equipped than they are for dominance. But contact with the rock, so glaringly out of place from the surroundings awakens the latent intelligence in the cave folk and they stage a comeback against their foes. It's the beginning of man's dominance.In the biggest fast forward in screen history, we are now in the future and another of these things has been discovered on a moon of Jupiter, the first sign of intelligent life away from earth. Scientists Keir Dullea and Gary Lockwood and three other scientists in cryogenic suspension are sent to investigate. Remember we haven't discovered warp drive yet. Civilization may have taken too far a leap forward because these guys are in the hands of an all powerful computer named HAL who controls the ship and their very lives by definition. What's supposed to be a tool for man now is his dominator.When man does come in contact with that monolith on a Jupiter moon, my own interpretation is that the contact represents an all powerful creator telling man to reflect on what he has achieved and to warn him to not go too fast forward in the future. The monoliths represent signposts, like checkpoints in a race to God only knows what end.I'm always leery of rating a film like 2001 too high when the plot is so vague and speculative. But the special effects and Kubrick's use of classical music to create that space ballet just so dwarf the human beings involved, in effect the film itself is a warning. And all that music was in the public domain so MGM didn't have to lay out big bucks for a composer. I always favor story over spectacle which is why I can never give 2001: A Space Odyssey the highest rating. But when the spectacle is as awesome as what Stanley Kubrick gives us, you just sit there amazed.Of course 2001 came and went and instead of reaching for the rest of the solar system and beyond, mankind regressed into barbarism with the most notable event being a planned massed murder. Mankind needs to touch the monolith and make another leap forward. Maybe Kubrick should have looked farther ahead and called his film, 2101: A Space Odyssey.I hope we touch the monolith before that.


                
Strictly speaking, I should have been in the queue for 2001 when it was first released - aged 16 and a major science fiction fan, I can't understand how come I missed it, and didn't pick it up until a cinema re-release 6 years later, when I saw it 3 times in 3 days.You can take it that I really liked it.The intervening years have cooled me down somewhat. I still like eye candy, but we're spoiled for it these days. I still like spacecraft and sci-fi generally, but ditto.And this leaves me looking at 2001 solely on its own merits.When I saw it in the 70s, I had read Clarke's short story The Sentinel shortly before, and I therefore had a pretty good idea of what the story was. Standing back and looking at the movie and imagining myself in the position of someone coming to it cold, it must have been a nightmare. I guess it would be possible to figure out the link between the monoliths, although possibly not until encountering the one on the moon - fabulous though the jump-cut from bone to orbiting satellite may be, I'm not sure it actually explains anything. The Jupiter mission is straightforward enough, but the final sequence is baffling to anyone not in the know.This was not a friendly film to offer to the general public although, to be fair, there is no reason why it should have been. I read aggressively defensive comments disparaging those who have trouble with the movie because it does not offer a readily comprehensible narrative, and I find myself thinking that, while there is no reason why Kubrick should have done so - his choice, and I respect that - it is perfectly understandable for members of the film-going public to be a little bemused not to find the narrative they expected. People expect things to be explained and, to some extent, it is perverse not to make that explanation available given that it exists.For all that, this is trailblazing stuff from an effects point of view, with a stunning vocal performance from Douglas Rains.By the way, count me among those who think Kubrick took it at rather too leisurely a pace.
It was fantastic the whole way through, loved the special effects Stanley kubrick is brilliant a classic that will be remembered for a long time !!!


                
Space Odyssey is a state-of-the-art Sci-fi movie in terms of technological ideas it exhibited – which was truly first-of-its-kind way back in 1968 when it was released.It seems Space Odyssey was thought of by Stanley Kubrick just to showcase those technological ideas – without any proper sci-fi story.The movie looks very "experimental" in nature.The importance of Stanley Kubrick can be gauged from the fact that Steven Spielberg considers him to be the Big Bang of Science-Fiction movies. And that's 100% true! Because Stanley's technological ideas were subsequently used in many sci-fi movies that followed.MERITS of Space Odyssey 1 – A state-of-the-art sci-fi movie that was well ahead of its time (1968).2 – It was the first movie in which you saw the introduction of Artificial Intelligence & Space suits.3 – It was the first movie in which you will see the phenomenon of things floating in space (FYKI humans conquered moon in 1969).4 – The movie also introduced a special accessory – anti-floating slippers.5 – The interior decoration of the space ship is ultra-modern (for that time).It has hi-tech sofas similar to what exists today. More interestingly, the sofas have display screens at the back. I do not think anyone at that time (1968) were using such hi-tech sofas in real life.6 – The film showcased visual effects & sound effects well ahead of its time.7 – Space Odyssey has a signature tune that is world famous and has been used around the world in TV shows.DEMERITS of Space Odyssey (but this does not mean you should not watch this path-breaking film) 1 – It is a slow-moving movie and does not have any "action" at all.2 – The ending is BIZARRE – and incomprehensible! Finally, believe it or not but Space Odyssey is a must watch film before you die!


                
Will the people be able to travel in space? Will we be able to go on holiday to the Moon? Well, I don't know. Let's go back in time to the times when apes ruled the world. One day they find a monolith. After discovering it, one of the apes 'invents' the first weapon. This is for sure one of the most important invention in our history. Without it, we must say, we won't be able to rule our planet. In next scenes we see apes battling against. We can see an element of fighting for valuable things - in this case, water. The apes who has got the new invention win, the others lose. The same as during wars. Countries with better army and weaponry win. This is a natural element of our civilization. The action goes to nowadays. On the screen there are some big spaceships. Nice thing is, that in the background we can hear the classical music like Johann Strauss' waltz. Some time later we can see a group of scientists who find the monolith on the Moon. It is the same as in the first scenes of the film. Then we see a space mission to the Jupiter. Supercomputer HAL-9000 flies with two astronauts, David and Frank. HAL is a computer with AI, so for example it can make its own decisions. When HAL feels threatened because the astronauts want to switch him down, it kills one of them. This shows us how dangerous AI programs can be. They behave like people and thus they also have their feelings. And, as in this case, they fight for themselves to survive when endangered.Having presented the plot, let's talk about the technical aspect of the film. It is about 50 years old now and it still looks really good! The scenes with the apes and the ones on the board of the spaceship are very realistic. That is why the film got the Oscar for visual effects in 1969. The base on the Moon is also outstandingly shown. When I was watching the film, I was impressed by the fact that it was made in the 60s.Now the music. For me, this is one of the most important elements of the movie. In my opinion the usage of classical music helps to show the vastness of the space. This musical theme has been used in many films later and it has been then associated with this movie. "2001: A Space Odyssey" is a film with deep meaning. It is not a kind of movie with many plot twists. People who like action films, without offending anyone, perhaps will be disappointed. The movie makes us thinking about the beginning of our civilization or the AI programs. Maybe there was something what pushed us to later development? Maybe the computers with AI will be dangerous to some of us? We can ask ourselves some questions like these when we have seen this film. I do not want to write philosophical essays now, but "2001: A Space Odyssey" is a great material for them. Furthermore, we can spend some time thinking about the place of humans in the outer space. Our civilization is not as advanced to travel in time and discover the whole galaxy. Are we alone in the universe? Can we come into contact with other civilizations in the galaxy? Will we ever meet other civilization? What would happened if the AI program started to rule the world? I asked myself these questions after seeing the film.In conclusion, <U+0084>2001: A Space Odyssey" is for sure a must if you are keen on science-fiction movies. It is a classical film which has a very good technical aspect and a reflective story. It tells us about the possible problems of people in future or about our civilization. It has some elements for long essays which makes it unique in the science-fiction genre. If you are a fan of science-fiction films, you must watch it! * - Artificial Intelligence
Sadly, I am old enough to remember seeing 2001 when it first came out. I saw it in a London West End cinema in it's full 70mm glory on a huge screen. The sound was amazing - huge full-range speakers. A mind blowing experience. Then I heard that a newly restored version was coming to cinemas. So, last night I went to the Picturehouse Harbour Lights cinema in Southampton UK to regain the wonder of this film. I've seen quite a few restored/remastered films and have been amazed by the way some very skilled people have made them better than new. By scanning from the camera negatives, all the losses we used to get from inter-negs and release prints disappear and we are left with amazing clarity and colour fidelity. And, sound restoration can produce stunning sound. So, you can imagine the anticipation as I joined the audience - positioning myself in the best viewing seats. The disappointment set in at the very beginning as the thunderous Also Sprach Zarathustra welled-up. What I actually heard was a harsh muddy sound almost as though it had come from the ceiling speakers you get in department stored. The opening of the film is a "blank" screen but the blank screen had a small but worrying orange blur on each side of the screen. Once we got into the guts of the film, it became apparent to me that we were not looking at a painstakingly re-mastered digital version from the 65mm camera negative so lovingly shot by Geoffrey Unsworth but at what looked like a 35mm inter-negative or even a print. Definition was poor, colours were blotchy and uneven, and there was even a side-to-side wobble on the live action scenes - and that is unforgivable. At this point, I should say that I was professionally involved in some film restoration a couple of years ago, so you could say I was being over-critical, but I don't think so. I carried on watching the film finding myself becoming more and more disappointed. 2001 is an amazing film, but watching it in such poor image and sound quality was a great disappointment. Perhaps you need to see it on a huge screen with a huge sound system, but until it is properly restored, I would not risk it.I left at the interval.Added after re-viewing...........Having been very negative about the restored version of 2001 that I saw at a local cinema, I now want to add something to that review. As I write this, I am now watching the restored version on a professionally set-up high quality plasma screen and my own high quality sound system and I have to say that my opinion of this restored version has changed considerably. I have to put the problems detailed above down to the cinema rather than this restoration of 2001. Firstly the sound quality is extremely good. The sound field is well defined there is virtually no distortion, although unfortunately some fierce limiting and compression on Also Sprach Zarathustra. The quality of the images is actually quite stunning - gorgeous rich blacks, superb skin tones and glowing whiteness - in fact it is hard to imagine a better grading then this. The only the very minor issue that remains is the slight horizontal wobble on a lot of the shots which is normally attributable to either warn or distorted sprocket holes or issues with the original camera . This may well have been due to the use of multiple runs of the negative through the cameras. It is normally relatively easy to correct this type of wobble but if different images on the frame are wobbling differently then probably it is best left alone! This is a very minor point - it is barely noticeable, and I only noticed it because I have worked on some restoration of old 16 millimetre films and seen this effect and worked on the correction of it.My conclusion is that in fact the 2001 restored version is superb and should be watched by anyone who enjoys the genius of Kubrick at his best. If you can view it on a very high quality television with extremely good quality sound then I think that may be better than relying on a cinema. Oh, and with all this stuff about the technical quality, I ought to mention that the story is Just amazing when you allow yourself to be totally immersed in it. And, the pacing of the film is perfection. The genius of Kubrick and his amazingly talented team. If you take your pleasures slow and sweet, this will delight.


                
I watched 2001: a space odyssey, out of suggestion from a buddy of mine. And I usually don't watch something when they nag me to death about it. Which meant I watched it with a negative mindset right from the start. That being said, I have nothing but respect for a movie with a fair amount of ingenuity and thought provoking ideas being crafted back in 1968. I was amazed and intrigued by a lot of the scenes as to how they did it - with what looked like just camera work. However, because of that negative mindset(as before mentioned), some scenes became horridly outdrawn ranging from sometimes five to fifteen minutes of random assaults of either complete silence or static/strange sounds. Instead of enjoying the obvious attempt to create suspense and atmosphere, it instead became a strenuous struggle on my poor head-phoned-ears. (SPOILERS) As for the plot and story, ,aybe I'm not sophisticated enough to understand the message between the first part of the lunar monolith, the journey to Jupiter and the second monolith. I felt like that part had little to do with the actual message of the film and instead was just that - a space journey(Well DUH. It IS the theme of the movie). I've seen a lot of films where the depths are endless and the message or meaning can be interpreted in many different ways(Ex: The Fountain, Mulholland Drive). I still struggle here. It just feels empty to be honest. The idea that an alien or artificial intelligence provided knowledge to prehistoric man or in fact engineered our species isn't thought provoking for me. It is something that I have discussed and theorized with friends and as an atheist it is an idea that is common nowadays. Of course, this film has provided many authors, film directors -artists- with the inspiration for this idea - so credit where its due. But, for me, it is a piece of cake that I've already had too much of and does not impress upon me anymore. I am very much for films where the director lets the audience think for themselves and agree on the fact that most entertainment nowadays "hold your hand" or "spoon feed you the content" throughout the whole experience. It might be nice to feel like a child again, but we have to grow up sometime and movies like these shakes that groggy dreamlike state Hollywood has forced upon our minds. I celebrate every movie, game, book that allow us to use our brain - but to me, as an atheist, this movie is not thought provoking at all(for the beginning of humanity's existence that is).The controversial ending(As someone said) is interesting and freshly new, as for my film experiences. I liked the idea that he perhaps was traveling in time, a wormhole, and experiencing his death/aging by seeing the future. Every time something happened, a sound, a movement, the most obvious his glass of liquor, he saw himself in a vision older and when the other vision saw him it became him. On the other hand, the camera's point of view could have been from the monolith the entire time in that time-capsule, watching him grow old or making him grow old to be reborn a new. I have a sneaking suspicion that the monoliths had something to do with HAL9000's malfunctions and odd behavior - or am I wrong on that point? There are probably some points I have forgotten and I'll have to watch it again sometime in a more neutral state. Right now it just wasn't that much of a memorable experience, other than the intriguing visual effects of the great camera work.Feel free to help me understand the greatness of this movie, because I don't want any negative thoughts of a movie that was the inspiration for a hell of a lot science-fiction movies and books. 8/10PS: That ending deserves an acid-trip. Heh..


                
This movie wasnt liked that much in 1968 despite its incredible special effects, and today we like it because "special effects were great for its time", Ive seen around 1000 great movies and this is among the overrated, it lacks the standard of what a critic asks from a movie, still some rate it highly not due to what they see but what the genious Kubrick "wanted to do"


                
People speak of the film being hard to follow, and that's Stanley. Reading the novel made all the difference for me. The movie can be watched with more understanding.


                
I'm 22 and just finally watched this. Glad I waited til I was a little older so I could grasp some of the concepts and symbolism. I wouldn't go as far as saying it's the greatest movie of all time, but if you're a big movie fan it's definitely worth watching.


                
I first tried to watch this film on a long flight from Hong Kong to London but I never saw the middle. The film is beautifully short by Stanley Kubrick and crew. He was definitely a master in beautiful colors and scenes. My problems with the film is the lack of storyline. The movie seems endless at times with the lack of storyline and the pacing of it. I know it's a masterpiece by film standards. The shots and visuals are enough to make me watch it again just not so soon. Kubrick was one of my favorite film directors who wasn't afraid to take risks and challenges. Keir Dullea was fabulous in the movie though. I believe the film needs to be on the big screen to be fully appreciated for its glory.


                
When I first saw this on the big screen not knowing anything except the title and some poster shots I thought it was a space sci-fi flick. it starts out interesting enough to hold your attention but far from space travel. Then it jumps to space travel and it lost me completely. I couldn't bridge the two scenes of the movie to make sense. Then, it gets very interesting with visuals and some explanation and without warning shifts again to a long space voyage. The rest completely through me and when we were walking out of the theater, I asked several people what was this movie about? Two passed on explaining it one guy said you have to read the book. I did and then went to see the movie again and it all made sense. This movie has to be explained or you get lost. You need a guide. Book is excellent reading...go from there


                
The movie itself is a different kind of masterpiece. The movie does follow a story line, but many of the details left out make you think more about what is going on in the movie. I also realized that many movies and TV shows reference this movie today (i.e. Family Guy). 2001: A Space Odyssey correctly frames how people in the past thought the future would look like and it was quite similar to today's technology. This movie is a classic must-watch.


                
My Personal Rating - 8.3/10 - This Film might not be for everyone though. i liked everything about this movie it is one of my all time favorites, this film doesn't feel like it's been made from 1968. the plot, the characters are great. especially the robot called "Hal 9000" the problem is this movie is boring as hell. and i do agree for some people it is. but for me it is interesting and boring at the same time in a good way. the ending is is spectacular. this film is ahead of it's time, i don't see why people hate it back when it was released.


                
I think i haven't seen a more monotonous film than this one. I have watched and understood the most popular movies(at least i think i understand) but not this, this plot is really stupid (if it isn't stupid, i must be, lol). I mean this isn't a part 2, so why make a part1 that even 1% of population will not get what its trying to say. But the masses are just as stupid, thinking they totally understand art and creativity even if its new, who are willing to appreciate anything if it is considered art and is odd, with lots of money involved. People who will treasure and make a fuzz over a poop, if it is hangable on the wall.If u ever love this film, i must tell u, do u really enjoy watching this film? If u give it a 10star, are u willing to watch it at least thrice? Just be truthful to urself, this ''Aaa, what a magnificent, brilliant, and genius idea/art/picture'' over trivial stuff is just nonsense.I get to see what the story is about only when i read IMDb Storyline, lol. Oh, And the black cuboid scenes looks like horror film, i bet many pussies will be scared.To wrap it up, i think: Vizuals is good especially for 60s/ Sound is normal/ Acting is normal/ Dialogue is poor/ Plot is good/ and the most imp, Presentaion is DISGUSTING.A completely boring, nonsense, strange and stupid film. But I wud still give it 5/10 coz odd movies are nice to watch once in a while.
