I decided to watch Grave of the Fireflies yesterday. My friends told me it was extremely moving and sad. I hesitated at first, but then I said "Oh well, I'll give it a try." At the end of the film, I was crying my eyes out. This was the best animated film, I've ever seen.This is a moving depiction of the fates of cast-off children who become casualties of war.This movie isn't your regular Animated Film. Pixar and Disney put films out there with happy endings. I'm not saying there bad films at all. They are also great pieces of work. But Grave of the Fireflies tells you the truth. This movie isn't trying to entertain you. It wants to inform you about how war is really like. There were many moments in the movie, that just brought me to tears.I am kind of upset, that this movie didn't get many awards as it should. In that regards, it is VERY underrated and it is kind of thrown apart. When it should really be respected and praise it. If this movie was made in our time period right now. I would be 100% sure this would of Won an Oscar for Best Animated Film. This is Studio Ghilbi's best movie they have ever released.I truly advice you to bring a handkerchief, cause chances are that you will cry.An Emotional Epic Animated Film, that I recommend everyone to watch.Quite Simply 10/10


                
I had the fortune of being able to see Hotaru no Haka on the big-screen in Seattle a couple of years ago.  It was truly the high-point of my film festival excursions.  At the end of the movie, there was silence, absolute and total silence in the theater - and then, only an occasional sniffle until the end credits had finished rolling and the house lights came up.  It would've seemed almost disrespectful to profane the silence with words.Seeing a movie like this really changes attitudes about war - about who really suffers, and that the honor and glory is shallow comfort when you contemplate what has been lost in the struggle.I've made the comment to my friends that if you ever see someone who isn't moved (usually to tears) by this movie, you've found someone without a soul. As difficult as it is to watch, turn off the phone, dim the lights, and immerse yourself in the film with ones you love - you will be a better person for it in the end.There are many other reviews of this movie, and most of them are probably far more comprehensive than my own - I'll conclude by saying that this movie should required viewing at some point (as should the peace museums at Hiroshima and Nagasaki) for everyone.When you see war and conflict in the news or read about it in the paper, think back to this movie - your perspective will probably be broadened, and your eyes opened a bit more.I've only watched this movie about 4 times - it usually takes a year or so to "decompress" after watching it.  To see it too often would lessen the impact, and that would be the worst possible thing to do to this movie.


                
I was warned this movie would be emotional, but I had no idea just how understated that was.  By the end, my friend and I were huddled together, pouring out tears I've never shed for any movie before.  It was a mix of horror, empathy, sadness, and so many more emotions I can't even begin to list.Visions of this film have haunted me since first watching it, and I would find it hard to watch again, simply from it being so heart-wrenching. Only one movie has ever hit me hard enough to keep me from subjecting myself to it's strong emotions again (The thief, the cook, his wife and her lover).I strongly urge all to watch this, as it rises well about any films I've seen, anime or not.


                
When I watched this movie, I steeled myself for a traumatic experience, based on every review I'd ever read of it, which usually include phrases like "don't watch this if you're suicidal." Instead, if I had to pick a single word to sum up the movie I saw, it would probably be 'beautiful'.Certainly it was sad, and arguably depressing, but I've read this movie compared with 'Saving Private Ryan'. That's ridiculous. 'Grave of the Fireflies' is gentle and poetic more often than it's violent, and it's remarkably restrained in its anti-war message. It simply tells a story : there's very little at all in the way of moralizing or polemics. Why would a story like this need such heavy-handed tactics?I've also read it argued that the movie is robbed of any suspense or impact when it's revealed in the opening scene that the main characters are dead. I have a quite different view of that device.Firstly. the beginning of 'Fireflies' is, for all intents and purposes, a 'happy ending'. This is such a non-linear plot development that you could fail to notice it, and thereby only see the movie's gloom. The moment where the ghostly Seita takes the ghostly Setsuko's hand and nods to her is not only a happy moment, it signifies that the suffering - which is yet to come, as far as the viewer is concerned - is over, and they are together again (albeit still without parents).As for a character revealing that he is dead in the first line of the movie, this is a device which has been used in centuries if not Milena. The crucial thing here is that 'Fireflies' isn't _about_ tension. It tells a story whose ultimate conclusion you already know (a legitimate narrative approach), and everything which happens during that story is emotionally infused with a foreknowledge of its ending. You find yourself hoping that things will go right now for Setsuko and Seita, and then the knowledge that ultimately it won't undercuts you with real emotional power. You know the characters are going to die, but you hope things won't be so bad in the meantime. It doesn't take much of an effort to make that an analogy for our own lives, which makes us all fireflies.Perhaps what might make someone feel disappointed or cheated by this film is simply that it's so damn honest. I mean that: it's one of the most honest, artifice-free movies I've ever seen. It doesn't even really try to ram an anti-war message down your throat there is very little overt violence, and if there are some scenes of corpses and suffering, it's never gratuitous, and it's over quickly. Compare this with 'Private Ryan', where you have to suffer through 40 minutes of the most horrific blood and guts, only to reach a conclusion which, after much blood and thunder, signifies very little.'Fireflies', OTOH, has far more beauty than gore. This is what really surprised me about it. Probably two thirds of the movie takes place in gorgeously drawn, tranquil rural or urban settings, with an almost pleasant dreamlike quality - even when the American bombers are flying overhead at one point there is a surreal, almost serene sense to it - and there are plenty of moments of happiness to offset the undeniably sadness and frustration of other scenes.Perhaps best of all, Setsuko is one of the very, very few (if not the only) animated 4 year-old I've ever seen who actually _behaves_ like a four year old. I'm so sick of seeing preternaturally smart, sassy, sophisticated and precocious children in Hollywood movies. Setsuko's emotion and behaviors are _exactly_ right for a completely normal four year-old, and recognizing this lends many scenes incredible poignancy. Similarly, Seita is a teenage boy who behaves with the sort of mixture of pride, compassion and hubris which you'd expect of someone his age. He still believes that Japan will win the war he thinks it's up to him to take care of his sister with their mother gone and father who knows where. This leads him to make mistakes: possibly the most obvious one being where he fails to take the farmer's advice, swallow his pride and ask his nasty aunt to take them back in again. You would probably have to say his decision not to even try - to go it alone instead, was a very bad one, but - hello, people - here is a character who makes mistakes because he's actually human: a believable teenage boy in an extraordinary situation, who doesn't miraculously save the day, because his best judgment just isn't good enough.Of course, his aunt may well have knocked them back anyway. Who knows?Don't go into the film expecting tension, drama or even a tirade against war. It's a movie about the beauty and fragility of life and youth. If you think Japanese animation is all giant robots and superhuman schoolgirls, this could be the film which changes your mind. It's slow, poetic, beautiful and sad, and extraordinarily honest.I must be the only person who didn't cry during this film (and I mean, I get choked up during some Disney movies). Yes, it is sad, but its beauty and honesty is what I'll remember.NB: this review refers to the subtitled version of the film.
"Grave of the Fireflies" is one of the most ambitious, depressing, and quite frankly, best films that I've ever seen. I was nearly moved to tears by this film's brave treatment of such critical subject matter. Yes, it's an Anime' piece, but surprisingly, it came out in 1988, during a time where most Japanese animation films were either relentless bloodbaths, borderline pornography, or both.As a fan of the Anime' genre of film-making, many great pieces have achieved some sort of cult status here in America, yet none have really reached mainstream success. Some have broken through the barrier and have gained acceptance with American critics, like Katsuhiro Otomo's "Akira," or "Princess Mononoke," or "Spirited Away" (both films directed by Hayao Miyazaki). One that I've seen and has been barely mentioned by most critics is "Grave of the Fireflies."What we have with "Grave of the Fireflies," is a story of innocence lost and two children who ultimately face a losing battle with trying to survive in a small Japanese village in the closing days of World War II. WWII was the costliest conflict in world history, with millions dead and thousands left to pick up the pieces.In the center of it, are the aforementioned two children, who are pretty much left to fend for themselves after their mother is killed in a bombing raid. Because their father is off fighting in the war and they have no way of contacting any other family, they're sent to live with their aunt, who is at first warm and welcoming to them, but eventually becomes very cruel and the children are forced to live in a nearby bomb shelter. From that point on, the two children embark on a journey that is every bit as unpleasant and difficult as the grim realities of the world around them.Very easily one of the best Anime' films that I've ever seen (or any animated film for that matter), I find it difficult to believe just how truly overlooked "Grave of the Fireflies" is. The animation is beautiful, though certainly not dated by any means (even though Japanese animation has progressed well since this film was made).We get a sense of the dread of the two lead characters, who watch as the world around them crumbles into heaps of ashes, and aircraft loom ominously overhead, dropping their deadly, incendiary cargo on unsuspecting Japanese villagers.The director, Isao Takahata, obviously has a special resentment of the war, but manages to avoid condemning it outright. The director instead lets us focus in on the conflict as seen through the eyes of the two children, who watch unflinchingly as the realities of their world begin to falter before them."Grave of the Fireflies" is a bold statement on the condition of the human soul during conflict. I probably shouldn't say this but I am anyways, but this film has to be the "Schindler's List" of animated pieces. It's brave, it's not overly sentimental, but it is relentless in its dramatization of a dangerous reality. It should be required viewing in any high school world history class.A beautiful film; not to be missed by anyone.


                
This film is utterly emotionally draining whilst being rewarding at the same time.The animation is both realistic and stylized but that's not the point, the main focus of this film is the character development of the brother and sister protagonists. Their relationship is nothing short of beautiful and touching.And without spoiling anything I have to say that this film touched me in a way no other film has ever touched me in my adult life. One or two films have upset me and reduced me to watery eyes but Grave of the Fireflies had me in fits of sobbing despair. I was a mess! I'm talking total emotional breakdown. Couldn't talk without sobbing! One of the best films I have EVER seen, animated or not.


                
Being my first Anime review I thought I'd start off with my one of my favourite pieces of work from who else but Studio Ghibli. Ghibli have rarely produced anime that doesn't fall short of great but Graveyard is something different indeed.Set in the aftermath of World War II, Graveyard is focused on the lives of a caring brother and his young sister (Setsuko and Seita) and how they struggle against both the elements of wartime and a depreciating Japanese empire. The most striking thing about Graveyard is probably how real everything seems. The animation is very unconventional to the likes of say Spirited Away or Laputa but in a good way. The horror of war is beautifully realised through the animation, whether it be the American destruction being shown or the bleak outlook on peoples lives, namely the two main characters. Thankfully it earns every shred of emotion it conveys through these two sympathetic characters that only the coldest of hearts wouldn't warm up to.
Avoiding any Hollywood sentimentality, it is often a bleak and depressing perspective depicted but all the more brutally powerful in the process. With my eyes welling up through the duration of the film, it occured to me just how well the Director understands what raw heartfelt emotion is and how to play the audiences heart strings. Nevertheless nothing is shown in a heavy handed approach, no empthasis is put on the Americans nor is there any special attention taken to the war details. If anything the citizens of Japan are shown in the coldest light often giving little help to the plight of others, but demonstrating furthermore what desperate situation everyone is in.Takahata instead decides to focus on the plight of it's title characters against the background of war. With the empire of Japan in crisis and food shortages everywhere it is heart breaking to see a brother struggle to meet ends meet for his sister. Due to the approach taken it borders on being horrifying but fortunately the tone is changed with the spirit put into Setsuko's character. Much like 'The Pianist' the issue is not the war but the struggle and will to survive in it. This is clearly displayed in a plot that revolves around the downward spiral Setsuko trying to feed himself and more importantly the younger and more vulnerable sister Seita. The animation though detailed and indeed beautiful in some sequences (namely relating to the title), is not by any means flashy but captures emotions and interactions between the characters perfectly. It's the perfect mixture of such animation, realistic and highly likeable characters that makes the whole film one tearful experience. Dealing with such difficult issues it's very hard to imagine this being a film and if it was I don't think it would of been done as well.Part of the brilliance also comes from symbology and the association to many different worlds in such a understanding depiction. The child, Seita, is nothing short of perfection in child like behaviour happily oblivious to the desperate situation, amusing herself with simplicity and the quirks of nature and the outdoors. The older brother Setsuko who must carry the burdon of everything is also perfectly portrayed and to watch there decent is painful to say the least. To struggle is one thing but to have shock, shattered dreams and be depended on is something anyone can empthasise with.
There may be some people who will shy away from Anime, disregarding it as a mere cartoon. To those people and everyone else I recommend Graveyard as the tonic, which can be appreciated by anyone with a heart and soul. Among the finest pieces of Anime created and one of the most touching war films ever made.


                
This film proves without any doubt that animation isn't just suited to tales of fantasy, sci-fi or cartoon comedy and violence. This absolutely heartbreaking Japanese anime tells the story of a young boy, Seito and his younger sister, Setsuko, as they attempt to survive the American bombings on Japan in the last year of World War II.The story itself, based on a true story, is powerful enough but the decision to animate the film truly elevates this film to a higher level. This would have been a powerful enough live action drama, along the lines of Spielberg's Empire of the Sun or even Schindler's List. However, the Studio Ghibli team, have brought an extraordinary amount of life to all the characters, but especially the young siblings. Now we're not talking realism as such here - the characters are in no way photo-realistic, they do have the usual characteristics of Japanese anime humans, large eyes and exaggerated expressions. What this achieves however is a heightened level of subtle nuances in expression which are arguably more powerful and provocative than anything a real-life actor may achieve. Some may claim this is overly manipulative or sentimental, but coupled with the characters movements and actions, it gives the characters such a strong, and very human, presence. You truly care for these kids, which is an astonishing achievement. The voice cast (original Japanese) contributes significantly here also.It is the tiny moments which give this film so much power and emotional depth - from subtle expressions to brief scenes showing Seito playing with his sister at bath time, attempting, unsuccessfully, to cheer her up when she misses her mother. The painted backgrounds are works of art in themselves, just beautiful. And of course the scenes with the fireflies bring a touch of pure magic - a heightened innocent reality to contrast the horrific realities of the war.The greatest achievement of this film is that, apart from a couple of obviously sentimental scenes, such as Setsuko's sobbing or illness, it doesn't force any false emotion on the viewer. It really comes from your involvement with the characters. It's completely honest to it's own story and even cuts off scenes abruptly, which could potentially have been milked for cheap sentiment. It often seems to say - This is what happened, you don't need to see anymore. Another of it's strengths is that it really doesn't comment on the politics of the war in any way, just the effects on innocent people.This is an intensely moving film and a masterpiece of animation. If you aren't moved by these characters, you really need to check your pulse. 10/10


                
During my searches on Anime on the net one day I came across this title. This was 2 years ago.Then last week I went to an Anime convention and at the DVD stand I saw it. I bought it immediately.When I got home 3 days later I popped it in. I was warned about it being tragic but nothing could have prepared me for the wave of emotion that hit me while watching it. I was depressed for a whole day. Even thinking about it made me cry..This is the power of Grave Of The Fireflies..This is not your typical Dragonball Z/Sailormoon/Pokemon style anime. While I love Sailormoon and some Dragonball Z, Grave Of The Fireflies surpasses it by lightyears. I bought it expecting an epic movie like Ghost In The Shell or Akira but even those paled compared to this.We have here a story of a 14 year old boy(Seita) who loses his mother in a firebombing during World War 2. He then has to take care of his 4 year old sister(Setsuko). While at first they're taken in by his aunt the relationship between him and his aunt takes a turn for the worst. He then ends up on the street and the struggle begins... It doesn't take a genious to figure out that things get really depressing, yet I won't spoil the ending..All I have left to say is that you have to see this movie.. It's the most powerful movie I've ever seen... It's painful to watch but still you have to see it...
**SPOILERS**I saw "Hotaro no haka" on german TV the other day and it has changed my life! Never have I been so moved by a film in my whole life. I cried and cried and cried. Since then I can´t get this heartbreaking story out of my head.After the movie I went upstairs to the bedroom, where my 3-year-old daughter was sleeping. I woke her up and took her in my arms. In the way she talks and acts she is just like Setsuko, one of the main characters in the film. And I can´t help feeling like Seita, her brother - because my daughter and I are alone since my wife left us a few months ago.I found one of the most touching scenes was the one where the dying Setsuko starts sucking the buttons she collected, because she ran out of her special sweets. I will also never forget how her brother cremates her after having tried everything to save his little sister. The most depressing thing with this movie is: you feel so helpless. You think: Man, I wish I could have helped those kids.This movie has changed my whole attitude to life. All the problems you may have - they become so small. Watch it and you´ll be a different person.Michael Saunders
Truly one of Studio Ghibli's greatest crowning achievements, GRAVE OF THE FIREFLIES is a brilliant masterpiece fully deserving of a place in any of the best movies ever made. Not just an astonishingly great (and, at the risk of coming off as cliché, perfect) work of art, this is a moving, thought-provoking, and ultimately heartbreaking tale about the loss of innocence and the tragedies of war.Based on an autobiography by Akiyuki Nosaka, the film, set during the bombing of Japan in --of all times-- World War II, centers on Seita, a loving, headstrong Navy soldier's son and his innocent little sister, Setsuko. Their fatal struggle for survival begins right at the start, when both are bombed out of house and home by American B-29s. Mom is seriously wounded and found wrapped in bandages at a hospital, where she dies shortly after. The children move to Nishinomiya to stay with their aunt. Auntie, a cold, bitter, self-serving woman, has no patience with Seita or Setsuko, especially when they would rather chase after fireflies at moonlight, play by the beach, or lounge around the house instead of helping out. After butting heads with Auntie long enough, the children decide to run away, setting up home in an abandoned cave by the lake. Both try by all means to live off of vegetables or whatever food they can afford to trade and/or steal, to no avail....The outcome of the story is actually showcased at the opening of the movie, where we see a ghostly specter of Seita watching a more malnourished version of himself die a painful, lonely death at a train station. Indeed, as we see how these events came to pass, we find ourselves rooting for Seita and Setsuko to find a way to stay alive, but alas, it is not to be, given Seita's stubborn pride. The overall tone of the movie is of a very tragic nature--even such lighthearted moments as the aforementioned sequences involving Seita and Setsuko playing around the house or gathering fireflies as lights for their cave are all tainted with a touch of sadness, for we know that these brief scenes of happiness will not last.Who is to blame for the plight of these children? The movie never addresses this question to the audience, nor does it really care to. It would be easy for director Isao Takahata to make this an anti-American movie, but he does better than that. Instead, he aptly conveys that war can spell serious--and deadly--consequences for victims. He also eschews casting any character as a hero or villain, and instead makes this a very human story, with no clear-cut "good" or "bad" characters. The aunt, for example, is not evil; she is merely an angry, desperate woman who is only struggling to survive just as much as Seita and Setsuko are. Atrocious as her treatment of the children is, we somehow never see her as a true baddie, but a very flawed, multi-faceted human being.Normally one would think of this kind of story as suitable for live-action, but GRAVE OF THE FIREFLIES proves that it can be told through the art of animation as well. This is no mindless showcase of gorgeous visuals--although the artistic merits of the movie are, as with Ghibli productions, sumptuous and at times breathtaking--but a display of real characters struggling with very tangible emotions. And the most amazing accomplishment about this movie is how much we grow to care for Seita and Setsuko--their inseparable bond of love and companionship is the heart and soul behind the movie.There are long stretches of silence on the soundtrack, with music used very sparingly, yet the movie is all the more powerful for it. The most effective moment is where we hear a scratchy rendition of "Home, Sweet Home" over a montage of Setsuko playing by the shelter. It's a simplistic, sweet, yet very saddening moment that not only works in the context of the movie, but on its own as well.I don't normally say this in my reviews, but I would definitely recommend watching this movie in its native language of Japanese for a truly powerful and memorable experience. That's not to imply, however, that the English dub, produced by New York-based Central Park Media, is inferior; on the contrary. It is, in fact, surprisingly good, with an effective lead in J. Robert Spencer and noteworthy cameo appearances by Anime voice-over actors Veronica Taylor, Crispin Freeman, and Dan Green. Rhoda Chrosite's Setsuko is the one voice that doesn't fare so well; she sounds more like an adult pretending to be a young girl, and comes across as strained during most scenes (save for when she is sick from diarrhea). Still, for those who can't read subtitles, the dub is more than adequate (although not as high-profile as others that I've heard).Even in a genre as multi-faceted as Japanese Anime, there are few films that literally everyone really MUST see. GRAVE OF THE FIREFLIES is one such movie.
This is one of those reviews where I will say at the outset that, if you haven't yet seen the film, you should go see it. As soon as (or even before, if you're the impatient type) you read this review, I urge you to run out and buy or rent it.Because my words simply cannot convey what Isao Takahata's animated masterpiece Hotaru no haka conveys.Known in the English-speaking world as Grave of the Fireflies or, in some countries, Tombstone for Fireflies, Hotaru no haka is the single most powerful anti-war film I have ever seen. As a work of art, it ranks among Picasso's Guernica and Elgar's cello concerto. It succeeds where many American films<U+0097>like Fahrenheit 9/11, Apocalypse Now, and even Schindler's List<U+0097>simply don't. Hotaru no haka is a grim depiction of innocence lost, not just of its two young protagonists, but of the entire Japanese nation.The story centers around two children: Seita, who is about thirteen; and his younger sister Setsuko, who is four. Their mother dies of wounds when their town is attacked during the firebombing of Japan in World War II, and they go to live with an aunt. While kind at first, she grows to resent the two siblings she must now feed and shelter<U+0097>why can't Seita "work for the war effort," as his cousin and uncle are doing? Seita and Setsuko eventually set out on their own to live in an abandoned shelter. But food is hard to come by, and they gradually succumb to malnutrition.Yes, they die. That is obvious from the film's exposition, which shows Seita sitting ragged and obviously malnourished in a train station, a mysterious tin on his person. A janitor throws the tin into the night, where fireflies encircle it and the spirit of Setsuko emerges. She joins her brother's ghost, they board a train to the next world, and the story is told in flashback. "September 21, 1945... that was the night I died" is the opening line.The interesting thing about this film is that, although it is Japanese, it neither victimizes the Japanese nor demonizes the Americans. In fact, its deepest disdain is reserved perhaps for the Japanese people themselves, who turn a cold shoulder to the suffering of their children and fellow citizens. Takahata shows us that the true casualty of war is not life, but innocence.The animation, while in the stylized animé tradition, is rooted in realism and rich detail; and, while it strikingly depicts the tragic demise of the characters, it also has many moments of beauty. There is much to be admired visually in this film<U+0097>hardly surprising, since it comes from Japan's legendary Studio Ghibli, which has produced the most breathtaking traditional animation that I have ever had the privilege to see.All these elements<U+0097>story, symbolism, animation<U+0097>combine to make one big emotional punch in the gut that is hard to recover from and impossible to forget. It's an animated film, sure; but it is one of the most bitingly real films you'll ever see, and the simple fact that it is not live-action doesn't diminish its power. If you have a night to ruin, watch Hotaru no haka. It's a film that you don't want to see, but one that you will never regret having seen.My inevitable "dub vs. sub" commentary: The DVD contains two versions of the film: one is a dubbed English version, and the other is the original Japanese with English subtitles. I urge you to do yourself a favor, and watch the Japanese version. I see no point in watching the dub, since you won't be showing Hotaru no haka to younger children anyways....right?
Let me put it this way. When I was five, I would wake up early every morning to watch my favorite cartoons. One night, I woke up way early than usual. It must have been around three o' clock. Anyway, I did what I usually did. I watched television. Nothing was on, so I switched it to channel 8 and laid down. There would always be weird interesting stuff on that channel that I used to love watching. A few minutes had passed with me watching whatever was on this channel ans eventually, GRAVE OF THE FIREFLIES came on. At that time, I had never seen a serious animated film. The film started and there were two ghosts. I remember seeing how peaceful the whole thing seemed and feeling that it was strange that it wasn't a scary type of film. However, I probably shouldn't have assumed that it wasn't a scary film at that point. Soon after, there were terrifying scenes of destruction and chaos with people getting shot and butchered. A boy and his baby sister were caught up in it all and were desperately trying to get away. I saw these two siblings and the love and care that he had for his younger sister and immediately broke into tears. At that time, I had never seen a film where people cared about each other in such an honest and unflinching way. It was shocking to me in a way that I had seen a film that displayed so much love and desperation. The film continued and their trials became more and more horrific. By the end of the film, I could barely breathe. The film had hit me so hard in my heart that I felt wounded. I have never feared and loved a film both at the same time as much as I had for GRAVE OF THE FIREFLIES. When the film was over, I fell asleep crying. When I awoke, I wondered if what I had watched was a dream. Could such a film ever even exist? I had been afraid to find out, but inside I yearned to learn more about it. Fast forward thirteen years later and I know more about it than I had when I was younger. I haven't seen it since, but I remember it as clearly as possible. I remember the music, the images, the emotion, the love, etc... I can never forget this film. Will I ever decide to pick it up and view it a second time? Absolutely. I just need to make sure that I know what I will get into if I watch it again. It's a touching piece of work and one that will go down in history as one of the most emotional and beautiful films ever made.


                
I first saw this film when I first really got into anime in High School. I'd grow up with Naussica and cartoons, and had just seen Akira, then my brother and I rented this.We sat through the whole thing without saying a word, then when the movie was over we didn't even talk.Not a simple film. Instead of just making the Americans out to be bad guys, the Japanese people in the children's village either through greed (their aunt) or through indifference (Gardener, Doctor), also play their part in the children's starvation and death. So it's not just about war, or anti-war, though I can't think a better movie to watch about war.The animation is perfect also. Absolutely beautiful colors.As another testament to the power of this movie, I decided to sponser a child through Compassion after watching it for the second time, 8 years later.Everyone should see this one, but be warned, it's not Akira or even a Miyazaki movie. Watch it with an open mind and heart.
This is my first review on IMDb.Japanese animation is something that has always been seen as a different expanse from the animation that we get here in America. Not to say that those films are bad, but the things that we see from oversees in this area are getting to be quite impressive. One studio in particular, the Japanese Disney, if you will, Studio Ghibli. Best known as the creative force behind Spirited Away and other Miyazaki films, we forget to see some of the other films that have come from the minds that reside there in. I am talking of Isao Takahata, always by Miyazaki's side, but never really given the credit he deserves. Without this man, there wouldn't be a Studio Ghibli. He is a key character in the development of any and all films to come from the studio, and most likely created the best feature to come forth."Grave of the Fireflies" is, quite possibly, the best animated feature of our time. When a film is done without a camera, when acting is without seeing your actors, and when cinematography is but a pencil line, you have to think about how to rate such a movie. Well, this is the standard on which all animation should be based. The movie is subtle in everything it conveys, but subtle in a way where it can't be ignored. You feel for these characters represented on that screen, and it makes you forget that you aren't watching something "animated". The truly beautiful thing about this movie is that as you watch the film, you want to see good things happen to these kids...Yet, as the movie opens, you see the main character, a boy named Seita, die right before your eyes. Immediate and profound. The film opens, and then you have a narration heard over head, that goes like this..."In 1945, on the night of September 21, I died." You hear this almost omniscient voice as the visual shows a boy, tattered and bone thin, propped against a pillar in a train station. Then, as the narrative comes to a close, the boy slouches over, and says in a final breath, "Setsuko". Not in anyway is this "cartoony" either, his eyes remain open, his mouth agape, and you can just sense that this is the main character of our story. Our "hero" is destined to die, and you have to watch the movie show it as it enfolds. A young child will die, and there is no stopping that from coming, no matter how attached you get to that boy. He will die. How harrowing is that? It gets worse when you see the corpse being riddled of its possessions by a security guard. Welcome to the movie. Like many films, though this has a "G" rating, you have to see where I stand on that. Already this movie is too much for a child to handle or grasp, and that rating will be misinterpreted as something of a children's movie. Though, being animated, it already has that covered. It's sad, in my opinion, that such a good film as this will remain lost to so many because of simple thinking like that.The movie has you know that all hope you will gain for these characters is futile, that life is never that easy. To keep you realizing this, they have the spirits, or Rei, of Seita and Setsuko (his younger sister) watching on as the events unfold. They appear at times throughout the film where the emotions are high, to keep you in this mold of reality. That means the whole movie is one big flashback, in a sense, but that really doesn't matter. It's the story of two children, lost in the slew of war. People are harsh, and war is unfair. Yoou can't choose who is effected by war, because everyone is, and these are the things that this movie causes you to realize. Other movies involving war have shown this, but it is from the eyes of a child that this gains it's impact. They never lose their innocence, and that is what makes this story so compelling. They are just kids. I'm not going to ruin the events of the story for you all, I wouldn't want to tarnish the way you view this film in the least. I will, however, like to sincerely recommend that you find this film, and that you watch it, with no stereotypes of animation. You haven't seen something like this, trust me. It belongs on the list of great war movies, but also on one of the greatest stories ever told. Compelling through and through, I have bought three versions of the movie. Subtitled is best, as it shows not only the original intent, but the true nature of the films culture. This movie remains one of the focal points in the argument of "anime" being much more than animated movies from Japan. They can be like any other film, and at times they can beat out most other films,and this is the example to prove it. A beautiful movie, and one that should be seen by anyone who respects movies.
I was not so much surprised as I was elated at having an Anime movie move me so much. The attention to detail was exceptional. The expressions and readability of the characters' faces was impressive. This is a movie that helps you find truth and life. It is not a religious movie directly; however, there is great spiritual stirring in it. I was not moved to tears, rather, more like people experiencing this type of horrifying event, I was stunned. I cried later. This is one of the best of hundreds of movies I have seen in my 42 years. I will never forget it.


                
I'll start out by saying that I've seen over one thousand movies and only a few of them brought me close to tears, but I've never cried before. This is the first movie that made me cry and I've cried during the movie and I've cried well after the movie was over. I finally stopped crying and decided to write this review (my first movie review) and typing these words thinking about the movie brought tears into my eyes again. I'm a pretty tough guy and I rarely get emotional, but boy did this movie hit me hard.I think everybody should see this movie, even though it's such a heart wrenching emotional experience. It will definitely touch you and you'll have a different outlook on life after seeing this movie.


                
Now I'm usually your typical Die-Hard, Guns Blazing, Sword Swinging, Magic Wielding Anime fan! So there shouldn't really be any surprises when I say that "Grave of the Fire Flies" is not ranked among my list of all time favourites. And the prospect of watching it didn't sound too appealing to me at first, considering the rather subdued DVD case cover...(I know, I'm ashamed) That said, this film is a masterpiece of story telling, the calibre of which my current favourite films pale in comparison. I don't think I've ever been more moved by any other films, period!!! I've vowed never to see this film again, as I think revisiting it would lessen the emotional impact of the first viewing. In any case I don't think I need to re-watch it as it's been burned into my memory forever.This is a film that I hate and love at the same time. The beautiful story and the capturing of facial expressions which only a hand drawn animation could fully realise. On the other hand the film reduced me to sobbing wreck, a bitter sweet ending which left me so depressed it took me another two days to get over...Its a must see, but be sure to have lots of tissue paper on hand. I'm temped to say it's a life changing experience, certainly has been for me. The rest I leave to you to decide.


                
this movie really gives you another view of a war. I'm no fan of manga or older movies, but this one really got me.Seita really does everything to let his little sister live. but in hard times it isn't that easy. Seita and his little sisters village gets nuked during WW2 and they escape to their aunt. but their mom is badly hurt and will not survive. thats the first spot where you really feel the movie.their aunt don't take that well care of them as they want so they move out and lives in a cage, but they cant find enough food so Setsuko gets sick so Seita takes her to the doctor, but he wont help her, so now it's just a question about time. in the end of the movie Setsuko dies, and if you haven't cried once in the movie, you will now.when the flashbacks on Setsuko comes, you will be crushed. you don't want to see this movie anymore.This is a lovely movie you NEVER want to see again!
Just marvellous! This hearty masterpiece of Japanese animation is incredibly moving, sincere, haunting and captivating in detailing the special bond between brother and sister caught up in the horrifying and unforgiving face of war. It guides us on one really tragic, but rewarding trip where it truly has an impact. Never does it get overwrought or push itself onto the viewer, but still it manages to leave a lump in your throat and have you emotionally drained when the credits begin to roll. This one is not afraid to stay gloomy, and because you know the outcome at the beginning, this makes the significance of the story's journey more potentate in its increasing pain and devastation. By that alone, the wonderfully textured plot doesn't take the easy way out and the reality of the situation is never lost because it's animated.Staying simple and focused, kept it rather flawless in its in-depth story telling of emotional pride and lasting effects. Slow it might be, but there's too much subtle richness within its characters, premise and visuals to really bother about the loose pacing and lack of action. Isao Takahata adapts the novel of Akiyuki Nosaka, and gets us deeply involved with the civilians, and the mere war stays in the background. A contrast between two different worlds, one being the war itself and secondly the one the two children find themselves in to forget it. Namely those scenes where they're experiencing the beauty and freeness of nature (at if they might never get that chance again) and those sequences with the fireflies admirably paint the feelings of what's to come. The budding relationship between Seita and Setsuko is tremendously done, innocent and full of colour. Even capturing the Japanese citizens and families in this cold plight is believability achieved, as it throws questions, issues and metaphorical messages. These people (including our two central characters) are doing it hard, but their wills won't collapse after what they've been through, but things do take their toll when everything you ever care for can suddenly vanish and the heartache turns to utter numbness. Because what kept you living, is no longer there to hold you.Breathing heavily on the mood is the soft, lovely musical score that certainly weeps with its melodic tone. The vivid animation is gorgeously crisp and enchanting, and the background scenery is profoundly vivid and convincing. Many beautiful, striking illustrations are framed with a sincere touch, where darkness treads neatly together with the lighter moments. What a delightfully effective and soulful meditation piece of sublime art by director/writer Isao Takahata. This one has plenty to say on the topic at hand, and it gets even more relevant everyday.Magnificently heart-wrenching and sensitive war-time story on the people who find themselves dealing with the unbearable consequences of war.


                
For the first time, I have decided to write a comment. You have seen enough reviews and ratings (and rantings). I prefer to address the commmon ways in which this movie has been misinterpreted.Many reviewers, both American and others, seem to have mistaken this movie for either a tear jerker or a political statement. In essence, it is neither. The novel it is based on is simply an expression of the guilt and pain felt by the author.To those who feel that it is a politically motivated story, or it only portrays suffering on part of the Japanese: Quite simply...it is not. The war scenes are not there for drama, they are there to place the situation into context. It is my opinion that your personal prejudices are coming into play. Being a patriotic American, I can state (not without shame) that there are plenty of mindless American movies which portray Americans as either heroes or victims (usually both) and their purpose (as with all flicks) is $. It is my sincere opinion that Akiyuki Nosaka's motives were far purer when he wrote this. He was looking for closure and writing a tribute to his sister at the same time.To those who feel revulsion towards Seita and feel that the war scenes were pointless: As mentioned earlier, all the the war scenes do is place the story in context. They are not there to excuse Seita's actions in any way. The story clearly shows that there is no absolution for Seita (Akiyuki Nosaka's alter-ego). He bares his shortcomings and imperfections (as seen from his own eyes) for the world to see and feel repulsed by in the hope to find some solace for his own guilty heart. I've dragged this on far too long and I have a test tomorrow morning.Cheers!
I heard about this movie from Roger Ebert's list of great movies, so I decided to give it a try. Anime is a recent interest of mine, and I was impressed with "Spirited Away" and "Princess Mononoke", but only a faint warning from others about this movie was the only preparation I had for the ninety-some minutes of this film. This film was nothing like "Spirited Away" or "Princess Mononoke". For an animation film, "Grave of the Fireflies" surprised me in the style it was portrayed. The atmosphere of this movie was seemingly like the Italian neorealist films of the 1950s, like De Sica's "Umberto D.", but it also had the precision and care of what was portrayed on the screen like Yasujiro Ozu and his "Tokyo Story", "Floating Weeds", and his other masterpieces.Like De Sica and other Italian neorealist directors, "Grave of the Fireflies" simply portrays life as it truly is; in this movie it was the aftermath of the World War II bombings on a Japanese town. Nothing is held back, but nothing is shoved into your face and fabricated like some popular Vietnam War movies. Like Japanese directors like Ozu, there is a great care in how this story is portrayed. Pillow shots are utilized greatly in this movie; that means that a scene will be played out, and then there will be static shots of scenery (not necessarily have to be stunningly beautiful), but it gives the audience some time to contemplate on what happened. For only a ninety-minute film, "Greve of the Fireflies" is a very well-developed movie with only what is essential, with great and peaceful pillow shots for contemplation and meditation. Also like Ozu especially, this movie utilizes many still shots, especially in key scenes where the emotions are at its unprecedented peaks for an animation film. Rarely will the background frames move, except in displaying panoramic views. And also like Ozu, this movie keeps the focus on family struggles, always a favorite topic for Yasujiro Ozu. It is about a teenager boy and his younger sister trying to cope with the aftermath of a bombing on their town. That is all I will say about the plot of this film.The combination of this Italian neorealism and Yasujiro Ozu's camera-like ethics make this film a great film to watch. But because this film is an animated film, the influential combinations can take almost anybody by surprise. Animation can simplify matters in the mise-en-scene to amplify the essential and thus creating more emotion out of this film. But there is so much care in this film that it deserves its respect as probably one of the best movies (real or animated) ever. Since it is portrayed in an everyday-type feeling, the emotions running are powerful. This is definitely the best animation film ever, and can be on the list of the top twenty most powerful films.
Grave of the Fireflies (Hotaru no Haka) is one of the most powerful and beautifully made movies based on WWII.It is not about the leaders or military, but about the people themselves. Two orphans Seita and Setsuko lost their home to the air bombs, where thrown out of the house of their angry Aunt and forced to live on their own in the bomb shelters.Some people have complained that this movie is pro-Tojo and anti-American, but it's not. It is just simply a point of view from the common folk of that country, and everyone of every country, whether in War or Peace, have a story to tell.Did you know that this movie is based off of the semi-true story of Akiyuki Nosaka, who also lost his sister to starvation. Feeling guilty of all this, he writes this story, with Seita's death symbolizing the slow mental dying in the poor man's mind.It is a powerful movie, I recommend this movie for everyone to see. It has a well meaning message of the hardships of WWII.
''Hotaru no Haka'' (Brazillian title : ''Túmulo dos Vagalumes'') is a very sad and moving film about the second war in Japan,focusing in the difficulties of a brother(Seita) and a sister(Setsuko).After their mother is killed in an air raid and their father was also killed working in Japan's navy army, Seita needs to be responsible for his little sister Setsuko,a very adorable and sweet little girl. They both go to their aunt's house to live, but after knowing that Setsuko and Seita are now orphans,their aunt changes her behavior and starts to be cruel and annoying with them. Seita stays tired of that, and decides that is best to him and Setsuko to live in a different place, that is a kind of an abandoned shelter. Having problems to find supplies and needing to steal to have something to he and Setsuko eat, Seita and Setsuko gradually starts to have many health problems. Setsuko even goes to the doctor, since she is with malnutrition and diarrhea, but in war times, everything gets even more difficult.Even if you are not an anime (japanese cartoons) fan, this movie is worth of watching.
Most of the famous war films ever made, like "Saving Private Ryan" and "Cross of Iron", usually try to show the film and the war from the point of view of soldiers, those who fought in there. It is rare to see a film from the point of view of the innocent victims of the war. Probably the most famous film of victims is Steven Spielberg's "Schindler's List". Even rarer is an animated film of victims of war. Animations in western countries are usually labeled as children's stuff, so it is no wonder Disney has refused to distribute this film, one of the Studio Ghibli's greatest works."September 21, 1945<U+0085> that was the night I died"With those words starts director Isao Takahata's most famous film, "Grave of the Fireflies" (Hotaru no haka, 1988). Unlike his long time friend and colleague Hayao Miyazaki, Takahata prefers to leave fantasy elements in his films to minimum. This is the way how Takahata amazes viewers. If Miyazaki's fantastic visions make our jaws drop to floor with amazement, Takahata's close to reality stories touch us deeply by hitting our emotions. And "Grave of the Fireflies" certainly does that masterly, being the only film that has ever managed to move me to the point of tears (and I am *not* a teary guy).The film, based on a novel by Akiyuki Nosaka, tells the story of a young boy named Seita, who with his little sister Setsuko, lives in the 1940's Japan, during the World War II. After loosing their mother during a bombing, Seita does everything in his power to create an illusion for Setsuko that things are fine and there is nothing to worry about. The film has been often blamed of being too depressing and having a sad end, but I think it's the opposite. Of course this certainly is not the kind of film to make you smile, but it is already revealed in the beginning that both brother and sister will die. So when we reach the end of the movie, with an image of them as spirits, sitting on a bench looking happy and healthy, with a modern day city around them, this is actually a happy ending after all the suffering they went through.It's very hard to say exactly why this film should deserve full stars from me. It just does. It's full of little beautiful scenes that instantly have an effect on you, accompanied by Michio Mamiya's peaceful music. Maybe the fact that it can make me wonder why it is so good is the proof enough to make it a masterpiece. And that is what "Grave of the Fireflies" is; a masterpiece. One of the most amazing films from Studio Ghibli and Isao Takahata's most famous film. And definitely the ultimate proof that animations can be used for other than children's stories.
