excellent work by the whole cast and crew,and as always a work of perfectionist,brought up a good story and something which was buried in past ,a thing which a society doesn't accept,great work on focusing on that aspect,and a moral booster for women's,and a emotional line up for doing something for the country,showing the nation,the struggle of a father ,making that aspect possible,which the society don't even want to think about it,and Mr khan's prismatic performance as an champ wrestler,struggling father and a coach,after all Mr khan's most emotional film and as always a perfectionist as ever,to end a great step to lightened the darker side of the society


                
Honestly I was a bit determinant after watching Sultan thinking that this film could be a remake but honestly after watching this movie, it was a lot different. This movie just melted my heart with the fantastic writing, direction, performances, and editing. Nitesh Tiwari brought 2 average films which were Bhoothnath Returns and Chillar Party. But for this film, he deserves a bow for the amount of hard work he managed to put for this film.The performances in the movie were absolutely phenomenal. Aamir Khan is back to becoming nuanced and self confident Khan we always admired. His fat to fit video really created a lot of inspiration for me and my friends and that increased our eager level in watching this movie. Sakshi Tanwar is a pretty decent actress. Her role was absolutely strong and withheld but her dialogues in certain places were quite awkward and almost out-of-place.The girls who played Geeta and Babita just kept me to the edge of my seat. What amazement these girls did and how they used their empowerment to pull of a male-sport with such ease.The screenplay and direction was something I really loved just like how Haryana was shot and how the wrestling scenes were shot.After Ae Dil Hai Mushkil, I managed to enjoy Priam's music but the songs in Dangal were average and I wouldn't consider them at loop-listening soundtracks. Not many songs really stand out as such.Honestly, I enjoyed this movie much more than Sultan based on its true story and fantastic direction. Overall, this movie is a masterpiece with beautiful direction, performances, and acting. This motion picture really touched my heart. Leave your house and grab your tickets, this is definitely a cinema watching movie.In any society, it is very important to understand the meaning of women rights. No matter how boyish something could be, women are considered human beings. Girls have the right to do anything ranging from being a police officer to a taxi driver. These are typical jobs that mostly men pull off but women can also pull these jobs off but much quicker. Try to understand that men and women are the same professional wise.


                
Dangal has Indian box office record of all time and it deserves it. It is the best biopic Bollywood can make. It has every quality Hollywood biopics have. Cast did an amazing job. Preparing this project as an actor is hard. Aamir Khan's transformation proves that. They brilliantly show us their characters' moods and reactions about every event they have been through. Also, Dangal has great descriptions about public and important social messages. I really respect that. I think it is almost a masterpiece but it miss that by a step. Best thing this movie have is showing us great character motivations and relationships. They made it nicely. Worst thing this movie have is telling wrestling's technical details so superficial. It shows something about that but it doesn't explain.


                
DANGAL REVIEW :- "Dear Sam, remember the day 23 Dec 2016 when you watched Best Film ever made on Wrestling." This is what my heart said to me after the very first sec i finished watching Dangal. Without wasting time let me elaborate my views about Film. Acting - Aamir Khan does excellent Job, not the Best of the year but surely in top 5. Never saw Fatima before but she was the Best among star cast. Sakshi Tanwar, Sanya Malhotra got limited screen space and gave their Best. Supporting Starcast is good too.Writing - Excellent ! I Don't except better story/writing than this for any Wrestling based film (It was expected due to Biopic Thing).Screenplay - Notable ! It really keeps you hook from the first frame to the last, especially in last 30 minutes.Music - Good but not the Best. Reason is, expectations from Pritam are always high. Not a single Filmy Song, every song is situational so Video Songs looks better than Audio. Background Score is Awesome, helps film in emotional scenes.Cinematography - Average ! Its good actually but Nothing impressive except those Fight sequences. Some scenes are pacy and some are Slow, overall Average. Direction - Nitesh Tiwari at his Best. He has succeeded in Whatever he wanted to present to audience. He is The real master behind this Classic, with any other director it would have become typical Filmy movie but Nitesh kept it strictly as an Art Film which is needful for Biopic like this. In some scenes he loses it, few scenes are too filmy but receives Claps and Whistles so i must say he wanted to keep it Classy but forcefully added some Massy scenes. Will meet him soon and thank him for giving us Classic Called Dangal.Final Words - Dangal is not a Commercial film like PK and 3 Idiots i mean some Massy elements and comedy is missing which is needed for high Repeat Value so i believe this film won't get that High level success which these films got. It is less in Quality compared to Epic Taare Zameen par and less Commercially compared to PK, it misses the Masterpiece Tag just because of few scenes and minuses but it is another 'Classic' by genius called Aamir Khan. He gave 2 years for the film and it worths. Film has many Goosebumps and Emotional moments which you will remember even after leaving theater. It worths your money, it is Best Film of the year among all High Budget Film released so far, i recommend don't miss this film. And last thing don't even think to compare it with Sultan cause it will be like comparing Sachin Tendulkar with Murali Vijay. 8/10* stars by me. And last but not the Least 'A Grand Salute' to the 'Mahavir Phogat and his Family'. True Heroes like him needs to be recognised for their Hardwork in our Country.


                
While the inherent theme gives hope to the junta that tenaciously pursues creating new possibilities for women by breaking stereotypes, what's also impressive is the beautiful portrayal of the dilemma faced by Geeta, one of the lead characters, between "training under ascetic discipline" and "training under more comfortable modern circumstances" when confronted with an option. Beyond all the filmatic Bollywood elements Dangal is a Revelation to be reflected upon!! The competitive aspects of wrestling and its strategies are well depicted in the movie. Cheers to Aamir Khan and the director!! Also kudos to the technicians - esp. art director, editor, music and camera.


                
This movie again shows why we shower heaps of praise and crores of rupees on couple of silver and bronze every 4 year. The adulation is not about 2 medals in a country of 1.2 billion heads but it's the hard fought struggle and an impossible journey of those 2 people that change the way we think and look sport as a field in this country. Amir Khan as have been the trend from past few years, brings you the as real as Mahavir can be in the biopic, but the highlight are the scenes like- villagers frowning upon girls taking wrestling, Geeta and Babita realizing the true intention of their father at Mehendi, denying Geeta from competing in dangal at first and then allowing only for the cheap publicity and so; all these lay out the struggle the girls especially from rural areas face. Amir was outstanding as usual, Geeta and Babita's performance as kids outrank the young one and surprisingly given the small screen presence, Geeta and Babita's cousin was entertaining. First half was too good and is enthralling, however after intermission you could feel like there were one or two odd pieces where the direction was not that good and 'bollywood' dramatization also ruled few scenes. Overall movie is great and with the voices of Daler Mehendi in title track make it inspiring and a must watch.


                
Aamir Khan is back to the big screen after two years. Many people from the industry had been dropping tweets at various times raving the project increasing the whiff of expectations and then came the physical transformation & trailer videos heightening the anticipation. Based on real events and characters, rarely do films excel on all departments propelling them into a league of their own. Dangal is one such achievement.Cinematographer Setu Sriram needs to be applauded for very consistent and non ambiguous presentation of the subject. The rustic, rural Haryana and the commonwealth games portions are lit in tune with the tone of the film. The wrestling scenes, the angles used to capture them are perfect and the research that has gone into it is clearly visible on the screen. Editor Ballu Saluja has also cut this screenplay perfectly working in tandem with the cinematographer, aids hugely in the neat presentation of this motion picture. Sports films in general, especially ones which are very detailed like Dangal requires clarity to keep the audience engaged and on that count the Editor has done an extraordinary job. Even though the running time was around 2 hours 40 minutes, the all frames and scenes were fully justified with the narrative structure and expertly edited.The stunt choreography in this movie is noteworthy and one of the best to come out of the country. Kripa Shankar Patel and Shyam Kaushal act has huge pillars for the movie and again the research, detailing of the wrestling sequences and the references from the original footage go a long way in making this the best choreographed sports film from India. Music from Pritam ably supported the film with the theme song being the stand out. The songs were never too long or distracting and the background score underlined the tension and drama of the story. Few moments of silence are noteworthy.The story based on the life of Mahavir Singh Phogat adapted and written for screen by the team of Nitesh Tiwari, Piyush Gupta, Shreyas Jain & Nikhil Meharotra. The sincerity in writing and detailing was evident throughout which has become a rarity in Indian Cinema nowadays and the writing was simple, realistic, effective and highly impactful. The dialogues also stood out as there was no over dramatization attached to it and criticism against institutions were conveyed seamlessly. The rules and technicalities involved in wrestling were explained in depth without being distractive and that keeps the audience glued to the screen. Director Nitesh Tiwari in his third directorial venture has achieved perfection in storytelling and the screenplay was handled like a bullet moving towards the marked target without any distractions whatsoever.The performances in the movie are some of the best to come out of Indian Cinema in recent times led by Aamir Khan. The believability, the majestic presence and at the same time, feeling of longing, of relentless determination, emotional sincerity he brought to Mahavir Singh is quite extraordinary. The Star always took the back seat making headway for the story and the character. A benchmark indeed. All the physical strains and transformation added immensely to the movie. The two kids playing the younger version of the wrestlers Geetha and Babita looked at ease in their roles as if they had tons of experience. The adult version of the wrestlers played by Fatima Sana Sheik and Sanya Malhotra showcased holistic understanding of the character, emotions. Especially Fathima was extraordinary and the strains, rigorous training undertaken for providing an authentic wrestling performance deserves a standing ovation.The fact that when the national anthem was played twice (once before the start of the film and again during the movie), the audience were asked to stand during the former yet during the latter, they stood on their own, speaks volumes of the enduring nature of the movie. A monumental achievement for sports based films from India. Dangal is one of the best movies of the year and a must watch with the family. Dangal is Sincere in narration, Perfect in detailing, True in spirit, Patriotic and Inspiring at its core.


                
Dangal is a film based on real life biography of wrestler Mahavir Singh Phogat and his two daughters, though you will nowhere feel like you are watching a film on a big screen. The emotions portrayed so well and the bonding connect with the audience so perfectly that it feels like it actually was a story of the same man on the screen(Aamir Khan) and his daughters(reel life actresses). All credits to the great director Mr. Nitesh Tiwari. I must tell it is not really a masala movie like the Bollywood industry usually offers, but a 'flicky roller-coaster' having ups and downs during different chapters of life. And moreover, the last half an hour of the movie is just gonna leave you in a nail- biting situation and if you watch it in theaters then you surely gonna get many chills and be making unwanted movements on your seats. Overall the film is a blast entertainer and a full family package. Ratings per categories: Storyline-8/10 Background music- 7/10 Casting-9*/10 Audience connecting-8/10 Cinematography(Film making)-8.5/10 Overall-8/10


                
A wrestler with potential and big dreams; to make the country he loved proud. Despite his best efforts he did not succeed but he did not give up. One day he aspired to have a son to follow his footsteps.He did get married but to his (pre-conceived) misfortune he had two daughters, thus leaving his dream of a son who would become a world class wrestler in tatters. Of course, this was to change when one day his daughters got involved in an altercation with a boy and "properly" punished him for misbehaving. This was his epiphany: the fact that he had daughters should not be an impediment to his lifelong dream of having a progeny that would end up being a champion.That was also the moment, the tragedy for his two daughters begun. Without any consideration for their wants or needs, he begun to groom them for a life of professional wrestling and international glory. Those girls were not asked or considered, they were forced since the only thing that mattered was daddy's dreams. The fact that they were robbed of their childhood was immaterial. Mahavir Singh Phogat just did not care; gold metal was on his mind.The girls grew up biologically but not emotionally; the fear and need for dad's approval never went away. Even as they progressed in the sports world all their strife was about pleasing dad. It never went away.This film is a brilliant portrayal of child abuse covered in success. A determined person with no resistance from a submissive spouse went on to take over the lives of his children and formed them in his own resemblance.Sure, there were successes. The girls became champions, won medals and some will say their father never stopped believing in them when in fact he never ceased to believe in his own sporting ambitions using his children as vehicle. He even buttress it as women's right going so far as to say "no one should say a girl cannot do what a boy can do" or "they would have ended up housewives performing chores". Anything to make himself feel better and justify the emotional robbery he performed on his children.A brilliant and highly poignant and emotional film, made me want to jump to the screen and rescue Geeta and Babita.


                
Dangal Directed By Nitesh Tiwari is A Biographical Sports Drama. Movie is Loosely Based On Life Of "Geeta Phogat" A Freestyle Wrestler Who Won Gold Medal For India In Commonwealth Games, in 2010.Direction is Nearly Perfect. Script is Well Written. Screenplay is Fast Paced & Engrossing, No Dull Moments. Cinematography & Editing is Awesome.Story Start With Mahavir Phogat(Aamir Khan) Wanted To Be A Wrestler But Unfortunately He Became Only A Amateur Wrestler. He Lives With His Wife Daya Kaur(Sakshi Tanwar).He Dreams That One Day His Son Will Became Wrestler & Win Medal For The Country But Again He Has Only Daughters. Geeta ,Babita & Two More. He Feels Disappointed.Somehow One Day He Understands That A Girl Can Also Win Gold For The Country. So He Starts Coaching Both The Girls. The Journey is the Basic Plot Of The Movie. First Half Has Many Colors. But The Second Half is Only About Tri Color. Best Performance in The Movie is By Fatima Sana Shaikh As Geeta Phogat. Her Character Has Every Shade in The Book. She Portrays Emotions Really Well. Aamir Khan As Mahavir Phogat is Amazing Father & Coach. The Responsibility, Trust, Feelings & Intensity Shines in His Eyes. Sanya Malhotra As Babita is Well Written Does Well. Zaira Wasim As Young Geeta is Fine. Sakshi Tanwar is OK. Music is Good By Pritam Dhaakad By Raftaar is Best Track. Naina By Arijit Singh Written By Amitabh Bhattacharya is Sad & Powerful. Back Ground Music is Good.Has Few Memorable Scenes, Never Shown Before. A Must Watch For Everyone Who Loves Sports.


                
If I had seen Dangal last year, it would have easily blazed into my Top 30 list. Being a sport genre film, you will know what will transpire in the final climatic scene from a mile away, but it does hit all the usual tropes and emotional beats with verve and aplomb. The good ones in this genre know how to make the arduous learning journey resemble inspirational life lessons and will also make you feel vested in the story. This is not just a good one, it is a great one. Dangal is a biographical sports drama film directed by Nitesh Tiwari. It stars Aamir Khan as Mahavir Singh Phogat, who taught wrestling to his daughters Geeta Phogat and Babita Kumari. The former is India's first female wrestler to win at the 2010 Commonwealth Games, where she won the gold medal (55 kg). Her sister Babita Kumari won the silver (51 kg). I have seen inspirational life-affirming stories like this but what makes Dangal stands out from the multitude is that it got all the basics right. The film never sermonises the age old themes like sexism, gender inequality and patriotism, instead it hits the usual repertoire of greatest hits with a deft balance. There was never any need to hammer some of the ideas into your consciousness like nails to a wall. It trusts us to understand the issues because so many predecessors have already done so. It just presents them in a refreshing way to make them come up smelling like roses. For example, in a scene where the sisters lament their father for forcing them to learn wrestling, their friend who is a young bride-to-be shares with them how she wishes she has a father like theirs. In that simple monologue, a light is shone on the plight of the female gender in India. The film also got another aspect right - it manages to explain the sport with superb clarity, so much so that it almost feels like a wrestling 101 manual. It is never boring or preachy, and when the climax rolls in like the tide, you will smile gleefully because it has succeeded in actually making you feel smart. Talking about the climax, my wifey turned to me and whispered how the final bout would be won. I concurred and added that it will be underscored in extreme slow-mo. Of course, both of us were right. But the thing to remember is that even if we could guess it, it is always the mechanics behind we couldn't see. By then we were so vested in the story we were welcoming the final scene with opened arms and warm streaming tears. Dangal is also buoyed by convincing fight choreography and the wrestling sequences are well shot and without quick edits which are cheat-codes. You will believe the principals are wrestlers first and actors second. Fatima Sana Shaikh (Geeta) and Sanya Malhotra (Babita) are truly commendable in their roles. Even all the peripheral parts are well portrayed. That leaves Aamir Khan, who went over and above himself to turn in a superb performance and to think that he put on 38% body fat to play the role really made me want to salute him. But when I learned that he later went back to a lean mean fighting machine to play a much younger man in the initial part of the film, I wanted to bow down in front of the master. This is one powder keg of a movie with loads of great humour and infectious music. It doesn't matter that it is familiar because it feels like a great home-cooked meal and the Yoda-esque training lessons mirror what life throws at you. This one will definitely make you appreciate the sport that has been demonised and trivialised by WWF.


                
Dangal is a biography of former National Wrestling champion Mahavir Singh Phogat. The performance by Aamir Khan is stellar and also the actors portraying both Geeta & Babita ( both young and mature) are par beyond excellence. But this movie like any other typical Bollywood movie plays with true incidents to introduce emotional content for grasping audience. Many incidents portrayed are not true if the context of biography should be taken into account. Ex- the climax where Aamir's character is cunningly locked in a room by Coach Sodhi, which actually never happened. This movie is not only a great entertainer but also showcases how sports and athletics is suffering in India due to backward attitude. It also shows a great deal about women empowerment. I wouldn't say its the best performance of Aamir, but definitely one of his best. A must watch for all.
Dangal is a very charming bio pic, I have been a fan of Aamir Khan's work ever since watching "3 idiots" and have since been a fan of many Indian films, which gets me quite excited to see this film. Dangal is well acted, directed, the music was great as well, but it seems to lack the depth that was so captivating in Aamir Khan's 3 Idiots or even in the more recent movie "PK".As a real-life inspired bio pic this film couldn't have been done any better, it is a feel good story and focuses heavily on a father- daughter relationship, an element of the film that brings lots of emotions to the table. As many of Aamir's work there are often these very emotional elements and like he has done before he has succeeded in this film. This is an inspiring story and a very empowering film as well. The narrative flow of the story was good and I thought that the song choices were spot on, really helps building the emotions in this film.Aamir Khan's acting was amazing and so are the other Indian stars who I am unfamiliar with. Because of Indian film's tendencies to last for long durations there really is a chance to tell this story in immense detail which helped to elevate its narrative without drifting away into any irrelevant details. But that really is all that is to say about this particular film, it works well as a sports/drama biopic and is well made, the thing is there is nothing much to it other than that, Aamir Khan's film has a tendency to explore important ideas and to really be able to delve deep into them, while there is the central theme of sexism in India and acts as a powerful social commentary unlike his previous bouts this really isn't as inspiring. So in conclusion this is an amazing film and deserves many praises however I feel that there is a definite room for improvement.


                
I felt as though I was physically present in the stadium of the wrestling scenes which made me completely clap, scream and also gave me a lot of goosebumps.I especially loved Fatima Sana Shaikh, the elder Geeta's role, not once I felt a bad remark on her performance as an actor. The wrestling scenes were highly entertaining and hats off to the team that is responsible.As with most of Aamir sir's movies, this too has a message for the society.Mahavir, before Geeta's finals, reminds the latter that his match will be looked to as an inspiration for any girl all across India to break loose from the clutches of a Patriarchal society.
This movie is Nitesh's best movie. Dangal became the finest movie of year 2016 in Bollywood.The execution and direction of the movie is superb. It shows the mindset of the people in villages (and most of the part of India) who thinks that daughter is just Load to their family and have only place for house Hold work. Mahavir Singh Phogat (Aamir's character) fight all the odds and train his daughters to be professional wrestlers. The movie also brings the mindset of the India Parents, that they can chose the future of their children and prepare them for it.Movie don't take much time to collect and start the story. The in-depth story of the daughters training session is very interesting and you will get attached to it. Action sequences of Geetha's matches are very well executed in early age and later the professional matches. The only disappointed part in the movie is to bring the NSA coach as bad character who conspire to put Mahavir in a room while Geetha play final match. Movie picks a Melodrama (wasn't necessary) at that stage.Overall performance: 8/10


                
What stands out in this movie is Screenplay and based on true story tag(maintains the awe of how real people went through this all through), never gives a feel of ordinary simple story. AK is a marketing genius on good content.The 2 standout event in the screenplay really made the story gripping driven by reason are below which is inspiring. 1. The daughters hitting the harassers and AK spotting their wrestling talent. 2. Accepting forced wrestling life as far better then dumb wedded life.The richness and quality in production has made this ordinary story presentable. The Commonwealth games(US, China and Russia are not part of it) for India is always a cakewalk right from 1960's but still Women achieving in wrestling for the first time from village is commendable(Geetha's younger sister also won silver in the same event(2010 Common wealth games) portrayed in movie and she herself won bronze in world wrestling championship which is more greater then this as its world level competition). AK and Coach conflicting in their instructions to Geetha is interesting. The last scene which has AK locked in room is little dramatic but still reasonable and bearable.AK acting is subtle as usual with the hype of stout and slim combo, his cameo as young AK is a relief in the epilogue.Just wondering and admiring how he got evoluted so better after his first 15 years movies(good that he survived with less hits until then) after Lagaan(2001). Pre Lagaan many of his movies are just copy/inspired from Hollywood movies(nevertheless he didn't write/direct them indeed) like The Godfather, It happened one night, On the Waterfront, win a Date with Tad Hamilton, Kramer Vs Kramer, An Affair to remember. He has come a long way and learned it the hard way, but now made it bigger with his sincerity. Also surprised by his feminist and out of box movies with less importance to heroism. I think he got better over the age and bangs every time on December release right from TZP. Just like TZP AK has underplayed himself which is great. Still wondering how AK strikes balance between box office and critics. Bangs on Bulls eye as usual for AK this time.
At first, I would like to say that this is a very interesting(fictional-there's a reason) Bio-picture. But this movie is getting too much praise than it actually deserves. The reason I said fictional because some of the events did not happen. I think most of our Indians realized just now(after watching this movie) that this movie is about nationalism, women empowerment and Sports and they should need this kind of movies and they started posting in social media and praising this movie, giving more attention than it deserves. I agree that this movie is good, it deserves our attention but it's not an eye-opener and it's not a "one in a million movie".I would say this movie's concept is similar to one of the top 250 movies(IMDb) ChakDe India. The words like Nationalism, Sportsmanship, women empowerment better suits 'ChakDe India' rather than Dangal. If you are an Aamir Khan's Fan then I would suggest you watch this movie. The casting was good, this is not a one-man show. And one more thing, this movie is complete sports domestic drama with emotions mixed. Finally, Dangal is a good movie but not the best movie.


                
Now this is the perfect example of how casting should be done. Amazing performances by all the 4 girls where Zaira Wasim (Young Geeta) has by far ruled the charts. Aamir's effort as an actor and producer are marvelous. Not the best of the sports lot by all means, but certainly the way how these type of movies should be made.Storyline Rating: 3Acting Rating: 4 Zaira Wasim: 4 Suhani Bhatnagar: 3 Aamir Khan: 4 Fatima Sana Shaikh: 3 Sanya Malhotra: 3Direction Rating: 3Music Rating: 4Cinematography: 3Editing: 4


                
With word of mouth, you may have all known what a big hit "Dangal" became lately and the critical accolades the film received. Instead of taking the promotions for granted, I insist you to watch this film first.The film is based on a true story of an Indian wrestler, Mahavir Singh Phogat, who trains his two daughters, Gita and Babita, to win the international level wrestling competitions. It's commendable that few film makers have started to make movies on the real heroes of the country, whose tales of heroism are often unheard of. It takes a story from a small village of Haryana and takes it to an international milieu. Many are relating this movie with year's another hit, "Sultan." But these two films are in no way to be compared of. Though both the films are on wrestling, "Dangal" explores many entities like the social discrimination on girls, state of sports federation, father daughter relationships.Where the film explores the wrestling arena from a small Haryana village to a national level training centre, the film is also filled with emotions, wit, and other finer nuances of life. Aamir Khan as usual is good, but the two girls as Geeta and Babita both were outstanding. Watched this film in theatre, and the audiences were seen applauding when the girls enter the arena and play for their country. The Haryani environment and the dialects used in the film gives it a mesmerizing touch. Just like "Chakde India" and "Mary Kom," "Dangal" will remain one of the finest sports movies to come lately.Rating: 3 stars out of 4


                
There's no taking away from the actors, but the real stars here are the team of scriptwriters and the director. There is so much respect for the audience. The use of the voice over/narrator (I've hardly ever seen it in Hindi films) was a stroke of genius though its introduction was delayed and bit abrupt. The writing kept me engaged about a sport that I'm pretty sure most of those watching, like me, knew nothing about.The choreography, direction and editing, particularly of the last 45 minus led to silence in the theater, where there had been much-appreciated laughter and an emotional connect in the first half of the film. This is what a movie going experience should be - to educate, inform and inspire.It's established now that Aamir is bankable as a producer and bless him for his choice of material!


                
Wow - if I could sum up Dangal in one word, and that wow goes especially to the choreography of the wrestling matches between the character Geetha and her opponents and also on the visual capture of these matches. In terms of sports action in Bollywood, I loved Chakde India but Dangal simply outshined it in that aspect. Maybe I can say that the sports action in Dangal is as good as those from Hollywood, at least in terms of sheer suspense and thrill factor. Dangal is even like a beginner's lesson on what wrestling is for viewers :D and that's because there are scenes in the movie that explains(via Aamir's character to his kids) in an uncomplicated, interesting manner on how the points work or explains the various attack or defense moves. Besides the excellent sports choreography(the Commonwealth Games semifinals match is my favorite) and the cinematography, the performances and also the direction deserve a big applause. Aamir gives an aptly controlled performance as the centrestage actually belongs to the character of Geetha. If he'd not taken a backseat whenever required to let the other actors shine in some key scenes, this movie would have stumbled. Fatima Sana Sheikh as the older Geetha gets the role of a lifetime. She must have trained very hard to do justice to such a physically demanding role and her emotions are spot on too but if I were to choose just one performance in the movie that's my favorite, I would say Zaira Wasim as the younger Geetha. What a natural child actor! And of course, the support cast is wonderful like Sanya Malhotra as the older Babita(sis of Geetha), Suhani Bhatnagar as the young Babita and Ritwik Sahore(young Omkar, the Phogat sisters' cousin). The child actors, I must mention again, Zaira Wasim, Ritwik Sahore and Suhani Bhatnagar deserve lots of appreciation for their acting. Of course, as it is a movie, the makers take liberties to exaggerate a few moments or scenes or even bring shades of grey to few characters which is all OK but at what point does one limit it? Geetha's national coach in the movie is shown to have shades of grey, exaggerated grey actually, so much so that PR Sondhi(who was the national coach of Geetha & Babita in real life) remarked that his reputation has been hurt by what's shown in the movie and they should have not taken such liberties with the character at his expense. I agree. Otherwise I'd have rated this movie a 9 or even a 10(it's still epic) but I downgrade it to 8 as a symbolic protest to how some of the characterisation was done.Verdict: It is "bollywood-ish" but still entertains, thrills and inspires in equal measure. Bring your family to the theatre too, and also it runs with English subtitle for a wider audience. As soon as the DVD is out, I intend to buy and watch it again. A must see despite any flaws.


                
This movie bearing semblance to the triplet (Alphabet D "Dhoom 3", Aamir Khan and Pritam) stands out in every frame invoking our lost cherishment of Hindi cinema. Films on Sports, women-centric themes or jingoism have drawn flak from a certain section of the society or the masses due to their biased / judgmental approach to the screenplay. Movies generally exercise many cinematic liberties and cliché that make or break the BO, based on the movie's credentials. In case of Dangal, we get to experience an awesome alignment of production values, screenplay (deftly crafted), music (Pritam pitches to perfection) and artiste's performance (debutantes pull your heart strings!!). As was widely published, the movie is about a relentless father (erstwhile wrestler) who breeds his daughters to be wrestling champions to bring glory to the motherland (mind you, there isn't a slightest overture about "desh bhakti" barring the national anthem played In then end). The very premise of the story leaves a gamut of human sentiments to be kindled as per bollywood's formulaic studious, yet, Dangal restrains and sticks to its core theme – "sportsmanship is all about patience and perseverance, which are the biggest virtues of life too". Director, less-known for churning blockbusters (no offense intended), this time has struck gold with his tactical treatment of the subject with no submission to any sort of emotional outbursts or commercial compromises. Be it the childhood clutches of the wrestling-sisters, the dramatic episodes in the Sports Academy, the untold emotions between baap- beti, the euphoric display of the wrestling ring, or the tears of triumph which trickle down (the eyes of the artistes and audience alike), every sequence is laced with indelible dialogues, unique expressions, underplayed stardom and subtle transition in the characters. To mince matters, as the film industry draws curtains to 2016, it's a sheer pleasure to watch the "teen sisters" hit "sixes" in this unparalleled portrayal of WOO(Window Of Opportunity)MEN POWER!!...
It's slightly lengthy. The overall quality of the film is really good. The rhythm is relaxed and relaxed. Several emotional turns have good cushions and breaking points. Throughout the article, the description of wrestling competition is very deep, especially the last few contests are full of details, tactics, skills, will are very comfortable. This kind of movie looks very engaging. There was good music and no group dance that affected the sense of sight.


                
Dangal refers to the wrestling arena, which this movie about. Amir khan successfully played his character as shinning actor towards the movie. this movie a contribute to all indian female athlete.


                
This movie tells us the story about the man who loves wrestling throughout his life, but he cannot become a sportsman, because his family was poor and he needed to earn for life. After many years his love of wrestling doesn't fade away and he decides to train his daughters. We can see how they break down rules and stereotypes about the women.It has an impressive picture, magical music and a strong storyline.
