DANGAL is a masterpiece. A terrific film that stays in your heart and remains etched in your memory much after the screening has concluded. A brilliant film that restores your faith in Hindi cinema. Actually, it won't be erroneous to state that DANGAL is the finest film to come out of the Hindi film industry in a long, long time and mark my words, it will be remembered as a classic in times to come. It blends drama, emotions, sportsmanship and patriotism extraordinarily<U+0085> the icing on the cake being Aamir Khan's towering act. This rich-in-merits film has a major advantage too -- the holidays ahead Christmas and New Year -- which will ensure a glorious run at the ticket counters. A must, must watch!


                
Aamir Khan shines in the role of Mahavir Singh Phogat. He is so outstanding in his performance that this could be considered as one of his best works ever. The opening scene of the film is just a glimpse of Phogat's passion for the sport – wrestling. The first half of Dangal works exactly like a skilled wrestler – invariably sure of its moves. The film's second half is all about victory. Mahavir's transformation from the once upset father of a baby girl to the most triumphant one to Geeta's string of losses before she finally wins a gold during Common Wealth Games to desi akhara being replaced by wrestling mat – every moment works in contrast to what you had watched earlier. But not even once does the film loses its focus.A word here about Mukesh Chhabra's casting: he has done a tremendous job of the casting. Nitesh Tiwari's direction is amazingly terrific. AmitabhBhattacharya's lyrics are great. Pritam's music is in terrific sync with the mood of the drama. 'Dangal dangal' is a very inspiring song and will soon become a rage. 'Dhaakad' and 'Haanikarak' are also very well-tuned. The 'Gilehariyaan' song has terrific charm of a different kind. Amitabh Bhattacharya's lyrics are great. The song writer may pick up some awards for his lyrics. Bosco- Caesar's choreography is very real. Pritam's background music deserves distinction marks. The actors who play the young Geeta and Babita (Zaira Wasim, Suhani Bhatnagar) do a competent job of maintaining the audiences attention. And both Shaikh and Malhotra carry it forward, especially when they spend a lot of the second half on the mat, learning how to lose, and, above all, to win. Since it encapsulates the historic win of the phogats who bought India glory so it is bound to inspire women. Dialogues are absolute gems. Without being overtly long, they are so effective that they invariably touch the heart before reaching the ears. On the whole, Dangal is not just a movie; it is an experience to be cherished. The film is destined to be one of the biggest blockbusters of Indian cinema.As it content oriented so The movie is both for the single screens as well as for the multiplexes and people of all age can watch.so this movie is a must watch. So I Rate it 10 stars out of 10 because I was thinking movie deserves it.I usually don't rate any movie 10 but This movie "HatsOff". Don't Expect a better story than this.Finest piece.Dangal hai yeh.


                
"Direction was superb and Aamir's performance was excellent. A compelling narrative based on true story with a powerful message for women" My rating- 4.5/5 (Movie of the year and don't miss this flick) Positives- 1.)Direction and screenplay- Direction and screenplay didn't bore us and we were glued to the seats as it was so engaging and entertaining.2.)Aamir khan , Zaira (young Geeta), Fathima (geeta) , suhani (young babitha), sanya(babitha) and fathima (mother)- Everyone's performance was excellent. Amir's hardwork and dedication for this role can be seen through his performance. He once again proved to be Mr perfectionist. All girls who acted as daughters were very good and they portrayed their roles without any problems.3.)Songs and bg score- Special mention for title song. Title song was great and suited the movie well. Hats off to Pritam and he once again proved that he is the best music director of bollywood.4.) Cinematography and edits- Cinematographer captured wrestling scenes very well and edits of certain scenes were good.5.)Strong message for women Negatives- (NO NEGATIVES) Is it a must watch? Yes!!! and watch it in theaters to get the feel.Overall- This is the best Christmas treat for everyone from dangal team. This has Aamir Khan's best performance till date. And the major one is that it has strong message for women. Yes its a must watch movie and don't miss this flick!! My rating- 4.5/5 (Movie of the year and don't miss this movie) For more reviews go to- ridinbal movie reviews. Ridin bal movie reviews has all language movie reviews(Malayalam,English,Telugu,Kannada,Tamil,Arabic,Hindi,Iranian)


                
Umm where to start? First of Aamir sir has done it again. He really has a good taste in selecting movies. Not only the acting even the fighting scenes were quite real to me & reel Geeta and Babita were just too awesome. There is certain moments where you're gonna laugh out loud, get anger, get emotional and obviously feel proud the most that's what the movie brings out of itself. I hope this movie brings joy to all family and a chance to look at all daughter's of their's potential.Should you go for it? Hell yesSongs are smartly enough and pretty amazing.Ps. I wished the movie to be a bit longer.


                
My Dangal Review/Thoughts:In the moments of tension, I believe everyone exhibits their own unique body language to deal with nervousness and anxiousness. Mine involves folding hands (christian style). I am worried that I folded my hands for so long during the film that had I done the same in a temple, I would have been some Shah Rukh Khan myself. Yes ! The film is that excellent in its portrayal of the sport that it makes you grudge every time a player lands back first on the mat. We are so used to applauding action set pieces in other films that it will be criminal if the action choreography for Dangal goes unappreciated. This is the best and most realistic we have ever done!The whole cast is so great that I can't do anything but wonder why we need the glam actresses for each and every big film..why not some Sakshi Talwar? The new faces do wonders when it comes to making the illusion of cinema feel true. And, when Aamir (the superstar) sheds former self to becomes some chachajaan, it adds to the illusion instead of taking the magic away. I am bound to praise Aamir, but that guy has lost that element of surprise to make you go WoW. He is just aamir being aamir in yet another film that'll be brought in his already long good list. This is what happens when you submit yourself to the script and director (<= full marks)Most sports film are marred by clichés. Its impossible to evade the conventional trappings of the genre. Dangal has its fair share of those, but the biggest thing is that it knows when to stop, and that's what makes it a stadium like live experience. My adrenaline rush was high, and it made me very nostalgic as I got reminded of CWG Delhi days when I was 24*7 glued to DD sports. At this point, I feel my review is deviating from its path so I will put breaks by making a concluding statement.This is Aamir's Chak de India! I am speaking this both figuratively and literally ( :) ). But, who in the right mind would mind another one of those.


                
Nitesh Tiwari, Amir Khan and the team has put an extra-ordinary effort to make such an intelligent blend of Inspiration, Emotions and Humor that standing ovation at the end is irresistible. Dangal has a very unfamiliar high level of detail which is too good for Bollywood. High detailing make actors live the character, which doesn't go unnoticed and Dangal proves this point. Each actor wasn't just playing the character, they were truly living it. It was the Phogat family viewers saw on screen instead of the actors. That makes Dangal stand out. Acting is brilliant by both the lead and supporting actors. Mr. Perfectionist was great like always. No words to describe his level of commitment. Special mentions are the debutantes Fatima Sana Shaikh, Sanya Malhotra and Zaira Waseem. All the wrestling scenes are perfect and viewers can't mistake them for actors. The way these girls portrayed the characters of the wrestlers Geeta and Babita is commendable and worthy of every award. Story was based on a true story and the director stuck to it with some slight additions to make the movie more emotional and enjoyable which is good for Bollywood audience. But as a critic I must say there was a little bit of over dramatization in the end. Also I want to mention that AK and Nitesh didn't include any usual romantic crap and dance sequences which must be appreciated. Casting could have been better. Fatima is too cute for Geeta's character and this matters a lot while making a Biography. But she minimized this shortcoming by her flawless performance. Movie is 2hr40mins long but its well crafted so its enjoyable. ____________________________________________________________________ _________________________________________________ Its a must watch movie and Amir Khan keeps on setting standards for other producers of Bollywood which makes us hope for a better future of movies in India.


                
Aamir Khan is back after 'pk' as a wrestler who wants his daughter to win the Gold for the nation. It is a biopic of Mahavir Phogat. And believe me, it's a must watch biopic to get inspiration. To achieve something you have to let go the rest of the things.A simple story with great performances make this film a worthy watch. Aamir Khan is as usual fantastic. But, the girls are true heroes of this film. Fatimah who plays Geeta is a sure shot winner. She looks exactly as per her character and delivers great impact as a wrestler. Younger girls of Geeta and Babita are also very fine. Sakshi has a small role, but she plays it safely. Aparshakti Khurana is doing a voice over here and plays a role of the girls' cousin brother. He is funny and entertains the audiences for sure. Girish Kulkarni is also there, who delivered a classy performance in Ugly. So, the star cast and their performances are the biggest point of Dangal.Direction and writing by Nitesh Tiwari are worthy enough for viewers as they don't get bored in any situation. Except one, after interval song, that is like something slow paced. Everyone has to applause him as he gives justice to Phogat's family and doesn't add any extra material which we often see in Bollywood movies. He has delivered the frame as it is, so the middle class viewer can easily be able to connect with the film. What I like the most in the film apart from the performances is Music. Pritam has given it with the lyrics of Amitabh Bhatacharya. Both were amazing in Ae Dil Hai Mushkil. This time also they are killing the stereotypes. I loved all the songs. I'm downloading it. Hanikarak Bapu and Dhakad are pitch perfect. They have some English words as well as some pure Hindi words in them which make them enjoyable. But the best song is by far the Title track in the voice of Daler Mehndi. Full marks to the music department!Yes, it is very emotional film. Those who get the connection easily with films, may cry during some scenes. Even I'm one of them, too. It is better than Sultan, because it's a pure wrestling movie with a family background. Sultan was like a love story with a background of wrestling till interval and then box fighting post interval. I wish, Dangal may cross the record of Sultan at Box Office.On the whole, just go and enjoy the perfect film with your entire family as many time as you can. Btw, I will go for the second time for sure. So, 2016 has ended with a perfect film. Jai Hind!


                
Dangal (9/10) is the kind of film for which the 70mm medium exists. It has universal appeal, is technically brilliant and more than anything else it is a film that skillfully balances popular sentiments and realism. It is going to reach tens of millions of people without having compromised the quality of storytelling.An extraordinary story of some extraordinary people who not only conquered their fears but also a society which had the negativity to kill their dreams even before they were born.If Chak De was a fine example of exemplary editing in a sports film and Pan Singh Tomar was an exceptional sports film with great depth and realism, Dangal would forever be remembered as one of the best Indian sports film for the sheer reach it will have. Wrestling is a fast paced technical sport. To make the whole thing look as authentic as it has looked in the film, it would have required some meticulous planning and extensive training and they have done it really well.The fact that you feel the frustration that Mahavir Singh Phogat feels in the final scene and you along with the whole audience begins to clap after each of Geeta's winning bout as if there was a live game at display shows how supremely engaging the film is. One negative, though not significant enough to harm the film is that it has over dramatazied the narrative at the cost of slight misrepresentation of the facts.Only if the majority of Indian film makers could realize that it is not impossible to make good cinema with popular appeal, we would start getting more than just a couple of Hindi films every year worth watching. Now is a good time to list Top Films from India in the Sports/Drama genre: 1)Paan SIngh Tomar 2)Dangal 3)Chak De India 4)Iqbal 5)Jo Jeeta Wohi Sikander 6)Lagaan 7)Bhaag Milkha Bhaag


                
DANGAL - its such a good thing that both PINK and DANGAL , two top movies of this year are women centric. Its such an improvement for Bollywood which doesn't make movies on women because such movies doesn't make money , which is a wrong fact , PINK made almost 300% profit. You just need to make a good movie and it will make you money. And by saying women centric m serious, the character of Mahavir Phogat is not the real hero of the movie , rather its his daughter Geeta Phogat who is in the center of the movie. For understanding what MAhavir Phogat has achieved in his life , we must know the fact that Hariyana is one of the worst state in India for girls. A very low sex ratio and a very low Literacy rate for women. And in such scenario what Mahavir Phogat has achieved is tremendous. That said , one thing is clear that we cant expect anything out of the box which we always get from AMIR's movies like 3 idiot , PK and TALAASH , because its a biopic , so they have to show what actually happened , which is not exactly bad things , in fact what this movie shows is an out of the box real life story. First i would like to mention two things which i don't liked. 1st - The way the wrestling coach of NATIONAL SPORTS ACADEMY has been shown as one sided villain also who is kind of incapable to train , was wrong. 2nd - there was an unnecessary twist in the end which seems unconvincing. Apart from these two things , everything else is either good or great in the movie. The movie tackle through different themes. Sometimes it tackles them one by one , and sometimes simultaneously. But the good thing is that it tackles them convincingly. For example when we see Mahavir training his daughters rigorously , there comes a thought that, what kind of dad he is. He just stole the childhood of her daughters to fulfill his own dreams. But after some scenes on the wedding of Mahavir's daughters' friend both the daughters complaining about Mahavir her friend (who is getting married) reply that she hoped that she would had get such father as Mahavir who thinks about their daughters and wants them to achieve something and not like his own father who force her to marry at the age of just 14 to an unknown person. That particular scene convince the audience that what Mahavir is doing is not wrong as compared to the society where they are living. Another theme which movie showed very convincingly was how free a girl feel when she goes out of his family for the first time. Almost 1 hour of the movie contains wrestling matches. And those matches were done extremely well on technical level , and hook you like you were watching a real match. I mean as compared to this the matches show in SULTAN were just nothing. Among the performances ZAIRA WASIM (also the lead actor of Amir's next SECRET SUPERSTAR) playing Young GEETA was delight to watch. The scene where she request her father to not cut her hair and she will do anything he wants was heartbreaking. And she does her fighting scenes very well considering the fact that the director in an interview has mentioned that ZAIRA was actually the weakest among all the four girls before they start their training. But when it comes to fight scenes , FATIMA SANA SHEIK as the older Geeta was best. She fights like a real fighter and her hard work is visible on the screen. On her dramatic acting front she was awesome too. Both the actresses who played young and old Babita were good too , but got less screen time as compared to Geeta's character. Aparshakti Khurana(brother of Ayushman Khurana) as the nephew of Mahavir has an impeccable timing of comedy , and surly will make you laugh many time. But for Amir Khan , what to say , he blends so nicely , that he became MAHAVIR , and the actor Amir is nowhere visible anywhere. He just makes me wonder why cant other actors (yes pointing at SRK and SALLU) stop-showing their persona and blend into characters in their movies . Around the whole movie there were so many whistle blowing happening , that i was not able to here the dialogues many times. But just before climax , the NATIONAL ANTHEM runs in common wealth games after GEETA PHOGAT won her gold medal(i hope that's not a spoiler) and the whole theater stands in respect of NATIONAL ANTHEM you just cant help and get OVERWHELMED. 9.4/10 by ANuP APu KuMaR
Its a movie decked up with the classic acting of the veterans and the novices and bore the testimony of the unorthodox approach to bring to light the dream of Mahavir Phogat. The fire of 'dangal' ignited in the hearts of the sisters which paved the path of demolition of gender discrimination. The film portrays the affectionate bonding of a father and a daughter and emotional rendition escalates barriers when the elder sister has kept the very words of her father's dream. In fact it is beautifully carved that our ignorance towards our family elders hinders our progress. The film has been peppered with humour every now and then and it has added extra spice to the viewers.


                
Amir Khan a person always amazes everyone,recently he is working for movies with a good moral lesson and a worthy base.That kind of movie is a "movie". Dangal is a good example it has a classic taste and digestible fun which peels off the people eyes. It is a true story full of suspense and when you're watching a fight you feel like you are wrestling in between this kind of quality is difficult to be produced and Amir is good at it. The reason for giving 9 stars is because of its ending I think it should be made better by showing scene like he is putting that medal at the wall of Honor. Anyways keep it up I was expecting this a thing from you. Love you :)


                
It is a big step for India to produce such a movie to show discrimination against women.Even the father didn't follow the mind of his daughters, he still did something to free women from being limited by outdated conventions although he did things out of love for wrestling.I agree with the father's behavior like his daughters because I grew up in such a circumstance(not such a family).In Asia, we respect our eldership and follow their instructions.I didn't get bored during the whole movie because of its good pace.Wrestling is not really interesting to me in real life.But the sequences of wrestling scenes in the movie fascinated me a lot and they aren't repetitive at all.Aamir Khan is a great actor which you can see from his different shapes in this movie.In summary, it is a good movie that you shouldn't miss in theaters.I am practicing my English by writing movie comments.Thank you for tolerating my terrible grammar.


                
I normally don't write reviews but this movie is so good that I felt its my responsibility to spread the word. I too feel this movie should be made tax free so more n more people are able to see it. As we know its a true story which makes it truly special. Its true that truth is stranger than fiction and lot more inspiring as well. But a good story means nothing if its not directed well... director being captain of the ship is the main force behind a good movie. We have often seen good movies being made with lesser known actors which is precisely the case with this movie bar Aamir Khan. He's really a perfectionist there's no doubt about that but this movie has a lot to offer than its Main Star. Special Mention for the young Kashmiri Zaira Wasim who played the younger Geeta... She's the second best reason of watching this movie... she's a revelation can't believe its her first time on screen. She's nailed the role and has outperformed Fatima Sana Shaikh who plays the elder Geeta. Ritwik Sahore is another talent right up there with Zaira. He's hilarious every time he comes on the screen. his expression alone can crack you up. Young Babita played by Sohani Bhatanagar is also excellent she has a light humorous character while elder Babita played by Sanya Malhotra is heavy and she's done impeccable job she's a great actor and has performed better than her co star n BFF Fatima Sana Shaikh. Another actor worth a special mention is Aparshakti Khurana brother of Ayushman Khurana. He's hilarious and resembles his brother. I find he's a natural actor and lot better than Ayushman who's never in character and is pretentious. Aamir's wife played by Sakshi Tanwar has done good job but I feel she had a small role also her n Aamir had no chemistry though. but the movie is not about them. All other characters in the movie like Girish Kulkarni who plays the coach or Badrul Islam who plays the Chicken seller have done fantastic with whatever time they had on screen. Movie might be exaggerated at times to give it more depth and emotions it seems but overall its been adapted really really well. It mostly touches on women empowerment but its the element of father daughter relationship that touched the cords the most. Father may seem MCP to most of the feminine brigade of the time as he's tough with the gals but that is the reason why his daughters both won gold for India. sometime this activists lack the vision and don't see the bigger picture.We don't have to say much about Aamir do we? Finest Actor of India I call him the India Tom Hanks intact I like him even better. He's effortless with his Haryanvi accent. Provides lot of laughs initially and makes you easily cry around the post interval story line... One of his best work till date. Movie is lot superior than his earlier super hits be it 3 idiots or PK or Lagaan. Please do yourself a favour go watch this movie near you... RUN


                
Dangal is truly a masterpiece! It's literally a breath of fresh air watching a masterpiece like this. Dangal is a very inspirational and emotional movie that will leave you completely speechless once you leave the theater. Here are the Pros and Cons that I've found in the movie. Pros: Performances: First and fore most, Aamir Khan is amazing in this movie! Like many people I consider him a perfectionist but if you are the kind of person who doesn't believe that, his performance in this movie will prove you wrong! Aamir Khan is so brilliant and outstanding in the film. In every single scene of this movie, he gets into the skin of Mahavir Singh Phogat and portrays that character perfectly. Aamir Khan is hands down one of the best actors in Indian Cinema! In the role of Geeta Phogat (the older daughter) both Fatima Sheikh and Zaira Wasim give an excellent performance. In the role of Babita (the younger daughter) Sania Malhotra and Suhani Bhatnagar both give an outstanding performance. Sakshi Tanwar as the mother is brilliant. The rest of the supporting cast do an outstanding job portraying their parts. This is one of those movies in which every single actor leaves a major impact in the movie. Overall, the performances are top notch!!Direction: Nitesh Tiwari for his third film ( Chillar Party and Bhootnath Returns were his first two movies which were great) directs an incredible movie. His narrative style and visual perspective of the story is absolutely marvelous that you can't think of any other director who could have done a better job! Nitesh Diwali had done an amazing job directing this movie!Music: The music and background score by Pritam are amazing. While all of the songs are situational, all of the songs are very well composed. Whether it's the title song, Dhakkad, or Gilehiriyan. All of the songs in Dangal are amazing. The music by Pritam is absolutely wonderful!Story/Screenplay/Dialogues: The entire script of Dangal is absolutely marvelous. The screenplay of the movie is so well written with amazing dialogue. The first half of the movie has so many funny and light moments that you are amazed by how entertaining the film is. The second half is the sole of the movie, there are so many emotional and inspirational scenes in the movie that will make you tear up. The script of Dangal is wonderful and since it's based on a true story the story is so simple yet very impactful. There are many more Pros in this movie.Cons:Honestly, there were barely any Cons in this movie. There was absolutely nothing in this movie that bothered me. I'll probably say that there are just about a few scenes in the movie that slightly dips the screenplay mainly in the beginning of the movie. Other than that I have no major flaws with this movie!!Overall, Dangal is an outstanding film that will inspire you and motivate you. This is a great film on not just female empowerment but it's an amazing movie on family and human emotions in general. Dangal is a triumph and is one of the best movies I've seen this decade!!!


                
Majority of sports films have lots of things in common between them. This one here tries hard and succeeds in being in the minority.Mahavir Phogat (Aamir Khan) is a home-grown National-level wrestling champion who hopes to see his unborn son(s) make India proud by winning gold at the international level. Blame his X chromosomes, but he and his wife give birth to not one, not two, but four daughters, much to Mahavir's disappointment. He surprisingly stops trying for a fifth child and packs up his dreams. However, as the kids grow up and show signs of aggressiveness, he realizes that even though their gender orientation is different from his, they may be good contenders for the game of wrestling. Convinced that his two eldest daughters, young Geeta (Zaira Wasim) and Babita (Suhani Bhatnagar), may help him take his passion forward, he begins training them - pure Ludhiana-style. The story then follows Mahavir's strict native coaching as the girls grow up (Fatima Sana Shaikh and Sanya Malhotra) and try to climb the ladder, albeit while facing a series of stereotypes, hurdles, and rampant demoralization from the society.As a viewer who is still in awe with the film, I will only talk about one specific (and the most important) sequence, which occurs towards the end of the first half. Without giving any spoilers - in order to prove that she doesn't need more of her father's guidance, Geeta gets into the pit to fight against the man who helped create her. The two-minute montage that Tiwari and cinematographer Sethu get absolutely, perfectly right, all with Aamir and Shaikh's emotive reactions, is the most poignant scene seen in any Bollywood film this year. There is so much in that short sequence that defines the powers of human vanity, egotism, and haughtiness - all blended with humanity's most vital feelings - it will make you cry. That particular sequence is what got me, and I am going to break order by recommending this film right in the third paragraph itself. Go watch it in your nearest theater now.Five minutes is all it will take you to get hooked into the otherwise long film (at 160 stimulating minutes). Delightful sequences that will lay out what is to be expected as you move forward with Mahavir and his daughters' story. The cause of women empowerment is loud and clear as Tiwari and his allies etch a story about the usual stereotypes that surround when it comes to "women in sports". The male gaze also makes an appearance here as Mahavir gives zero care to the world and moves ahead with his talented daughters in an attempt to shift mountains. How a father does what he does, regardless of his approach, but still thinks of his girls' upbringing and a bright future is what Dangal essentially talks about. It tries to smash and subdue the voices that sway in the air about inequality, and oppression of women and their rights. As far as the narrative is concerned, it's a triumph, because it sheds light on both sides of the coin. Mahavir's wife is worried about her daughters' food-making skills, but she is cajoled that people are not living in caves anymore. Of course, the narrative is formulaic, as Tiwari uses the usual elements (think Chak De! India (2007), Sultan (2016)) to ignite chatter about the much-talked-about cause, patriotism, the decrepit sports authority of India, and other related things. The ability to shed light into how it is the government which is to be blamed for sportspeople not winning medals should be lauded, but let's not give the film the hat of a pioneer. Other films in the genre think of it as water under the bridge.The young girls do a very good job at enacting kids who are growing up and who love pani-puri, yet are forbidden by their father. Their determination in portraying their characters is terrific. Same with Fatima Sana Shaikh who is well- directed, yet her character is written with some traces of bad Bollywood in it. She steals the show, nonetheless. Sakshi Tanwar and Aparshakti Khurrana support the main cast very well, with the latter providing comic relief.Aamir Khan justifies his role, and makes it obvious why he is showered with certain adjectives and nouns. After Talaash (2012) and Dhoom 3 (2013), his authority as a game-changer in Bollywood was beginning to diminish, but this one here surely has the strength to resurrect him as the man. His fitness regime for the portrayal (can be watched on YouTube) reassures that he may still be in the game.Dangal is a film that makes the right use of background music, slow motion capturing and editing, and other film factors. It keeps its audience at the edge of their seats throughout the film, yet stays relevant, and never bores. Thumping songs will get you higher and make you marvel at the cinematic excellence as it unfolds layer by layer. Overall, there aren't enough sentences to describe the lists of things that this film achieves. It rhetorically asks if women aren't better than men. Then it proves that it's all about equality, making feminists cower at the backseat. What took them years and years to start, this film here did it in less than three hours.BOTTOM LINE: Nitesh Tiwari's "Dangal" is surprisingly brilliant for a sports drama. It is a film that is not only about sports or the spirit of winning, but about a father's quest to make his children understand what passion can do, and how one can set an example. Other than learning some good wrestling strategy, Dangal is a triumph that will appeal to everyone. Go for it!Can be watched with a typical Indian family? YES


                
After watching Sultan, I was repelled with any more Haryanwi style movies going forward. I don't know if its lack of entertainment availability or have people completely lost their minds to enjoy the Sultan buffoonery. I saw the trailer for Dangal and decided I'm not going to watch this movie. Just last week, I saw a 30 second trailer where Mr. Aamir Khan's character has a dialogue with his office colleague while watching a wrestling match. And that included Mr. Aamir slamming a man twice his size on the floor with perfect form. I knew I had to watch this movie and erase the negative mindset that had been created because of Sultan the clown. Nonsense.Based on a true story, Mr. Aamir Khan has trained for 8-10 months for wrestling and went through a huge transformation from being fit to fat for 90% portion of the film and then trained for 5 months to go from fat to fit to work on the initial portion of the movie that is only for 5-7 minutes in duration. He really got into the skin of the character.The man needs no words to describe his dedication and passion for film making. But this movie is not just about him. It's also about his two daughters. They've trained for 8-10 months with wrestling their body language is extremely professional and their Dangal scenes will blow your mind! The training they've gone through for the wrestling and the way the story has been shown will leave you speechless. Mr. Aamir Khan has put everyone on this project through hell, after all you don't create a masterpiece by rubbing your nose with your thumb at every instance and pretending a fake American nasal accent. Dangal is a masterpiece, there is no doubt about it. The trailers give away the story, so there is nothing mysterious about it. What's amazing is the way it has been put together. It is a linear movie, no flashbacks (except the initial portion) and they keep it very short to get started with the subject of wrestling. There are a few scenes that will absolutely choke you, the phone call scene between father and daughter, no dialogue, just expressions and they understand each other's tears over the phone, freaking brilliant! Another one is the wrestling scene between father and daughter. Mr. Aamir Khan's expressions, body language, marvelous! The younger portion played by the girls is amazing and so are the actors playing the grown up portions. The bhatija character is amazingly funny and perfect comedy timing. Not loud or obnoxious, just perfect!The movie is an experience and some jokers are comparing it to Sultan. Please don't be so over-smart, we know you saw the common factor Wrestling and just to look over-smart, compare it to another wrestling movie. Please don't show your intelligence by making such ridiculous statements, please think before you talk. The only commonality between Dangal and Sultan is the Sport Wrestling. Comparing them to each other is like saying every moochwala is Anil Kapoor. Stop looking for comparisons and save yourself a ton of embarrassment. The movie has brilliance written all over, flawless, all heart and entertaining. The undertones and sarcasm are minimal with humor associated without digressing into any other topic.This one is truly the best Sports Film to come from India and will definitely make it to the Oscars just like Lagaan did years back. The sincerity with Dangal from every actor in the movie brings the experience to a whole new level. Mr. Aamir Khan has raised the bar, not just for the Indian Film Industry, but also for cinemas worldwide.This one is definitely amongst Mr. Aamir Khan's top 5 list (Jo Jeeta Wo Sikander, Rangeela, Sarfarosh, Lagaan, Dangal). Mr. Aamir Khan releases a movie towards the end of the year and sweeps every other movie off the floor, similar to a wrestling move, dhobi pachaad style. Do not miss this one!
Dangal is one beast of a movie. You wouldn't want to miss this one at any cost! First half is too good, its so much fun. While the second half moves into serious mode in style.Just watch this movie with your friends and family, and i guarantee that you will thoroughly enjoy this roller-coaster ride. Swell!This team deserves most of the awards coming their way in every single department they will be nominated in. The girls killed it! And Mr. Passionist (Aamir Khan) nailed it as usual.Aamir & team, thanks for this one! :)


                
I am a big fan of Aamir Khan and I watch all his movies. Aamir sets a high expectation bar for his movies in all departments. Dangal also had a high bar to climb and it did so with aplomb. Aamir chose a great subject of encouragement for female wrestlers in India. Against all odds Mahavir Singh Phogat decides to train his daughters in wrestling to win a gold medal for India. Movie's casting was excellent with all actors doing so well in their characters. Aamir was great as usual but I was really impressed by how well the four girls did as growing wrestlers. They were strong and they were agile and they owned the court they were in. I am sure there were some technical help provided in shooting all those wrestling scenes but you will not be able to tell that while watching the movie. Their scenes were authentic and you were rooting for them as they were gritting their teeth and fighting tooth and nail to defeat their opponents. Dialog delivery in Haryanvi was on the money and you really will come out thinking that these actors speak that way everyday. I am not going to provide any spoiler but will just say that this is a movie to watch. It is a shame that release of such a beautiful movie had to be delayed by more than a year because of political fear.


                
#DANGAL review (No spoilers) The best thing about DANGAL is that there is no Aamir Khan- the superstar in the entire movie. There is just Mahavir Singh Phogat and his family. Their day to day struggles and their small triumphs ultimately leading to gold. It's a story of wrestling, of family, of emotions and basically everything which a person pursuing sports other than cricket experiences in India. It is also a deeply inspiring story of feminism. Geeta does what Aarfa Khan in Sultan couldn't. Aamir does what Salman couldn't- bring a character to life without the use of VFX. His character has many layers throughout the film. Was it his best performance till date? Well, we say that every alternate December. But like Virat Kohli, Aamir keeps scaling new heights in his every new innings.. A special mention of Daler Mehendi whose energetic rendition of title song which keeps giving you an adrenaline rush. Watch it for pure cinematic brilliance. For the amazing dedication of actors Zaira Wasim and Fatima Sana Shaikh who play the younger and grown up Geeta in the movie respectively. Their wrestling scenes are unimaginably real and goosebumps inducing. And yea, if you can also stand up for the national anthem.


                
Along with some of the greatest sports movies ever made in Bollywood, Dangal will probably be amongst the top 3 or top 5. Chak De India, Jo Jeeta Wohi Sikandar (yet another Aamir Khan movie), Bhaag Milkha Bhaag maybe few more that comes to mind. One of the brilliant facts about the movie gotta be its casting. Almost entire starcast is unheard of. Yet everyone have given such an amazing performance! Again, it maybe easier to find another actor who can dance and sing around. But not easy to find someone who can wrestle like an International athlete. I maybe biased for Aamir's best work being Taare Zameen Par, but this certainly comes close. The transformation of a National level wrestler to an aging old father, past his prime, the Haryanvi accent, the gait, everything about Mr Khan is just perfect. Besides, when was the last time you could take your entire family to a movie you were cringing at certain scenes, maybe some scenes were too violent, or raunchy - this is a movie you could and should take all your children (esp girl children) to watch. It also tends to be patriotic without being preachy. Last word: I wish they make this film tax-free. Everyone, esp all children and parents should watch this.


                
"Dangal" is the kind of movie,you would think will border on jingoism on match winning moments or the constant cribbing about sports system in India. But it's more than that. In a nutshell the story revolves around the journey of Mahavir Singh Phogat(Aamir Khan) and his wrestler daughters who want to win Gold medal for India in International Competitions. The film started with the narration from Phogat sisters' cousin who explains the life and journey of Mahavir Singh Phogat and how he raised his daughters. Aamir Khan as the protagonist has looked confident in the character of Mahavir and got him effortlessly into the skin of the character. He carried the film on his strong shoulders. At the same time he allowed other actors to shine in their parts. But brilliant actors like Aamir Khan easily overshadow others with their élan. This movie is not only about wrestling but it's a lot more than that. It is about a father who is ready to take on the world to make his daughters something worth in the eyes of society. It is about a father who is ready to do anything for his daughters. This does not stop him from being punitive on them or giving up his job to train his daughters better. A father who is ready to lose everything so his daughters could gain. A person who shamelessly accepted he wanted a son who could accomplish his dream of winning a gold medal for India which he could not achieve because of lack of support from his family. But he still has the courage to make his daughters wrestle in a male dominated sport in a male dominated society. He wants to make them international level wrestlers. There is scene where Mahavir who was a national champion lost a bout to his daughter Geeta who returned on a vacation from Patiala from National Sports Academy. Those 2 minutes very well showcases the emotions of a daughter who learned new tricks of the trade wanted to prove her father that what he taught is orthodox and old, the emotions of a father who was experiencing his daughter was moving away from her and going in a wrong path in her career. Those 2 minutes of acting epitomizes Aamir Khan as actor.There are several scenes like that which engross you throughout the movie. Coming to the acting part Aamir Khan has lead the pack effortlessly, Fatima Sana Sheikh (Geeta Phogat) and Sanya Malhotra(Babita) have acted well in their parts. Sakshi Tanwar (Mahavir's wife) was underused in the movie.She showcased her brilliance in some moment, but the screen time given to her did not do justice to her talent. Only person who could give a slight tussle in acting to Aamir was Girish Kulkarni who played the role of sly and arrogant coach Pramod Kadam. His acting is so good that you would want to hate him. The person who played the cousin of Geeta and Babita has acted well. A common trait across the best of the movies is their simplicity which touches your heart. This film too will touch your heart and remain in your heart even after leaving the cinema halls. The development of the story is so effortless and has an undertone that it pervades the mind in no time. Overall a really good movie with good intention and the credit should go to the director Nitesh Tiwari.
ITS DANGAL DANGAL.............Yet another Christmas and the perfectionist is back with a bang. It is inspiring, it is emotional, it is thrilling and they named it "DANGAL".If you are going to avoid this movie by comparing it with Sultan with a prejudice mind, I must say you are terribly mistaken. Sultan was a mere entertainment while Dangal is a class apart. Amir khan once again proved why he is called as the perfectionist of Btown. His efforts for this move has to be appreciated. We all know what this man is capable of and must say that he deserves the credit for portraying such a role which eventually concentrates on the female characters as the movie progresses. That shows how passionate he is about this art called cinema. His transformation from the macho man to old age fatty human was absolutely magical but the same time his eyes had the same intensity all the way long.Coming to the caste, Zaira Wasim and Suhani Bhatnagar as the young Geeta and Babitha were absolutely flawless and charming. For me they were the Pick of the caste considering their age and experience, while Fatima and Sanya were there pretty closely with their outstanding performance. Supporting casts comprises of Sakshi Tanwar, Rohit, Gurish Kulkarni and others did a pretty decent job that even their comparatively small roles made the movie much more engaging.Music by Pritam Chakraborthy have already made big buss in the market and I believe that this definitely there as his one of the bests. DOP and Editing were top notch and editing deserves a special mention for making the movie thrilling. It is pretty evident that they have done great homework on the script and even a single minute of the was not boring.The movie tightly slaps on the conventional thinking of society that the women are only intended to live to look after their family and should stay back behind the curtain for specific reasons and the Man Mahavir Singh Rana was their to thrash all those concepts and in the end we could feel the satisfaction he might have had in the real life. Like I said before the movie had many thrilling moments to make you bite your nails. It made my eyes wet at times, It even made me proud when the national anthem sounded in, knowing the facts that its just a movie. The movie starts of with, showing the passion Mahavir Singh has for wrestling from their the half an hour it was Amir show and slowly he handed over the baton to the ladies to perform. I do not want to spoil the experience by detailing the script and moments which made me enthralled. The good thing was the makers did not use their cinematic freedom to exaggerate the things and whatever we saw on the big screen were quite convincing within their limitation of detailing a real life eventNow to the real life Mahavir Singh and Daughters, You people are the true champions, Hats off to your efforts and you people will always be remembered in our hearts. I hope your stories will inspire many others to follow and apparently it will bring many Olympic medals and fame to our country in the coming years.....I just do not want to rate this movie, Rather a movie I love to call it as an experience. It is indeed a MUST WATCH


                
Is this a sports movie, or a movie with a social message or about women empowerment, or about a male's ego to win medal through his daughter even though he himself fails to do it, or its a collage formed with different layers? The 160 min long film relies much on a strong screenplay that transition slowly into the perception of society towards the women, to the determination of Aamir khan to mold them into a world class wrestler and then struggle with the system to eventually end up with the rather predictable ending. The movie main hero is screenplay which keeps binding you with funny nuances, and yet emotional drama and relationship of father and daughter, and people around them. The actors have done their life's top performances. The film may have been perfect if the editing and cinematography have matched to the other department. However, this is smaller flaw compared to the much originality and simplicity that the movie brings.


                
There are very few movies which hit most of the right boxes and I feel like watching again and again. Dangal is surely one of them. Despite being an inspirational sports movies it avoids being preachy or cheesy. Performances by the entire cast is amazingly restrained with no over- the-top dialogues or emotional melodrama. Aamir's transformation for the role is unbelievable, Fatima is a surprise find and is here to stay.The plot and dialogues are spot-on and hit the right notes. Music and songs are good too.A must watch movie.


                
Aamir if you ever read this... Sabaaas!!!Mr. M Phogat, you are a true inspiration.Casting was top-notch. Aamir was good as usual. The background score & music enhance the story telling, two thumbs up. The duels are shot well - real nail biters. Like every human being, the protagonist has flaws - the movie downplays it a bit. Personally, I think Taare Zameen Par was a better movie. Dangal however has better mass appeal and would probably make a helluva lot of more money. Clever script that intertwines the girl child issue, rags to riches, a dash of national integration and patriotism & the apathy to pursuing sports in India.Recommended.


                
