So Edward Norton is supposed to be a chameleon kind of actor, abode in the upper echelon of thespian professionalism with a distinctive character and absolutely a cut above the rest of the Hollywood illiterates. I've heard of this movie for so long but never intrigued by the signal-blazing poster and preaching-sound plot. But then I watched it by default and become so angry that compelled myself to rant out my rage. Its rub*ish, don't sully your eyes by it.Honestly, every character is black and white. Long overdue prodigal son who used to be a loving a caring straight A student got lectured by his racist old man and SUDDENLY abandon all his DOUBLE PHD black teacher's words and starting to mutter extreme racist remarks on news report when his "honest hardworking" firefighter dad got shot and killed. Then unsurprisingly he was claimed to be brainwashed and apparently become the rabbis of his secret guild. And his uncontrollable ANGER(so symbolic and repetitively accentuated in the movie that you started doubting if the director thinks the audience are all eight year old) moved to his family, to defend his belief and stand out for his horrendous looking lady friend. he even stuffed a chunk of beef into his sister's mouth to shut her up. AND he killed the guys who tried to sneaked his car through the most thrilling way(I didn't know if you put mouth on curbs and kick it could kill a man). I'm flabbergasted how the storyline goes exactly as I predicted(I learned in primary school if you want to salute a kind of concept you first suppressed it and then through a heavenly epiphany you realized the folly of you and the mightiness of the concept, say the virtue of be punctual), I thought maybe deviated a little from the standard via but sadly, sadly it doesn't. the linchpin of the movie got his second life and love education behind bars by his fellow linen worker and a f*ck in the a*s.Every character is either purely good or evil, all deprived of sanity and love and proper education. The fat bug killer is a racist for a reason, he simply is insolent and grumpy as hell about his life, he eats jelly beans with a bow; the mason-vision gangster are dramatized and demonized to present the very extremity of racism, which itself desensitize the audience and shift the concept of racism to terrorism. Apparently the director itself is undereducated but ridiculously bold to produce a film regarding racism without do much research about the itself. You'd startled by the level of superficiality and phoniness of the film. They even spent 3 mins on a black versus white basketball game.yeah.
I'm sorry I know people like this film, but how can you take it seriously after watching the basketball scene? Black Gang-bangers playing in Venice with Neo Nazi's? Never would happen!Too stupid for words -- I should've given it a one instead of a two.


                
Unconvincing portrayal of a struggling family whose two boys are racist skinheads.  One of the sons, after a stint in jail, has a change of heart and decides to save his little brother from the mindless hatred that nearly ruined his life.This film tries so hard to be a gritty, dark, morality tale of modern western life that it ends up parodying itself unintentionally.  I'm afraid a few angst ridden actors smoking and shouting out a lot of swear words does not a great movie make.The movie also has two of the stupidest moments on film.  Why the brothers, one of whom has just escaped death at the hands of his former gang, decide to sit and have a nice chat about life rather than run to the nearest phonebox and warn mom and sis (who are sitting passively at home like women do) is unrealistic.  Perhaps it didn't cross the boys minds.   Dumber still is why any self-respecting, skinhead gang did NOT immediately go to the boy's home and kill and destroy is beyond comprehension.  But perhaps it didn't cross their collective minds.The second stupidest moment on film ever is this film's ending.Do yourself a favour and see "Romper Stomper" if you want a truer reflection of the evils of skinhead violence.


                
Reminiscent of Spike Lee's Malcolm X who's main character had a change of heart and mind in prison that was followed by an epiphany when he saw men and woman of all races alike searching for answers, American History X unfortunately fails to demonstrate the most important element of any cathartic journey: Soul Searching.This is an obvious fiction of a boy who filled the vacuum of his missing father with a figure who would do his father's murder justice. The idea is interesting. However, it attempted to gather sympathy (and successfully) for the boy's plight by taking pot shots at easy targets. Derek is portrayed early in the movie preaching a succinct set of more than half-baked ideals which magically disintegrated with his "change of heart" in prison; when all his better angels kindly removed his indignation. The most insulting nugget of sanctimoniousness is Sweeny's comment "Ask yourself one question...has this made your life better?". Folks, when fighting for ANY cause, no-one ever expects the quality of one's life to improve. Did Ghandi's life improve by fasting?!Frankly, this is a very tough and serious subject that deserves more than a `change of heart'; it also demands a change of mind. It demands a journey of thought and reason. But in Hollywood who needs reason when you have tears, right? Thus we're left with a serious theme that is trampled by trite and exaggerated sensationalism.I believed at first that the sanctimoniousness was Tony Kaye's. But perhaps this touch is Edward Norton's who apparently monkey-ed around in post-production to the point where Tony Kaye wanted to use a pseudonym (I don't blame him). This wouldn't surprise me after seeing Norton's naive tear-jerker Keeping the Faith. Unfortunately, in Norton I'm "Losing the Faith".This movie could've been much better if it was created for grown ups. But then it would have to have been created by grown ups.


                
American History X may be one of the most racist films ever made. A summary of the message of the film could look as follows: If you are a nice white all-American family, don't ever sit around the kitchen table and talk negatively about blacks or immigrants or criticize main-stream media, however subtly, because that will most certainly turn your son into a violent hateful Nazi which will make him commit heinous crimes which will make him spend many many years in jail, where he will get raped by big black men as further rightful punishment for his sins. After that treatment he will learn not to be an evil white racist Nazi anymore, but his massive past racial sins will continue to hunt him anyway and in the end his beloved brother will have to die because of the older brother's hate and evil white Nazi racism.Only a clearly paranoid director with racial hang-ups could have come up with this script.
Ammoral, sadistic, self-congratulatory, inconsistent. When the symphonic soundtrack argues against the film's very simplistic messages it is difficult to avoid making the moral argument. More slow-motion melodrama than even a beginning film student could resist laughing at. Oh, and I'm sorry skinheads need faux prison conversions or films to learn how to be human. Tony Kaye, please go back to your flash and fizz commercials. It didn't work here.


                
SPOILERS!I don't know why so few people seem to realize it, but AHX is a self-contradicting, self-spoiling movie. In an intelligent way, it deals with racial problems and racism, condemning the latter. The main character, Derek, becomes a Nazi as his father is murdered by blacks, but has to realize to have made the wrong decision. This can be regarded as the message transported by the movie... till the finish, when the little brother of the main character is murdered by an "evil nigger" schoolmate for basically no reason. So in the end, this movie is confirming anti-black prejudice and doesn't make sense after all. It's even dangerous brainwashing. If even an anti-racist movie is racist, well, this attitude must be the right one...
American History X acted as my introduction to Tony Kaye and didn't leave me thirsting for any more of his work. The 1998 film, was his directorial debut, and that fact showed. The film stars Edward Norton as a former white supremacist reformed after a jail sentence who now wants to help his brother, played by Edward Furlong, avoid traveling the same path. What the film lacks in character depth it makes up for in its overarching moral message. American History X is devoid of all real human complexity in favor of the easy and overly simple message against racism without ever actually showing much in the way of race relations. Everything about American History X is safe, and safe films are rarely remembered years after their release.Edward Norton's Derek Vinyard, an easily mentally manipulated young man living in the increasingly diverse Venice Beach area of Los Angelis, California. Early one morning, Derek's brother, Danny (Edward Furlong) alerts his brother that his car is being broken into by "some black guy". Derek answers by loading a gun then heading outside in his underwear firing as soon as the door is open. Derek is arrested and sentenced to serve three years in prison. He bars his family and friends from visiting him while he is in prison, leaving everyone shocked when a completely transformed Derek emerges. When the white supremacist group that he used to head throws a party for his release, Derek wants no part of it and only attends the party to warn his former mentor to stay away from his brother and sever ties with everyone there. Derek's time is now spent trying to get his life back on track, find a job, and keep himself out of jail. His purpose, however, is to keep his brother, who idolizes Derek and watched his every move for years, out of the racism-fueled group that he fostered. He must impart his new-found enlightenment on his brother before it is too late. Aside from the glaring plot deficiencies, American History X is shot in a painful way. The heavy reliance on extreme close-up and often off-centered shots miss the grittiness the director may have been going for and is instead nauseating. The memories shot in black & white came off incredibly gimmicky and really didn't serve the advancement of the narrative in any way. The transition from black & white memories to present-day color shots was far from smooth and was rather distracting. American History X is not the type of film that requires a voice- over, yet, it was voiced-over throughout the entire film. Even if a film doesn't need a voice-over, it's easier to forgive if there is a succulent voice providing the narration; American History X does not have this either. There is a heavy reliance on the shots of this film to provide a shock factor, rather than the narrative itself which is indicative of poor directing when you're working with a plot as explosive as race relations. Back to the plot, the audience is told all throughout the film that Derek is smart, but we are never shown that. Twice through the movie, the audience is shown just how little it takes to emotionally and mentally manipulate Derek, leaving one to wonder if his "transformation" will even be permanent. The betrayal in the final scene may be just another manipulation to push Derek back to his old ways of vitriol hate. There's just not much to take away from Tony Kaye's feature film debut, which is disappointing considering that it could have been a masterclass in cinema, given its premise.


                
I'm afraid I really did not enjoy this - and not for the reason you might think (I wasn't disturbed by the racism or the violence portrayed by the film). I am afraid that contrary to the seemingly endless praise given to this film and its director, Tony Kaye, and indeed recommendations from my friend that I should see this film, when I did I felt cheated and annoyed. There's no denying that what the film portrays is shocking and powerful, and that Edward Norton's performance is equally powerful, almost coming close in intensity to De Niro's Bickle, and the set-pieces are well made, but the inability for the filmmakers' to create a convincing story spoilt the whole film for me - the way we see in endless flashbacks (often the sign of a weak storyteller), Norton's firstly ordinary, sane, likable character's seemingly easy conversion to a Nazi maniac just by his dad uttering a few racist sentences at the dinner table is frankly ridiculous. Plus his seemingly easy conversion back from a Nazi maniac while in prison, just through speaking to a nice black guy. I'm sorry, but it just negates the whole film's power. Not to mention the endless flashy camera techniques used by former ad director Kaye, NOTE: slow motion close ups of a running shower tap does not a good film make. The film opens on a black and white shot of the ocean, for no apparent reason, leading to the conclusion that Kaye thought he could appear as a 'clever' and 'sophisticated' filmmaker by showing us an 'arty' opening sequence. This kind of pretencion is as irritating as the lack of convincing back story. Nope, sorry Mr Kaye, wasn't for me.
