This is a truly insulting movie. They must assume the average American audience is a bunch of half-wits, and they can put on the screen every stereotypical idea about where racism comes from ("oooh, you see that? You learn it from your parents!") You can make up any story you want for the screen. ("Oooh, look at that! The white guys betrayed and raped him in prison and the black guy told the other black guys to leave him alone! Now he'll see why he was wrong to be racist!") Hopefully the American public isn't stupid enough to let such movie-makers talk down to us.         Skip this piece of junk and see "A Raison In the Sun" or "Gentleman's Agreement" if you want a film that at least engages the logic (or non-logic) of racism in an intelligent fashion.


                
American History X is a predictable race drama with no real insight.  A second viewing on television tonight confirmed my initial feelings for me.  The change for the main character seemed unmotivated and a bit too quick.One thing that was interesting was the film's use of Venice and the seemingly benign streets of LA's Westside as the location for this melodrama to play out.  A more obvious choice would have been the American South.All in all without the fine contribution that Edward Norton makes, this would be a complete waste of time.


                
Forget all the hype surrounding Tony Kaye and the suits from New Line preventing him from having say on final cut. Kaye's pic is a dud, even if he had managed to edit those trite images of falling water, and sunset beaches, etc (not forgetting a one legged teddy bear - gee honey, see what I told you, it's a movie about skinheads for the whole family!) Word is Norton had final cut and it shows. The film adores him, but it's all too much. When Norton grimaces after slo-mo action sequence (action b pic 101), his eyes seem to say 'look into my face and see the horror!' I looked hard and found nothing. This film is playschool meets Nazis and it just does not gel. Interested in movies about skinheads, without conventional plot lines supported by cookie cutter players and timeworn twists? See Tim Roth in 'Made in Britain' and Russell Crowe in 'Romper Stomper.' No bs films that tell it like it is. Violent they may be, but violence can't be gratuitous when it is central to the plot. I wish I could say the same for American History x - i.e Norton giving his foe a pavement sandwich. This is Kaye, and/or New Line's way of saying 'we're not afraid to shock! We're true to the material!.' Sorry guys, tag on violence don't make it so.


                
this movie is a mind f**k. i saw the end of the movie coming about about half way through, and it's horrible, pointless and dumb. i know they had no ideal how to end this movie, so they went with a violent and easy way out. the movie's point is 'racism is bad'. okay, no kidding. edward norton obviously threw himself into this part and he's the best thing in it and the film looks great, but it's about a half step up from an afternoon school special.  edward furlong is a good actor but he's miscast and feels and looks like a skinhead about as much as leonardo decaprio.


                
It's really sad : Edward Norton is fantastic (again, one might add), Edward Furlong is really good (in a "Little Odessa" kind of way) but oh my, how badly directed this is ! You often feel as if you're watching MTV all the way through : clean, well cut photography... it's so polished you end up wondering if this isn't the latest Aerosmith video you're seeing.


                
If you take the premise of the film and properly analyze it you would agree that Norton's character was wrongly convicted and jailed and that, in itself, makes the film unbelievable. A good attorney would have never allowed Derek to be convicted of killing armed felons robbing his property. The acting was good and watching the film was not as boring as I thought it would be. But the fact that truth told in the beginning about the gangs and ruination of the neighborhood was glossed over was wrong. The truth should have been presented in a more detailed account of the destruction of the major cities of the United States. But as previously stated, the acting was good and although the premise was ridiculous the film is worth watching.


                
