According to the IMDb list of the top 250 films of all time, THIS comes in at a staggering #44. If we are to go by this incoherent list, we are to believe that "American History X" is a better film than Kubrik's "Clockwork Orange." It is superior to the "Deer Hunter," and the classic "Third Man." It even outshines Germany's epic masterpiece "Der Untergang/Downfall." After you are finished laughing, consider the film "American History X," a hack job so embarrassing that it's director, Tony Kaye wisely attempted to have his name removed from the final product. Why would a director want to deny responsibility for a film that is considered by countless idiots who consider this better than "Metropolis??" Because 'A.H.X' is a mediocre film at best. From it's infantile, laughable, simplistic, and thoroughly inaccurate views on racism, to it's soap opera like melodrama, down to it's gross, comical overblown stereotypes, such as the ex-gang member 'uncle tom' preachings of Avery Brooks, as the black school principal, to the ultra stereotyped Jewish ideal, played by none other than Elliott Gould! Why weren't more people offended by this obnoxious representation of minorities? And of course, the skinheads were portrayed as ugly, stupid, and faceless monsters, with the exception of Hollywood movie star Ed Norton, who is a fine actor, but who was just too pretty to be believable here. A word of advice to future filmmakers: If you want to make a powerful statement about serious political issues, avoid using the latest Hollywood pin-up hunk to get the point across, as it just does not work. Remember Alan Pakula's "Devil's Own" with Brad Pitt as the hunky IRA hero/terrorist? Enough said. Ed Norton plays Derek, a young man who turns into a hate preaching neo nazi skinhead after his fireman dad is shot while putting out a fire in the ghetto project. Norton does not look like he ever stepped foot inside a housing project, but that does not stop him from becoming the spokesperson/leader to a generation of mean, angry skinheads, all of which tower above Norton. And as good an actor as Norton is, I did not believe him in the role of a lower middle class skinhead; He sounded more like a sheltered private school boy trying to act tough. It seems that the filmmakers have never even met a real skinhead, as this portrayal was so unbelievably inaccurate. AHX makes the mistake that so many Hollywood films make; It attempts to manipulate our emotions with sad, wistful, dramatic music. This method was grossly overused here, and some of the dialog could barely be made out over the overpowering "backround" music. More evidence of this films failings; if the script, and performances are good, we will feel the emotions on our own. Intelligent moviegoers do not need our emotions to be "cued" by the appropriate music. This is a sure sign of a poor film. Derek's transformation from normal boy, to racist skinhead, to finally a strong, enlightened protector of his family and responsible brother/son, after an "Oz" like stint in jail, would work fine, for a film made for television. But the fact that this thoroughly underwhelming movie scored so high on this website is proof enough that these ratings cannot be taken seriously. It saddens me that so many people cannot see the difference between truly good cinema, and mediocrity. It is more tragic that so many people can be this easily manipulated by this kind of Hollywood dreck. Having had the opportunity to view hundreds of films from around the world, I am not impressed by Hollywood's repeated attempts at making serious, intelligent films that deal with issues such as racism and poverty. Hollywood needs to stick with the flashy entertainment, the explosions, the comedies, the Sci-fi, as for this type of film-making, Hollywood can't be beat. And for those who want to see a truly good film dealing with the same subject matter as A.H.X, take a look at "Mississippi Burning". Here is a rare example of when Hollywood got it right; a well made, beautifully realized piece of cinema, that deals with the racism issue without being corny or ridiculous. As far as "American History X" goes, do not believe the hype.
I disagree very strongly with most of the people on this board. It seems strange that I despise this movie with such venom while other people hold it up as a perfect piece of work. Maybe my standards are higher. Maybe I've seen so many movies that I can see cliches more clearly than most. Maybe I expected more from a film with an ambition to change the world. Maybe I'm feeling disappointment because it failed so completely.I think "American History X" is a complete waste of your time. This is the story of a neo-Nazi named Derek who repents and gets out of prison just in time to save his kid brother Danny, who is going down the same skinhead path. That's the whole story. Everything else is atmosphere and complication, with sermons at every turn. I can understand why the director wanted to remove his name from the picture.Likewise, I can understand why Edward Norton was nominated for an Oscar for his portrayal of Derek, the jailbird brother. Norton is one of our best actors and squeezes lots of blood from this stone of a production. His speech rhythms and body language are wonderful. However, I can't find anything else to recommend apart from Norton's performance. The script is preachy, predictable, simplistic and badly staged. Edward Furlong is useless as Danny the baby skinhead, and the annoying fat guy who blabbers Nazi platitudes is one of the worst actors I have ever seen in a major motion picture. The black-and-white flashback device would be laughable in a film school thesis, and it's embarrassing to see it used here. It took all my strength to stomach the scene at the end where the brothers slowly remove all the Nazi propaganda from Danny's bedroom wall in ultra-dramatic fashion. This is an amateurish production of a bad screenplay that didn't think itself through.I didn't believe anything that happened here. Why are all the neo-Nazi punks dressed so impeccably? Shouldn't they be lower-class kids wearing hand-me-downs and thrift store bargains? Maybe there would be a few trust-fund lads around, but the whole crowd of Nazi youth looks like they shop at the Gap and J. Crew. We find out that Derek experienced a trauma in prison, and are expected to believe not only that this event completely changed him, but also that Danny would make an immediate character switch as soon as he hears about Derek's prison experience. I didn't buy it, and why should I? This movie thinks I am stupid enough to believe anything I see without questioning it. And isn't that why we have neo-Nazis to begin with?Don't believe the hype. Leave "American History X" to rot, and rent something interesting like "Do The Right Thing" or "Taxi Driver."


                
This is a movie....full of meaning ....that, in the final analysis is meaningless. It often tastes like sugar candy, and yet again, like Scotch Whisky. There are periods of sick....racism....but that never appears to be real. The key scenes when the Edward Norton character faces up to the Stacey Keach big boss Nazi horror....are under-developed. If your going to make a movie about black / white neo racism you need to come up with something better than this. This was made in 1998 and it feels like 1962. This is a film that means well...to expose the nastiness of colored hatred, yet it never comes near explaining the reasons, why blacks and whites....just do not get along. Too many weak scenes that are...not believable.


                
I wouldn't necessarily say this movie is bad, it's just insanely hard to watch. Remember how I said "American Gangster" was hard to watch for me because of my fear of needles in people's arms? I would rather watch an endless loop of that for the rest of my life than watch this again. I say again, this movie's not bad, it's just depressing. Everyone's so angry, so intolerant, so bigoted, so evil in this. Well, OK not everyone, Norton's character redeems himself, with a fantastic performance by the way. The mom and daughter are good people, the Principal's cool, Danny's English teacher is cool, the black guy that Norton bonds with in jail is funny, but the story isn't really about them. I felt nauseous after the first half of this movie, it was that hard to watch. 90% of the flashbacks in this are just people being racist, and violent, and crazy, and destructive, and I don't watch movies to see things like that, at least not at the rate this movie does it. And yes, I knew the kind of movie I was getting into. I had heard about the curbstomp, the swastikas, the racism, and all that. Hell, there's even a swastika on the poster for the movie. But I didn't expect it to be this full of hatred.The story's about how a person can change overtime, and make-up for wrongs they've done in the past, but that doesn't change the fact that a lot of these characters made me sick to my stomach. I think had they toned it down, at least a little bit, it would've made the message come out better. But for me, the message was buried under a pile of hate, and racism, and swearing, and overall the movie made me feel miserable. I don't watch movies to feel this way, if I want to feel miserable I'll turn on the news and hear about more people getting killed, and riots happening, and terrorist attacks, and natural disasters, and tension between citizens and the police force. But why would I want to watch that? To be informed? To keep up to date with current events? I don't know if this is just my mindset after watching the movie, but I literally don't want to see the news ever again because all I see is violence and arguing and despair.Also, what was with the ending of this? You had a good thing going with Danny learning to change his ways and maybe even redeem himself like his brother did, but then he dies, so it's like the whole movie was for nothing. Sure the audience got the message (if they could dig through all the hate), but Danny learned it only to get shot and killed, so what was the point? I'm sure it was to symbolize the endless cycle of violence and hatred that we as a society have to live with throughout our lives, but the rest of this movie is about as subtle as someone stomping you head into a curb till your brain pours out of your ears. I don't buy the idea that the rest of the movie is so "in-your-face" with how edgy it is, and then it secretly has a symbolic message at the end. If anything, I think they had the sad ending to get more Oscar nominations. Because if the past has taught me anything, it's that dramas with depressing endings get Oscar nominations 85% of the time.I don't hate this movie, (if I go my whole life without hearing that word again, it won't be long enough) I just find it hard to watch and don't like the ending. If you want to have a redemption story, that's fine, if you want to have a movie about Nazis, that's fine, but at the end of the day I have to be able to sit down and not feel like I'm about to vomit because innocent people are getting assaulted, or killed, or ridiculed, or yelled at for 2 hours. If there's any lesson I learned from "American History X", it's that there has to be balance for movies like this to work.
There's been a lot to do about nothing when it comes to this film. While watching it I was struck by the preachy nature of the film. Like I was watching an old high school film about racism and hate. The film is extremely cliched and, at times, simply formulaic with a stapled on ending which tries to add an ironic nature to the film but only ends up causing the film to suffer from the old Hollywood adage of "serious films have sad endings".The most blatant example of the poor story telling is when Derek is in prison and he realizes that black people simply aren't evil. The way in which this comes about is scriptwriting at it's worst. There was much to do about the directing but the film is filled, once again, with poor work. Kaye was said to have done his own camera work on cinematography. It's obvious that professionals should have been used. The only saving grace is Nortons fine acting which is lost among the many flaws of the film. Better films about racism and hate have been made. Skip this one.


                
This movie could have been so wonderful especially since we all know what Ed Norton is capable of. Unfortunately, Hollywood studio B.S. had to make it in to a silly caricature of reality. The relationship between the Norton character and his good natured black fellow prisoner was straight up insulting and was heavily influenced by stereotypes. Movie started out well but ended up just another Hollywood piece of garbage. Oh well...


                
This review contains spoilers, for a spoiler-free version of what I think of this movie please read the conclusion only.That's not how it works, that's not how any of it works... One neo-Nazi who is so indoctrinated to the point of killing because of his ideology does not simply go to jail, make a black friend and go out as Jesus, that doesn't happen. Extreme dogmatic groups like neo-Nazis do a much better job of washing people's brains. Also this movie doesn't explore the real issues behind the existence of this groups. This movie is a big underestimation of the complexity of this issue and it's clearly meant to be watched by people that already agree with the premise that racism is bad, sadly the movie misses the opportunity to be much more thought provoking and ends up being the equivalent of showing a text that reads "racism is bad" for two hours... yeah we know that.CONCLUSION (spoiler-free): This movie is an underestimation of the complexity of the problem of racism and radical hate groups, it's unrealistic and it won't teach you anything new or even entertain you enough to make up for its lack of accurate description of reality. 4/10 not worth it.
After seeing this, I could understand why the director wanted his name off the credits.  Ed Norton is way over the top, and hardly worthy of award consideration for his performance.  In fact the best work (as usual) is by veterans Stacey Keach and Beverly D'Angelo.  The best scene in the film is the usual prison shower rape, which is very funny, especially Norton's reaction to it.  In fact this whole film is more inadvertantly campy than I expected.  I can't believe anyone thought it 'dramatic' or 'powerful'. See 'Into the Fatherland'.  A much better movie on the subject matter.


                
Okay, I get this movie was trying to talk about important subjects about racism, how people are conditioned to hate others, etc blah blah... But this movie... this movie fails so hard at everything it's actually astonishing how bad it got. Don't get me wrong, it had a strong opening, and a lot of the visuals are very striking. Perhaps the most powerful image is of Edward Norton walking towards the camera, hair buzz cut and swastika tattoo popping against his skin. There was good stuff like that in the movie. Bad stuff was that this movie should've been about the younger brother. I mean, it starts with him narrating, it opens with him. Is he not the main character? Why is Ed Norton here stealing every scene like it's his movie? Get the eff out of here Norton. Uninstall yourself from this film. It becomes glaringly clear that this just another dramatic vehicle for Norton's career, and any statement it was trying to make was lost in that horrendous ending. I have never been so disconnected to an ending of a film, but this movie tries *so hard* to have this bull dramatic ending where the little brother gets shot, and I couldn't care less. I could not care less about this guy, his dead brother, and I blame the movie for creating a complete emotional dissonance within me. Eff you American History X, I thought you cared.
This film definitely has some things going for it. Good actors turning in good performances. High production values in general. Nice gritty locations. The writer or director should have found a better way to delineate the past and present scenes than the black and white photography. It was annoying.But none of these things can mask the fact that this is left-wing racial propaganda. I'm sure these skinhead and white-supremacist persons and groups exist, but in my not-small number of years in America, I have never encountered any. I doubt that it is a problem of significant social magnitude. But, hey, what do I know? I'm just a drooling, evil, redneck white guy in flyover country.Unless you are interested in the message being force-fed here, you should skip this one.


                
Edward Norton deservedly received tons of praise for his performance in this movie.  Edward Furlong seems to spend the entire movie looking meaningfully at what's going on around him. I found parts of the plot a bit unbelievable.  Specifically, Edward Norton was redeemed by a friendly black laundry worker who was able to amuse with comic routines.  This black laundry worker appeared to have no knowledge of Edward Norton's vicious crimes, yet was able to hold back an entire prison group from murdering Edward. I usually like Stacy Keach but found his role depicted him as a buffoon. His character was highly intelligent with great organizational skills -- why was it hidden? Beverly D'Angelo gave a wonderful performance as the mother.  She is an actress with a wide range and q;uite believably pulls off her role as the mother (and widow) of a family who racially hates.


                
