I watched the miniseries a year ago, at the darkest dreariest time of the year, when it gets dark early. For a little over a week I had the most wonderful routine...coming home from work, heating up some ravioli that a co-worker (who owns a ravioli company) had given me, and pouring myself a little wine from a bottle given to me by my boss. I sat and watched an hour or two of the miniseries.This show ("Brideshead Revisited") was one of the few times when the writer/director have been given enough time to really do a book justice. I know because I've read the book several times and seen the miniseries twice, and in comparing the two I find that the miniseries is almost as good as the book. This is rare. Usually when a book is made into a movie or miniseries the book is MUCH better.The miniseries captures so much of the book so well...the mix of grandeur and coldness of the big castle in which the family lived...the stiff formality...even the feel of Oxford right after the war.I wonder sometimes about the story behind the story. Did Evelyn Waugh know a family like the Marchmains...was it all based on a true story? There is so much detail in the book. Even the best novelist can't make up everything from nothing.


                
"Brideshead Revisited" is an 11x50 minute (approx) TV miniseries which takes the viewer into the lives of the residents of a magnificent English country house and sprawling estate called Brideshead, the ultra-rich Flyte family of Lord and Lady Marchmain, and a much welcomed interloper, Charles Ryder (Jeremy Irons), of a somewhat lesser class. The film follows Ryder for two decades from his early years at Oxford to his return to Brideshead as a soldier during WWII. It opens with Ryder's return, then flashes back for most of the 11 hour run where it explores the relationships, exploits, misfortunes, adventures, and generally the lives of the very rich Flytes while fleshing out some deliciously peculiar side characters and peering deeply into the way of the English upper-crust. There's little to fault between the credits of this leisurely and expansive masterpiece which winds circuitously from Brideshead to Venice, Morocco, Central America, Paris, and New York ever tracing Ryder's footsteps through sumptuously appointed period settings and the stately halls of Brideshead (Castle Howard). A peerless, critically lauded, and award winning series featuring a superb cast including such notables as John Gielgud and Laurence Olivier, "Brideshead Revisited" should play very well with anyone into the many popular Victorian films and similar fare featuring the pomp, pith, vigor, and vanity of the English aristocracy. Note: the DVDs I watched had no CCs, Subtitles. or extra features. (A-)


                
It is hard for the younger viewer, like me, to appreciate the success of Brideshead Revisited. It is from a time when, in Britain, there were only three channels in Britain. Moreover, record players had not become widely available, and things were not often repeated. All this meant that the viewer had to tune in at the appointed time, or miss out. And in Brideshead's case most of Britain, from all sections of society, tuned in en masse, and it has been remarked that even dowager duchesses made sure to tune in, very apt for a series with a subject like Brideshead.Coming to see such a landmark of British Television over months on an ad hoc basis on DVD, as it spans over 600 minutes, did not detract from my own appreciation of the series. My jaw dropped at its expense and ambition, being an almost-complete filming of the famed wartime novel by Waugh, in the light of other TV productions from the late 1970's and early 1980's, with their cardboard sets and stagy (not to mention stodgy) direction.Charles Ryder is a single child from a small conservative, Anglican middle class family, consisting only of himself and his oddball father, the elder Ryder. Charles meets Lord Sebastian Flyte at Oxford in the late 1920's. Ryder, a serious-headed student, is seduced by Sebastian's louche, jazz age, unorthodoxly-catholic life, and becomes his close friend and lover. Sebastian gives him an entry into the higher echelons of English society and Ryder becomes closely involved over the next decade with the Flyte family, consisting of Sebastian's proper but thick older brother, Lord Bridy, and his two sisters, Julia and Cordelia, and their separated parents, the distant Lord Marchmain and the nearer Lady Marchmain. She is observant and graceful, yet distant in her own, more emotional, way.The quality of the characterisation is astounding and mirrored by the high-class acting. In amidst wonderful performances by the stellar cast (as well as younger actors such as Diana Quick, Phoebe Nicholls, Nickolas Grace, Simon Jones and Anthony Andrews) Jeremy Irons, in the central role, evinces a wonderful subtlety, perfectly suited to the restrained but passionate Ryder, and also narrates superbly, in character, the restrained but passionate story.Brideshead Revisited has a fey, conservative reputation that it does not wholly deserve. It is true that this TV adaptation does not correct the novel's middle class obsequiousness in its view of the decline of the English aristocracy, and at times it is too reserved in its view of the sexual relationship between Charles and Sebastian, which seems coy and a little elusive. But critics mistake its reserve. There is real depth in Brideshead Revisited- rather like large tectonic plates moving quietly but momentously beneath the surface- concerning issues like religion, sexuality and repression, alcoholism, the decline of the English aristocracy and the rise of the middle class, as well as the dehumanisation of war.It must be remembered that Ryder's journey into the upper echelons of English society via the Brideshead family- engaging and original in itself- is also a passionate and convincing allegory of the higher classes of English society between the two twentieth century world wars. Brideshead Revisited may owe a lot of this, and its general richness, to the fact that it is basically a filmed novel, but it has utilised the novel so well and filmed it with great care and dedication. It is for this reason that Brideshead Revisited arguably deserves its place at the top of British TV Adaptations.


                
Brideshaed Revisited.A truly sad, pitiful, happy, tear jerking mini series I still can't quite decipher the relationship Sebastian and Charles had, though I'm positive they were lovers as well as friends, I just know that Charles loved Sebastian, always had and continuously would. I think the reason for Charles and Julia's relationship was, they were seeking comfort in one another, Charles sought her because he himself said how much Julia reminded him of Sebastian, so she in a way was a substitution for his longing of Sebastian. Julia sought Charles because he was a good friend an old friend whom she knew quite well. They too loved each other simply in different ways. The sad part was, he could not be with Sebastian due to Sebastian's drinking problem, and he couldn't be with Julia, because she felt her whole life was already such a sin, that if she married Charles it met giving up god, (because he was agnostic) something she knew for sure would damn her, and something that she simply could not do. Brideshead was a truly beautiful castle which housed the entire family whom were all very religious<U+0085>and their religion seemed to get in the way of their lives rather than help them deal with life. Yet they remained faithful Catholics, all of them. Charles took comfort in the family for he really had none, except for his father whom was quite aloof. As I said before this is a very sad story, one in which we can actually relate to our own lives or families<U+0085>overall I enjoyed it, however it did not turn out the way I wanted it too, but much like life *as this movie very well captured* does not always turn out how we like.
"Brideshead Revisited" is a superb mini-series production for British television of Evelyn Waugh's famous novel. The full title of the book is, "Brideshead Revisited, The Sacred and Profane Memories of Captain Charles Ryder." Waugh's 1945 book is considered a superb novel and example of English literature. Granada Television did justice to the story in its nearly 11 hours of film for the TV series.The story is a complex one about relationships, friendships, family, faith, infidelity, unhappiness, depression, alcoholism, and more. It is told through the eyes of Charles Ryder. It begins in the early 1920s when Ryder is a student at Oxford. He meets a wealthy Catholic student, Sebastian Flyte, and soon falls in with his crowd. The boys are more party bent than interested in education or their futures. Several are wealthy and one is openly gay. Homosexuality is prevalent in the group. Ryder's friendship with Flyte leads to his meeting and becoming a part of Flyte's family for a while. Ryder has had no religious background, but the Flytes are Roman Catholic. The family members have various levels of devotion to and practice of their faith. But, their faith pervades all of their lives. Lord Marchmain, the head of the family, has separated and lives with a mistress in Venice.All of this takes place in the 1920s. Over the years, Charles and Sebastian have contact and then are out of contact for long periods. Charles becomes a professional architectural painter, and has a relationship with one of Sebastian's sisters. Sebastian's sisters appeal to Charles to help save Sebastian who is wasting away as an alcoholic in Morocco. There are heartbreaks and passions, with infidelity in marriages. The story ends with the outbreak of World War II. Charles is now an officer in the British Army. The elder Flytes have died. He is in charge of a unit that takes over the Flyte castle. Memories flood back and he is drawn to the chapel.The story is autobiographical of Waugh's time at Oxford and the friendships he made there. The characters are based on individuals or are compounds of two or more individuals. Waugh describes the story as about redemption and how grace works in the lives of people.Everything about this mini-series is superb. The locations, camera work and filming, sets and scenery, direction, screenplay, plot development and cast. Jeremy Irons and Anthony Andrews have the male leads as Ryder and Flyte. All of the large cast give fine performances. Among the more prominent actors are Laurence Olivier as Lord Marchmain, John Gielgud as Edward Ryder and Claire Bloom as Lady Marchmain.


                
I was in high school when PBS first broadcast the series in 1982. This very English television show swept the United States over with it's opulence, elegance, and excellent cast. The U.S was introduced to Jeremy Irons, whose poetic narration transported you to 1920s England, a romantic period of carefree life, bathed in luxury. One influence this series had on that time in the 1980s was fashion. I began to wear the clothing of the period. Especially pleated pants. "Chariots of Fire" came out about the same time, and also depicted the English look of elegance that was organic.In reading about the making of this series, the production had to be halted because of a strike. That allowed the director to hone the script, which appeared to make a big difference. There is something personal about this world created on film (completely on film as opposed to the strange English television tradition of shooting in the studio on video and editing it with film shot on location). There are the problems of a typical family, frank and intelligent discussions, and the dysfunction. In this case, the dysfunction of a son that has become an alcoholic. Casting on this film feels authentic. I am reminded how the sense of family depicted in "The Godfather" also had some relatable realism. Perhaps that's why Brideshead Revisited succeeded so well, the relationships we experience feel authentic, and the blissful lifestyle allows feelings to run free.Each episode does well to not only avoid cliche and conventional expectations with it's story, but surprises you by how much it respects the viewing audience's intelligence. Tight dialogue doesn't sound contrived. The maturity of the script throws you into a new direction as the character's intentions mature in this period of their lives, while they are going to college, where most people define themselves. The scope of the series includes glimpses of historic events that occurred during that time, and meticulous attention to detail of period production design, especially the wardrobe, transcends the typically low budget television drama series one was familiar with on PBS.The roaring 1920s, a period of decadence, is looked upon negatively in history. For me, the tone and attitude of this kind of life depicted by this series felt innocent. I yearned to have lived at that time, amidst a world of ultimate beauty. Diana Quick is enchanting as a well-versed woman who elevates her surroundings. Anthony Andrews plays the role you could picture Peter O'Toole in. Staggering good looks, a snarky sense of humour, and a master of mischief. There is terrific chemistry between the three main characters as they discover themselves.I rarely get emotionally attached to these kind of things. But I spent several weeks watching this show during a very important and influential period of my life. I felt sadness and loss as the characters transitioned away from those salad days. So I have the attachment of my memorable time in high school with the memorable time depicted in Brideshead Revisited, and partly defines my world back then. I recently rewatched the series and it still remains one of the best mini-series ever made.


                
Jeremy Irons is superb in this series. It's a great story with excellent writing as well. The only downside is it does look and seem a bit dated (it is from 1981) but the story holds up very well.


                
