I can't go on. No, I will go on. Fight Club represents one of the worst films I've ever encountered inasmuch it aims for intelligence and subversion but winds up wide of the mark. It's gimmicky and trite and all together pointless. I didn't enjoy it when I first saw it, and now I despise it because some people have elevated it to the level of a masterpiece. Those people are wrong. In trying to address violence in American culture (at least I hope that was the film's intention), the movie fails entirely. It does nothing to subvert the brutal violence on screen or address it in any meaningful manner. Look at Sergio Leone or Sam Peckinpah; they made often violent films that pique the audience's bloodlust only to ultimately undermine that desire for violence. Leone built up the tension and then refused to show you the gore you wanted; Peckinpah slowed it down to the point that the violence became unbearable. Fincher may have wanted to have the same effect on his audience, but he doesn't; the violence in Fight Club is enjoyed by the audience and they keep wanting more. It explores the lure of violence to a degree but then backs off this more thoughtful approach in favor of simply showing the violence. There isn't an attempt made by the filmmakers to question the characters' actions and that seems to me a grave mistake. As for the philosophical elements of this film? They're adolescent beliefs in breaking free of monotony and ennui; the anti-materialist screed, though justified by our culture, is ultimately shallow. It's angry at consumerism and our love of objects (doesn't this movie love gadgetry and gimmickry though?), but it doesn't really show us any alternative, unless the alternative is violence. And, frankly, I'm not willing to accept that. Or maybe the movie's just saying that the dehumanization present in contemporary society could lead to violence. That's okay, but what's the solution. When you have a film that doesn't really look at quasi- fascist ideas in horror, you need to offer us something. This adolescent nihilism is just, well, silly teenage claptrap. It's like this: when I was 15, I love A Clockwork Orange; I'm older now and find the nihilism of its characters as well as its attempts at formulating ideas about society superficial. That's probably what will happen with the majority of this film's supporters. They'll grow up and realize its an adolescent fantasy made by older men who have yet to mature.
Who needs this movie? I sure don't. Looks like generation X or Y or whatever the hell they are called this week love it. I'll say this, it is the perfect movie for young troubled, bored, ignored, misunderstood, ever-changing teens who need to escape from the shadows of their predecessors and give themselves that angry identity of screw the world I'm different.Looks like some reviewers lives are so blah that they need to push the levels of taste until they are totally disgusting and morally wrong. What kind of parents do they have is my question.First of all, punching someone in the face that many times can kill them or at least send them to the dentist for free. What makes the kids of today enjoy this type of behavior, fantasy or not? A lot of shirtless men, sure that's a great reason to applaud this movie for some of the messed up women out there who keep picking violent men as boyfriends and then wonder why. I saw no redeeming value in this movie. It took me for a ride and then fooled me at the end, but if anyone rates this in their top 5, 10, whatever then I can guess their age category. Go to school, get a job, have a nice life and adjust your attitudes. I sure don't have the perfect life but obviously better than some of the messed up kids who like this because I don't need to watch people beat the s*** out of each other for entertainment. I'm shocked by the number of positive reviews for this crap. Get therapy, please.I give this movie a 3 of 10, and that's generous. It sure is not rated an 8 like the score in front reveals. Now I know overall statistics mean absolutely nothing.


                
This is a good example of what happens when people who've been reading comic books and watched better movies all their lives get to make their own. I may be wrong in my assessment of David Fincher's adolescent pursuits but the point I'm trying to get at is that there is very little articulate and nothing even remotely original about "Fight Club". Both conceptually and visually it seems to be one big incoherent, messy smorgasbord of Orwell, early '90s MTV, Kubrick, punk, etc, etc<U+0085>.When all the unnatural 'coolness' (jump cuts, hipper than thou narrative, flickering images<U+0085>) is stripped away, what you're left with is a bunch of half-ass, unfinished ideas about capitalist social order, human nature, battle of the sexes, meaning of life in a modern world, male frustration etc. And in a movie that chooses to treat its characters solely as metaphors rather than to tell a story, it's especially important that at least a shred of uniqueness in point of view is present. As it is, "Fight Club" doesn't even seem to have a coherent point of view about the subjects it touches on, other than maybe "go let it out" or "if it feels good do it". Yeah man, rock'n'roll!!!It begins with nameless character (played by Edward Norton), known in credits only as Narrator, spiritually and physically beaten 30-year-old professional fighting insomnia and seeking a way to reconnect with the world, although I doubt he was ever properly connected to begin with. He is engaged in a losing battle with life he chose (although judging by his misery you'd think somebody else chose it for him). Battle that's fought on modern day yuppie frontlines - corporate offices, airports, his expensive IKEA decorated condo, airline first class, business trips etc., and is in desperate need of something. Watching from aside one would think that something is emotional comfort, meaning, love or a thing along those lines. Whatever it is, he seems to have found it, albeit briefly, in various disease support groups that he now starts to frequent pretending to have different ailment or disease for every day of the week. Listening to people, in some cases dying, open up about their problems gives him a visceral sense of freedom. Suddenly he can sleep and enjoy life again. "I let go. I found freedom. Losing all hope was freedom", he reasons. Until<U+0085>..Marla Singer (Helena Bonham Carter) strolls into his life and messes all of that up. She, you see, is also a 'tourist' - someone pretending to be sick - and the knowledge that another person like him is present at these meetings bothers our Narrator to the point that his insomnia returns. He confronts her about that and to avoid running into each other they divvy up the meetings in a lame exchange that tries to be funny but only ends up resembling something Rachel and Chandler might say to each other on 'Friends'.The story then shifts to Narrator's relationship with a strange but fascinating fellow named Tyler Durden (Brad Pitt) with whom he hits it off on a plane during a business trip. Their bond intensifies after Narrator returns home and finds his condo blown to smithereens as a result of an electrical malfunction. Having no family or friends to turn to in a time of need, he calls Tyler and soon moves in with him in a boarded-up apocalyptic house. On Tyler's insistence they found a weekly fight club that starts up as a jealously guarded secret clique where a few young males can nurse their anxieties and frustrations by beating each other to a bloody pulp!? Bingo! This is what Narrator has been looking for all his adult life.Soon, though, the whole thing grows in popularity, Marla makes a return, Tyler's behaviour takes stranger turns and problems start to pile up. It is during this part that the movie makes its various cheesy points. Case-in-point the scene in which Tyler ambushes a convenience store, takes the clerk outside, points a gun to his head and under a threat of death forces him to go back to college. Wow, symbolism overload!!! And how deep, too!The rest of the movie seldom gets better than that including a sketchy ending that features a crucial fist/gun fight, a bomb with obligatory display counting down and other such things no true Hollywood action movie can do without.In the end I kinda felt like I watched an extended commercial/music video that made me think of Spike Jonze. Then I learned David Fincher also directed music videos. And although this was more viewable than Jonze's dismal "Being John Malkovich" it's still a pretty mediocre offering. Those who refer to "Fight Club" as a masterpiece probably also consider Eminem and Fred Durst to be the modern generation's sharpest voices.


                
A difficult to understand film, that borders boring at some points, the fact that it has such a high rating is quite mind boggling. At some points interesting, but not the most thrilling piece of cinematography that I've seen, plays with the psychological aspects of humanity, and in the end is a confusing expo of a delusional persons realty, illustrated through "fighting" with ones self and then recruiting others to demonstrate similar violence as if it were to contribute in the bettering of individuals who ultimately degenerate in a seudo-terrorist activity and is only ended when one of the two polarities of the protagonist, causes a shot to his head, ending the personal torture of enduring this film.
I can't believe this shaggy dog of a movie now rests at number #30 on the best movies ever list. Fight Club is so lame that it's not funny.*spoilers*So, the Brad Pitt character doesn't exist. He's just what the Ed Norton character wishes he could be. This means that all them scenes with Norton fighting with Brad Pitt was actually just Norton physically fighting with himself! Huh? And they want us to believe that the fight club began with other guys interested in joining one guy who keeps fighting with himself? If I see a guy fighting with himself, I won't try to join in but run. Run away as fast as possible.The whole basis of the "story" is so lame, it's not to be believed. It's equivalent to an entire episode of Star Trek taking place in the freaking Holodeck. It's like an entire season of Dallas brushed off because Bobby's death was all but a dream.There's no emotional pay-off to all the insanity going on screen. And because of this, the whole idea of Norton's dementia, something that could have been emotionally overwhelming, simply becomes tired and cheap. David Fincher's direction is to blame here. He uses layers and layers of cinematic techniques which belie the whole resolution of the story: Norton talking directly to the screen; Norton's annoying voice-over (oh, please stop talking!); the movie begins when the story ends and by the end of the film we are then guided back by Norton to where exactly the "real" story began (which is bunk because at the end, Norton is acutely aware that the Tyler is a figment of his imagination and yet throughout the film his voice-over gives no hint that Tyler is not real); tons o' red herrings in the storyline that are there just to hide the fact that there's no story here, folks. Loads of techniques usually reserved for more whimsical stuff simply don't belong here. And add to this pot-pourri of directors' tricks a gazillion gratuitously flashy scenes just to distract the (MTV) jaded audience long enough here and there for nanoseconds and you basically have what Fight Club is: lame.Fincher's direction is set on overkill. Fight Club is an extremely overdirected movie. For instance, the opening credits. Now why the use of crappy, flashy CGI effects when a standard opening credit would have been sufficient? No reason but to be (very) showy. Fight Club is overdirected, overwritten, overacted, overly clever for its own good, over EVERYTHING, with a lame, nonexistent story at its center!
...signifying nothing."  Nah, it wasn't that bad, just terrifically disappointing.  The movie's first half hour does a great job exploring the hollow nature of modern life, such as the scene where Norton's living room is gradually "furnished" with items right out of the catalog, complete with their price and description.  Yes, we've seen it before, but Norton's performance in the first part of the film brings the script to life.  And then along comes a solid dose of Hollywood machismo, wrapped up in a buff, Brad Pitt package.  Now here's what I have a real problem with: all these young men find salvation through beating each other senseless. Okay, athletic competition has long served that purpose; remember varsity football? But it only goes so far...and the movie's only half over.  What does that leave: a paramilitary organization (!?!?), a weak ending, and an attempt to turn bonding-through-brutality into a way of life. No doubt, it sells tickets, but it defeats its own purpose. Norton's character has been destroyed by modern life; it's a shame that all that's left him is destroying others' bodies. And apartments. And credit ratings. Ho hum.


                
Fight Club is incredibly over-rated. Why? It wasn't the the acting, which was very good, or the direction, which was also true to the story. The problem was with the story and then with the "twist" ending. The story had no resonance because, except for the beginning, it wasn't believable as fiction or fantasy. Once our hero (the narrator) moves in with Tyler Durden, everyone in the story serves only the plot elements without ever being believable in their actions.Other fantasy movies like The Matrix, LOTR, Memento, etc. manage to create a fictional world with somewhat believable characters. Some of them manage the "twist" ending very well. Memento's twist ending (or was it a twist beginning?) is excellent. Not Fight Club. It only piles on the absurdity.It's clear that the author is violently against materialism, against creature comforts, against middle class values. Hmmm, is he promoting the idea of fighting with others (or yourself) to be free? Naah, not really. Does he actually show the damage a bare knuckle fight would really do? Despite all the blood and relentless smashing of faces, the answer is no. Just a few new bruises the next day and ready for more fighting. Ha! And just what is the message? Blow up the system? Embrace anarchy? Join a cult (or Support Group)? Change the world by spitting (or spewing other bodily fluids) in restaurant food? Who really knows? Maybe it's a good way to let us enjoy lots of brutal violence and make us feel better because there is a valuable and deep philosophy there. Haha! If you want some good, healthy real fighting, watch Pride or UFC fights. After a brutal knock-out of an opponent, a UFC fighter was asked, "Why do you do this?" His answer, "I like beatin' people up!". Now that's believable!!
After all the discrete, awful, painful, sequences with too much blood and gore, and real buzz-kill sheet scenes where Brad Pitt, wearing boxing gloves, or surgical gloves, humping the washed-up chain-smoker. I thought there must be something more than a deus ex machina in the end, something thrilling and enlightening that somehow makes the movie worthy of the suffering.But no. Brace yourself for the catastrophic collapses near the end, it's basically the routine deus ex machina that explains everything by startling the protagonist out of reverie, things went awry when the narrator and Brad Pitt merged into one, a most implausible schizophrenic, who contradicts almost the whole plot line before this ham-fisted twist. Then this eerie double personality talked directly to the audience from David Fincher's perspective -- now it's a holy trinity of them -- "It's called a changeover, the movie goes on and nobody in the audience has any idea."I'd have hurled myself at the screen if I had been old enough to go and see and understand it in a cinema.Besides, I have little idea what the novel by Chuck Palahniuk is about, I tried to give it a whirl but it kinda strengthened my belief that stream of consciousness should be solidified before written down, the ill-punctuated text rendered me brain damaged.
This heavily hyped film is first rate trash. I'm surprised I had the patience to watch it for an hour.I cannot recall another film quite this boring. However, if you think you can derive pleasure from watching young men beat one another up for no other reason than they like to beat one another up, this film is for you.For me, it was a waste of time!


                
Do you know Anyone who can Change there character and for get about it or feel like there are two people?? I give this movie a three because I didn't like it and didn't see how they could change them self or for that matter how can/could you drive a car but still have to people in there?? or When he wakes up and his "Mind Buddy" was gone but all of a sudden you get pieces of your memoirs back because you visit places?!?!?! I don't believe that could happen... but then again I didn't like they show because I don't think we should have little kids watch shows like these there going to think its okay to fight... Why would you want to show your kid this??


                
I can't believe how many people actually like this film....... I can't believe how looooooonnnnngggggg and boooooooooring it was. It was the strangest and weirdest film I'd ever seen. Everything that happened in this film would never happen in real life ever. Even the ending was the worse ending to a film. I'm speaking from a girls point of view tho ... Girls it is rubbbbbishhhh. It's more of a mans wishful way of thinking. This film I'd say was probably brad Pitts worse films he has done. A good film he was in was SNATCH. I'd recommend that film over this anyday. A film this long should be capturvating . I was waiting for it to get better then the ending come and I thought I can't believe I just sat here and watched it. Very strange very weird and would never happen !!


                
Another of David Fincher's tiresome gay fantasies involving rough trade with shaved heads, and one pathetic female outsider. (Think Alien^3.)  Lots of muscles, sweat, grime, adrogyny, faux-noir scenes.  Hey, David -- been there, done that, still bored to death by it.You know, actually, it was on its way to becoming a nice, different kind of thriller, but the writers apparently ran out of ideas and turned it into a groaner.  I literally groaned and shook my head, and stayed only to see how it ended.


                
As a main character says "This is your life, and it's ending one minute at a time."  That's how I felt for most of this film which essentially steals its premise from the 1987 film "Angel Heart".  The performances of the lead actors all top notch, but the execution of the story is almost painful to watch.  Sure, there's plenty of commentary on our current socio/economic state, but does that necessarily make it insightful or brilliant? If lots of bare knuckle fighting and bleeding really pops your cork, then this is the film for you.  But if you're looking for a strong story with a real hero, such as in the first 2 Rocky movies or Van Damme's Bloodsport then keep on looking.


                
Words like over-rated and pseudo-intellectual come to mind when I look back on this film. Its overblown philosophising was lost on me long before it ended and I was not in the least surprised that its highest popularity in the IMDB ratings comes from males aged under 18. This demographic is of course renowned for its ability to look deeply into and appreciate the philosophical content of movies. This film seems to have developed a cult following but not, I suspect, for reasons its director intended.


                
I was actually looking forward to watch this movie... but after watching it, I think it is a crazy ride to nowhere! Mixes chaos theory with organization and leadership, and then makes a U-turn to where it started - the inner struggles of an everyday man.This movie literally tries to mean so much to so many people that I can't believe how anyone can feel connected to it. It uses violence as a show and simple chaos to amuse. Is it worth watching? Sure as the acting is done brilliantly. Will it be remembered and revisited after some time? No, I don't think so...


                
One of the worst movies that I have seen in recent years.  The story is all over the place and depressing as hell.  I thought the movie was about underground fighting and betting on it.  Unfortunately, it is about an idiot's ideal of the darker side of his life.  I like Brad Pitt and Ed Norton, but I would rather watch Seven or Primal Fear over and over again than watch another minute of Fight Club.


                
One of my most anticipated movies for this year, and I walked away from a sneak screening completely devestated along with about everyone else that saw it with me. You couldn't have a better first Act. The second is equally tense, funny, and disturbing. If you don't mind the violence (which I don't) you will be at the end of the second act ready for a incredible explosive conclusion. Instead, the story turns ludicrous and all is explained in a shallow, all-to-easy manner, cheapening-- invalidating the entire film, much in the same way the Game also faltered in the end, but ten time worse, mainly because the film had such potentional, whereas the Game never really does. Acting and directing is superb, but the story obviously works better on paper than on the screen. Still see it, but don't expect to like it.


                
I don't think I've ever been put off a film by its violent content .. until this one. You come out of it feeling like you've been swimming in a tub full of offal. After two hours or so it really starts to become boring, which is disturbing in itself. After it finished though, and I got the more disgusting images out of my mind somewhat, I thought, it really doesn't make much sense either - did anyone ever hear of data backups, maybe? and just how do you wire up a condemned old house for a heap of electronic gismos to conduct a urban warfare campaign? Cronenberg manages all the creepiness and shocking images (e.g. Videodrome) without stooping to the goriness that this film revels in.


                
"Fight Club" is a graphically stylish movie that vainly claims itself to being a thoughtful film, but whose effect in the end, is to aestheticize and condone the ideas it purports to examine. It is simply a violent, anti-social, and misogynist film hiding behind a veil of being a kind of psycho/social critique or expose on the masculine entity and the effect on it by North American values.I personally have no problem in the case of a truly artful and intelligent film making an argument for polemical statement and extremism; this is definitely not the case here. Content-wise, it is undeftly handled material; I think because the filmmaker was so utterly concerned with the making of certain visual moments and lost grip of the whole. I fear for all the angry young males in our society that may see this film and become inspired to re-enact the imagery."Fight Club" reminds me of a film that may have began as an interesting and compelling idea, but then in the course of its making, gets "Hollywooded". It has several fine visual moments that are in turn subverted by equally horrible ones. It insults the viewer over and over;  by employing pedantic, heavy-handed and contradictory motifs such as the highly militaristic yet zombie-esque 'army' to propagate "mayhem"; by so glibly setting up what ultimately turns out to be a literal interpretation of multiple personality disorder (I suppose juxtaposing incongruous elements was the means).Too much visuals technology, probably too much budget and attention on the bottom line, not enough attention on structure and content, while pretending to be an ideas film, makes this an insulting and perhaps even, a dangerous movie. I wouldn't want to be working in a building who principal tenant is a credit card company for the next while.


                
If there's any lesson to be learned from this film, it's that good leadership involves fighting yourself. Yes, not a soldier stifled under Washington as he pummeled himself while crossing the Delaware. The Rumble in the Jungle, except the Jungle manifested as a convoluted and nonsensical plot. The movie can be summed up with having Walter Mitty go through a traumatic childhood, and now lives out violent fantasies. Except the movie has no humor, no semblance of calculated dialog, a plot filled with more holes than a road sign off a southern highway. And that would have been bearable... If the movie wasn't so entrenched in pretense and a faux philosophical atmosphere. If Inception were Camus, then Fight Club is Eco. When Norton rolled down the stairs I expected his notes from Philosophy 101 to fly out of his pockets like a pinata from Goodwill. Boring movie, pretentious movie, garbage movie. Fincher possibly at his worst.
I just recently saw fight club and I must say I think that it is one of the most overrated movies I have ever seen. (Actually, second because crash is the most overrated, how did that win best picture) All of my friends talked about how good it was but I always stayed away from this movie. I did enjoy the fight scenes and in the beginning, I was captivated by the plot. Things soon begin to come apart. It was really good until it dipped into the terrorism theme. All of a sudden the movie switched gears and never recovered. Does this really deserve to be in top 50? I don't think so. Brad Pitt was good. Edward was good but this was not their best. What do you think?


                
I'm afraid I was expecting a lot more,this was a huge disapointment.I felt it was disjointed rambling and lacking any purpose.Why is it no. 38 on the list?Watch se7en,American history x,A clockwork orange....anything but this self indulgent crap.


                
I belive that this is a film that speaks out against anarchy. Yet to a large portion of this films audience, teenagers, it does not get that message across. Most high-schoolers leave this film only remembering the insane ramblings of the god-like Brad Pitt character Tyler Durden. In that sense, this film contradicts itself. Also, I did not find this film enjoyable. Not the first time a watched it, not the second time and not the third time. Sure, I laughed a couple times and some of the fight scenes were cool, but those aspects did not make up for this cluttered picture. Plus the CG cinematography was very out of place, as it is in Fincher's superior piece, PANIC ROOM.


                
There are many fascinating aspects to this movie and it is eminently watchable (if you can take violence) but most of the thoughts behind it break down with even the slightest examination.  A pretty face, but little more.


                
S**t - I had a whole review written and then I accidentally hit escape and erased the whole thing.Basically Fight Club was bad.  Which is really unfortunate because I was looking forward to another great film from David Fincher.I read over some of the other comments made by users here, and I was really surprised that every single one I read was a positive review.  It really makes me wonder about the film-going public...I actually thought the premise itself was quite interesting - lonely guy seeks way to connect with other individuals in the modern world.  Going to the support groups was interesting, forming fight club with "Tyler Durden" was interesting.  Somehow though I just wish that guys could vent their frustrations or anger or unhappiness without resorting to violence - though I am starting to see that is an impossibility.  It must be coded into their genes (which is a REALLY good excuse - I love that one...)Now don't misunderstand me - I am not squeamish about violence - some of the fight sequences were well done and I enjoyed them - it is a rare thing that I will turn my eyes away in horror because of violence - there is a perverse fascination with it in my psychological make-up and I am certainly not the only one.  But when I was sitting watching the film (and I honestly wasn't too thrilled about it already because it was just a bit boring) during the scene where Edward Norton beats the blond kid to a shadow of his former self, I became offended.  And not specifically because of the beating.  That was horrifying and I think (hope?) most people would find it horrifying. What offended me was the handful of young men who were whooping and cheering the beating on from the audience.  That was frightening.I don't think it is arguable that this film does glorify violence in a very bad way.  It makes it cool to beat people up and to get beaten up. Other reviews I read argued that it doesn't glorify violence because it makes the drones in Durden's terrorist army look stupid or something.  Well yes they do look stupid - I don't think that people go out looking to be a stupid "drone" but they do look for leadership (ie Nazi Germany).  Furthermore it seems to me that more people would be interested in being Tyler Durden. That is how it glorifies violence with respect to terrorist organizations - it wouldn't necessarily make you want to follow in one, it makes it look cool to lead one.  I would like to think that people are not stupid enough to fall for that kind of thing, but I know I am wrong and I think Fincher gives the general public to much credit for intelligence and being able to think on their own.Moving on - I hated the "twist" [details deleted].  How lame, what a predictable cop out.  And I thought it was poorly done - implausible if you look back at the rest of the film.  That really put the nails in the coffin of this film.I actually thought Brad Pitt, Edward Norton and Helena Bonham-Carter were pretty good.  I wonder how different the original screenplay looked from the finished product.One other thing - I read a review from an LA critic that stated that the worst thing about this film is that it THINKS it conveys a message.  Close - I think it TRIES to convey a message but whatever that message was, it is not effectively conveyed.  Sure it says consumerism ans capitalism are bad, it then goes on to say fight the system with whatever (violent) means necessary...  And does not really contradict that message ever.  Is this the message Fincher intended?  I do not think that Norton's character running around trying to make things right at the end (when it was clear that that was impossible) turns around the core message of the film...  What a disaster.


                
