Fight  Club  begins  with  a  promising  half  hour  and  falls  downhill from  there . Edward  Norton  gives  a  brilliant  performance  as  a depressed  office  worker  driven  by  capitalism . He  narrates  the film , guiding  us  through  his  pathetic  and  hopeless  life . I  was immediately  taken  in  by  the  movie's  slick  visual  style , and Norton's  performance  is  especially  convincing . It  is  here  the movie begins  to  crumble . Funny  how  it's  possible  to  pinpoint  the exact moment  when  it  starts  to  turn  sour . It  is  when  Norton  meets Brad Pitt's  character  on  an  airplane . He's  a  neo-facist  who  teaches self-liberation  through  violence . Norton  is  intrigued  and  joins his group  of  recruits  who  act  out  their  rage  by  pounding  on  each other  in  dark  cellars . Once  Norton  moves  in  with  Pitt  the  movie begins  to  pander  and  get  off  track . It  becomes  more  like watching a  very  bloody  remake  of  The  Odd  Couple . I  was  still  hopeful though , until  the  film  self-destructs  with  a  contrived  suprise ending  that's  totally  contradictory  to  many  of  its  earlier  events . The  suprise  endings  of  Magnolia  and  The  Sixth  Sense  worked , because  they  interlocked  with  their  themes , but  the  ending  in Fight  Club  looks  like  it  was  added  on  just  to  give  it  a  kick . Then  there's  the  final  scene ,  which  is  illogical  and  serves only as  a  cop-out , as  the  movie  ducks  responsibility  to  its  real theme , Norton's  unstable  mental  condition . The  material  was  here  for  a compelling  film , but  Fight  Club  never  explores  it . Instead , it falls  into  standard , formulized  Hollywood  mush . Seeing  Fight  Club , I  realized  you  can  have  great  ideas  for  films , but  unless  you use  them  well , and  find  just  the  right  note , great  ideas  do not necessarily  make  great  movies .


                
Well it was a nice story, and so realistic. I'm sure most normal humans are pretty keen to take on an existence such as the one portrayed in "Fight Club". Surely the percentage of people in this world don't enjoy fighting. Fight Club made this out to be one of America's favourite pastimes. I've spent significant time in the USA and never saw one fight.It was a dull and boring movie, and I suggest Eddie Norton takes a good hard look at himself before being involved with a script like that again. Helena too. As for Bradles, after accepting a part in "Legends of the Fall", nothing surprises me with his movie selections, even though the boy has talent. I feel this was more like some kind of hardcore modern fairytale as opposed to a realistic society pastime.


                
*Spoiler I guess*  Violent film about manly therapy through secret fight club has good start, intriguing premise and sharp actors but founders about Round 6 and ultimately is out on a TKO.  The wrap up is about as plain stupid as it gets and essentially invalidates everything before it.  I don't mean to be harsh, but who the heck is voting on these movies on Imdb?  If this is really in the top 40 movies of all time then I'm Harry Houdini.
Last night was the very first time I have ever watched this movie. One of my Facebook friends bought me a copy because I had never seen it. I knew this movie had a cult following and after finally watching, I'm trying to understand why. Maybe if I watched it several more times, it'll grow on me, but I have a feeling I won't for quite a while. It wasn't all bad. It did have some decent and funny moments. I liked Helena Bonham Carter's character. The middle half of the movie was probably the best, but it went down-hill for me when the 'fight club' basically turned into a cult and the weird twist involving Brad Pitt's character. Edward Norton stars as a traveling automobile company employee who suffers from insomnia. He's known as The Narrator because he visits support groups to see how other people suffer. He eventually meets a woman a lot more miserable than him named Marla Singer. After his apartment explodes, he calls up Tyler Durden, a man who he befriended on a plane. They slowly start a 'Fight Club' where guys meet up and just beat each other up. If you like movies that are supposed to be considered 'great' you might enjoy FIGHT CLUB!!!
Arguably, nihilism in films is best personified by David Fincher, who in only three films has already set his stamp on filmmaking.  Of course, we didn't realize this until his second film which is the now classic "Seven." But in retrospect "Seven " was as bleak and despairing as anything done in mainstream cinema, and it was a Hollywood thriller no less.  Then came "The Game," a disappointment, but with the intriguing premise of a bottled-up and unemotional man who in the course of his nightmarish "game" learns to live again.  "Carpe Diem" a la Kafka.  This same premise is put into a societal point of view with "Fight Club."This is also Fincher's first literary adaptation.  "Fight Club" comes to us via the novel written by Chuck Palahniuk.  The film relates the story of a successful, yet depressed young man (Edward Norton) who has become an insomniac.  He has a swanky apartment, catalog-ordered furniture, and a respectable position in a firm, yet he feels like he is missing out on life. He can't feel emotion anymore.  On a whim, he visits a cancer-crisis group and bonds with Bob, played by Meatloaf, who now has breasts because of a rare cancer (insert laughter here).  This bonding and emotional intimacy leads to catharsis and release, especially when he weeps between Bob's ample breasts.  Not surprisingly, Norton sleeps well.Things are moving along great.  Never mind that he's using these victims as emotional pumps, the point is he feels again.  Then comes an uninvited femme fatale played with unabashed scuzziness by Helena Bonham-Carter...and she used to do Merchant-Ivory?Because of this fellow emotional sponge, Norton must look elsewhere. Enter Tyler Durden (Brad Pitt): Soap salesman and excrement chef who urinates in his customers' soups.  These two bond by beating the crap out of each other. "I want you to hit me as hard as you can, " Durden says.  Norton obliges by punching his ear.Soon though, a friendship is formed and Norton loses his pad thanks to a freak fire.  Norton stays with Durden and the two continue to pummel each other.  Naturallly, other men gravitate.  Finally, a club is established in which white-collar, civil, and cultured gentlemen become primal gladiators in a self-imposed ring.  The object:  Fight so one can feel masculine again.As with anything purely physical (and make no mistake that is exactly what it is) Durden decides to up the ante a tad and create a full-fledged urban terrorism group.  Nihilism by way of Fascism.  You see, "Fight Club" is about destroying the modern spineless society so that men can go back to what they truly are, hunters.  Only problem is where does one draw the line?First off, the positive.  "Fight Club" is technically brilliant. Audacious and stylistic, Fincher plays with our tale being told by Norton's narrator. So Norton talks directly to the camera, stops the film for a bit of background information on characters, and lets other characters comment as well.  Durden explaining his story is hilarious and twisted.  The camera swoops into Norton's brain at one point and we take a stroll around his pad even seeing the price for each item.  The energy is infectious and the acting by all the principles, especially Norton and Carter are top-notch.Is there any negative?  Yep.I felt dirty watching this film.  I felt the same way when watching "Natural Born Killers."  Yes, it was satire as I'm sure "Fight Club" is as well. But the satire seems to be unfocused.  What  exactly is the point of seeing guys pummel each other and pick fights with innocents?  Does Fincher support the premise of violence to save souls or are they all doomed anyway?  And I must be getting soft, but there were scenes that grossed me out, specifically the human fat scene (Don't ask).  Satire does not work by exaggeration alone; there needs to be purpose.  That's something "A Clockwork Orange" had. Yes, it was violent and disturbing.  But there was a point to the film. Science cannot curb man's morality nor should it.  What does "Fight Club" say, let's all revert back to cavemen?  Sorry, not interested.The ending is just plain dumb.  I will not reveal anything, but be prepared for pretension deluxe.A friend of mine compared this film to "American Beauty" saying that both films dealt with changing one's humdrum existence into a life full of meaning.  But "Beauty" had something that "Fight Club" lacked.  Humanity. At the end of "Beauty", Lester Burnham thinks he has found purpose in enjoying life again, but he realizes that his life had purpose all along because of his family.  Burnham comes full circle.  We never get that kind of revelation in "Club."  The selfishness in achieving nirvana through nihilism remains and a hollowness remains at the film's center.Fincher's movies are disturbing, that's just a given.  But their saving grace, especially in the case of "Seven," is their imagination and story. "Fight Club" has its imagination as well.  However, because of its trite story, I can't say it was a saving anything.


                
This is a set-piece for two of the finest contemporary actors in Norton and Pitt. Their performances as the narrator and Tyler Durden are superb, as any other review herein will show you. The cinematography is good, directing fine and the script at times good.However, I was disappointed with the movie as a whole. The actors are clearly leading up to a climax which was predictable, had you seen more movies of this thriller/drama/action genre. If you want a brilliant ending, watch Primal Fear (Norton excellent), if you want a suave and well written script watch Chasing Amy and for an action movie with brutal fight scenes Raging Bull. For a complete movie that will move you and not leave you feeling empty and short-changed then the superb American History X or Marathon Man may be more your scene.The plot and so on is probably heavily disclosed in the reviews contained before and after this, beware reading these may lead you to anticipate the easily predictable "TWIST".Disagree with me after seeing all of the suggested movies, I dare you, here is the list again: American History X, Chasing Amy, Marathon Man, Primal Fear and Raging Bull.


                
... because one cannot sit through this idiocy till the end!  It saddened me to see this film - promising through the first half or so - end up trivializing actual human suffering, in lieu of "destroying something beautiful."  Heal, don't hurt - there's too much pain in the world to add to it - is that so hard to fathom?  Hard to believe this rates so high. 4/10


                
Like so many other users I found this a worthwhile movie to watch for about the first third. The film deals out some hard blows against modern consumer society, that could be called daring for a high budget Hollywood production. The given thesis- relief and the chance to achieve self-discovery through violence, is inane though. As the story develops we see that the whole Fight Club thing leads the protagonists to become some sort of a terrorist organization, culminating in a series of attacks that obviously destroy a good part of the town in the end. Isn't that turning the whole point upside down, so that the message could be: Non conformity will inevitably lead to chaos and destruction, so please avoid any critical thoughts ? In a way I felt that in the end the script-writer attempts to apologizes for the hard strokes dispersed in the beginning.The most embarrassing thing about the movie of course is the displaying of Norton's schizophrenia. You can watch this movie as often as you want: This trick will never work and it will always be an insult to the intelligence of the viewer to realize that the makers really believe they can come up with such nonsense and earnestly hope to get away with it (which they actually did,of course. After all this half-baked botch ranks in the top 30 of all times. That's as incredible as Norton and Pit being the same person ).
Okay, so the acting and the overall production was top-drawer, but absolutely nothing can overcome one of the most ridiculous storylines I have ever come across. I put this movie in the same category as David Cronenberg's "Crash", in that they both are obsessed with concepts so contrary to basic human nature, that they are totally inane and unbelievable. In "Crash", it is absurd to think there are really people who are sexually turned-on by bad car crashes; in "Fight Club", it is ridiculous to believe that there are people who enjoy getting pumelled. Thoughts of such concepts leave me so cold as to take away any possibility of enjoying the film.


                
the movie started very well, in a very original way, but the very moment the girl made her entrance into the movie, I understood that I fell into a trap: her appearance as a mix of Patsy Kensit and Beetlejuice, which should represent some sort of troubled woman - troubled by an unclear kind of trouble she seems to have - is where the movie immediately starts to turn into a boring repetition of a "look, this man was living a senseless life and will find his real nature by beating the hell out of people".in general, the whole movie seems to travel on a path between "troubled people are cool" and "oh, look at the poor middle class worker turning into a cool beating machine".then, a couple of stupid plot twists, and some hundreds of scenes which require an abundant dose of suspension of disbelief, turn the movie into what seems to be the movie reduction of some comics for troubled teenagers (and pardon my ignorance if it actually is, but I'm not and never been into such kind of comics).I'm 39, and I have watched the movie on year 2016, so I have probably missed the right time to watch it on target (I believe the target is about 30 years old), but I don't really think I could have personally enjoyed the movie at any age.i understand the movie is trying to tell you something beyond what you actually see: yes, I have the minimum IQ required to understand this (which is about 60, I believe); it's just that the "wake up and make your dreams real" motto which is behind the movie just doesn't catch me, especially if it is told for 130 minutes *AND* in a stupid way.yes, this movie seems to fascinate lots of people, while harassing a strict minority; I'm clearly part of the second area. I'm not giving 1/10 to this movie like many others, as it would be unfair, but honestly I can't give it more than 4.my hint is: if when you see the girl coming into the screen your bad-movie-sense tickles you, then do yourself a favour and turn the thing off


                
Fight Club, by David Fincher, is the story of a man who comes to grip with the daily monotony that is his everyday life, by starting a club in which friends beat each other senselessly in hopes of having a good time.  This movie had all the right ingredients to be a great film.  With the help of superlative performances and brilliant photography, Fight Club is quite a picture.  However, the dark aspects of the film and preposterous climax make it hard for one to watch without cringing or laughing in the wrong spots. Fight Club takes many turns that are completely nonsensical in hopes of making a political statement about United States economic culture. Nevertheless it is hard for one to listen to statements such as these without questioning where the money came from to make such a film.  Fight Club is defiantly an inventive film but in the end like the Portland Trailblazers, it just doesn't `click.'


                
It's been a good 15 years since I've seen "Fight Club", and it never really did anything for me back then (well there is that "gotcha!" ending, but that's about all that stuck in my brain). Now, at 35, it does even less. It's not that I don't "get" the movie, but I'm leaving that door open just for argument sake.It's mostly a middle finger to the establishment, gift-wrapped for adolescents. Usually, when a movie's satirizing something, it's engaging, maybe even funny. But by the time Brad Pitt says "The things you own end up owning you", it's obnoxious. I got that this is railing against consumerism, desk-jockey angst, ennui, whatever you want to call it (hell, the bursts of '90s CGI drove that point home with a battering ram), but when these people keep yammering on about it, subtlety's a distant memory. You can taste the smugness. It's not a lot of fun, let's put it that way.4/10


                
I read that Fight Club is a "man's film", whatever that means. Truth be told, it's a little boy's film, a messy; scrappy; clawing; pseudo-philosophical piece of turgid nonsense lapped up by people who see a music video aesthetic crossed with their favourite actors churned out of this contemporary Hollywood star system we have that just happens to dabble in some meek philosophy: bums and nobodies like the ones in the film will find its gimmicky pretences enthralling, appealing and quite interesting. For the rest of us, this is lecturing nonsense from a writer whom ought to have all his pens, pencils and word processors taken away from him. The film's entire thesis is captured in a sequence in which, at the fight club of the title, the store owner comes down into his own shop's basement to question what everyone's doing. After some grief from Durden, he beats him before eventually being subdued himself by a blood soaked Durden slobbering all over him. The owner runs off; suddenly attuned to allowing the club to remain and all he needed to arrive at this point is a good fight of some description. That's it; that's all you need to know right there – the rest is nonsense of the highest order.The film plays out under this facade of post-modern trickery and modern movie making gimmicks, thus rendering it "accessible"; but the fact we're expected to swallow this infantile babble about how difficult it is to be a blank, bummed out nobody; a thug, a vandal, whose lives are in the dank state they are because they never found any particular field in which they could excel, is pathetic. The film was David Fincher's fourth, but he will not churn out a worser piece of cinematic drek in his life than the adolescent, preening nonsense that is Fight Club. The piece is essentially one long flashback and is narrated by Edward Norton's nameless character. When we first see him, he has a gun in his mouth and finds himself in an area chock full of explosives courtesy of Brad Pitt's Tyler Durden. Norton initially I.D's himself as a slave to consumerism; an unexciting office worker who comes to find solace in fighting and violence with other men in an organised fight ring from whence the title derives. But in Durden, a frightening character is created: a thug, a vandal, a terrorist but a role model; an individual whose manic hair style; cool looking shades; extravagant dress sense; sexual habits and natural charisma paints positive characteristics in an individual that ought to be anything but. Durden sees himself as a saviour; a liberator; an army general whom leads his troops and encourages them to break the shackles of life; someone whom frees and liberates via terror, as exemplified in a scene set in a convenience store car park in which he threatens to execute a young store worker if he doesn't return to education. All this leads to a sickening finale, an end that carries a highly romanticised, emotionally heavy sensibility about it as bombs go off and two people embrace.The film is from the pen of Jim Uhls by way of Chuck Palahniuk's novel, the film is Palahniuk's inane babbling against the machine; his banal, inane ranting and raving of which the arguments in the film are put across by way of nothing more than childish expositional tidbits on behalf of Pitt's character: "The things you own end up owning you" is a sample. In stark comparison to Norton's grey suit; blank shirt-clad and office booth based character, the one he shares most screen time with, Durden is a dangerously vibrant explosion of colour and energy. Later, there's a reason for all this hopping about in characteristics and mannerism as well as the restrictions in the Norton-Pitt interaction; but in itself, opens up a number of problems as to how they can be in separate places at once and how on Earth one person can know about one item (such as the whereabouts of the human fat) with the other seemingly oblivious to all links to it.Make no mistake, the film is the clawing ramblings of someone with some serious issues. In attempting to wage a war on consumerism, we get plenty in the way of product placement for companies such as Pepsi and Apple Macintosh; its approach sees a world initially filtered through the psyche of an insomniac in Norton's character, before support groups and false emotion helps cure that and a character named Marla (Carter) push it back to the forefront again. Is there a need for her character? Marla's presence opens up a sub-plot to do with her own problems of suicidal ideation and a fling she has with Durden which is entirely pointless. After a while, the film realises her presence is futile; that the piece is meant to be about the relationship of its two lead men, their masculinity and their relationship with other men, scrapping her for more inane tangents that run off on separate strands.The whole thing is as empty headed and crass as it sounds, this underground fight ring escalating from a celebration of pain, violence and all things grimy and nasty into a tale of a terrorist group full of 'misunderstood' philistine-infused males. In creating an ugly film about ugly people with ugly views, but filtering it by way of sporadic philosophy and sociology with an accessible aesthetic in its MTV-style appearance, Fincher has crafted a text he's most certainly above. It's nonsense of the worst kind; the sort of nonsense that has an eye on being labelled as something higher than first appears, addressing people in society doing what's deemed menial jobs before actually becoming someone in the ring during which battering and bruising someone else is the answer to life's problems. It's babble; babble of the most patronising and disorganised, sporadic order; a maddening and dulling faux-intellectual piece of nonsense.


                
I can't say if the ending of this film is good or bad, because I've got fed up with it well before the end.David Fincher seems to have a taste for grotesque excess. This can be seen in the Madonna videos he directed; it was plain for all to see in "Se7en" (a horrible film) and it is evident again in this film as well.This film is disturbing to watch, but, unlike "Se7en", at least it's not revolting. It will be liked by all those who think that, in order to criticise the distorted way in which we live, it's essential that an amount of violence as high as possible be shown and represented graphically, even though it doesn't really add to the story. It's not just the violence: it's the whole film that is unpleasant to watch, for no plausible reason.This is not being original, or visionary, or artistic, or intelligent, thought-provoking, innovative. If you met someone on the street and he punched in the stomach for no apparent reason, how many of you would you say that his action is "thought-provoking"? Not many, I suppose. This film is the cinematic equivalent of a punch in the stomach by a stranger, but it's a little less subtle.Moreover, this film is also boring, very boring.I'm rather tired of directors that seem to indulge in shocking the public with unrealistic plots and hyperrealistic violence. Clearly, some of those directors have realised that they can play that game and get away with it (plus a lot of critical acclaim and, probably, a good deal of money). Personally, I think that this film is basically nonsensical. I suspect that, as with "Se7en", it succeeds in making some people feel trendy because they can stand industrial amounts of imaginative violence. Transgression is the word.Sometimes it's even ludicrous. In the sequence in which Brad Pitt gets beaten by the landlord, after the second punch his face bleeds, but after the third one the blood has disappeared. Miraculous, indeed.
I saw "Fight Club", and, mostly, I was bored.  The amazing thing about the movie isn't the movie itself but how the vast majority of people who see it -- especially men 16-40 -- see it through machismo-colored glasses and never really 'see' it."Fight Club" is not about consumerism or evil corporations or even about fighting.  It's about the dangers of homophobia, plain and simple, about being deep in the closet and being angry about it.As such, it's a hit-and-miss film, with good moments and bad.  One of its major drawbacks is a wildly inconsistent tone, a common problem with satire. But let's look at what so many viewers somehow miss.Start with the trail of bread crumbs that begins with Tyler Durden dressing like he shops for clothes in Ru Paul's trash.  Watch Jack hug a man with enormous breasts and no testicles and hear him say how it's oddly comforting.  Watch him and Tyler 'share' a woman who is, in fact, more masculine than either of them.Watch dozens of men join a secret, no-girls club (an underground social movement) in which they can't keep their shirts on or their hands off of each other.  Watch as this club turns into an adoring cult.  Watch as they scorn women -- especially women who use liposuction to 'artificially' try to be sexy and appealing to men.  Listen to all the dialogue complaining about emasculation, about how the world won't let you just be a man.Yes, very subtle.  The 'twist' at the end is like an exclamation point, and the falling phallic towers, and the gun-fellatio, and the unending symbolism of self-love / self-hate are a tad over the top.Why do these men fight each other?  Because they're too deep in the closet to express their feelings any other way.  Why do so many men who see this movie miss this searchlight glaring in their eyes?  You be the judge.The movie is clearly intentionally surreal, so why anyone would take it at face value is beyond me.  The fighting -- contrary to what many people absurdly claim -- is desperately unrealistic, no more realistic than the fighting in a typical 1970's kung fu film and less interesting to watch.  No one who's seen or been in a real fight -- that they were sober enough to remember clearly -- could say that the fighting in the movie is realistic. 
Nothing in the movie is realistic past the point where Jack meets Durden. The story is the fever-dream of a deeply conflicted man.  It's not even subtle about it.  The first act of the movie -- pre-Durden -- is all right, and pretty original, but once Durden shows up the film spirals down into drawn-out repetition and heavy-handed symbolism, becoming more and more hyperbolic and tiresome.I mean, OK, OK -- homophobia and repression are bad.  But the movie doesn't have much of a point if the audience leaves the theater without a clue.
Why does everyone overrate Fight Club as IF it was a masterpiece?Why is Fight Club considered one of the all-time best? I don't know! Maybe this is me. I don't feel very attracted to movies with many violence, maybe I don't like to be confronted with the dark side of society nowadays (probably not the dark side, but 75% of society. I'm sorry, maybe, I didn't express myself well enough. I watched and enjoyed many movies with violence, but my  point is I don't like  (I'm sorry again) movies depicting very much misery. I believe that Fight Club couldn't have been shown otherwise. Anyway, I told you already that I didn't enjoy many with this odd picture, but as your mind and costumes may be somehow different, you may enjoy it and since this is made out of opinions you may rate this almost piece of crap however you want, but I can't give anymore than 4/10.


                
David Fincher's screen adaptation of the 1996 novel of the same name by Chuck Palahniuk, 'Fight Club' was a box office debacle when released, but has gained a cult following over the years. In my opinion, this 'zany' film caters to a niche audience.'Fight Club' is weird & abstract. Not every cine-lover will understand what's going on, especially the climax, which is very confusing. Honestly, Some films are meant to be made & 'Fight Club' is one of those films. It doesn't matter who praises or hates it, it's just there.Fincher is a accomplished genius of a filmmaker. His body of work is simply remarkable. I am fan, indeed! Jeff Cronenweth's Cinematography stands out. Acting wise, Edward Norton steals the show with a winning performance. This is amongst his finest works. Helena Bonham Carter is fantastic, as always. Brad Pitt's performance has potential.On the whole 'Fight Club' is undoubtedly the wackiest novel-turned-into a film. Reccmended to all!


                
l have seen the movie, and skipped the end (l was TOLD that it is the most important part, and they also told me what it was). l just couldn't stand it. l know l have to see it again someday in order to have an idea about the full piece, but l just find it repellent...l think it is violent beyond any good taste, and nothing justifies it - the end is not important, not strong enough, and not worthy sitting for so long, watching something l can see if l open my news on TV. when l saw it, it was broadcasted with no censorship ("+13", for example), and beyond the fact l had no idea what l am about to see, l could have entered to this movie with my little brother, who is too young and cannot filter it.l heard opinions that were fascinated by the philosophic side - the "philosophy" in it can be compared to Paulo Coalo's and Richard Bach's literature - not very deep, very commercialized, and it forced you to see things that you are not aware to their influence on you in the process.


                
If you think everything that you don´t understand is ART, than this movie is for you.I´ll cut it short: it is a very interesting intro, the second act is still good, but the third act and especially the ending is plain stupid. It just doesn´t work that.So please don´t insult people who don´t like that film by saying "you just don´t get it". And don´t come up with that "it makes you think!" - crap.
If you are puzzled at the end of the movie, it doesn´t mean necessarily that it is intellectual or philosophical, it is - in most cases and especially in this one - it is just bad writing/directing!This movie comes up with a "twist" you had no chance at all to see it coming. This is cheap. And the explanation is just impossible: The author thinks you´re an idiot and hopes to get away with this. And I don´t like movies like this.4/10 Macaulay J. Connor


                
"Fight Club" is worth seeing for its technical feats. Like "Three Kings," it heralds the digital revolution that really emerged in 1999 and promises (or threatens, depending on your perspective) to radically alter cinematic language. But unfortunately, it's mostly style over substance. You'll find fans here and elsewhere praising the film for its message, but it's sometimes hard to tell what "message" they're talking about. Is it the rather easy attack on consumerism? The constant griping about lost machismo? The thread of generational conflict? All these underdeveloped ideas are simultaneously celebrated and undercut by the film, especially as the "fight club" phenomenon started by Tyler Durden/The Narrator spins out of control. Are we to accept anything that comes out of Tyler's mouth? Or are we to see through his rants as the product of a muddle-headed (and maybe crazy) wannabe culture critic? By the time the film's twist becomes clear, its story and philosophy have become so jumbled that everything falls apart. We're left with an impressively made movie without any real heart or soul, as empty as the consumer culture it supposedly critiques. (I can't help but note the fact that this is a big studio, big budget movie with big money stars and a big ad campaign. How sly that it in the end it props up the culture that gave it life.) It's a screen on which angry young men can project their pet obsessions, but for the rest of us it's hollow.


                
I felt sick when I sat and watched Fight Club because of it´s pro-fascist tendencies, and the entire ubermenschenmentality that this film salutes.Sure, the film is very cool to look at but that doesn´t matter when the movie oozes of a terrible message that violence is the ultimate form of purification of the mind and soul. Stay away from this lousy piece of fascistpropaganda! To quote Apocalypse Now: "The horror, the horror"


                
OK, normally I identify with punk movies, but this one just doesn't work out. It is an aimless odyssey into a void of aimless people that moves along without direction. PS - another reason to hate this film: I believe the trend towards male frontal nudity in film started with this POS. I hate this movie even more than Freddie Got Fingered, and that is hard to do. This movie was supposed to invoke some sort of anti-corporate, primal rage sort of message, but it just didn't work.


                
Sorry, gang;  I'm giving this a thumbs down.  This pic has great cinamatography and art direction but that only makes it a video, not a movie.The director and writer had a few ideas for half a movie but couldn't think of anything else while the bills piled up.  The first act was good enough but would have been better if it had made up it's mind where it was going. Too many scenes which promised something proved to be red herrings while others just plain dragged.  The last act summed up nothing which went on before;  it also introduced character relationships and elements which hadn't been seen earlier. Thus the story arc was a complete wreck.  On top of all that, the whole movie runs some 30 to 40 minutes too long.  All of which are the classic signs of poor direction and writing.  It brings to mind the fiasco that was Robin Hood: Prince of Thieves (1991).
It started out as an off-beat buddy movie and ended as cheesy, pyschodramatic wish-fulfillment shlock on a par with The Rocky Horror Picture Show (1975) except with a bigger budget and no catchy songs.  It calls out, `look at me!' but then says nothing else, hoping a fashionably alienated, post-ironic attitude will make up the difference.  It never did and never will.


                
"The Fight Club" attempts to dramatize the frustrations of modern man caught up in routine and unfulfilling jobs . . . and ways in which this "pent-up steam" can be released through violent male bonding.Unfortunately, the scripters got caught up in their own outrageous creations, taking their points to an ultimate extreme and ridiculous conclusion.Edward Norton, Brad Pitt and Helena Bonham Carter all give admirable performances.


                
I like Brad Pitt. I really like Edward Norton. But (without all the !!!'s) I have to agree with a previous poster: what a waste! This film tries to wrap something romantic around some pretty pointless destructive, and self-destructive behaviour. It then tries a cop-out ending by ... nope, that would be a spoiler, wouldn't it? It's cinematically interesting in places, in the course of exploring "How low can you go?". But this film is clearly written with a message: a subtle advocacy of just going blam random, that makes me grieve.If you've given up on anything positive in life, and figure injuring yourself is less boring, then you may see more in this film than I do. Any action film will skip past the real likely outcomes of getting smashed in the head over and over again. This film tries to suggest there's a higher principle, while throwing reality out the window ... and then wets itself because there's no place to go.


                
