Buster Keaton once said that if he hadn't been a comedian, he might have been a civil engineer. He was not only a mechanical whiz but a spatial genius who devised stunts and gags with the grace of pure physics. It's no wonder he adored trains, the most elegant of machines, and brought them into his movies whenever he could. When one of Keaton's former gag-writers loaned him a book recounting the theft of a locomotive from Georgia by Union raiders during the Civil War, he was immediately fired with enthusiasm to bring this "page of history" to life. His first certainty was that the production had to be "so authentic it hurts." He even insisted on using historically accurate narrow-gauge railroad tracks, which he found, along with appropriate landscapes, near the sleepy town of Cottage Grove, Oregon.Most importantly, the area had stretches of parallel tracks, which allowed scenes of Buster on his train<U+0097>agilely scrambling over the cars, balancing on the roof to scan the horizon, chopping wood for the engine while armies pass unnoticed behind him<U+0097>to be filmed from another train running alongside. Buster, his train, and the camera are all in motion; the wind whips through Buster's hair while smoky pine-covered hills rise and fall around him. These scenes are not only the highlight of the movie but a peak in the history of *moving* pictures, and they put to shame all later back-projection and process shots, models and computer-generated effects. The quality of Keaton's film-making is simply<U+0097>pun intended<U+0097>unparalleled. Every shot in The General is clean, fresh and efficiently composed; the action is captured honestly and legibly at all times. The film never tries to be beautiful; its beauty is functional, just like the grave, masculine beauty of the locomotives and railroad bridges and Civil War uniforms.The General's narrative structure is as strong and uncluttered as its look. Like a train, it stays on track, never meandering for the sake of a laugh or a stunt. All of the gags rise organically from the coherent and straightforward storyline. Adapting the historical incident, Keaton made himself the engineer of the stolen train (Johnnie Gray), rather than one of the raiders. As he saw immediately, The General is one long chase, or rather two chases, structured like the flight of a boomerang. First Johnnie on a borrowed train, the Texas, chases his own stolen train, the General. He manages to steal it back and races it towards his own lines, pursued by the raiders in the Texas, who try to prevent him from carrying their battle plans to his own high command.The General is not Keaton's funniest film, but here he was going for quality over quantity in laughs. A number of the gags, like the box-car that keeps appearing and disappearing as it switches tracks, have a long build-up for a relatively modest payoff. But the laughter is mingled with a gasp of awe, and the best moments never get stale on repeated viewings. The cannon attached to the back of Buster's train goes off just as the train starts around a curve, so the ball flies straight and hits the raiders' train coming out of the curve. Riding on the cowcatcher, Buster hurls one railroad tie at another lying across the tracks, striking it precisely so that it flips out of the way. A forlorn Buster sits on the crossbar of his train's wheels, so lost in thought he doesn't notice when the train starts to move, carrying him up and down in gentle arcs: stillness in motion.I agree with author Jim Kline who describes The General as Keaton's most personal film, the one that best captures his unique vision, spirit and personality. In many of his films, Buster starts off as an inept or effete character and develops into a hero. But his competent, ingenious and athletic character in The General, who is also modest, tireless, and underestimated, comes much closer to his real nature. There is a shot in The General of Buster's eye isolated on screen, framed by a hole in a white table-cloth, that has always reminded me of Dziga Vertov's kinoglaz, the "camera-eye." Keaton melds with his camera; there's no distinction between his qualities as a performer and the qualities of his movies. They have the same silence, the same strictness, the same strange blend of gravity and humor.The General might be the most serious comedy every made, but it's not a tragicomedy. That, as in Chaplin's blending of pathos and low humor, was something people took to immediately. But no one knew what to make of The General. Original reviews accused the film of being dull, pretentious, unoriginal, and unfunny. Even today, people who have heard it acclaimed as one of the greatest movies of all time are sometimes puzzled or disappointed by it on first viewing. The General is challenging because it doesn't flaunt its virtues; like Keaton's concise and economical performance, it holds a great deal in reserve. Take the movie's most famous shot, of a train crashing through a burning bridge, for which Keaton built a real bridge and destroyed a real train. The shot lasts a few seconds in the finished film: he doesn't dwell on it or hype it. Who else in Hollywood would sink money in a spectacular effect and then downplay it? Keaton never forces a response from the audience, never manipulates, never overplays. He doesn't show off his acrobatic skills or his enormous repertoire of comic talents, nor does he play for sympathy. Anything so subtle will always leave some people cold. But for those who can see the expressiveness of Buster's so-called "stone face," who get his peculiar dry humor, who appreciate the rigorous purity and taste he displayed, these virtues are all the more stunning because they are understated. Buster Keaton always has more than he's showing; you can see it in his eyes.


                
It is "generally" (or should I pun and say "General Lee"?) said that the best comedy of the silent film career of Buster Keaton's career was his Civil War epic THE GENERAL. Apparently planned with more care than any of his other film projects, it involved not only researching a period of history some sixty years in the past, but getting the correct rolling stock, costumes, weapons, and props to make it look correct. And it worked so well that Keaton never really could (despite some great moments in STEAMBOAT BILL JR.) out-do it. In fact, the closest thing to his best sound film (or film that he influenced that was a sound film) was his work with Red Skelton in the comedy A SOUTHERN YANKEE, where he returned to a Civil War theme.THE GENERAL (as I mentioned in discussing the Disney film THE GREAT LOCOMOTIVE CHASE) is based on the "Andrews Raiders" stealing of the Confederate locomotive "The General", and an attached train, which was used to damage tracks and bridges. The raid (in February 1862) was from northern Georgia into Tennesee. It only lasted 20 miles, as the coal for the train was used up and not replaced. Andrews and several raiders were hanged after a trial. Others went to southern prisoner of war camps. The effect of the incident far outstripped it's military success. The damage (after all) could be repaired. But like Jimmy Doolittle's Raid over Tokyo in April 1942, it had a tremendous effect hurting Confederate morale. The area attacked was hundreds of miles from the battlefronts of Virginia or Kentucky/Northern Tennessee that were in the current events of the War at the time, and so was considered safe by the Confederate government and public. Instead it had been shown quite easy for Northern raiders to hit and run for awhile.Despite it being a brief incident of the war, the locomotive chase would remain famous after more important events were forgotten. The actual locomotive is still in existence in a museum in the south. When Lesney did it famous series of "Models of Yesteryear" the first locomotive that was included in that series of collectible toys was "The General".The story, however, was ultimately a downer. But Keaton took the basic tale and made it a comedy of the period. First he changes the viewer's perspective - it is not concentrating on Andrews and his men, but on the Confederates. Secondly, he builds up the story of Johnny Gray, a railroad engineer who tries to enlist but is rejected (the twist of logic failure in the script is that the Confederate draft board head does not bother to explain to Johnny that he is more useful as an engineer to the cause than as a soldier). Because Keaton's family and girl friend (Marion Mack) see he is not enlisted, they believe he turned coward.Johnny eventually is the only person who tries to retake "the General" from the raiders, and the film has actually two chases in it - first Andrews and his men stealing the train, and then Keaton sneaking into Northern lines with Mack and retaking it.Along the way are many comic classic moments, such as Keaton carefully standing on the cowcatcher and carefully using physics to knock off broken wooden ties that might derail the train, or when (at a moment of dejection) Keaton sits on the connecting rod that links the trains wheels and finds himself pulled into the locomotive barn while in a sitting positions. The situation of fighting the Yankees during the second chase, and finding Marion Mack there "helping" him, are wonderful - especially when she judges which lumps of coal are pretty enough to be used to keep the engine fired (she throws away the ugly little ones). Keaton's reaction to her stupidity is a wonderful moment.The classic conclusion of the comedy is the battle of the two sides at the river, and the burning of the railroad bridge (with it's destruction of a second locomotive). It has been called the most expensive sight gag in history. By the way, the Northern General who ordered the locomotive across the bridge is of some special interest. He was Mike "Turkey Strut" Donlin, a frequent member (and starring player) of the old New York Giants under John McGraw and Christy Matthewson in the first two decades of the 20th Century. Donlin (who got his funny nickname from the way he ran the bases) left baseball to become a film actor (he had worked a bit in vaudeville). Keaton was a sports fan (and showed this in his film COLLEGE, where he shows his abilities in several sports) and hired Donlin. This was the latter's most famous performance - look at his reaction to the collapse.It must be regarded as Keaton's finest film, and certainly the best war comedy to come out in the silent period. It may also be the best war comedy to come out of any period of motion pictures.


                
Buster Keaton's "The General," about a man and his engine, puts you in a world where the most comically inventive situation that could happen will happen. From major comic situations to throwaway gags, "The General" always knows what to do.The story begins in leisurely fashion. A title card tells us that Johnnie Gray (Keaton) has two loves in his life: his engine and his girl<U+0097>respectively, The General and Annabelle Lee (Marion Mack). Johnnie goes to visit Annabelle, followed by two engineer-worshipping boys and, unknown to him, Annabelle Lee herself. He and his entourage arrive at the door; Johnnie polishes his shoes on the back of his pants legs, slicks back his hair, and gently taps the door with the door knocker. Then he turns to notice Annabelle. Keaton's understated reaction is a testament to his uniqueness. Any other comedian would have done an explosive double-take.Now Johnnie and Annabelle are together in her parlor, but the boys are there, too. Johnnie stands up, puts on his hat and opens the door as if to leave. The hero-worshippers are ready to follow, but Johnnie lets them out first, then closes the door on them. This is a gentle ruse in the world of silent comedy. At Keystone both boys would have gotten kicked in the pants.Now the two are alone. Annabelle's father sees them from another room and is about to break things up when her brother enters and announces that Fort Sumter has been fired upon: the War Between the States has begun. Annabelle kisses her father and brother as they go to enlist, then turns expectantly to Johnnie, who cocks his head like a confused puppy. She asks, "Aren't you going to enlist?" Realization hits him, and he leaps off the seat. Before he can run out the door, Annabelle kisses him. This so overwhelms Johnnie that he flings out his arm in a farewell gesture and falls off the porch.Johnnie races to the general store, which is now a makeshift recruitment office. Taking a shortcut he manages to be the first in line. The door to the office is opened and Johnnie comes marching in<U+0097>only he and the rest of the line go in two different directions, and he has to jump over several tables to get in front again. He gives the enlistment officer his name and occupation, but the man rejects him. Johnnie is more valuable to the South as an engineer. Later, Annabelle believes that Johnnie didn't even try to enlist. She refuses to speak to him again until he's in uniform. What follows is a classic moment: Johnnie sits on the connecting rod of his engine. He's so miserable that he doesn't notice when he starts moving up and down, until just before the train enters a tunnel.Time passes and we learn that a group of Unionists are secretly passengers on The General. When (nearly) everyone is off the train having dinner, the Unionists climb back aboard and take the engine. Annabelle, a passenger herself, was still on board. She is now their prisoner.But Johnnie only knows his beloved General has been stolen, possibly by deserters. He pursues the engine by taking another, The Texas. Through a mishap he becomes the sole person aboard The Texas, but the Unionists think they're outnumbered and continue to run. What follows is the true joy of the movie: two long chases (separated by an important plot twist). Now the movie changes its quiet pace for almost nonstop action.I love it when the Unionists break off the rail car to hinder The Texas. At one point, the car, which Johnnie thought he had switched to another track, reappears in front of the baffled engineer, only to disappear later just as mysteriously. We see the logical circumstances that lead to the car's seeming magic act, and the equally logical situations that keep Keaton occupied, preventing him from seeing what we see.Comic logic is important to "The General." In no other movie do hyperbolic slapstick gags seem so plausible and inevitable. In a throwaway gag, Johnnie empties a burlap sack full of shoes because he urgently needs the sack. Of course<U+0097>of course!<U+0097>he loses his own shoe in the pile and must stop to hunt for it.We move to the second chase, where Johnnie has The General and the Unionists are the ones pursuing him. Now Johnnie must contend with Annabelle Lee.Marion Mack leaves no mark of her personality on the screen. She deserves credit mainly for being willing and able to take it. Bette Davis and Katharine Hepburn were never thrown around, trod upon or knocked about the way Marion Mack was. She has hilarious moments. The excitement of the chase does not prevent her from taking out a broom to sweep the dusty floor of the engine. An exasperated Johnnie tells her to keep throwing wood into the fire. She takes a small stick and daintily puts it in. Johnnie sarcastically hands her a sliver, and she puts that in, too. Then, in a moment that has an audience roaring and clapping, Johnnie grabs her and half-throttles her before kissing her instead.The final section, most of it a battle scene, includes the shot where The Texas begins to cross a burning bridge, only to crash into the river. Owing to Keaton's disdain of fakery (one of several reasons his works seem modern) he did not use a model but a real train on a real burning bridge. The crash cost $42,000<U+0097>reportedly making it the single most expensive shot ever in a silent film.A worthy closing gag was too taxing even for Keaton's ingenuity. Johnnie's dilemma is to kiss his girl while saluting the passing soldiers. His remedy is only mildly funny. Is anyone complaining? "The General" is a work of art and a work of genius.


                
One of the great masterpieces of cinema, Buster Keaton's "The General" combines inventive humor with terrific action and fine melodrama, all beautifully and carefully planned and photographed.  It is filled with subtle and wonderful details that make it well worth devoting your full attention to watching.  As an extra bonus, it offers a fascinating look at the Civil War era, with many realistic details, inspired by a historical incident.After a short opening sequence, the movie divides nicely into two halves. Johnny (Keaton) is a railway engineer, turned down in his attempts to enlist in the Confederate Army and subsequently rejected by his girl.  Continuing with the railroad, one day his locomotive is stolen by Union spies, who also kidnap his girl.  Johnny first chases the engine into Union territory to recapture it, and then is himself chased by the Northern Army as he attempts to return home.  Both chases are filled with excitement and manic fun, with some breathtaking stunts by Keaton thrown in.  It all leads up to a dramatic and memorable climax that includes many ironic and suggestive touches.Keaton is at his best, with the story offering him a perfect showcase for his many talents.  His slapstick and acrobatic skills are given free rein, and his character's stoic perseverance is a fine complement to the frantic action.This belongs near the top of any list of great films, a classic worth watching and re-watching.


                
I haven't had so much fun watching a movie for a long time. The General is a silent comedy (mostly slapstick) about Johnny Gray, a train engineer with two loves: his engine and Annabelle Lee. Annabelle soon dumps him because of his failure to enlist into the Civil War (they would not take him because he was too valuable as an engineer). Things are then sped up a year, where we see some Union commanders planning to hijack a train to unleash a highly sophisticated master plan. As it so happens, they steal Johnny's engine, a big mistake.Buster Keaton does a phenomenal performance as Johnny. His face and character is ideal for this type of comedy. He reminds me a lot of Leslie Nielsen from the Naked Gun movies (but, of course, less old). He is often ignorant of what is going on around him, leading to plenty of laughs. This also makes him a very charismatic character.There are countless train related jokes. The first one comes right at the beginning, when we see Johnny being followed by two kids and a woman, in a line much like a train. The bulk of the movie is made up of Johnny running a train, either chasing or fleeing from the Union soldiers. The movement and maneuvering of the trains is beautiful. The stunt work is an incredible accomplishment. The finale is explosive.The General was a lot of fun to watch. It gave me more laughs than most modern comedies, and had plenty of substance on top of that. This is enough for me to label it as one of the greatest comedies ever. After my first viewing, it instantly became one of my favorites. It is timeless gem that should be watched at least once by anyone interested in movies.


                
"The General" is one of the great films and treasures of the silent era. It's among the best movies of the talented comedy actor, Buster Keaton. In this film, Keaton shows the athletic ability and courage that made him one of the best of the early comedians who performed their own stunts. His physical antics on and off his train, The General, support his title as king of comedy stunts. All the silent era comedy actors seemed to have lots of energy. And, many had daring, courage, and even madness at times. Those were the actors who did all or most of their own stunts. While there were some stunt men around in the early 1900s, it wasn't until the last of the silent years and dawn of sound pictures that stuntmen were a regular part of the cast of films that required any amount of derring-do. And, while a small number of actors today will still do some of their own stunts, nothing can compare to the actors of old who performed their own high-risk and dangerous stunts – and sometimes those for other actors. The five best early actors at doing stunts were Buster Keaton, Douglas Fairbanks Sr., Harold Lloyd, Tom Mix and Yakima Canutt. The latter two specialized in Westerns, and besides acting and doing stunt work, Mix and Canutt regularly rode and performed in the rodeo circuit. Lloyd was versatile in his venues, but excelled at high stunts on buildings, and sometimes with wild animals. Fairbanks excelled in swashbuckler stunts, sliding down the sails of ships, swinging from anything hanging aloft and jumping (with the help of trampolines) into windows. Keaton was even more versatile. As a child actor in vaudeville, Keaton learned how to fall to avoid injury. He called his technique, soft falls or landings. But even with his training and practice, his film roles with derring-do often left him bruised at the least. At other times, he had suffered injuries from slight to serious. Still, he had become known for his physical resiliency During the filming of "The General" in 1926, Keaton was knocked unconscious by canon fire. He suffered a broken ankle while filming the 1922 short, "The Electric House." And, he broke his neck during the 1924 shooting of "Sherlock Jr.," but didn't know it until years later. This movie has an interesting plot, set during the U.S. Civil War. It opens with a scene and script that reads, "The Western and Atlantic Flyer speeding into Marietta Georgia, in the spring of 1861." The train seems to be traveling about 30 miles per hour. But the film is almost entirely about action and the comedy in the action, involving the train. There is an element of romance. The cast all are very good. The photography is superb. Much of the action with trains is filmed in West-central Oregon, from Eugene to Cottage Grove. There's no information about sound at all, so I assume the music we hear with the film is soundtrack that was added for modern viewing. It probably is meant to replicate the piano accompaniment that was usual with silent films in theaters of the day. This is one instance when I think the piano playing would have been better. The music seems to go overboard at times. This is one of the early great films from the silent era that showcase the talent and early mastery of movie-making skills. It's a fun movie with strong visuals that even a modern family of all ages should enjoy.


                
I first encountered Buster Keaton in "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum." Reviewers made frequent reference to his status as a "silent film great", but I paid no mind. To me, silent films were Chaplin, and Chaplin leaves me cold. And thus, in my mind, silent film buffs were arty snots who feigned interest in quaint old things to show how sophisticated they were. Nobody, I thought, could really like that stuff.But I joined Netflix, and their little recommendation system suggested "The General". The picture of Buster Keaton atop a locomotive promised some action. The guy had been funny in "Forum". I could stream it, effectively for free, as a bonus while awaiting my next DVD. What did I have to lose?Aside from my preconceptions, that is.Within fifteen seconds I totally forgot that I was watching one of those classic silent films. I was totally engrossed in letting Buster tell me a story. And as the film progressed, I moved from rapt interest to amusement to amazement to -- well, to something akin to falling in love. I would never see silent film -- or, of course, silent film buffs -- the same way again.Keaton's Johnnie Gray is an earnest, conscientious, courteous little fellow who gets undeservedly emasculated: He's rejected by the Confederate army (because he's more valuable on the railroad), and by his girl and her family. And it is in Johnie's low moment that we first see how Keaton handles his films: a death-defying stunt, in which Buster rides the connecting rod of an antique narrow-gauge locomotive -- isn't played as a stunt. It's played as subtle, poignant humor, with Johnnie's beloved General comforting him by rocking him gently like a mother rocking her baby.A year later, a sad and forsaken Johnnie still tends his train. His girl, Annabelle Lee, is about to board, heading off to tend to her wounded father. She still loves Johnnie -- else why would she go to the trouble of taunting him with her brother's war ribbons while pretending to ignore him? Johnnie, silent and subdued, watches with his haunted eyes.But Union spies steal Johnny's beloved General -- with Annabelle Lee aboard. Johnnie takes off in pursuit, undaunted by any obstacle. He wins our admiration and sympathy not because he's asking for them; he's too busy recovering his train, his girl, and his honor. He wins us over because he's who he is: brave, resourceful, and dogged in pursuit of his goal.The things he does in that pursuit take your breath away. Suffice it to say he gets hold of another train, and does things aboard as it speeds along, as nonchalantly as you might reach for a light switch. A moment that stands out for me -- neglected by other commentators -- finds Buster casually riding along on the cowcatcher, picking splinters out of his hands, until he notices an uncoupled boxcar hindering his progress. How he deals with the recalcitrant boxcar has to be seen to be appreciated. And there are countless such moments throughout this gem of a film.As the chase transitions, with Union officers chasing Johnnie as he heads home with his prizes, we begin to see why Johnnie loves Annabelle Lee. She's out of her element, but proves brave and resourceful and eager to help, for all her foolish moments. She never apologizes to Johnnie for misjudging him, but he never asks her to. She simply recognizes him at last for who he was all along, and shares his joy when the Confederate Army does the same.If you've never seen a silent film, or seen others but wondered what all the fuss is about, take a chance on Keaton. And you can't do better than "The General". You may find yourself becoming one of the inexplicable silent film buffs.
Except for a few lightning flashes, explosions of cannon fire, and two brief glimpses of painted backdrops, The General is entirely free of special effects: no matte paintings, no process shots, no miniatures. When you see Buster Keaton climbing all over a locomotive as it rolls through the countryside, the train is real, the landscape is real, the motion of the train is real, and that really is Buster doing the climbing. Nor is the climbing made easier by cutting the whole scene up with editing. The camera, mounted on a second train running parallel to the first, sits well back and simply watches as Buster bounds from one end of the locomotive to the other, all in one smooth shot. Later, when a bridge gives way and a train drops fifty feet into a river, that's real, too.This is the great strength of The General. When critics and fans praise this picture they don't mean that it's the funniest comedy ever made, they mean it's one of the most beautiful and skillfully made films ever, in any genre, and that you don't have to laugh every five seconds to enjoy it.Only 78 minutes long, The General is comic and epic equally, its gags strung out upon a structure as simple as it is elegant: an outbound train chase followed by a return over the same track. The obstacles Buster encounters on the way out---most of them placed in his path by the Yankee spies who have stolen his train---are repeated during the return as Buster, now the pursued, tries variations on the same tricks the spies pulled on him. That the same gags work twice, and often better the second time, is surprising, and a source of pleasure in itself as you recognize and appreciate the new twists.Keaton's character, Johnnie Gray, a Confederate locomotive engineer during the Civil War, reflects exactly this blend of the comic and the epic. He's not a helpless, endearing bumbler: he's a man trying desperately to get his stolen train back. When he realizes that his girl was stolen with the train, he naturally assumes the responsibility of rescuing her, too. But then there is a third motive: learning, late in the film, that the Union army is planning an attack for the next day, he must get home to warn his own side. As he goes about this increasingly big job he's determined and intelligent. The trouble is that, through no fault of his own, things keep going wrong and he must keep scrambling to put them right. From these multiplying problems and his frantic efforts to find solutions blossom the gags, gracefully and endlessly, each one sharpened by the suspense of the basic situation.Keaton was one of the better silent actors, his face anything but stony or expressionless, his responses always well-judged, free of mugging or outsized emotions. In his struggles with immense locomotives, boxcars on the loose, fire, a cannon that seems to have it in for him, and, not least, a girlfriend who is not exactly cut out for adventure, he reacts almost but not quite with perfect seriousness, always leaving a little room for the comedy. Watch his face as he hides under the table, eavesdropping on the Union generals plotting their next moves: he's alert, worried about being discovered, alarmed at the talk he overhears, and finally astonished to see his girl brought in as a prisoner. All of this registers very clearly and believably, and nothing is lost to the silence of silent film: he's in a position where he has to keep quiet.The General was shot just sixty years after the end of the Civil War, which puts it closer in time to the period it depicts than it is to ours. It looks it. No other film, not even The Birth Of A Nation, has brought that war back to life so convincingly. It would be great on that account alone, even if it lacked its beautiful structure, elegant gags, and wonderful performance by Buster Keaton.
Buster Keaton's love of history, engineering and operatic displays of action are put to their finest use in his masterwork, The General. However unwelcoming the concept of an incredibly accurate historical movie about the civil war may seem, or a title which refers to an army rank, rest assured that The General is imbued throughout with a wonderful sense of fun, as with all Keaton. The pervasive irony running through The General is the fact that little Buster is helping fight the civil war just by happenstance - all he really wants to do is save his girlfriend. The appeal of The General may lie in its ability to take you back to what it would have been like in frontier America, its remarkable visual beauty (incredible cinematography), or possibly Keaton's trademark operatic stunts, the climax of this movie which is one of his most impressive (the famous bridge scene was the most expensive shot in all of silent cinema).But the thing which makes this and all Keaton films a joy to watch is the irrepressible charm and appeal of his onscreen persona. You just can't help liking little Buster, and rooting for him in all the troubles he happens to fall into. 5 stars from me - one of the all time greats.


                
Having read through the various comments on this movie, I find it interesting that no one has yet mentioned that 'The General', Keaton's pinnacle was a flop in it's day.  There are various theories as to why such an excellent film bombed.  Some suggest that the American Civil War was simply too close at heart at the time.  Veterans were immediate family members.  Others suggest that Keaton's choice of making the Hero, Johnny, a southerner was an error.  (If I'm not mistaken, in the book - and true story - that the film is based on, the heroes were not Confederates, making Keaton's choice just a little pondersome.)My pet theory is that Keaton alienated his fans by making a movie that is NOT a comedy.  Funny, oh yes, but not a comedy.  "Our Hospitiality" "Sherlock Jr." "Steamboat Bill Jr." are the sort of films that Keatons fans were accustomed to.  Genuinely funny movies.  But "The General" in an adventure.  And in the context of silent film, it is an excellent adventure. (By today's standards it is structurally weak.)  But it is not hysterically funny like most of the films in Keaton's main canon.  His fans didn't know how to take it.  And as a result it made considerably less money than his previous movies had.  Keaton followed "The General" with the more conventional "College" and financially speaking returned to the world of successful filmmaking.Today - indeed since the resurfacing of Keaton's classics (In the late 1950s?) - we see "The General" from a distance.  It is with this perspective that we see that it is in fact his best film.  Amongst it's accomplishments "The General" is chock full of his most ingenious business and stunt work. The only stunt which rivals anything in "The General" would be the house collapsing on him in "Steamboat Bill Jr." and there are those who will argue that the bridge collapsing under The Texas is more spectacular.  I have to say that this is simply wrong.  Both are heart stopping stunts.  But the house collapse seriously endangered Keaton's well being.  (Possibly apocryphally, all of his crew except the cameraman left the set 'cause they "couldn't stand to watch.  The cameraman closed his eyes hile he cranked.) The destruction of The Texas was then the most expensive shot in film - and may still be in adjusted dollars. (Probably not.)  But nobody was imperiled by the stunt.  Nobody was actually in the train.


                
Western & Atlantic Railroad train engineer Johnnie Gray (Keaton) is in Marietta, Georgia to see one of the two loves of his life, his fiancée Annabelle Lee (Marion Mack)—the other being his locomotive, The General— when the American Civil War breaks out. He hurries to be first in line to sign up with the Confederate Army, but is rejected because he is too valuable in his present job; unfortunately, Johnnie is not told this reason and is forcibly ejected from the office when he tries to enlist surreptitiously. On leaving, he runs into Annabelle's father and brother, who beckon to him to join them in line, but he sadly walks away, giving them the impression that he does not want to enlist. Annabelle coldly informs Johnnie that she will not speak to him again until he is in uniform.
It could be said that this is a Silent Movie that can be Enjoyed by those that Don't Really Like Silent Movies. It is a Spectacular, Wide-Open Tale of the Civil War mostly set on a Moving Train. Keaton's Masterpiece is a prime Example of a Movie that Moves, literally.There are Few Indoor Shots, there are Few Stagnant or Still Shots. The Film just Goes and Goes Unreeling one Sight Gag after Another. Sight Gags on a Grand Scale. Keaton is Stylistically accustomed to Larger than Life Surroundings that Wreak Havoc on the Little unassuming Hero. Here He takes It to a Logical Conclusion.The Comic Timing is typical Keaton, that is to say, Impeccable. There is very LIttle Dialog or Exposition required and therefore there are a Minimum of Title Cards to interrupt the Flow of the Film.One can Point to this Scene or that to Illustrate the Grandeur or the Greatness of this Timeless piece of Cinematic Art, but Truth be Told, it is the Whole Film that Stands Out as there is Barely a Frame Wasted. It is Non-Stop Fun and is Appreciated more Today than when first Released. It received Tepid Reviews and wasn't a Big Hit, but has Since Become Recognized as one of the Best Comedies of All Time and One of the Best Silent Films and One of the Best Films Period. Certainly to be of Interest and Enjoyment to anyone who Loves Movies, Historians, Silent Film Fans, and for those that need an Introduction to Buster Keaton or Silent Movies in General.


                
Buster Keaton is a comedy genius and a legend. Most modern comedy films cower in his shadow. He brings his fast paced slapstick and wonderful comedy to life once again in The General. Playing a typical Buster Keaton underdog protagonist, Keaton tries to save the girl he loves by getting a locomotive and chasing some villains down the railway. The result is non stop, gut bursting comedy mayhem and also cinema's greatest train ride. It has a small dip half way through, but that's not enough to affect anything. It's impossible not to enjoy and jaw dropping slapstick fills the screen and Buster does various amazing stunts all by himself without doubles or special effects. The story is fairly straight forward but it's a good plot and the main character is very easy to root for. As well as the mind blowing comedy, there are also plenty of exciting chase sequences and a sense of tension.There really isn't anything else like it. It's one of the most accessible silent films ever and if it's your first silent movie it's a very good place to start. Almost all the gags are daring and clever, the acting is spot on and in general the film is a delightfully delirious slapstick showcase that's more insane than a Nicolas Cage freak out but in the best way imaginable. It never loses its charm or wit and despite now being 88 years old it barely seems to have aged. Overall, a very fun and likable silent movie which is one of the better movies of the 20s and definitely one of the greatest comedies of the 20th century. If you ever have nothing to do on a long train journey, watching The General would be a brilliant way to pass the time. A laugh a minute legend and a masterpiece.10/10


                
One of the greatest silent pictures ever.It's a film that's mostly made on a train. The name of the protagonist is "The General". Well, the protagonist is non other than the train itself. So "The General" is the name of the train and not of our hero Buster Keaton who is named as Johnnie Gray.The storyline is pretty simple, it's a lover's test to prove his love. He applies for a job in military during the civil war of 1860's and is rejected. His girlfriend thinks he is unfit. He must disprove this and win his lover. The train acts a protagonist and the binding force in their love story. It's the one that brings them together. How? Well, go watch the film and I am sure you will have a laugh out loud them. I recommend that it's a must watch and please do it with all your family together. It's a laugh riot and a meaningful one. There are layers to this, emotions, love and above all a cute silliness that can be embraced effortlessly. Buster Keaton performs all the stunts by himself and stands tall in each one of them. Considering the fact that this was made in 1926, the content is original and we have seen only films inspired by this and made many years later. So this is one of the first films made entirely on a vehicle and the trip is not just fun, it's funny, lovely and supremely wonderful.I loved this film and will watch it many times over and will pass on to the next generation too. A 5/5 for one of the greatest films made in the history. There are many that will be made, but this will be the original.


                
I saw this movie once, about 8 years ago, and remember few of its details. I do remember that it was one of the most enjoyable, funny, entertaining movies i've ever seen. It was a true rarity, both an epic and a comedy, and it worked as both epic and comedy. It remains the only complete Keaton movie that i've seen. I still don't seek out silent films, as i attended a festival of Chaplin movies and was sort of turned off. But Keaton's movie avoided any hint of sentimentality, even though there was a romance.I remember thinking that the only modern equivalent to this movie, almost certainly influenced by this movie, is Raiders of the Lost Ark. I've always thought Raiders was a great movie, but The General surpasses it in artistry and magic.


                
Well, it's fair enough that almost every living soul on Earth knows about Charlie Chaplin, even though they have probably never seing one of his movie, and this is great, Chaplin was indeed a genious, one of (if not the) greatest of all time. But man, it's really sad that few people know about Buster Keaton.I say that because I'm a living example of it, I didn't know the guy until a couple of months ago, when I really started to dig in Silent Movies, so, I really believe 90% of the movie goers don't know who he is, and it's sad, but from know on I will try to "spread his word as much as I can.But ok, let's talk about the movie itself. The General is timeless, and to me this is the greatest complement any art form can receive, the movie is almost 100 years-old, and still holds up, and will continue to hold up 100 years from now. Do you want a pratical example? My most delightful experience in watching this movie was that I've seen it with my sister, who is 11 years-old and isn't that much into movies, I've tried to show her a couple of my favorite ones, but not like this one, this was her first time ever seing a movie this old, and, man! She had a great time watching it. At first she was a little uncertain about it, but with something like 20 minutes within the movie she was already laughing with a bunch of different scenes (I didn't laugh that much, but the movie is still truly fun). And really, this is for me the best way to say how great this movie is.Keaton's performance is irreproachable, he is a comedy genious. One thing that almost impresses me is his style of filming, it's truly impressive to see how well he captures the Train's moviment throught the whole movie. This movie has other amazing sequences, like the battle in the end, there is a big amount of extras, and you buy the side of it. Others scenes, like the train falling into the lake, or all the horses passing throught the lake, are amazing. That shot where he is working above the train, and the war is happening at full potential behind him is geniously, it's at the same time a clever joke, and a stunning scale of filming.In fact, I saw here on IMDb that aparrently the movie's budget wast 750.000 dollars, which back then was a insane budget for a movie, so, that's explains a lot. Overall, I'm just glad that Keaton was able to "assemble" that much money to do the movie.To sum up, The General is a masterpiece, from one of the genious of slient film, Keaton and Chaplin are with no doubt two of the most influential actors in movies (even today). Keaton was a genious, and this movie is a masterpiece. Timeless. C'mon! The guy destroyed A REAL TRAIN! If that's isn't reason enough to see this movie, I don't know what is.


                
Living in 2018, it is impossible to imagine what the audience of that time think of this film . For me , it doesn't look that funny but it still entertains and is special in its own ways. Comedy completely relies on stunts . Each and every stunts amazed me. It is hard to believe how they shot it almost a century ago.Before this I have watched Sherlock jr. . While that film relies heavily on its special effects , this one seems to be more realistic (Many will disagree with me) . Buster Keaton himself performed all the stunts and no special effects were used .People always compare Buster Keaton with Charlie Chaplin. For me ,Keaton was not that good as an actor atleast in the silent films . Technical aspects of his are not either great . But one thing at which he was better is writing scripts . He was far more innovative than Chaplin . He was master at using special effects and stunts for comedy . Something even the modern day directors can't. For me 
Keaton >Chaplin.


                
It's odd that Keaton's most acclaimed film should in a sense be his least typical.  If we have developed a cliched sense of the Keaton persona - the stony-faced, melancholy dreamer, defeated by modernity and women, lost in an anguished, surreal, yet modern space, successful only in his dreams - then you won't find much of that here.  'The General' is not only historically grounded, it is set in perhaps the defining moment in American history, when the nation tore itself apart over the idea of what America was. 
Buster is no loser here - he's only apparently cowardly to his prospective in-laws - we know why he doesn't fight, and he proves his quite extraordinary bravery, a lone defender of virtue against a gang of subversives, for which he is officially recognised.  He even manages to master technology, driving his trains like they are go-karts, manipulating the complex railroad system to his own(subtly sexualised) end.  The Beckett pseud won't find much here.Or won't he?  This is a very strange Civil War picture, with a similar plot to 'Birth of a Nation', but none of the overheated ideology.  In fact, Keaton's representation of this divisive bloodbath, where thousands of real bodies died or were maimed, which left generations of bitterness, is remarkable for its cool abstraction.  Keaton gives us a Civil War with the history taken out.  It is, of course, appropriate to our conception of him that Buster should be on the losing side, and it is this historical irony that undermines the film's heroics and happy ending - WE know that Buster is doing it all for nothing (well, I'm sure his fiancee wouldn't say it was nothing!); we may not see Sisyphus' boulder rolling down this time, but we know it will.  In terms of the film, Keaton's being a Unionist or Confederate is arbitrary - there are no reasons given for the war, no historical background.  Buster is not fighting for any particular ideal or culture; he has to prove himself, like knights of old, in action, before he can win the princess' hand.this emphasis on action, rather than context or analysis, is a radically new way of looking at history.  The film consists of two movements, like a mathematical vector - in the first half, Buster chases a train; in the second, the train chases him.  The film, like the country, is divided in two - if Buster's efforsts are ultimately pointless, than what of the war?  To say there is no moral valency would be wrong - the North kidnap civilian women, the South don't, and ultimately will lose.  But in Keaton's universe, everyone loses; every struggle is only for a Pyhrric victory, because in the end we will always be defeated, if only by death.The audacity of Keaton to stretch this minimalist conceit of action to an entire feature, in period dress, is breathtaking.  Even more so is that the film is so thrilling; it reduces cinema to its component parts - the photographing of action, hunter and hunted - and asks why we need anything more.  Action is so eloquent, explaining character, history, culture. 
There is something very moving, even humbling, about this abstract plot taking place in such beautiful, natural surroundings.  You can almost touch the thick raindrops as Buster rescues Annabelle, or the trees as the train whizzes by.  Is there any more resonant sequence in cinema than the one where Buster puts in heroic effort to get a cannon working to derail his enemies, only to leave it pointing at himself?  'Heroic' is the word David Thomson uses to describe this masterpiece, and you're kind of glad the wise Buster was alive.


                
I just wrote a review for STEAMBOAT BILL, JR. and that makes this review VERY difficult, because I really can't decide which of these two films is better. To me, they are both nearly perfect and represent the best full-length material Keaton performed--at least when it comes to stunts and laughs. It's sad really, as just after these two triumphs came the sound era--and a seriously negative down-turn in Keaton's career, as MGM repeatedly gave him terrible material--pairing him with the brash and inappropriate humor of Jimmy Durante. This film is probably the best of his films when it comes to concept and consistency of the plot. And, for once, I have nothing critical to say about the film. No matter how many times I see it, it just seems perfect. This might just be my favorite silent comedy--period. It's that good. However, as this IS more plot-driven than most of his films, don't expect the rapid-fire laughs--there is a lot of set-up and story instead. This is NOT a complaint--just don't expect the pacing of his shorts--which, incidentally, you won't find in any of the full-length films.By the way, while all is practically perfect in every way about this film, this is NOT my favorite Keaton full-length film. While not as funny or filled with amazing stunts, OUR HOSPITALITY is an amazing film for its artistry. In addition to being the prettiest of his films, it also features among the best characterization for Keaton--with a full and rich plot. My advice is to see THE GENERAL and OUR HOSPITALITY and see two very different and probably equally great films from a master.


                
Everything about Buster Keaton's "The General" is perfect. It is completely flawless. The sets, the timing and the comedy itself are all world class. I have seen only 4 perfect films and they are: The General, Raging Bull, Aguirre, the Wrath of God, and Citizen Kane. Out of those 4 The General is my favorite, my favorite of all films. The fact that The General manages to illustrate such a straight forward story and turn it into scene after scene of brilliant physical comedy is what in my opinion makes it so outstanding. In the world of cinema there are few achievements that can equal it. To watch "The General" is to see the greatest actor-director in the history of cinema at the top of his form. My very favorite movie


                
First, in order to fully appreciate this film, please find a mint condition print - they do exist, and are available even on budget DVD. If Keaton isn't employing motor-cranked cameras, then his camera operators were very patient and very good, because this film movies along at a steady frame rate to the point that the action appears as natural as in a sound film.Adding to this naturalism is the lighting - which almost looks like 'available light' photographic technique, but isn't - and the choice to let the actors just play people, rather than stereotypes. There are no heroes or villains in this war movie; sometimes a character is made too look a fool, and then again the same character acts heroically later on. And this of course includes Keaton's own character, a misunderstood - and at times naive - everyman, pressed to do remarkable things under remarkable circumstances.It should be noted that Keaton uses this kind of character development to pull off a remarkable piece of story construction - the story is actually an adventure-drama, but it is allowed to open up for wonderful bits of comedy - at the end, we're so happy for our feckless hero (who can't keep his sword blade mounted on its handle) that it is only afterward, on reflection, that we realize his mighty accomplishment, which includes winning the right to fight in proper uniform, may eventually lead to an early death as a soldier.Keaton, it should be noted, well understands this; and so the drama remains as an undertone to the comedic, just as, even in the most serious moments, laughter must break through.A real gem.
As a film buff and a Keaton fan I have seen The General many times and I consider it to be one of the best films ever made. Considering its age (1927)it is as fresh today as it must have been on its release. So much has been written about it, and Keaton, it is difficult to enthuse without repetition, but anyone who hasn't seen it has a visual feast in store! The story is told logically with astonishing, faultless continuity. Photography, direction, acting are all impeccable. I never cease to be astonished by Keaton's amazing graceful stunts, mostly accomplished on a MOVING train. It took skill and courage to fall backwards onto the cowcatcher of a moving locomotive while holding a railway sleeper (tie) in his arms. And the ridiculous little figure sitting on the con rod as the train moves into the engine shed is my favourite piece of any film. I have recently updated my copy with a new remastered version on DVD including a new orchestrated sound track and tinting. I would strongly advise anybody interested in cinema to get themselves a copy and relish the experience... Definitely 10/10!


                
I just saw a beautifully restored print of "The General" tonight, complete with live theatre-organ accompaniment, at the refurbished Elsinore Theatre in Salem, OR.Why do I mention the theatre? Just to make a point... Silent movies are best-enjoyed in the correct environment, with live-performed musical accompaniment. Those of you who have only been able to see this or other silents at home on your TV with pre-recorded music have seen only half the film. If you ever get a chance to see a silent film shown properly, DO IT! You will NOT regret it! Okay, off my soap-box... "The General" is simply a masterpiece! The timing and setup of the gags is superb, the story (inspired by an actual Civil War event) is believable and intelligent. Keaton made sure that everything looked and felt as realistic as possible, using photographs by Civil War photographer Matthew Brady, paintings, histories, everything he could get a hold of.Overall, most of the film is sort of a slow-motion chase, with plenty of funny gags along the way; despite the film's length, it never has a slow moment.Unlike most silent-era comics, Buster's acting was subtle and underplayed. While he's known as "The Great Stoneface", emotions show up through the apparently-still face. For example, there's the time when the men in Annabelle's family are rushing to enlist, Buster is left sitting there, interrupted from his attempts to romance her. After they leave to enlist, she gives him a withering "Well??" look, and you can easily read his quizzical look, even though there's almost no movement or gesture.I gave this classic a 10, only because I couldn't give it an 11.


                
This is probably one of the best action movies ever made. It is also on of the best comedies ever made. Featuring terrific cartoon-style gags to some really explosive action scenes and insane stunts this movie has it all. There is no sound of course, but the version I saw had a piano soundtrack that goes along with the on screen action. From calm to insanely frenetic it accentuates moments and essentially dialog isn't needed since the movie is simple to understand anyway.The movie also pokes terrific fun at the medium of film itself. For instance, in one scene the back wall to a train car falls off to reveal the bad guys in hot pursuit of the hero and heroine. The first part of the scene, before the wall falls looks like a simple theater set-up, but almost instantly transforms into something you can only see at the movie. Since this is an early film many of the gags might be missed by people, but if you watch it with a perspective of a 1920s era audience this film is an intense, explosive, huge-budget, high-octane fireworks, unrelenting thrill ride. Now it is pretty much a live action Tom and Jerry cartoon, but classics like this demand respect. And that is just what they will get. 10/10


                
A dazzling silent comedy, "The General" seems to set the standard for any movie chase scene that came afterward.  There's a hint of "The Great Train Robbery," made nearly a quarter of a century earlier, but where the earlier film was experimental this demonstrates perfection.  Buster Keaton is a railroad engineer in the Civil War South who is rejected by the draft board but finds himself chasing--or being chased--by Union soldiers who have stolen his train.  The ongoing shenanigans are fresh and funny, the scenery is beautiful, and the action sequences are still impressive.  Keaton is marvelously deadpan throughout.  It only gets better when Marion Mack joins the chase, as the two lovers-in-waiting frustrate each other along the way. A cinematic must: this is why they make movies!  10 out of 10


                
