Probably Buster Keaton's best film, and oddly enough, it's not even a straightforward comedy <U+0096> it's actually an action film, with clever doses of romance and comedy tossed in for good measure.  `The General', which is set during the Civil War, is about a train engineer named Johnny Gray (Buster Keaton, of course) who tries to enlist in the Confederate Army . . . and is turned down because the army feels he'd be much more valuable for the war effort as an engineer instead of a soldier.  However, through a series of misunderstandings, both Johnny's family and his girl think he's a coward, and they refuse to speak to him until he becomes a soldier.  Months pass, and Johnny, sad and alone, is piloting his train <U+0096> the General <U+0096> when it is stolen from him by the North.  Johnny's efforts to recover the General <U+0096> and to win back his girl's love <U+0096> become an unbelievably funny and action-packed series of events, as Johnny tries to go from being a sad-sack buffoon to being a hero.If you haven't watched many silent films, they demand a greater amount of attention than `normal' film <U+0096> there are no audio cues; and volumes can be spoken with a simple facial expression.  Buster Keaton is amazingly expressive, as he's fully capable of going from wildly happy to downtrodden and sad in the blink of an eye.  While funny, Keaton is much more than just a clownish figure <U+0096> he manages to evoke a lot of sympathy as well, and he genuinely becomes what can only be described as an action hero as well.  His timing, whether for a joke or for a tender moment, is absolutely impeccable.What's also great about `The General' is the sheer amount of stunts and physical humor <U+0096> a movie like this couldn't be made today.  No amount of insurance would cover it.  Keaton does all his own stunts, and manages to perform a number of feats that are simultaneously hilarious and dangerous <U+0096> he chases down `The General' with a bike, he sits on a moving cattlecatcher, knocking away railroad ties with a tie of his own.  All these stunts are fantastic, but it's scary to think that any one of these probably could've killed Keaton if something even went slightly wrong.  
`The General' is a lot more than slapstick.  Personally, I think it's one of the first films to push the envelope of movies <U+0096> it goes for action, romance, and humor, and it pulls all of those elements together into a terrific movie. If you've never seen Buster Keaton <U+0096> or, for that matter, a silent film <U+0096> go find this one and watch it.  It's a classic. A+


                
No one will top Keaton for physical risk, and risk is what deep film experiences are all about. This might be classed as a comedy, but for me it touches deeply enough. Its about a man who needs to prove himself by taking risks and being true. And its by a man who takes even greater risks and is more true. True to the spirit of the social compact, here displayed as the chummy south.He's always done stunts that amaze. Many of his other films have things in them that if the timing were only a little off, he'd be seriously injured, or die. But this takes the cake. Its almost as if he started with the idea that he'd have three locos to play with and had a year to think up stunts. And the stunts are so physical! And so dangerous. And so, so very effective. His trademark is the deadpan face placed as a sort of innocent cluelessness. Its particularly funny when you see the physical movements and you know that 1) they take incredible preparation and timing to pull off and 2) the fellow you see that looks so puzzled by the reality you see is the guy that devised and directed those stunts.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
This film flopped when it was released in late 1926 for several reasons. First, its premiere was delayed because "Flesh and the Devil" was such a sensation that it was held over an extra couple of weeks. Second, people came to the movies to see Buster Keaton the comedian, not Buster the filmmaker and director, which is more of the role he played here. The film was funny, but it was not gag after gag, like so many of Keaton's other films. Keaton plays a railroad engineer living in the South. A title card declares he has two loves - his girl and his engine. when the Civil War starts he tries to enlist, but is considered too valuable to be in the Army due to his profession. His girlfriend misunderstands, thinks him a coward, and says she won't speak to him again until he is in uniform.Meanwhile, the Union forces have developed a plan to crush the South that involves stealing Buster's train. Unknown to Buster, his girlfriend is on the train at the time of the theft. Buster starts out in hot pursuit of the thieves to retrieve his train, still without the knowledge of his girl's captivity by the Union army.Forgotten with the arrival of sound, the film revived - often cut up from its original length - in the 1950's because Buster didn't preserve his rights to the film and it fell into the public domain. That is the reason there are so many versions of The General out there today, often with poor video and hideous musical accompaniment.Today The General is considered one of the best silent feature length films, and one of the few silent films to not only be on DVD but to get the Blu Ray treatment too. SHERLOCK, JR. is clever. OUR HOSPITALITY is hilarious. The General is both of these things. It's story driven, races to a climax, and is fueled by cute, clever, inventive gags.Buster recycled these gags when he was a writer for MGM years later in "A Southern Yankee".


                
There are some truly wonderful scenes in this film, which is full of adventure, comedy, and some pretty impressive stuntwork on moving trains by Buster Keaton and the other actors. The premise is that Keaton, a train conductor, has volunteered to fight for the South at the outset of the Civil War, but been turned down. When his train is stolen by Union soldiers, he immediately gives chase, on foot, then a handcar, briefly a bicycle, and then finally another train, not knowing quite yet that his girlfriend (Marion Mack) was inadvertently also kidnapped.In one of the memorable early scenes, Keaton is sitting on the connecting rod of the locomotive, lost in thought, when it starts up, bobbing him up and down. In another, he packs a cannon on his train with a massive charge, and as its angle slowly descends before firing, it appears he's going to blow himself up, until his train at the last minute hits a curve and he nearly hits his intended target. It's just wonderful. There is also of course the scene with a Union train going out onto a burning bridge which then collapses, one of the most iconic (and expensive) scenes of the era.In addition to those "big" moments, there are also innumerable little things Keaton does which highlight his genius. He is just so lovable and talented. He uses one of the large railroad ties intended to derail him to knock another off the track, as his train is moving. When he's hiding under a table surrounded by Union officers, he's subtly kicked and jostled in funny ways. As he makes his escape with Mack, he stuffs her into a large sack that he had emptied of shoes, only to lose his own shoe in the process and struggle to locate it. I also thought I saw bits of Woody Allen in the scene where he urges her to be quiet, only to knock things over and make noise himself.Ambitious, awe-inspiring, influential, clever, and still funny 90+ years later. Is it the best ever? I don't know, I liked 'The Cameraman' (1928) even more, but still – damn good.


                
Outstanding performance by Buster Keaton. What a silent comedy! What a character is this train engineer! Beautiful! This action-adventure-comedy is smooth and light fight with trains. But obviously, those kind of trains of the first ones - those that work with firewood and a flexible 'driver'.Our main character, very tenacious, wants his love. He has his first one, the train, and now he wants Annabelle Lee. He does everything, from the beginning till the end to achieve her attention. An attention obtained because of an uniform. Yes, that is true, but only because those times were like that.But forget about that love - cheap kisses and looks - because in here the story is about these bloody trains and how they chase each other. Interestingly enough, for 1926 this 67 minutes are 'marvelous'! There is more text than The Kid (1921) or City Lights (1931), and even more comedy and captivation. Yes, it is true that is all about those trains, but the story goes on the rails with a linear perspective.


                
An endearing and consistently entertaining romp from Buster Keaton that flows seamlessly between exhilarating action, bonkers comedy and stunning on-location photography. As always, Keaton performs all his own stunts here and they never fail to impress and keep you riveted, without being overly dramatic while doing so. It was a flop when it came out back in the mid-20s, but has since been re-evaluated as one of the best silent comedies of all time, and rightly so. Of course, Keaton's deadpan style isn't going to be everyone's cup of tea, but The General uses every tool in the comic's arsenal and comes out shining as a result. Avoid public domain releases and seek out the restored Kino Lorber BluRay for the best possible experience.


                
In 1926, Buster Keaton had the opportunity to make the biggest film of his career. He chose to make the ultimate train movie – his comic masterpiece 'The General'.The narrative of The General has its basis in fact, with Keaton drawing inspiration from an incident during the Civil War that saw Union spies steal a locomotive and escape north with southern soldiers in hot pursuit. Although the real story ended in bloodshed, Keaton saw past that to find humor, action, romance and the opportunity for period reconstruction. In The General, a good-hearted train engineer Johnnie Gray (Keaton) runs afoul of a Yankee plot and is soon called into action when his beloved locomotive 'The General' is hijacked by spies with the girl of his dreams, Annabelle, on board. Johnnie pursuits it straight through enemy lines single-handedly, determined to win back his train, his girl, and his pride.Buster Keaton's films have such a graceful perfection, such an interlocking of story, character and episode that they unfold like music. But his genius has never found more perfect expression than in The General. The film boasts the most sustained passages of virtuoso slapstick genius Keaton ever shot, and an unflagging momentum. Dancing on a precipice, it achieves something close to perpetual motion. Requiring him to win back both a girl and a train (his two great loves), the plotting is choreographed with jaw-dropping skill and intricacy with jeopardy and stunts managed to split-second perfection. In these times when all risk is assumed by CGI effects, Keaton's squealing funny, exquisitely timed, death-defying leaps are all the more breathtaking, abundantly displaying his insouciant athleticism.While the jaw-plunging blend of physical dexterity, strength and bravery evident in Keaton's on screen performance is a constant marvel, the movie also throws light on Keaton's undervalued gifts as a filmmaker. The General is a master-class in comic direction, with Keaton's simple setups allowing him to find both big laughs and subtle, almost throwaway gags within the same frame. He also pulls off a series of remarkable tracking shots as he clambers across the moving train — the editing fluidly pulling us from one set-piece to the next.Even after almost a century, Keaton's hurtling 1926 comedy never fails to get a crowd cheering - even a lone viewer will find his or her heart soaring at the pure goodness of Keaton's hero. The General's peerless mixture of exciting action and kinetic comedy remain one of moviedom's supreme pleasures.


                
It was pretty good for an movie that at the time of its release was considered a flop. Buster Keaton's career reached its creative apex here, but since it fail, Keaton lost his independence as a film-maker. In later years, the movie gain such a cult following, that it became one of the best silent films of that era. Buster Keaton stars as Southern railroad engineer Johnny Gray during the Civil War. Not. He is a man with only two loves: the sweet Annabelle Lee (Marion Mack) and his trustworthy engine, the confederate train 'The General'. The film was made during the height of Southern Renaissance of 1920's, but the film can also be a bit disturbing when you think about it. With a name like Johnny Gray, his character represent the Southern every man, while his two loves interested represent the antebellum south. Let's remember, 1915's Birth of a Nation, was only filmed a decade earlier and the racism was at its height in 1920's. Keaton's best works are somewhat ruined by his patent endorsement of the racist conventions of the time when he isn't a racist. No wonder why this movie got mixed reviews at the time. Some people in the North, though it portray the South too heroically and made the North seem like the villains for trying to reunited the country. While people in the South, love the movie because of its historical romance about the "Lost Cause" of the Confederate States of America. This movie doesn't feed or show anything racism, but can make some viewers feel disturb in what the movie's message is trying to put out there. Anyways, the war office rejects him as he's too valuable as a trained engineer. His sweetie rejects him thinking he is a coward. Only when union soldiers stole his steal his engine, and inadvertently kidnap Annabelle to plans to use the train to supply its soldiers in a sneak attack against the Confederates does Johnny has the opportunity to prove his bravery. Buster Keaton is great in the role, as he was a fan of trains in real life. He nails the humor with inimitably deadpan takes. I would have love more facial expressions than sad stone-faced, but it wasn't needed. Marion Mack was spunky, and fun to have around in the adventure. I love the scene, where Johnny ask her to get more firewood for the train. The General is based on a real incident during the American Civil War when Andrew's Raiders, a posse of northern soldiers hijacked a confederate train and a lone southern engineer found himself fighting the lot of them alone. It became known as Great Locomotive Chase. Since this film is from the silent era, and most films had little or no record of the original music. There are only three scores that work for this film. The first one is music arranged and directed by Robert Israel. The second one is the Theatre organ score by Lee Erwin. In my opinion, the best one is the one composed by Carl Davis. I wish he could have done the same for all of Buster's films. Buster was one of the best, so he deserves the best! I think it fits, the epic scale and dramatic tone of the film. The film is more than a just a comedy and deserves more than just a comedy score. It's a matter of interpretation I guess. Besides, Carl Davis is one of the best silent film score composers and his work for Thames Silents was instrumental in the resurgance of interest in silent cinema. Since Buster did his own stunts; one of the most dangerous stunts happen when Johnny sits on one of the side rods, which connect the drivers of the locomotive. The train starts gently and gradually picks up speed as it enters a shed. The visual effect of the forlorn Buster as the motion of the side rod moves him gently up and down is very poignant. But in real life, it is nearly impossible for any engineer to start any train moving this precisely. If he had not accelerated by exactly the correct amount, the rods would have moved so fast as to send Buster flying, certainly injuring or killing him. Some people think this is the movie that the actor broke his neck in, no it was another movie Sherlock Holmes Jr. (1924) that it happen. Yes and he broke his neck in the film, without knowing it, doing an railroad scene. The water tower broke while he was standing underneath it. The water came out with such force, it broke Keaton's neck. He didn't even know it. It wasn't this film. This film does hold the most expensive scene in the history of silent movies. The famous scene in question is when a bridge collapses and the train Texas falls into a river. In 1956, the film entered the public domain due to the claimant's failure to renew its copyright registration so you can pretty much find this movie anywhere. There are two copies to know of. There is the original full length film at 105 minutes long very rare to find. Then there is the copy abridged around 80 minutes long. Some people have attempted to explain the difference is the speed as the cameraman's decision to run the reels faster or slower. I found out that in a side by side comparison, there are over 200 differences where I could find cuts in footage. So there has to be missing footage. I like the 80 minutes version more. The Allied Artist version has no score, so it's nearly unwatchable. The Kino version isn't that great as well. Depending on what version you get, you might have great restoration or really bad restoration. Overall: must watch.
I do not like silent movies, but this one held my attention from the beginning to the end. I was so preoccupied with it that I didn't even smoke one cigarette. Train chasing during the civil war in America, a comedy that deserves at least 7/10 at today's standards, and considering that this is a silent film from 1926...9/10


                
The General is the greatest silent movie ever made. While I am not a fan of silent movies, this one is an exception. The part that makes this film so great is Buster Keaton. He took a story that happened during the civil war and added humor to it. Keaton shows what life was like in the south, particually the conscription act of 1862; which is when Keaton tries to enlist but is told he is no use to the south. Then, Keaton's girlfriend refuss to talk to him until he is in uniform. When she is kidnapped, the locamotave chase begins as he sets out to find her, which is one of the funniest scenes in all of cinema. Keaton's gags and jokes make this movie enjoyabe, and I would recommend this movie over any other movie of the 1920's. I am proud to give this movie a 9/10.
I set out a couple of years back to see if I could watch everything on the top 250. There have been movies on the list I was very underwhelmed by, and there have been those I have loved. This is a movie that I would have never just watched had I not been going through the list, but it is now one of my favorite movies. I had seen a few couple of silent films before seeing this, mostly Charlie Chaplin, but this introduced me to Buster Keaton and it instantly made me want to go find as many of his old films as I could. While I liked a great many of them, The General still stands above them all. I have shown this movie to friends and family who have never watched silent films and, despite their reservations, they have all loved it. It takes a while for the movie to get going, but once it does the stunts are amazing considering Buster performed them all. Highly recommend.


                
THE GENERAL (United Artists, 1926), written and directed by Buster Keaton and Clyde Bruckman, is an acclaimed comedy masterpiece from the bygone silent era that is essentially a Civil War comedy, or, a comedy set during the Civil War reportedly based on the historic Andrews Raid. THE GENERAL isn't the military rank of Keaton's on screen character, but actually one of the two loves of his life: his locomotive called The General; and his girlfriend, Annabelle Lee (Marian Mack).In a prologue that begins in Marietta, Georgia, in the year 1861, Johnnie Gray (Buster Keaton) is a train engineer who finds time to court Annabelle Lee (Marian Mack). While at her home, her brother (Frank Barnes) barges in with the news that Fort Sumpter has been attacked, thus the start of the war between the states. Annabelle's brother rushes out to enlist into the Army. Expecting Johnnie to enlist for the Southern cause, Annabelle becomes disappointed with him when she is told by her brother that Johnnie didn't even bother to go on line, but in reality, has tried to enlist and was turned down for service because he is believed more valuable as a railway engineer. But poor Johnnie hasn't even been told of his rejection. Spurning him a coward, Annabelle breaks off her engagement with Johnnie. A year later, Captain Anderson (Glen Cavender), a Northern spy, makes plans on disguising himself as a Southern civilian, and, along with his followers, seize a Confederate locomotive to head North in order to destroy all communication lines along the right of way. The Union seize The General, and Annabelle, who happens to be at the wrong place at the wrong time. Being a witness to the abduction, the great chase begins when Johnnie pursues the enemy by taking another locomotive to rescue Annabelle, which takes him to enemy lines. After saving Annabelle and retrieving his own locomotive, the chase resumes in reverse when Johnnie finds himself being pursued by the enemy, later climaxed by a well staged gun battle with the Confederate Army by his side.What makes THE GENERAL so essentially remarkable is that it's a straight forward story based on fact, and listed among one of the greatest comedies of all time. Keaton takes actual occurrences and builds comic gags around it. While he and his co-star, Marian Mack, each play helpless individuals, both perform their roles seriously and succeed into making their characters both real and funny. Keaton's confused facial gestures are more than enough to make this a worthwhile ride of fun.THE GENERAL is full of memorable highlights, including Keaton's attempt to utilize a cannon to attack the enemy train ahead that slowly lowers itself into aiming directly at our hero; Keaton losing the use of his handcar and seizing a bicycle with a huge front wheel, and not going very far with it; and a tense moment where, while being pursued by the enemy, Keaton, who safely reaches the other side by riding his locomotive across a wooden bridge, gets off to set fire to it, with the fiercely Union general giving command to the train's engineer to proceed across the burning bridge, only to soon realize that it will not hold up under the crossing; among others. Reportedly filmed on location and not in a studio back-lot, THE GENERAL captures the period flavor from the Civil War era, providing laughter in what would not be common place for comedy.Also seen in the supporting cast are Charles Smith as Annabelle's father; James Farley as Captain Thatcher; Frank Hagney as the Recruiting Officer; and Joe Keaton as a Confederate Officer.THE GENERAL, hailed as Buster Keaton's personal favorite of all his movies, which was not critically acclaimed at the time of its release, became one of 13 selected feature films shown on public television's 1971 presentation of THE SILENT YEARS, hosted by Orson Welles, with a copy print from the Paul Killiam collection and piano score by William P. Perry. Over the years, THE GENERAL has stood the test of time, winning new viewers of appreciation to this now Keaton masterpiece. Later distributed on video cassette by various distributors (and later DVD), THE GENERAL can be seen in either in black and white or with color tints, different time lengths (the majority being at 76 minutes), and with different music tracks, ranging from organ to orchestra l scores. However, the best way to see and really appreciate this production is to locate an old 1980s Blackhawk Video copy the William P. Perry piano score, the print with the score that's sometimes presented on SILENT Sunday NIGHTS on Turner Classic Movies. (****)


                
For such an old film, even people who don't like silent films will find themselves laughing or saying "wow". Even though Buster Keaton was his own stunt double in all of his roles, it is his role as Johnnie Gray in "The General" that stands out as one of his most daring acts.Stunts took another level in this film. The train itself, which was already way out of it's time, was risky even then. The controls, shifts, and gears were already much more complex than trains of the time, making it much harder to use and easier to screw up. However, Keaton manages not only to control the train, but ward off Union soldiers with cannons and scramble from car to car in a physically comedic sense that keeps people both laughing and on edge.I couldn't leave a review of this movie without describing my two favorite scenes out of it. First, I absolutely love the scene where Keaton must clear the way for "The General" and is forced to stand against the cow catcher with a massive wooden railroad beam. It takes great balance and strength to be able to hold the weight of the beam and maintain that position, especially when he uses the beam to knock another out of the way. Amazing!The other and most famous scene is the burning and collapse of the bridge. This scene was taken in one shot and one shot only. There was no second bridge. There was no second General. There was no fixable set. During the creation of this scene, Keaton is quoted saying he would either get this perfect or he would die with the burning train. If that's not a great rendition of a Confederate soldier, sue me. In the end, it was perfect!Overall, a great movie for all ages!
'The General', starring Buster Keaton who also co-wrote and co- directed the film, is a hilarious comedy, which is often more subtle and deadpan than you might expect from one of its age. This comedy classic, often considered Buster Keaton's greatest film, has aged exceptionally well, and I found myself laughing more than I often do during modern-day comedies. Keaton himself is brilliant at physical comedy, and deserves credit for his stunt-work on the film alone (he often performed stunts for other actors as well as his own). In addition to excelling as a comedy, the film also functions well as a wartime action film which is gripping throughout and rarely has a dull moment; both the camera-work and practical effects are stunning to this day.I saw the film with a live piano accompaniment, which made for a fantastic experience, and one which was much closer to what it would have been like watching the film at the time, as opposed to watching it with a synchronized soundtrack on a DVD.In summary, the general is a must-see for fans of comedy and action alike, with inspired gags and brilliant central performances.


                
This has to be my favourite Buster Keaton movie, and it is a great introduction to both silent films and BK films. The comedy is a common thread throughout, and action, romance, adventure (and probably patriotism for the Americans of the time) all branch out of it.The runtime is longer than other BK movies but I think it can actually be divided into two, where the shorter second half is the part after he returns to warn the townspeople of the enemy and the war scene. However, in movies of this kind, there is always a plan to show the poor and battered hero's luck turn for the better and without this, there wouldn't be an opportunity.If you think about it, nearly ALL movies of today that have an underdog protagonist theme can be said to follow the template of this movie. I am not claiming this was the first one of the kind, but I am sure it comes close.


                
This film is the story of a Southern train engineer during the American Civil war. It stars Buster Keaton as Johnny Grey and Marion Mack as his love interest, Annabelle Lee. Johnny has a beloved train, named the General, which was stolen from him during a plot by the Union Army. Johnny follows in pursuit to save both it and the woman he loves (who was aboard when the train was stolen). The movie follows his gallant effort to save his beau while foiling a secret Union plot to attack the Confederates.The General was rated the #18 most influential movie in American movie history by the American Film Institute because Keaton described it as his best work. He said this was so because he had complete control over all aspects of the making of the film with no figure head bosses looming over him or even distracting him. He was given a giant budget and a bunch of time then told to simply make a good movie. A very open format to display the genius of Keaton and it shows.Keaton did all of his own stunts in this movie and he should have died many times over during the filming. He was basically the Jackie Chan of his time.The movie is silent and b/w with some slow moments, but it is only 78 minutes long with a pleasant score in the background. A very easy watch.Keep an eye out for a ride on the side-rail, a bear, and one of the most amazing train crashes to ever be put on film.
This film should have a required viewing for film study classes! It is a landmark in film! It has great cinematography for one thing! The way this was filmed it allowed you to watch the film from buster Keaton's point of view! Also when it was day the film had a bronze tint to it but when it was night it had a purplish tint to it! I thought this was an interesting idea! you could tell that some modern day directors were influenced by this classic! It was a bit hard to follow the plot in certain points but it still was a good film! I feel that this is a classic piece of cinema history and film buffs that are interested in the history of film should view this one! It is not a comedy like some of Buster Keatons other films though. It is more of a drama film with some slapstick moments.


                
Truth be told, I'm more a Charlie Chaplin man than an acolyte of his famed slapstick counterpart Buster Keaton. But while The Tramp has an innocent naivety that can be admired, and a pathos that make his movies accessible to this day, Keaton has Chaplin beat when it comes to sheer physicality. The man was an unstoppable force; able to take collapsing debris, speeding trains and harsh pratfalls with the same stone face that has become his trademark. Even the most modernistic of viewers watching some of Keaton's famed set pieces will scratch their heads and wonder how a single man can do so much talented stunt work and live to the ripe old age of seventy.Buster Keaton plays Johnnie a locomotive engineer eager to fight for the south in the Civil War but can't because of his important job tending to The General, his beloved steam-engine. But when Union spies steal it to disrupt Southern train-lines, its up to dear old Johnnie to bring it back. He also must rescue his sweet Annabelle Lee (Mack) who has wondered into the mix and is abruptly kidnapped. It's a simple story that requires little setup or explanation but does require enough stunt work to make Jackie Chan think twice.Just like in Steamboat Bill Jr. (1928) and Sherlock Jr. (1924), Buster Keaton shows absolute fearlessness in the face of overwhelming odds both in the story and in front of a camera that doesn't give him a break. The camera-work is elaborate even by today's standards. Imagine what the audiences at the time were thinking when they first saw Keaton fearlessly hanging on to the front of a train grill, trying desperately to remove all obstacles in The General's way. At the time, The General was the most expensive film ever created, showcasing an exquisite burning bridge finale so astonishing that when it was shot the screech of the locomotive's boiler could have been heard for miles.If any beef is to be made with The General it's its run time. Don't get me wrong, 107 minutes goes by pretty swiftly when you're already a convert to the Order of Keaton and have accustomed yourself to silent movies in general. Yet for those watching Keaton's oeuvre for an Appreciation of Cinema class, The General may not be your best introduction to the clown prince of silent comedy and what was arguably the most experimental decades in the art of film.Only twenty-eight years prior to The General, the Lumiere Brothers showcased Train Arriving at Bombay Station (1898) one of the first films ever created. At the time, the camera's position adjacent to the station platform was enough to panic crowds who thought the train was going to burst through the screen and run them over. When 1926 came around, I doubt a single soul would be flinching at Bombay Station. The General on the other hand aptly creates the same kind of tension through masterful storytelling, brilliant stunt work and "real" special effects. Today, these techniques inform and elevate the film to the point of timelessness giving the viewer a strong sense of excitement while simultaneously filling the room with guffaws and laughter. Today we still view The General as a silent masterpiece; one of the few of its time. If there's a single silent film you should watch in this lifetime it would and should be The General.


                
Your film journey will not be complete until you've seen a Buster Keaton comedy. The Great Stoneface was---along with Gene Kelly and Bruce Lee---one of the best athletes in the history of the movies. He was a daring stuntman who would perform his own stunts AND those of other cast members. In The General (as in so many of his great silent comedies), Keaton was the auteur who wrote, directed, produced, edited and starred as Johnnie Gray. He probably served lunch and pulled focus too.The General is the story of a man and his train...and to a lesser extent, a man and his woman. When Annabelle (Marion Mack) rejects Johnnie for not being in the Confederate Army (which is only because they tell him he's too valuable as an engineer), he goes back to his first love. Along the way, he gets caught up the Civil War anyway and does what he can to thwart the North on a critical set of railroad tracks. Hilarity frequently ensues.The movie does have some ethical problems. When Annabelle ends up on Johnnie's train, they DO make a good team, but that doesn't stop him from getting abusive with her. He practically throttles her. Plus, the movie asks us to side not only with the South during the Civil War, but with the losing side. I don't back losers! You're lucky your calm resourcefulness is so charming and likable, Buster.The General is almost a Die Hard movie where one ordinary outnumbered man battles an irresistible force and he just keeps surviving. Better yet, Keaton comes up with some of the best physical comedy of all time, performing some of the greatest stunts you'll ever see on a moving train. Those must be at least 2 reasons the American Film Institute placed it 18th on their 2007 Top 100 list after not ranking it at all in 1998. They were onto something in '07. The General overcomes any criticisms. It's dynamite!If you dug this snapshot review, check out the website I share with my wife (www.top100project.com) and go to the "Podcasts" section for our 25-minute General 'cast...and many others. Or find us on Itunes under "The Top 100 Project".


                
He was an absolute master at precise comedic timing,and there is simply no one in the history of American film making that worked harder at making sure his audience was entertained.When the American Film Institute places a film amongst the best ever made,I don't always agree,but I whole heartedly agree with their placement of this film at # 18 in 2007.It doesn't just have laughs.There is edge of your seat thrills as well.Buster Keaton not only knew how to give his best,but he knew how to get the best from his fellow performers under his creative control,which was sadly taken from him due to foolish decision making by the movie studio based on the poor box office numbers from this film.Keaton got the last laugh in the end,proving that,over time,that numbers aren't everything.Great film.


                
Nowadays, when one encounters some film scholars' opinions on this film, the majority occur highly enthusiastic. "An engaging story that combines edge-of-your-seat excitement, stunning conceived stunts and sight gags, spectacular set pieces, touching sentiment, and a rousing finale" (Steven D. Greydanus); "imaginative masterpiece" (Tim Dirks); a production where "one inspiration builds into another;" (Roger Ebert). Yes, the "Great Stone Face," the nickname that Buster Keaton was known under, still proves that his occupation was truly a comedian and an acrobat of exceptional talent.However, before Roger Ebert stated memorably "We don't laugh at Keaton, but identify with him," Keaton's great achievement had gone through true storms of doubts and irritations where both film scholars and the audiences were undergoing a 'catharsis of perception growths.' The infantile "Love, Locomotives and Laughs" (posters); the unjust "flop" (Variety); bizarre opinion of "fun is not exactly plentiful" (New York Times); aimless "neither straight comedy nor an altogether thrilling drama" (The Los Angeles Times), similarly to the story's hero Johnny Gray (Buster Keaton), needed a harsh test of getting ready to 'be lined' among the worthy ones...productions deserving the label 'classic.' But before I outline some facts about the movie, let me highlight one important reason for the above, the period the movie was filmed in.Although THE GENERAL is now considered one of the best films ever made (arguably the best film by Buster Keaton and the best silent comedy), it is not freed from the very period it was shot in. That is the whole background that does not work so powerfully elsewhere as here. The silent era not only saw its decline in the later 1920s but also achieved a very specific point of cinema's progress. The films combined various elements to amuse and entertain its audiences from the great love stories (and love idols, of course) on screen to action. Where did this action get a better shape if not in A RACE, A CHASE. Yes, the pioneer of that racing tension appeared to be Fred Niblo's BEN HUR, the most colossal silent movie of the time; however, the most authentic, appealing and absorbing for Americans appeared to be, at the time,...train chase. That is what we find in THE GENERAL in an outstanding manner (as Tim Dirks observes that Keaton's production is "undoubtedly the best train film ever made").Based on a story THE GREAT LOCOMOTIVE CHASE by William Pittenger, the movie shows the times of Civil War from an absolutely different perspective deprived of great drama but supplied with challenging adventure (Greydanus observes that as an "authentic period feel"). In that historical context as well as cinematic challenge, Keaton's film depicts the two train chases (the title General and Texas). Keaton and Bruckman take creative liberties with the literary source as well as people's imagination about the Civil War. The true focus of the movie is its hero, a Southern railway engineer (unlike the character in the book, which makes for the 'united' perception of American nation) who has "only two loves in his life" - the engine and the southern belle Annabelle Lee (Marion Mack). Once he is deprived of these two loves (when, actually, the symbolic union and harmony are in jeopardy), he is determined to recapture them. In the most unpredictable, creative, desperate, stunning moments with tension and comic reliefs, viewers experience the greatest adventures of the silent era. How can it be that love may ever be conquered in, most presumably, the happy ending for our hero and his 'heroines'? Tim Dirks points out that "THE GENERAL displays marvelous technical and structural perfection, playful comic inventiveness and realistic romance" as well as "fluid athleticism on the part of Keaton." Perhaps, those features are noticeable in more of his comedies but hardly is there any other of his films where they go in pairs so effectively and memorably as here. From the very first moments when Johnny visits his beloved Annabelle and the Fort Sumter tidings interrupt the peaceful and silent future visions to the climactic river gorge sequence, the viewer is involved in a symphony of emotions. Sometimes, Keaton shocks us with his "composure in the center of chaos" (Roger Ebert), sometimes, he provides sentimental feelings as a character who is truly in love, sometimes, he makes us laugh in the most ingenious manner with no 'out-of-date' ingredient resulting in laughable reactions.While the most spectacular sequence is the climactic end of chase with Texas falling into the gorge, the funniest sequence appears to be the 'hiding under the table' among the Northerners (where Annabelle is kept as 'a hostage'). Not only is it marked by the creative idea of an iris shot preferred by master of early spectacles D.W. Griffith (Roger Ebert nicely observes that aspect in his review) but also the emotional element of the whole sequence. It draws right parallels between the character's desperate situation and the viewers' comic reliefs (reliefs from tension, not drama).The final note must be made of the brilliant new music score by Robert Israel, Joe Hisaishi and their crew so finely incorporated into the scenes. That score made a tremendous impression on me when I was lucky to see it on the big screen recently.Keaton's supreme silent adventure and comic achievement stands out as a gem of cinema. With reference to Roger Ebert's words, THE GENERAL, like Buster Keaton, appears like a silent visitor to modern expectations of viewers and still holds power to amuse and entertain them in the most unpredictable manner.


                
Generally speaking, guys like Buster Keaton don't exist anymore - and that's a sad thing. Nowadays comedies mostly rely on in-your-face humor and/or are satisfied with representing an unoriginal copy of what worked somewhere else or when someone else did it. Sit-coms repeat the same formula again and again until even the fans doubt why they are still tuning in. Back in the 1930s however Keaton was one of a kind: Director, writer, actor, stunt man, comedian in personal union, Keaton's masterpiece is "The General". A box office disaster, this silent epic was nevertheless his favorite, and deserves the respect it now gets.Buster Keaton's forte is that he plays his characters understated, subtle, as everyday men, who are determined however to pursue a personal goal. And of course our hero engineer Johnny Gray and his locomotive get more and more dragged into a maelstrom of events, where the actions he feels he has to do for his own good resonate far and wide, playing a major role in the American Civil War. "The General" is a slapstick feast, its scenes perfectly timed, all the way action packed, sometimes dangerously so - e.g. when Keaton is famously sitting on one of the coupling rods with the train moving, or when he ingeniously gets rid of obstacles in front of the track while moving towards them. The master of course does his own stunts, even doubled for other characters. Well, Keaton sure doesn't talk much, but as far as comedy is concerned this little stone-face guy is truly king.


                
First time of seeing on 22nd Feb 1979 The General with an organ soundtrack ran pretty ordinary, good but not really outstanding to me. Then I taped the Brownlow & Gill cleaned up version off UK Channel 4 on 7th Oct 1987 with Carl Davis's clever orchestral music and there was no looking back. Suddenly it was Art, the 3rd best silent film I'd ever seen, behind City Lights and Broken Blossoms. It's wonderful what some TLC can do - no wonder this can now be seen as one of the best films ever made, is in the AFI's list and the Thames version is readily available on DVD.The story moves fluently on the lines between the Confederate and Union lines, with the ballet-like machinations of the opposing sides a wonder to watch. Keaton's comic inventiveness in this doesn't let up for a minute, chasing the Yankee's and later being chased back by them, playing about with great or titchy blocks of wood or violent water towers or errant bayonets. Keaton was accused in the press at the time of bad taste when the Union sniper got the bayonet in his back - how times have changed!An absolute classic for all reasonably normal people, if you don't like it you can't like silent movies but must like wasting your time.


                
Buster Keaton stars in this classic silent film, which he also helped write and direct, as Johnny Gray, engineer on the General, a train that runs the railroad throughout the South. When the Civil War moves into his territory, Johnny wishes to enlist along with his main squeeze's father and brother. However finds he cannot because they consider him more valuable to the South as an engineer aboard his train. Eventually, when Union soldiers, disguised as Confederates steal his General, Johnny takes off in pursuit after them and soon finds himself one man against an army of Union soldiers! With Buster Keaton involved in a silent era film, you know it's more than likely going to deliver the laughs and this does aplenty. Never does it fail to amuse even when it's slowly building up to its next big laugh. Plus this also has thrills, excitement, romance, and all the elements you could ever want in any action thriller all with a lead whose so funny and ingeniously entertaining that it's hard to take one's eyes off of him even when he's just sitting around doing nothing. His expressions and body language insure we always have a good idea of what's going through his mind and his heart at practically all times making this arguably one of the best films ever made.


                
According to the AFI 100 years, 100 comedies THE GENERAL is Buster greatest film. Taking place during the American Civil War, the General stars Buster Keaton as a little man who wants to be a Confederate soldier. Ironic for its time, I'm shocked that Buster made the hero character a southern confederate soldier and not a union soldier. While it must have been taken in good terms with the southern audience at its time ( along with Birth of a Nation ) I wonder how audiences in the North felt about Buster's film? Still, this is not a movie about war, it is a comedy about the little guy (Keaton) and his train. Like most of Chaplin films, he is the victim in an imperfect world. The comedy is found in Keaton's actions. This is his best comedy.


                
