After the infamous threesome left the show they brought on an overdose of new presenters with Chris Evans as the front-man, Matt LeBlanc, an old man and a German girl and two other guys. It became clear pretty quickly that this wasn't working, Evans did not have the strength as a presenter to be the leader like Clarkson did. Thankfully he left the show after his first season, along with the old man and the German girl. Starting season 24 we are left with Matt, Andy and Chris. Surely they don't have the chemistry that we got used to from the former Top Gear presenters, at least not yet. We have to remember it took time for Clarkson, Hammond and May as well and I think with these three guys there is some potential and we need to give them at least two seasons to really get used to each other. As a side-note, Matt LeBlanc will always be Joey for a lot of people (including me) and this could really help him if he embraces it. Joey was a very lovable character and it seems like some of that character has become real in Matt, whenever there is humor in the show you can see the Joey in him coming out. Writing this review after watching the first two episodes of season 24 which were really entertaining, the first episode with the high mileage cars and the second episode with the Porsche against the Lambo, imagine those episodes with a threesome who are totally in sync and have great chemistry as the former three had, in time I can see this with the current three. In the end, this is still a great car show and we should stop comparing presenters. The old presenters have their own show now and we got another car show to watch, a win win situation if you ask me.


                
What makes this show so great is these things: One, the filming is excellent, and the musical accompaniment and camera-work deserves it's own rewards. Two, the hosts have amusing and interesting characters themselves which are used to a certain level of hilarity when collided over an issue. Three, the show is quite entertaining.The show features news about cars, car races on a time lap circuit, and experiments and challenges which are both amusing and entertaining. Humour is a big part of the show as well as non stop action and excitement which keeps it's hour run full of enjoyment. Certainly the best show of it's genre. Even if you don't like cars you'll find it entertaining, and some of the challenges are excellent entertainment.The racing on the lap circuit is interesting, each 'celebrity' driver has his own style, and the jokes and humour in the show are good. Overall it is quite entertaining and deserves it's long run.
