This film uses every cliché in the book starting with the liberal minded white person who is the voice of conscience and the long suffering good hearted but somewhat simplistic black people.This film is emotionally manipulative and panders to a sentimental reduction of complex history. Its moves were predictable and uses every trick in the book, even the scene in the church is cliché. Both the white and the black characters are mostly reductive caricatures out of some story book world which doesn't do justice to the historical complexity of such situations. Why would you want to make a saccharine comic book out of profound historical situations-- other than to pander to audiences longing for a feel good experience for the sake of box office. I actually don't mean to disrespect to people who like it, and I don't want to attack the actors. They didn't write the film, but at the same time, I can't believe that so many people fell for this bag of tricks. Still, a bigger problem and disservice a movie like this does to our culture is that such bad history and simplistic human portrayals turns race dynamics into good guy bad guy stories which we can watch with a complacent feeling of how much better we are than those bad old days. Such complacency leads to a historical ignorance that retards honest critique and real progress. This movie would be better if it just didn't pretend to be about something. Let it be some sappy comic book. That wouldn't be the worse thing in the world. At least it would be more honest.


                
For people who've never seen a movie depicting the civil rights movement, this would not be a good place to start. If you watched it and found it 'entertaining', then shame on you. Making up a story about this time to entertain and manipulate for profit is pretty despicable in my view, and I'm afraid I'm incredibly disappointed that this film seems to be getting positive reviews on here.If you lack education and a general sense of right and wrong - this is the film for you. There are so many important great works in film and in literature on the era and topic. How did this get made? It's also racist in and of itself in its depiction of black people and the white people are so disgusting and caricatures of evil. It's entertaining only if you are almost completely ignorant of that period of time - for the rest of us it's just offensive. It's also got that well worn trope of the black women helping a white woman to succeed / act as an apologist for (here's the spoiler) her taking off to NY in her big successful career while one happily continues to be beaten by her husband and the other loses her job.100 thumbs down.P.S. I'm not alone: "The Association of Black Women Historians finds it unacceptable for either this book or this film to strip black women's lives of historical accuracy for the sake of entertainment." Yes!
I hate this movie. I hate everything about it. As a college educated, married, faithful Black Man in America I am here to say I'm slave tired of these "step n' fetch it" roles. These are the kind of depictions that Hollywood and white America seems to LOVE to see my sons and daughters emulate. But a film like The Great Debaters gets virtually ignored. Oh I get it... I'm just tired of it.The FACT that Black people are - mired in the abyss - of abject poverty, disproportionate incarceration and homicide rates, drug addiction, lack of education and inadequate housing is not fictional entertainment - but REALITY. I understand Black America is not a monolith, but the socioeconomic and sociocultural status of the Black America I speak of is in real trouble. Viola Davis is a fantastic actor but her talent is wasted in The Help. Black Americans need STRONGER and MORE POWERFUL and PROGRESSIVE IMAGES IN FILM!! Hello... The Mammy character is dead. The Uncle Tom character is dead... or should be. Let's move forward.I'm not sure what Black America you THINK you know, but the Black America I know is one of profound sadness. This is 2012! Not 1960! Have you ever spent anytime at all in an inner city ghetto? Have you ever seen project tenements in Kansas City, MO, Memphis, TN or Atlanta, GA? You've been BAMBOOZLED (a movie that should have won an Oscar) into thinking that all Black Americans are well educated and financially secure. Most Black people aren't lawyers, musicians, rappers or professional athletes. Black men are in fact more likely to be in prison than in college. Why is that?One of my greatest wishes is for gifted and talented Black actors, directors and producers to pool their intellectual and financial resources, devising ways to create better images and stories for the Black community instead of feeding into a racist Hollywood that does not (and has NEVER) had our best interests at heart. Be honest with yourself... Hollywood and their corporate sponsors could give a rats ass about the Black community, but they don't mind striping our daughters naked.Doesn't anyone else see a problem when the only way Black Actors can become so-called "successful" - is when they either sell out in an interracial relationship, have sex with Billy Bob Thornton on screen or sell degrading images of their people as being pimps, drug dealers, whores, gangsters, buffoons and ...maids?If you have any shred of self-respect you will stay away from not only this movie The Help, but every movie like it. Rent and/or buy Bamboozled and The Great Debaters instead. You'll feel better.


                
This is like one of those afternoon made for TV "life affirming" dramas. Full of sugar, whimsy and wholesomeness but totally lacking in truth and bite. Ugh! The performances are almost uniformly two dimensional - even Allison Janney opted for cartoon like characterisation. The period detail is sometimes accurate but occasionally glaringly inaccurate. For example no girl in the early 60s would have worn her hair in Emma Stone's hopelessly anachronistic style. I blame Tate Taylor who was credited with the screenplay and direction. Apparently Taylor was born in Jackson and is a close friend of Kathryn Stockett. Can this really be how Ms Stockett wished her novel to be brought to the screen? But there again I haven't read the novel. Could it be full of the same yukky apple pie philosophy?


                
What a horrible movie. Everything so new and clean. Mississippi and the south and the north weren't that clean. Freshly painted buses for the maids to be taken to the white folks? Cars with no dirt on them? Dresses of the rich folk and the po' with no wrinkles? Oh, come on.What is it with Skeeter's hair? It appears to be curly from the 2000's...not realistic....when was that curly hideous hairstyle popular? We had no maids in the 50's and 60's, so I can't comment on their treatment by the white folk. I'm sure they must have put them down.A job is a job, unfortunately, whether it is working as a maid for a white family or a slob in a factory. You suck up to the bossman or bosslady. Of course it is demeaning, but it is that for everyone.A very hard movie to make it through...just too fake.


                
It seems the cultural Marxists never tire of fanning the dying embers of the "Civil Rights" movement because it can always be relied upon to burst into flame, warming the hearts of a credulous American public. Whenever the Left encounters massive public skepticism regarding the benefits of whatever the liberal cause du jour may be, they can always depend on striking a sympathetic chord with mainstream conservatives and leftists alike by dusting off yet another reminiscence about the bad old days of segregation to remind us of how righteous liberals are.Unpleasant memories like the Bolshevik Revolution, Mao's Cultural Revolution, Pol Pot's Cambodia, the Vendee, and the gulags fade into nothingness when those evergreen images of police dogs and fire hoses flicker on the screen. The civil rights movement is the radical egalitarian movement too good to be forsaken. Its memory must be kept front and center, and on life support forever.The Help is the movie industry's latest contribution to this endless enterprise. It gives moviegoers a heaping helping of all of the bromides and stereotypes we've come to expect from a Hollywood production depicting the benighted South before the triumph of liberalism – stoic, long-suffering Blacks imbued with both homespun wisdom and impeccable moral rectitude. They never lose their tempers or lapse into profanity. They are the match to any and all circumstances they encounter, especially all impediments clumsily or maliciously thrown in their path by racist whites.White Americans have now incorporated self-hatred, induced by the entertainment industry to such an extent that they can be predictably relied upon to cheer at depictions of their own downfall and degradation. The most realistic portrayal of the film is the non-WASP, blue state 'progressive' who rewards an ambitious Southerner for publicly selling out her own kind. Skeeter can now take her rightful place in the pantheon of civil rights movement heroes by moving to New York City to pursue her feminist dream career as a writer, and shaking the simpleton dust of flyover country off her shoes once and for all. All of this is woven into a background pastiche of civil rights movements events like the Medgar Evers murder to show us just how brave and heroic both Skeeter and her coterie of Black maids are, and to remind us about why Hollywood bothered to make this movie in the first place.


                
I thought that this movie was supposed to be set in the American South in the 1960s. But really it seems to be set in an alternate universe where nothing makes any sense. How is it that the protagonist has grown up in the same society as all the other (racist) women, yet has a completely modern, 21st century viewpoint? Things just don't work that way.Racism in the movie was portrayed as a pervasive but ultimately trivial issue. The movie reduced racism to the petty meanness of society ladies, largely skirting issues such as sexual harassment and mob violence. We have one scene of police brutality and another scene with a vague reference to a shooting, but these events seem to come out of nowhere and vanish without a trace afterward. What happens to the woman who is arrested, after the arrest? We never find out.Another thing that bothered me about this movie was how the black women are portrayed as largely feeble and helpless until the white women ("Skeeter" and Celia, in particular) teach them to stand up for themselves. This was partly due to the fact that the movie was, first and foremost, about Eugenia's coming-of-age experience and not about "the help" at all. But still, it was dissatisfying.In addition to these issues, the characterization was rather poor and the cinematography was nothing special.I wish I were more well-versed in history, so I really lay into this movie properly. But even as my uninformed self, I could tell that there were many things wrong with this movie. Not recommended.


                
All the actresses in this movie have no self respect ... it's a movie that does it's best to make whites especially white girls . example without giving anything away a crime was done & a mom started to laugh her butt off at the daughter while the crime was being committed ... it's real sad when u treat a person as a superior during a movie cause they have it bad instead of treating that person & race as equals & without disrespecting your own race. surely if the same thing was done in a movie that had nothing to do with the past ...... it would leave a bad taste in that races mouth ( no pun intended ) but lets not worry about it cause society owes them for the past . why does society owes anyone anything period cause of there past makes no sense the past is the past people shouldn't go again there own race cause of the past or present by making fools of themselves in movies so that they can prove they like the other race ... no one should be liked nor hated cause of race but this movie shows otherwise .


                
This movie stinks. The story line is awful It is boring has hell. It got 8.1 because well I don't know. I suppose people who like this movie have reason to like this movie. But I could not tell you. There are good actors in this movie. I will say that. They wasted there talent being in this awful movie. I give this movie 1 out of 10. It is no 8.1. Do not wast your time. Do not wast your money. Do not see this terrible movie. This movie is very badly written. It is a very boring movie. Do not see it. It is just pooh pooh. There is a part were some eats pooh pooh. So that is proof that this movie is pooh pooh. It is pooh pooh from real life so it got go to the Oscars.


                
