'The Help' is a well-meaning attempt to educate the film going public about the civil rights era in the deep South through the perspective of the relationship between black maids and their white female employers.  Author Kathryn Stockett, who wrote the book on which the film is based, does well in reminding us that the black 'help' not only had to endure the threat of violence as a result of the encroaching backlash from white racists upset over a new black militancy in southern communities, but also had to deal with a multiplicity of indignities on the drab domestic front, including being forced to use separate bathrooms in the homes of their white female employers.  Not only does Hilly Holbrook (the film's principal 'villain') enforce this rule in her own home and influences her immediate neighbors to follow suit, but lobbies local politicians in order to have her racist initiative be codified into law.While Hilly may be a tad bit melodramatic as Stockett's 'Cruella de Vil', she is undoubtedly the most compelling character in the entire film. Stockett also does well with Elizabeth Leefolt, Aibileen's racist employer, who is perhaps more repulsive than Hilly, in that she does not have the self-awareness to realize that she is an incompetent mother. Occasionally, Stockett even suggests that some of oppressed maids may not have all their moral compasses in order. In perhaps one of the most interesting scenes in the film (due to the ambiguity), one of the maids is roughly pulled off a bus and arrested by seemingly racist, redneck policeman. I could hear the indignant sounds of the audience suddenly go quiet, when it's revealed that the maid arrested was the one who pilfered a diamond ring that had fallen behind a cabinet in the home of one of the white employers.Despite Stockett's noble attempt to relate the atmosphere of institutional racism so prevalent in the south during early 1960s, her main character, Skeeter, feels wholly anachronistic. It's as if Stockett projected her own modern day sensibility on to Skeeter and asks us to believe that such a character would have existed at that time. If there were progressive minded white liberals participating in the civil rights movement in the early 60s, usually they came from the north and were often met with outright violence. To have such a progressive minded white female from the south take up the cause of the oppressed black 'help', let alone create a book based on interviews with such women, is simply wish fulfillment on the part of the author. Stockett is obviously trying to mitigate some of her own guilt by creating the illusory, "feel-good" character of Skeeter. No book like "The Help" ever appeared in the early 60s and it would have never been published at that time.There's another reason why 'The Help' makes little sense. Why would "The Help" ever agree to Skeeter's plan? They certainly receive little financial compensation for their efforts and in the end, they're only setting themselves up for retaliation. A character in a book might take some satisfaction in mouthing off against an employer who subjects them to racist humiliation, but in the real world (and especially in the 60s deep South), one doesn't 'talk back', unless one wants to lose their sole source of support. Of course there were individual black women who worked as maids who could have 'talked back' and lost their jobs, but to suggest such a large group of women agreed to interviews en masse, is another one of Stockett's 'feel-good' conceits! While all those juicy interviews Stockett collected from the 'Help' may have worked in the book, the stories come off as dry recitations in the film. We don't actually experience the maids' stories visually—they are merely communicated to Skeeter during the interviews. Obviously, flashbacks wouldn't have worked during the interview scenes since there were too many of them. Stockett's other big problem with the 'Help' is that she's forced to place her main 'Help' characters on a pedestal. Yes Aibileen and Minny ARE victims but can they do no wrong? It may have been a more interesting story if "The Help" were REALLY told from their perspective. Stockett unfortunately is unable to make the Help's world come alive—do they actually have a back story? (the best we get is an allusion to Minny's "abusive" husband who never appears on screen). Or is everything defined by their relationship to the white world?Stockett resorts to melodramatic form, by offering up storytelling akin to a decidedly unsubtle 'quid pro quo.' You have your evil Hilly and then you need to counter it with the ditsy but kind Cecelia Foote, another unbelievable character designed to prove that whites weren't all that bad during the era. Even Charlotte, Skeeter's mother, must be subject to Stockett's quid pro quo treatment (Charlotte channels Hilly when she banishes beloved family maid Constantin in order to appease her racist club members but then sticks up for Skeeter when Hilly tries to blackmail her daughter).Worst of all are Stockett's male characters who are practically non-existent in the film. I didn't buy for one second that Skeeter would have actually been attracted to the boyfriend and gone out with him for a time. Wouldn't she have clarified from the beginning that he was a racist and had nothing to do with him? For those who are interested in getting a better picture of black life during the civil rights era, can I recommend the classic 1964 picture, 'Nothing But a Man'? 'The Help' only seems to suggest that white people deserve more credit than they really should receive for aiding black people in their quest for social equality and justice.
This is a hard film to adequately review, because so much is right with it, yet at the same time so much is wrong. Or if not "wrong," at least there are some major tones that simply did not work for me.The cast is spectacular. Emma Stone is not just adorable, but a skilled and marvelous actor. You don't need me to remark that she has a stellar career ahead of her. The rest of the cast includes some of those great character actors you see in the better films, but can't quite remember where you've seen them before. but that's a plus for a character actor, as their appearances, therefore, always seems fresh.It feels very awkward for me to mention the tone that felt wrong. The abuse and inhumane treatment endured by black people 50 years ago is hard to watch today. The pain inflicted, and the behavior of the oppressors can only be called an "evil" situation. One hopes that evolution has done its work, and social justice prevails today. If not perfectly, then at least to a tolerable degree.But that is part of the problem, to me. This film seems to merely recycle old tropes of injustice. It seems to be, as one of my professors used to call it, a "pot stirrer." Lots of agitation and angst and shame and sympathy just for the sake of chaos--- but here it doesn't seem to be authentic. It certainly doesn't seem to go anywhere. It's almost as if the writer has taken an easy issue guaranteed to provoke outrage and anger, rather than doing the authentic, and difficult, artistic work necessary to invoke compassion and healing. This film might be, to be blunt, merely counterfeit social justice. It might be a brazen attempt to "push buttons" for undeserved sympathy. I sincerely hope I am mistaken, and overly unkind.Granted, that's a subtle point. But that's also why I found the theme of the film a bit objectionable- it seemed as if the filmmakers were taking advantage of most people's natural and gut-level decency to elicit an audience response on a tabloid level.Further, who would DARE to criticize this film? It's almost as if it were "criticism proof." Therefore unsound dramatic treatments will go by without comment. Given that I think that was done deliberately, even if somewhat unconsciously, this movie takes an honorable and lofty struggle for which many people suffered and even died, and shamelessly exploits that to make a few bucks at the box office. Think about it- what insights or "new" themes were introduced here? I'd say none. It may be an example of what Plato called "pandering," going for the cheap points via a stimulus-response fest.I hope I am wrong- I hope it is really just a matter of me not responding to this particular cinematic venture. If I am even partly right, however, it bodes ill for our modern shallow and thoughtless "junk media" environment.


                
The question that kept irking at me while watching this in the year 2011? This reminds me of one of those old blaxploitation films gone "chick" flick, or maybe a second rate version of "Steel Magnolias" with a Jim Crow law plot thrown in. The main problem I have with "The Help" is that it lacks the courage it needs to tackle these race relation issues.The movie actually starts off well and sets to be a tragic telling with some historical value. However in trying to appeal to everyone it randomly ends up just falling into 30 minutes of comedic jesting out of nowhere and then manipulative "tear-jerking" scenes just for the sake of them. In all this desperation to try to appeal to anyone the story ends up being useless drivel and all the characters fall into stereotypical categories. The movie's one saving grace is that each of the actors in this show exemplary ability. Too bad it was all just to turn into Hollywood nonsense."The Help" is based off a book, which was written by a White lady, through the point-of-view of a Black maid. Ignore all of the novel writer Kathryn Stockett's, high school creative classroom flaws, just admire the nostalgia of the days of the segregated South. If the writing didn't have you rolling your eyes from all of these ridiculously naive concepts and glibness, just know that racial problems can always be solved with fried chicken<U+0085> "The Help" may actually seem decent to some of the popcorn flick goers who are easily manipulated. Don't be fooled, by the making light of a serious historical dilemma and trying to instead romanticize the time. Don't accept the malarkey marketing trying to pass this off as uplifting. What we need is a real movie thought over and that offers women empowerment, all this movie is sadly, is a crock. 3/10


                
"You is kind. You is smart. You is important" is the mantra that "You is kind. You is smart. You is important" is the mantra that Abileen Clark (Viola Davis), a domestic worker in Jackson, Mississippi in the 1960ies, uses to comfort and empower her employer's daughter. Neglected by a mother who finds her too chubby and cumbersome, and a constantly absent father, Abileen is the only caring adult in the girl's life, the one who's there for her through real and metaphorical storms.Based on the bestseller by the same name written by Kathryn Stocket in 2009, the movie version of The Help, directed by Tate Taylor, tells the story of the young aspiring writer Eugenia (nicknamed Skeeter and played by Emma Stone). Skeeter is different from Elizabeth (Ahna O'Reilly), Hilly (Bryce Dallas Howard) and her other friends who spend their time playing bridge, organising charity events and being snooty. Instead of trying to find a husband, Skeeter's focusing on her career. She also believes that black domestic workers shouldn't be treated as subhumans; a radical view stemming from her relationship with her old nanny Constantine (Cicely Tyson), who raised Skeeter before disappearing without a trace. After landing a job answering housekeeping questions for a newspaper column, Skeeter, who knows nothing about housework, asks Elizabeth to let her domestic worker Abileen help her. After a short time in Abileen's company, Skeeter realises that life as a black domestic worker isn't all rosy, and the idea is born to collect the stories of all the invisible hardworking black women surrounding her and her friends and write a book. Initially reluctant Abileen eventually succumbs and convinces her friend Minny Jackson (Octavia Spencer), an outspoken lady who has just been fired by Hilly to help Skeeter realize her dream. As the film progresses the audience is treated to various displays of racist stuck up behaviour, bad parenting, loyalty and silent resistance. "This isn't about me. It doesn't matter what I feel", Skeeter promises early in the film which turns out to be mainly about her, Elizabeth, Hilly and the ostracized housewife Celia (Jessica Chastain). As New York Press' reviewer Armond White points out the main aim of the film is to entertain, which might explain the lack of engagement with the subject matter at a level that considers the changes that have influenced discussions about race, gender and power in America since the sixties. The approach makes for a dated film that requires the audience to ignore the most important change; that black American women no longer rely on white spokespersons to voice their concerns. Abileen's, Minny's and Constantin's primary function in The Help, a film that does little to challenge traditional racial power dynamics, and translates black agency into steeling and black pride into frying chicken, is simply to help us distinguish good whites from bad, coward and victim whites. The Help is a film that suffers badly from a shallow treatment of a complex subject matter and blatant slapsticky stereotyping (incl. Minny delivering one Chappellesque line about chicken after the other, among them "Frying chicken just makes me feel better about life. I just love me some fried chicken"). The ethos of the film is that of Skeeter; quite radical in the 1960s, less so in 2011. Black underprivileged women playing second fiddle to their white counterparts isn't the problem. It's just a pity that the white women, having forgotten how much they loved their black nannies as children, let the black help raise their children but not use their bathrooms. For someone in tune with this ethos it makes sense that Skeeter is the one who contributes with ambition and skills, and her informants (even if they, like Abileen, also are aspiring writers) with sensational stories about daily humiliation to be turned into literature by Skeeter. To assume, as Skeeter does when finding out what happened to her nanny, that the old woman, who at least until the day she disappeared had a brave and caring daughter by her side (LaChanze), wouldn't survive another minute without Skeeter isn't outrageous given the logical framework of the film, and similarly there's nothing strange about Skeeter's narcissistic reluctance to leave the thirty something informants in the racist town for an attractive job in New York. A concern that reminds me of a that of the man who approaches a group of girlfriends in a bar, asking them what they're doing there all alone.Different approaches at different times; that's how to make any story relevant at any time. Nothing illustrates this better than the example of The Stepford Wives, the 1974 novel by Ira Levin which was adapted to the big screen in 1975 and 2004, and to TV in 1980, 1987 and 1996. Also dealing with oppressive and reactionary ideals, each version of the original story reflects the time in which it was made, with hypnosis being the tool of domination in the 1980 version, role reversal in 1996, and a woman being the master brain running the show in the 2004 version in which the women have become sex- and cash machines. In response to Taylor's dealing with The Help, nothing feels more appropriate than to conclude in the same non-innovative and slightly offensive manner that characterizes his take on the story: You is patronising. You is irrelevant. You is out of touch. (This and other movie reviews to be found on the blog "In the Words of Katarina")


                
My wife had recently read the source novel and was most keen to see this movie adaptation, plus I have a keen interest in the US Civil Rights movement and was likewise keen to see it. Perhaps it helps to be an American to appreciate some of the nuances a bit better, but I basically found this a sentimentalised and overly patronising story, with as much resonance as an episode of "The Waltons" or "Little House On The Prairie". The basic idea of the young college girl writing up her town-life experience and causing controversy as she does so was used before in "Peyton Place", that historical but much decorated cinematic piece of soap opera, which for me is about the level the film achieves.In addition, one of the major plot-lines (regarding the shall I say, tainted "gift" of a pie) was immediately apparent to me because of a similar scene I recalled from the seminal 70's TV series "Roots", which dealt with the big issue here more exhaustively and realistically. There are lots of episodic scenes demonstrating the ebb and flow of "the help's" struggle for acceptance, with some drop-in insertions to the narrative from real-time, real-life events such as the murder of Medgar Evers, but I felt the direction catered to the cosy and felt little real drama throughout. Similarly I felt the acting to be showy and shallow by pretty much everyone in the cast, indeed no-one came across as real and I failed to engage with the characters. The depiction of time and place is excellent but students of this era looking for insight and emotional connection with this shaming episode of modern American history should buy or rent out "Roots" instead. Oh and make sure you get out of your seat quickly at the end to avoid the overblown Mary J Blige power-ballad over the end-titles which only adds to the disconnect here.


                
I watched this film without any presumptions as to what it would show me. And have no prior knowledge of the text. So after watching The Help i thought i'd go and do some research, naturally the first thing that pops up is IMDb and i am genuinely shocked that everyone is so gushing about what to me was at times mere dross and at others actually insulting. But mostly quite sad.If i was to rent starship troopers then it would be fair for me to assume that depth, pathos and any kind of layered motivation wouldn't be on the menu. yet when you watch a film set at one of the most volatile and important eras of the last 500 years and it basically is a Rom-com by numbers except black people are the shy guy who gets the hot girl in the end and the 'mean-girl-who-doesn't-get-her-way' is the symbol of indolent white middle-class racist. I expected better, clearly i'm looking in the Wong place and i apologise i will stick to books in the future. "i loves me some fried chicken" - "you can have a job here for life" oh really thanks.


                
The HelpGrowing up with a housekeeper means one of two things: either your family was rich, or you had a stay-at-home mom.And while the women in this drama are homebodies, they insist on domestic help.When an aspiring journalist (Emma Stone) decides to write a book about the Southern tradition of employing African American women to raise the children of white families, she draws the ire of both races.It's not until "the help" (Viola Davis, Octavia Spencer) learn of their anonymity that they air the dirty laundry of all the haughty white women (Bryce Dallas Howard, Jessica Chastain, Anna Camp) in town. By making Caucasians the cause of and solution to the domestic slavery issue, this fictional account attempts to alleviate white guilt through sentimentality and gross-out gags.Besides, who wants to read a book about their help, when they can just watch their every move on the nanny cam? (Red Light)


                
If you want to watch a film about racism, I do not recommend this one. While it may do a few things right, it suffers from numerous flaws. I didn't really care for this film that much, and it could have been a lot better.A young woman named Skeeter who is trying to become an author during the civil rights movement of the 60's decides to write a book detailing the lives of African-American maids and how they're treated. As the word about her book gets out, many more African-American maids come to her to help her write her book by telling her how they are treated.The first issue I have with this film is that it's overly emotionally manipulative. At some points in the movie, it feels like director Tate Taylor is grasping for straws to find anything which might draw an emotion out of the audience. This can be distracting at some points in the film because it's used a lot. In this case, however, I found most of its attempts to be ineffective at giving me a connection with the characters. The only one which was effective for me was the one used at the very end of the film. However, none of the other sad scenes in the film worked. I find this flaw a lot with feel good movies, and I wish that directors would try to avoid this as this is one of the main things which can bring me out of a movie.Another flaw is that most of the characters are overly cliché and are caricatures. The characters seem to be everything you would expect to find in a film about racism. They make almost every white character to be a racist. Also, they make it so one progressive white character is able to see through the conflict and want to help the African-Americans maids in the film. Also, some of the black characters are very stereotypical and somewhat racist. The film makes it so that almost every black character loves fried chicken. In fact, they show this several points in the film. I really wished that they didn't do it because I found that to be kind of jarring. Since about all of the main characters felt reductive, it sort of took me out of the film.Another area the film misses in is that it doesn't show the absolute lows of racism. It doesn't need to be hyper-violent, but it should at least have enough violence to make it hit hard enough with the viewer. Since it doesn't show enough violence to give it an accurate portrayal of how life really was like for African-Americans in the 60's, I felt like the movie was too safe. A movie about racism being too safe is never a good thing. There are some movie plots and settings that I feel require for their movies to focus on the absolute lows of their setting. Racism is definitely one of them.Also, the main character, Skeeter, feels very anachronistic. It feels like Kathryn Stocket (the author of the book this film is based on) projected her own modern-day fulfillment to have such a progressive minded, white female. If someone like Skeeter wanted to write a book about interviews from African Americans from the 60's, those kinds of people usually came from the North and even then, they would be treated with violence. However, to have that character come from the South and write a book like that - it's simply wish fulfillment on Stocket's part. No book like "The Help" would have ever existed and it would've never been published during the 60's. Because of this, the atmospheric feeling of institutional racism does not feel very realistic in the film.Another flaw is the movie's overall length. I feel like the movie could've been a lot shorter. I'll even argue that it could've been cut down to just under 2 hours. Since it was relatively slow-paced, there were several times when the film didn't have my full attention and other times when I wanted it to end or get going with its main story. One of the plot points which could have been cut from the film was Skeeter's relationship with Stuart. I didn't buy for a second that Skeeter would've been attracted to him and would've gone out with him for quite some time. Wouldn't she have concluded from the beginning that he was a racist and not want to have anything to do with him?With that being said, that's not to say that I liked nothing about this film. To me, its biggest strength lies in the acting. Many actresses give amazing performances. Emma Stone, Viola Davis, and Octavia Spencer both give amazing performances and they helped to carry the movie very well. However, some performances weren't that good. Bryce Dallas Howard gave an overall good performance, but there were some times when she sounded over-the-top. Also, Jessica Chastain wasn't able to act convincingly as a drunk without sounding annoying and cringeworthy. It had weak performances, but most of them were overall solid.Also, the film does a good job at reminding us that the African-Americans who wrote the book had to face not only threats of violence from the hateful backlash of angry whites in their hometown, but also a multiplicity of indignities in their hometowns, including being forced to sit at the back of buses and having to use separate restrooms.In conclusion, while this film does a few things right, it is weighed down by being overly emotionally manipulative, using several cliché caricatures, not hitting the lows of racism well enough, an anachronistic plot, and the slow-pacing. Of course, the majority of its acting and how it displays hardships that African-Americans faced are good, but that's really all I can say for this film. It could've been great, but it didn't do that much for me.


                
The Help is a very entertaining movie about how a group of strong women make a minor dent in the injustice of segregation. As a movie, it does a serviceable job, but as history it comes up a little short. Here is a movie that contains a lot of fine performances and some nice moments, but seems to dance around the uglier side of The Civil Rights movement. By the end, the problems of the main characters seem to have come to a fitting, non-violent conclusion. Yet, the real-life history of this conflict would be written in blood.Based on the book by Kathryn Stockett (which I haven't read), the story takes place in Jackson, Mississippi in the early 1960s which, at the time, was run by the brass-bound segregationist Governor Ross Barnett, who had the support of The White Citizen's Council that was determined to keep the black population in its place. In social standing, blacks are subservient to whites and the plight of black women in the work world is cleaning the houses of white families. They clean house and raising the children while the white women fuss about their looks and their social status.The focus of the film begins with a young idealist, Eungenia "Skeeter" Phelan (Emma Stone), who has returned home from college to find that the maid who raised her from birth is no longer working there for reasons that her parents refuse to explain. Skeeter becomes curious about the woman who work in her home and in many homes in the south. "Who is taking care of their children while they are taking care of ours?", she wonders.The focus gradually drifts to some of the maids, mainly Abileen Clark (Viola Davis), a quietly wounded soul who lost her son, and Minny Jackson (Octavia Spencer), an open-faced, boisterous woman whose frustration at being treated like trash by her hateful employer (Bryce Dallas Howard) is quickly coming to a boiling point.Skeeter aspires to be a writer and has an offer from a New York publisher (Mary Steenburgen) to write a book of personal accounts from the point of view of southern maids (all anonymous, of course) exposing what it is like to work in the houses of white folks, raising their children and cleaning their toilets. This is an unwise proposition given the climate of the times. The white population of Mississippi is determined to stop the progression of Martin Luther King and the civil rights movement and that has black women over a barrel. The maids around town want nothing to do with the project: they need work and cleaning houses remains the only work available to them. At first, the only two women willing to participate are Minny and Abileen, but slowly the numbers begin to grow.What I liked about The Help is the manner in which it paints the black women as individual characters, especially Minny and Abileen. They both have separate and distinct personalities and both have different agendas. They don't just stand as static, noble props for the movie to lean on. Abileen's fury over her son becomes her motivation for getting involved with Skeeter's book and Minny's fury over being treated less-than-human by her employer becomes hers.The pure emotional heart of the movie is felt by the presence of actress Viola Davis, a wonderful actress that I've been watching with joy for years in films like Doubt (for which she got her first Oscar nomination), Eat Pray Love and last year's forgotten gem Trust. Here, as Abileen, she plays a grieving mother who's quiet frustration over the loss of her son is felt in her very presence. There is a moment deep in the film when she sits at her kitchen table and describes to Skeeter the carelessness of her son's on-the-job accident. There is something in her eyes, in her voice, and in her body language that speaks to the wound deep in her heart. You can feel the fury of this grieving mother. This is a moment, I think, that will get her an Oscar nomination this year. She gives the film's best performance.There is one character, I'm afraid, that doesn't work at all. That is the one played by Bryce Dallas Howard - Ron's daughter - who occupies the role of Hilly Holbrook, Minny's pathologically racist employer, who is so full of unmerciful venom that it washes over into cliché. She wants a legislation passed that would forbid the maids from using the same bathroom facilities as their employers. This was a real issue at the time, but the movie plays it as an overwrought plot device designed to climax with a moment in which she eats one of Minny's pies, laced with a particularly disgusting ingredient (read this paragraph again carefully and you can probably deduce what it is). It is a moment that might fit in American Pie or There's Something About Mary but seems wrong-headed in a movie about the Civil Right's Movement. I was hoping that some humanity would come to Hilly with the revelation of a past connection with Celia, but sadly, it never does.I think that The Help is a good movie, a movie with some important things to say and some performances that could turn it into a great movie, rather than just a good one. It is entertaining, but it is also kind of safe. It dances around the uglier sides of life in Mississippi under segregation and comes to an ending that closes the book on the characters with a lot of victories. We never sense that the struggle has just begun.
A strident and unconvincing film that reinforces rather than dismantles stereotypes. The cinematography is dreary, the period is not persuasively rendered, the young actresses for the most part lack authority and seem to be playing dress up in their mother's clothing. The actors are not an effective ensemble; they seem to be acting in different time periods if not different films. The film's pace and structure as well as it's mixture of comedy and drama are of no help, and the film feels like a Lifetime Movie. Of the large cast only talented Viola Davis suggests a real person, and Octavia Spencer is funny and endearing though she's playing a type. Love Field and The Long Walk Home wore this theme into the ground leaving The Help in the dust.


                
This movie was a finely packaged piece of art - maybe it was too good. For me, I always judge a movie by the impression the 'bad guys' leave on me. From Emma Stone to Viola Davis to Sissy 'Carrie' Spacek – they all did a super job. Even the mother managed to dig herself out from under the 'bad-bus' at the end. These performers all had easy parts since their drums were easy to bang. BUT Bryce Dallas Howard was remarkable. From the beginning to end, her character was an unlikable southern racist. This must have been a very difficult part for this young woman to play. If one plays an evil murderer or a vampire, they get a pass<U+0085>if one plays a racist – a very brave move and she did an outstanding job. I do remember these times but not from a southerners' perspective, but from one in the north looking south. As a Yankee, many of us are way too busy painting a racist brush over the southern whites - never taking the time to gaze into our own mirrors. Ah well, that is enough pontificating. The ingredients of this film are so well blended and the story is so masterfully told, that it should result in jarring race relations bring set back twenty years. Like, 'The Holocaust' or 'Bataan Death March', this was a terrible time and should never be forgotten.


                
The Help is progressive on the surface but is actually your standard white savior movie that reduces racism to a few bad apples and perpetuates the stereotype of black women as mammies.


                
Generally enjoyable movie, with spot-on cultural details (calling a soap opera a "story").However, it strikes me as ironic that the story of oppressed, under-paid black domestic workers in the racist South is told here by an Ole Miss sorority girl. Such sororal and fraternal organizations at such universities are the last bastions of racism in the South (note recent disfigurement of James Meredith statue at Ole Miss by Sigma Phi Epsilon brothers.) Don't these women deserve a chance to speak for themselves? How might this story have been different had Aibileen told it?


                
