Greetings again from the darkness. The film is based on the controversial best selling novel by Kathryn Stockett. It was controversial because it is the story of Jim Crow-era maids written by a white woman. Yes, the book is actually the fictionalized story of a white woman getting black maids to discuss their lives as maids for white folks. Rather than get into some politically correct dissertation on the book, movie or story, I will only comment on the film itself ... this very entertaining movie that also manages to deliver a timeless message.Let me first start by saying that this movie is incredibly well acted. It is quite rare to have so many developed characters in one movie. There are some characters we immediately connect with, while others draw our ire each time their face appears. The script and these fine actresses utilize humor to point out the shameful behavior of those who saw themselves as superior. The humor doesn't soften the ignorance or abuse, but it does make the film infinitely more watchable and entertaining. Please know this is not a documentary.Ms. Stockett's novel has a very loyal following in addition to the naysayers. A two hour film must, of course, take short cuts and trim story lines. Still the key elements are present. Based in Jackson, Mississippi during Governor Ross Barnett's term we see the social shark, Hilly Holbrook (Bryce Dallas Howard), in her full glory of ignorance, entitlement and superiority. We see her minions and followers emulating her moves while trying to gain her approval.The story takes off when Skeeter (Emma Stone) graduates from Ole Miss and returns home and takes a job at the local newspaper. Possessing observation skills and humanity that her lifelong friends can't comprehend, Skeeter desperately wants to tell a story from the perspective of the maids. As expected, the maids are hesitant, but Aibileen (Viola Davis) does relent. The stories begin to flow and soon the robust Minny (Octavia Spencer) joins in. Others soon follow their lead and Skeeter's education goes to an entirely new level.That's really all of the story I care to discuss. The brilliance of this one is actually in the details ... individual scenes and moments of acting genius by most of the cast. In addition to those mentioned above, Jessica Chastain plays Celia, the "white trash" outcast who so desperately wants to be allowed back into the girls' club. Ms. Chastain was seen a few weeks ago in the fabulous "Tree of Life" in quite a different role ... I would venture to say no actress will have two roles of such variance this year. Also, Allison Janney plays Skeeter's cancer-stricken mother, and Sissy Spacek is Hilly's mother who gets tossed aside before she is ready to go! The great Cicely Tyson makes a brief appearance as Constantine, Skeeter's childhood maid who was done so wrong after 29 years of service. Mary Steenburgen has a couple of scenes as a big NYC book publisher.As a said, this is pure acting heaven, but I must single out Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer. Viola is so powerful at the beginning and end of the film, and Ms. Spencer is a force of nature during the middle. This movie is really their story and these two ladies make it fascinating, painful and a joy to behold. They both deserve recognition at Oscar time.There are so many fantastic details to the film. At times, it is like watching a classic car show ... the late 50's and early 60's models are works of art. The wardrobe, hair and make-up are perfect in setting up the class differentials. The TV and radio segments provide context and timing with the deaths of Medger Evers and JFK. Even the books on Skeeter's shelf make a statement: To Kill a Mockingbird, Huck Finn, Native Son, and Gone With the Wind.This story takes place 50 years ago and director Tate Taylor does an admirable job of bringing Stockett's novel to the big screen. Mr. Taylor is a longtime friend of Ms. Stockett's and was quite fortunate to get the directing rights. He doesn't disappoint. Sure the story is a bit glossy at times ... it is geared towards the masses. If you are looking for more depth, there are numerous documentaries available on the Civil Rights movement. If you are seeking a very entertaining movie that uses humor to tell a story and send a message, then this one's for you.


                
Lovely performances makes this far too clean and neat story, not merely palatable but enjoyable. We know by now that the plight of the "colored" in the South wasn't that clean cut or gentle in any way or shape. Here we can sit and watch discovering the depth of he ordeal in the wonderful face of Viola Davis. But, it all remains in the mild margins of the real story. Entertaining yes but I couldn't forget documentaries of the period or "The Long Walk Home" with Whoopi Goldberg and Sissy Spacek. Sissy Spacek is in "The Help" too and she's very funny. It also shows Bryce Dallas Howard under a new light. The bitchy, almost evil light. She's better here than she's ever been. Emma Stone is lovely and the wonderful Allison Janney in a disturbingly recognizable character raises the film to unexpected levels. I felt the film was too long and too careful not to offend anybody and that's were its weaknesses lay. But, I do recommend it.


                
I had eagerly awaited the movie as the book was an absolute masterpiece. I was rather disappointed. My guess is that people who have not read the book will like the movie. It is well acted and makes for a good story -- just a different one from the story written in the book.One semi major character is changed from a very complicated person -- sympathetic but hardly enlightened or heroic -- to something entirely different -- a converted true believer. Other characters simply become flatter and more "stock" than in the book -- though that may be inevitable when adapting a novel written in three first person voices into a movie.The main problem with the movie is that it really does not attempt to capture the violence, brutality and fear of the period. In the book these things hang over the characters and there is a real sense of danger. In the movie "danger" is spoken of but hardly palpable. Segregationists (aside from the one villain, Hilly) appear more rude than brutal. As a (white) southern man who lived in that era I know it was a lot tougher than that.Overall, it is a good movie. If the source material did not exist I'd rate it higher. But being adapted from a much more nuanced and stronger work, it suffers in comparison. See it. But read the book. And especially take young people to see it who may not be willing to read the book first. Because even glossed over, it does show a side of American history that the younger generation may not fully appreciate. Maybe it will spark discussion and maybe some of them will read the book for a fuller understanding of how things used to be.


                
The book was a fantastic read and I think the movie did a decent job of bringing it to life. Set in 1960s Mississippi, The Help is about a white girl, Skeeter Phelan, who collaborates with black maids to tell their stories of what it's like to work in a white household. They hope to narrow the racial divide and improve conditions for blacks. Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer put up excellent performances as the maids, Aibileen and Minny. As president of the county's Ladies' League and leader of the racist campaign to build separate toilets for blacks in every household (not to mention Skeeter's friend), Hilly was also just as smooth and poisonous as I had imagined her to be. Emma Stone was alright as Skeeter, but a lot of her inner struggles in the book didn't really come out, so I found it kind of hard to connect with her. While I think the movie was pretty good, its inability to make us think about our behaviour in the present-day context stopped it from being great. I also didn't like how some of the characters' reactions to Skeeter writing the book (Stuart and Skeeter's mother) were made more extreme, as it led to an oversimplification of the situation in that era.


                
Watching "The Help" is like living the days of black women back in the days and witnessing the struggle and hardship in almost every aspect of their lives. This is easily one of the best of the year, or at least one of the most touching movies of the year for me.I should have seen this back in the summer but I ended up with other choices. 2011 has been a good year for movies, especially with a number of blockbusters that are not at all bad (No, I am not talking about Transformers and Green Lantern). Although, there may be some competition at the Academy Awards this year, I still believe that "The Help" will get away with some wins which it deserves.To start with, it is the stunning performances.Emma Stone, taking the leading role of Skeeter, has shown the audience that her acting can be much more than "Easy A". It is a big step forward and she has definitely given a Oscar-worthy performance. Indeed, she is also essential for the story development because it is basically her concern and passion that drive the later events and keep the surprises coming.Viola Davis from "Doubt" is also one of the protagonists. Playing one of the black maids named Aibileen, she portrays the emotions of fear and hope. From a passive character to an active help to Stone (Skeeter), her performance is incredible and totally realistic. And of course, having been a Oscar nominee once, this time her even better performance absolutely deserves recognition from the Academy once again.Then we have Octavia Spencer who has the role of Minny, also a maid. The performance is again Oscar-worthy. Her "tougher" appearance and personality are what make her stand out and have a different attitude. But indeed, the bottom line is Minny and Aibileen are united by an opportunity to change, to let their voices be heard.Last but not least, we have Howard. I would be surprised if she is not nominated at Oscars this year, after her amazing performances in "The Tree of Life", this, and "Take Shelter". As a housewife who has Octavia (Minny) as her maid, her character is the "boss" of the housewives. The scenes when she bursts into rage are superb.Other performances are also good in "The Help", but I guess the above four are the ones that I find outstanding. If the Academy recognizes this film, I believe there is a high chance that at least two nominations of Supporting Actress will be from this, and it will be hard to pick one for sure."Change begins with a whisper". That is the kind of story "The Help" wants to tell. As the movie approaches the end, there is a great number of touching scenes that can make you cry. And throughout the movie, there are scenes that can make you laugh, hard."The Living Proof", as a soundtrack played at the end of the movie when the closing credits roll in, is an extraordinary song. It is beautiful music, and its lyrics and meanings fit the theme of the movie perfectly. There are also other great songs played, also near the finish of the movie. Again, "The Help" should also be a great competitor in the category of Best Original Song at Oscars."The Help" is a combination of astonishing performances by a number of great actresses and a well-written story which I guess most viewers and the Academy will like.


                
I wanted this movie to be good but I was disappointed at how we saw more about the white families than about the maids and their families. If the filmmakers wanted to be an historically accurate think-piece, they really should not have made the trailers make the movie seem like a comedy. If they wanted it to be a comedy, they shouldn't have included some of the more vicious racial elements. It ended up being a movie that made you laugh at parts and really made you squirm in your seat at other parts but left you feeling like you were robbed of something that could have been really great. All that being said, however, it was a pretty good main-stream movie touching on the subject of household help and the racial tensions involved in the nascent Civil Rights era of the 50s and 60s that I haven't seen before. It was interesting to see how these women so bonded with their employer's children and how the children saw their maids as their second (or even "real") mothers.Basically, it was a good movie but don't expect to learn much from it.


                
It was a very good movie that depicted the lives of black maids back during the time of Martin Luther king Jr. It shows their rough lives and how a woman plans on publishing a book about their lives and experiences. The black people were treated very inhumanly in those days, sometimes seen as property. This movie did a great job at showing all of this happening. The acting was great, the history was accurate, and you felt part of their story. The ending was happy and sad, but you enjoyed it the whole time. It had many very funny scenes too!!! Many that you will be repeating for days!!!!


                
An aspiring writer during the civil rights movements of the 1960s decides to write a book detailing the point of view of African-American domestic servants about their work in white family homes and about racist prejudice. This, of course, will have repercussions on friendships and even within families.With a cast mostly composed by women, it is acted and performed with such conviction that the 2 hours pass in an instant. The scenery, wardrobe, decoration and color of the film are of a such great level that I'm amazed that it has not even been nominated for the Oscars in any of those categories. But at least it won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress. This is a moving drama but also with several comic moments and is an inspiring story.


                
The Help. An aspiring author played by pretty Emma Stone during the civil rights movement of the 1960s decides to write a book detailing the African-American maids' point of view on the white families for which they work, and the hardships they go through on a daily basis. Subject is sensitive but treatment is not. In fact most of the time it is balanced, comical take on the racism that makes it an easy watch rather a shocking watch. If we talk about performances, Octavia Spencer treats big time with her delightful portrayal of Minny Jackson for which she was awarded an Oscar. Viola Davis also stands tall with her sincere portrayal of Aibileen Clark. Whole movie is crafted like a girl's movie so there is very less for male actors to show-off here. Movie makes its point but never hits you hard so you may not think much about what you experienced after end credits have gone down. Nevertheless, it's nicely crafted easy watch.


                
I wasn't expecting too much from 'The Help', 'cause I dislike most of the Oscars Best Picture nominees from 2011, but I was pleasantly surprised when I finished to watch The Help. It isn't s film with great depth, and it really isn't an accurate depiction of a gritty ambient full of racial tensions; but the story itself has good intentions and succeeds in developing so many characters that it alone makes it deserving of my praise. And the acting was very good, I mean, everyone did a good job. Emma Stone, Bryce Dallas-Howard and in a high level Viola Davis and Jessica Chainstain. I consider Spencer performance to be a bit overrated since she wasn't even the best supporting actress on the film. Davis was great,forced but she showed great range. I liked the art direction too, very pleasant and eye-candy. And while I disliked the exaggerated vilification of Howard's character, the film showed a somewhat Spielberg-esque style:A drama that never takes itself too seriously. Sometimes it works , and that was the case of The Help. Maybe because the story is very sad and dark after all, so the moments more 'up' are needed to not scare the 'mainstrean' audience. I think if the film had used the real ambient whose the book it was based on was set, the critics would probably love it and admire it's guts and the realism. But since it choose to be a 'lighter' version of the events, it wasn't well received. Well, I personally liked it for what it is. A great mosaic of well developed characters whose connections are the friendship and the racism. A harsh time. Being said, I recommend this film. 7.5/10


                
...and work to make the movie non-existent. That is the degree of justice it does to the book and not speaking about the minor changes the film has done in the plot. But that's not the point and if I had to rate this idiosyncratically, it is a good film.The cast is outstanding... I mean this could just be the film with the cast who are totally into their respective characters of the book. I loved Bryce Dallas Howard & Octavia Specner, but who really stood out with her portrayal is Jessica Chasatin (I have watched Mama & ZD30, but this is just too impressive of her). Fantastic! And the music is great, too. What troubled me is the screenplay and when it skipped elements like it had a time constraint it felt bad. But I understand how the editor might have had terrible nights editing it into reason. The costumes are fine and my appreciation to the art crew.Tate Tylor had no reason to adapt the sensational book, but since it has been I'd give it a one-time watch. And the minor changes I mentioned before actually work for the movie. And let me take this opportunity to ask all the people to read the book so that you LOL & produce ire at the same time about the much-discussed topic. It is one of the most enjoyable books I've read.BOTTOM LINE: It was real treat to watch the words of the book go real on reel and I am happy the cast was able. Recommended for people who haven't read the book. For others, read it first and skip the film.Can be watched with a typical Indian family? YESprofanity/Vulgarity: Mild | Sex/Nudity/Foreplay: No | Mouth-Kiss: Mild | Violence/Gore: No | Smoking/Alcohol: Strong


                
The Help is a film about Black maids in a small Mississippi town set in the early 1960s. You gather that as the news covers the funeral of JFK at one point.The film is set on the eve of the civil rights era then but such things move slowly in the Southern states and here we have black women who practically raise the white kids from infants onwards and as they grow up they become like their parents including the prejudice and the cycle starts again as the maid raise their kids.Even though the discriminatory behaviour has been toned down for the film, part of it still feels very uneasy although in reality things were probably a lot worse for real life maids.Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer stand out from the cast as two of the maids. Also good performances from Jessica Chastain, Bryce Dallas Howard and Emma Stone.It may not be as powerful as you think it would be. Given that it seems to be aimed at a female audience you get the feeling the director did not want to cross a certain line and make it more hard hitting.It is funny as well as emotional and an interesting tale.


                
Have I ever seen a movie in which males mattered less, apart from feminist/lesbian niche products like "Better Than Chocolate"? When I read Kathryn Stockett's book I thought that its description of an all-female world would thwart its straightforward conversion into a screenplay. I was mistaken. In fact, the males in the book were still slightly more prominent, especially Minnie's abusive husband Leroy. In the film, he is never seen at all, although to some extent he remains a menacing presence. And the senator in the book, an old Southerner who to the dismay of some of his guests suggests that the days of Jim Crow are over, is completely omitted.Leroy's absence obviously softens the film. Same goes for the rewriting of the character of Mrs. Phelan; her "conversion" to post-segregation mores makes her more likable for today's audiences (Klansmen apart). These changes turn the film into a typical feel-good movie. I think it will stand the test of time, both in itself and as a adaptation of a novel; whether critics will come to like it one day is a different matter.On a different note, if you are a foreign speaker and naturalized Midwesterner, you will have some trouble understanding the black slang and even the speech of some of the white characters.


                
When I was invited to a preview screening of The Help, I was unsure of what to expect. This may be easier to understand when one takes into consideration that Walt Disney Studios are responsible for the distribution of a film that is targeted at the older woman, the single hardest demographic to coax into cinema screens presently. Having read the book, (read review here) I knew the director had a lot to prove. As a fan I was wary yet excited at the evolution of this great book and the reception it's had worldwide. It is an unfortunate truth that Hollywood rarely makes the most of the projects it gets it's hands on, in terms of quality at least thus, the concern for an international bestseller making its way into the lap of Disney is an obvious worry.However, I was pleasantly surprised. The film is a well-constructed piece that remains loyal to Stockett's text and demonstrates the fear, discrimination and seething hatred that seems to have been so apparent during the 1960's of KKK riddled Jackson, Mississippi in a clear and poignant way. In contrast to other reviewers critiques, I did not find the film overly sentimental or sappy by any stretch of the imagination. In fact, Tate Taylor is to be credited for the realism he has managed to instill in the direction and in the screenplay, which he adopted from Stockett's text. For me, there were several outstanding performances, especially Octavia Spencer as outspoken Minny Jackson, the maid who rises above her many unfortunate choices in employer.Bryce Dallas Howard is perfection as the evil, scheming Hilly Holbrook and Emma Stone as the well meaning Skeeter Phelan is wonderful to watch. Viola Davis is also excellent and brings to Aibileen's character the dignity and honour that Stockett communicates in the book. As to be expected in a film dealing with racism and segregation, there is much drama and disturbance but, unlike similar genres of film such as Mississippi Burning, there are many comedic moments that create equilibrium. Sissy Spacek makes a long awaited return to the screen in a hilarious and fitting performance as Hilly's dotty mother, providing the right balance of light- heartedness to an otherwise serious and very real subject matter.Scenes to watch out for are Minny's famous pie scene from the book (readers will know exactly what I mean!), the 'camodes rather than the coats' scene and the glitzy reception scene which mirrors the false identity of all of Skeeter's white associates. Overall, the film is one of the best of 2011 so far and hopefully will serve to further the book's reputation. Well worth seeing I give it an 8/10.All Rights Reserved © Copyright 2011 Michelle Lacey (Michelle Ní Láitheása).
It's the 1960s in Mississippi, and the uppity, high-class, rich white girls have returned from university with husbands in tow and babies in their bellies, and now they get to hire maids of their own. The maids of course are poor black women from the other side of the tracks (literally). Skeeter (Emma Stone), on the other hand, has returned home from university with a degree in hand, rather than a husband, and after a stop-off in New York City in a failed attempt to get a job as a writer.The other girls are 1960s Barbie dolls in their party dresses and perfectly coiffed hair. While Skeeter misses the maid who raised her and finds herself drawn to the world of the help as she struggles with her first job. She first gets the advice of two experienced maids working for her Barbie doll friends — Aibileen (Viola Davis) and Minny (Octavia Spencer) — for a cleaning column, but she wants to start pushing the boundaries of the law and tell a story from their point of view.At its worst, "The Help" is a melodramatic but poignant, long drawn-out affair where a white woman happily solves racism in America and the whole world can hold hands and skip in perfect harmony. However, at its best, it's a well-crafted film that subtly holds together multiple genres as it balances that tight rope between drama and comedy. Lean too far in either direction, and you fall (which it comes close to multiple times but never actually crashes).A hidden story in this movie, is one of a girl, Skeeter, who has triumphantly navigated university, but is at a stand-still in trying to get a job and live independently, so for now, she's at home and working for the local newspaper as she forges her way in the real world. Sounds typical, doesn't it? Except there's a good chance you won't even notice this story because it is hidden beneath all the class-divides, racial-divides and friendship-divides.There's even a character in here who will surprise you: Celia Foote played by Jessica Chastain. Although I generally know better than to listen to plastic, talking Barbies who described Celia as white trash, I still believed them. The layers of her cluelessness and my surprise were delightful and entertaining to unravel.It's dramatic because this is a story of inequality. The help get treated is if they are "less than" while the southern belles act as if they are "more than." As said before Skeeter wants this to be about the maids' point of view, and as you can guess, they are mostly sad stories. Except for Minny's because she likes being bold. Octavia Spencer and Sissy Spacek as the mother of a mean-spirited Barbie doll are responsible for most of the comedic relief. And relief it is because they are funny.There were references to Martin Luther King, Jr., John F. Kennedy, "Gone with the Wind" and Margaret Mitchell. Because this is Hollywood and the excessive run time, I'm afraid they have already placed this movie in that esteemed group. It's good, it's fun and meaningful, but let's not get too carried away.


                
Jackson, Mississippi, in 1963 and the segregation is iron bound. A feisty young local journalist manqué is hired by the local newspaper to write a household advice column. This prompts in her an interest in the black maids who service the community of higher-class white housewives. A volcano erupts.You see, the white folk live in them big white houses and the white womens they have dare hairs up in piles on top of they head and they demands that the silber be polished just proper for when they entertaining. The black folk lives in them shotgun houses in they own districk and eats fried chicken and rabbit stews all day. They need them maid jobs powerful bad because the menfolk, they don't make no money toiling at the mill.I know. It sounds like an afternoon television special that should be shown in a civics class, but it's better than that. The first thing that impresses the viewer, after the initial exposition, is the presence of social borders that are more effective in keep people in and out than the Great Wall of China was at defeating Mongol raiders. The social world is divided into strict categories.It's a binary universe. You are either "in" or "out." You are black or you are white. You are a man or you are a woman. You are respectable or you are white trash. There isn't much in between. (Poor Truman Capote.) And within each of these socially constructed categories, there is an intense sense of schedule, of the proper time to do things in the proper way, the time for politesse, the time for slap downs. The heroine, the would-be writer, is an affable and outspoken redhead with frizzly hair, given to wearing Mexican shoes and not yet married, although she's in her twenties. Her mother, Allison Janney, nervously asks her, "Honey, it's past your time and you have no boy friends. Tell me, have you ever had any, um, unnatural feelings? Like feeling towards girls?" That's scheduling for you. And here's social class. A naive but pretty and friendly young blond, Jessica Chastain, moves into town, drinks too much, wears revealing gowns, speaks a little too freely, and can't cook anything but corn pone. When she shows up with a covered dish at a party by the local doyen from etiquette hell, nobody answers the door. They hide from her view behind the furniture and speak in whispers. As one of the well-groomed guests observes, she's "white trash." Well, let us not run out of space by going on too long about the keenly observed characters and plot, which is weakened only in the last quarter or so, when everyone winds up happy except the witch. The witch's performance is splendid, by the way, but then everyone involved gives an unusually tuned performance. The editor has caught Viola Davis, as the principle maid, doing some marvelous acting. Sadly, there is the hint of cloying stereotypes. Man, the director has gotten respectable Southern women and their cliques down pat, but he overdoes it with the nameless horde of carefully made-up butterflies mincing around, fluttering their delicate hands and turning every sentence into a melodic carol that ends in a question mark. And the African-Americans, while human and hardly saints, don't seem to have anything in the way of vices. They simply accept the insults and burn with unspoken resentment.Of course, the central theme is the way maids are treated as robots and the way the robots take their revenge. The black maids receive what sociologists call "non-person treatment." They're not really there, and the exchanges are either functional ("Get me an iced tea?") or perfunctory ("That's a mighty purdy dress, Mizz Scarlet.") Those social borders are noisome. For one thing, they have two sides. After hundreds of years of being bulked up, they now operate to effectively keep categories comfortably apart. African-Americans in particular have a solidarity that other minorities can barely understand. It's asking a great deal of them to sacrifice that hard-earned group loyalty in the name of an equality that many of them see as a façade. Would you want your daughter to marry one? Neither side is especially anxious for that to happen.I'm not even certain that the tendency to feel more comfortable with others who share your appearance and culture is so unnatural. Every big city has its Chinatown and Little Italy. And when "Planet of the Apes" was being filmed, the chimpanzees ate with the other chimpanzees, the gorillas ate with the gorillas, and the gibbons hung out with the gibbons. Maybe it's better not to think about it. It's certainly EASIER not to.
Sitting through "The Help" I was immediately entranced by the stellar performances of Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer as Aibileen Clark and Minny Jackson. Both carried the film with exceptional wit, warmth and strength that couldn't have been done by finer actresses. I recommend watching the movie for their performances alone. As the credits rolled and I started my drive home however, I began to reflect on the film and began to find some cracks in its veneer.The largest complaint shared by "The Help's" critics, myself included is its tone which at times becomes too light and airy. Indeed the filmmakers seem to gloss over showing the true nature of racism or for that matter the true nature of spousal abuse. The inherent graveness of a maid divulging information about their employer in 1960's Mississippi just isn't there, at least not to a realistic level.The film also stumbles on its portrayal of many of its white characters. Emma Stone's Skeeter is immediately sympathetic but shows little development or character flaws. Bryce Dallas Howard's Hilly is likewise one note and hollow. Her southern belle act and tactless racism becomes more of a caricature than a real person. It makes me wonder how Skeeter and Hilly could have ever been high school friends.For all "The Help's" faults however, there is no getting around the stellar performances from its two heroines. The story really is fascinating and the comic set-pieces achieve their goals. In fact I would say the film itself achieved its goals; my argument is they should have aimed higher.http://theyservepopcorninhell.blogspot.com/


                
I really wanted to love the movie as much as I loved the book. Unfortunately, the movie fell short of the book by quite a bit. While I did enjoy watching it, I found that some of the story lines as well as the depth of some of the characters, especially Elizabeth Lefolt, suffered from the necessity of shortening the story to fit it into a 2 hour and 17 minutes movie. The acting of all main characters was solid, with my favorites being Minnie Aibeleen and Mrs. Walters. It is an entertaining movie to watch, but it does not measure up to the book. What made the movie fun to watch that one cannot experience reading the book was the soundtrack and the gorgeous cars.


                
We have seen and heard a lot about individual cases of terrible racial injustices. What makes this film different, and precious, is the way it shows the way good people were terribly hurt in a 1,001 little ways, every day of their lives - not only by a system designed to keep them as second-class citizens every bit as nasty as apartheid, but by the way others who considered themselves good people enforced that system and behaved towards fellow members of society who were making an important contribution to that society.
I don't know how it is possible for white people in the USA not to watch films like this without squirming in their seats, not from guilt - for guilt is not something one inherits, nor is it automatically collective - but from the discomfort of seeing how badly people can treat one another, based entirely on the colour of their skin (or any of the myriad other silly little ways that are used to divide us as a society - how can any reasonable person believe such distinctions reflect a person's true worth?).


                
Based on a book of the same name by Kathryn Stockett, The Help talks about mid-century Southern USA and about a young aspiring writer, who decides to write about the eponymous help, the black people who pretty much made sure that everything stayed on course in the white households, from raising the children to checking that the roof was still up. She faces a few problems though. First of all it being extremely unpopular to talk about such a subject and second of all it being somewhat hard to find a black person brave enough to talk against whites.This film was immensely popular in the States, like these films usually are, and I can kind of understand why. It's an uplifting story about a historical wrong that is still relevant even today, featuring an ensemble cast and great technical aspects.And yet, at the same time I'm watching this film and thinking to myself that I don't see the attraction. It might be that I have no touching point to this issue. I'm white, that much is true, but I'm also both Nordic and the son of a farmer. Slavery didn't enter into my worldview until I started watching movies aside from cartoons. And I'm watching this film where white people in the 1960s treat their help like they're cattle. Cattle with leprosy even. And I'm thinking that this is extremely silly and overblown. But for all I know it just might have been exactly like that, which is a chilling thought.The ending is also too saccharine, in my opinion. Flowers rain from the sky, the wicked are punished and a holy choir sings Hallelujah kind of saccharine. But perhaps in America, where this is still a huge problem, that kind of an ending provides the needed emotional catharsis.Like with all these types of films, I don't feel like I'm qualified to judge them. I like the acting a lot, I like the story, I like how it looks and feels. I just find it a bit exaggerated, personally. As well as an hour too long. Still, worth a watch if the premise tickles your fancy.


                
Upset upon discovering that her mother dismissed their longtime maid without even telling her, an aspiring journalist decides to write a book about the experiences of 'the help' in this surprisingly compelling drama, set in early 1960s Mississippi. The film is very message-heavy and sentimental to boot, and yet it makes for an engaging experience thanks to a slew of well developed characters brought to life by talented actresses. Octavia Spencer, Cicely Tyson and especially Viola Davis provide strong supporting turns as some of the poorly treated African American maids who in many cases care more about the kids whom they are helping to raise than the parents themselves. Emma Stone also delivers a fine turn as the protagonist who only gradually realises the seriousness of her endeavour, however, it is Jessica Chastain who steals the show as a ditzy young woman completely oblivious to how maids are usually treated and overly cordial when hiring one of her own. She has some strong dramatic moments late in the piece too. Sissy Spacek is also great as the mother of the vilest and most racist young woman in the film, but as the young lady herself, Bryce Dallas Howard is absolutely grating. She given no likable qualities at all and therefore makes for a rather flat antagonist, and many of the other young women in the film do not come across much better. The main characters of the film are relatable and down-to- earth though. This in turn renders their struggles in the face of inequality endlessly interesting - obvious and maudlin though the messages here may be.


                
The help is a really good history and drama movie, it is mostly about before the civil rights, so about black and white peoples not getting along, but in all the drama there is 1 special good person who helps the black people.I think Skeeter is a really nice person because she is helping the black people, she has this pity to the black people. Her mom is not feeling so good, but I think she struggles with it pretty well.Celia is my favorite character, because she has this friendly soul for all black people, and why she is so friendly is probably because, she doesn't understand that white people doesn't like black humans in the movie and back then, before the civil rights, and why she doesn't understand that, is probably because her family is really poor, and lived that life as a kid, so she doesn't think they are different just because they are poor or black. I think Hilly is the meanest character in the movie, because she is the most racist woman i have ever seen in a movie. I have seen the movie three times and every time I wants to kill her, I don't know why it's like that, I just think she is so annoying. But she play her character in the movie very well.I like the costumes a lot, and the way they hairstyle the hair. But I don't really know how I feel about skeeter's hair, because In old days skeeter's hairstyle wouldn't fit in. The costumes are really good because they seem so real, and all the dresses were probably used in old days, of course not the exact same, but close too. I would definitely recommend this to anyone how loves drama, happy and sad movies.
« The Help » is a drama film by Tate Taylor. The movie takes place in Jackson, Mississippi during 1960', during segregation. It was on screen in 2011, it last 146 min.Skeeter an aspiring writer wants to write a book to denounce segregation and the life of "the helps". She will be helped by Aibeleen and Minny. Aibeleen is a middle aged Africa American maid who works for Elisabeth Leefolt. Minny is the friend of Aibeleen and the domestic of Hilly Holbrooks. Hilly who is agree with the segregation will fight against Skeeter's project.I think that this movie is very interesting. Despite an annoying soundtrack which dragged on too much, the storyline is believable and deep, with funny moments. The acting is amazing and the actresses are very convincing. In my opinion it's an entertaining movie and I advise you to go watch that movie.
It's hard to fault a movie like this, when it seems perfectly aware of what kind of movie it wants to be, and does a great job achieving its goal. Basically it is a typical feel-good story, set in a small town with obvious racial tension. The story is at times predictable - though that often feels irrelevant for movies like this. It has been criticized for being another "white savior" movie, where the white character is needed to help the black characters out of their situation. I agree that it is too bad that there still are so many movies about this kind of stories being made, this movie handles it quite nicely.The highlight of this movie is the cast. There are some great performances in this movie from actors I was completely unfamiliar with. Mostly the "helps" are doing a great job, enhanced by convincing (to me) costume- and set-design.I wish that this movie would have had higher ambitions, gone longer in exploring the good side of "evil" people and the bad side of the good - making the characters all more human. There is a scene near the end where a certain character reveals a side of herself. I wish that this could have been a thread throughout the movie, that this ambivalence was given - not a reveal. I guess it would have been a different movie, but definitely a more interesting one.


                
Lucky #13 for 2011 !! This little film came in right after a dozen blockbuster movies for year's best grossing films. Any guesses as to why.. every talent and casting agent will readily tell you. Guaranteed without one name attached, it does not come anywhere near as close (and her part in this production is limited). There's only a small number of names that incite you to search out what other work they would have done.. she is one. As for this film, she brought the audience to the table, and it is a very worthwhile experience for those who might not have gone there without her participation. The number of individuals labeling themselves 'actor' is huge... but those who are truly talented, in addition to being a full-fledged 'movie-star'... now that's a minuscule number.


                
