There have been a number of films about the Deep South during the Civil Rights era, mostly ("Mississippi Burning" and "Ghosts of Mississippi" being examples) concentrating on the political struggle for equality. "The Help" is a recent film which brings a slightly different approach to this period, concentrating on the relationship between well-to-do white Southerners and their black maids. Eugenia "Skeeter" Phelan is a young white woman from a wealthy family in Jackson, Mississippi. She has ambitions to make a career in writing and journalism, and plans to write a book about the experiences of black maids (referred to as "the help") working for white families. Unlike most of her friends, Skeeter is a liberal on racial issues and is horrified by the bigoted views which she has heard other white women express, often quite openly in front of their black servants. She hopes that her book will help to expose this sort of prejudice, but finds that no maids are willing to be interviewed. Eventually, however, two maids, Aibileen Clark and Minny Jackson, come forward. Both have good cause to be dissatisfied with their employers, especially Minny who has not only been sacked but also falsely accused of theft. Minny's employer Hilly is a particularly unpleasant individual, with an obsession with forcing black maids to use separate toilet facilities from the families they work for. The real reason for Minny's sacking was that she used the family's indoor bathroom rather than use an outside toilet during a thunderstorm. (One thing I have never understood why people like Hilly, who obviously has a poisonous dislike of all black people, did not simply employ a white maid; perhaps they could not find any white women willing to work for the low wages that black maids were paid). Some films with a "civil rights" theme, "Mississippi Burning" being an example, have a male-dominated cast, but "The Help" is very much a "women's film" with all the main roles, both heroines and villains, being taken by women. There is an attempt to give Skeeter a boyfriend, but their brief friendship- it never really deserves the name "romance"- fizzles out when he disapproves of her book and of her views on the race question. With that exception, all the male actors play very minor roles. With the exception of Bryce Dallas Howard from "The Village" and Viola Davis, who greatly impressed me in "Doubt", most of the leading actresses in the film were faces I had never seen before. (I must admit that I did not recognise Howard, here a brunette although normally a redhead). I understand that Jessica Chastain actually made seven feature films in 2011- a quite remarkable work-rate for a modern actress- but this is the only one I have yet seen. Chastain plays Celia Foote, Skeeter's only ally among Jackson's housewives. Although Celia's husband is from the city's wealthy elite, she herself is from a working-class background, which means that the likes of Hilly despise her as poor white trash who has got above herself. Although historically many poor whites were just as racist as rich ones, if not more so, Celia's experience of being on the receiving end of bigotry makes her a much more liberal employer. (Minny goes to work for her after being sacked by Hilly). Chastain's is one of a number of excellent performances in this film; the others come from Emma Stone as Skeeter, Davis (even better here than she was in "Doubt") as Aibileen and Octavia Spencer as the sharp-tongued Minny, a woman determined to fight back against prejudice. (Spencer won a "Best Supporting Actress" Oscar). I would have a couple of criticisms of the film. Howard as Hilly, like some of the other actresses playing the snooty society matrons, plays her character rather too much as a one-dimensional stereotype, the snobbish upper-class bitch. The sub-plot involving Minny's chocolate pie seemed out of place, the sort of vulgar humour which would be more at home in a Farrelly Brothers gross-out comedy than in a supposedly serious film. I would not, however, agree with the criticism some have made that the film demeans African-Americans by showing them as dependent upon whites for their emancipation. It is the black characters here who display real courage in bringing their working conditions to public notice, far more so than does Skeeter. She risks nothing worse than losing the friendship of a few people she never cared for in the first place; they risk the loss of their jobs and their livelihoods, and possibly also violence from white racists.Despite my criticisms, I felt that overall "The Help" was an excellent film- a well-acted, emotionally satisfying human drama with some powerful acting performances, and one which shed an interesting light on this period of American history. 8/10
While "The Help" has received TONS of great press and a ton of SAG and other awards, I am also aware that there is some controversy concerning the film. Some people have felt that the film was a bit paternalistic--as it might be interpreted as yet another story of a rich, enlightened white lady going out to help all the downtrodden black folk. I am just not sure if I could see this or not--especially as the black women in the film end up showing LOTS of strength during the course of the film. BUT, I am also a white guy--and it's not fair for me to automatically brand the film one way or another. Just be aware that there are a few who resent the idea of this film.I could discuss the plot, but LOTS of other reviewers have discussed this. So instead, let's talk about what I liked and didn't like. I liked the acting. The problem, however, is that giving any of these actresses awards is tough as it's such an ensemble cast. I can truly understand why the Screen Actor's Guild chose to award ALL the cast a joint award. The direction was very nice and the movie was well filmed. The script was also very nice--and quite inspiring. My quibbles are VERY small---very, very small. I felt that a few characters were a bit one-dimensional (particularly the lead villainess). Also, the ending of the film seemed to drag out a bit and wrapping it up a bit sooner. It wasn't a bad ending--but tightening would have heightened the overall emotional impact.So my advice for you is to see this film. While I still think "Hugo" is the best nominated film this year, I can see the merit in "The Help" winning and "The Artist" sure seems to have a lot of momentum. So, do yourself a favor and see all three--all three are terrific.


                
I wish I could say that all racism is in the past but I think we all know that is not true. However, we can appreciate a film that brings this particular injustice to the forefront. This movie brings everyone to the table in that respect. Many would rather not be there and many more will simply not see this film but perhaps however slowly, we may all eventually come to recognize racism when we see it. Maybe someday we can rise above the amount of melanin in a person's skin, but coming in a year when our (first black) President was forced to prove he is a citizen of the United States by showing his birth certificate in a press conference for the first time ever (even though 3 years prior he had already shown the legal form for his state), and coming in a year when the debt ceiling was held hostage for the first time ever, and coming in a year when the Speaker of the House for the first time ever, publicly rebuffed a sitting president's date request to give a speech to both the House and Senate, it is clear that day is not today.This film is not perfect but it is necessary even so many years after the civil rights act became law. I can't think of a sadder statement.
I saw a preview of this film last night, and it was one of the most moving films I've seen in quite a long time. I went through all of the emotions: anger, sadness, happiness...there were plenty of laughs and plenty of tears.Emma Stone shines brightly as the films headstrong protagonist, Eugenia (Skeeter), who barrels against social injustice through her compilation of the accounts of numerous Black maids in 1960's Jackson, Mississippi into a compelling novel. Emma shows off her range, giving us a both a no-nonsense, determined Skeeter, as well as a softly emotional, tender Skeeter, as we are privy to her inner motivations.The casting of this film is impeccable. Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer are wonderful in the roles of Aibileen and Minny, respectively, Viola providing the heart and soul, Octavia the lightheartedness and laughs. Jessica Chastain is a breath of fresh air as the kind, whimsical, somewhat air-headed and misunderstood Celia Foote. And who could forget Bryce Dallas Howard as the villainous Hilly, whom we despise with all our hearts. I could not have chosen a better cast for this film, as all were truly capable of their roles, and brought this film to life.I give this film 8 of 10 stars, because though it was wonderfully insightful and touching, I felt the pacing was somewhat slow and meandering, though there were a few bursts of high activity. There were also a few cuts from scene to scene that did not flow well. Overall though, I thought this movie was fantastic and I would definitely see it again.


                
Yesterday, I had a 3 hour break in-between classes, and a free movie on my AMC Stubbs card, so I went to the movies. Unbelievably the only thing playing at my time was one of the movies I didn't want to see, The Help. Isn't it funny how the movie you never want to see always turns out to be great? The Help is based on a book by the same title, and follows a young writer, in the mid 1960s, looking for an idea. At a party, she notices how horrible people are to the African American help and decides to write their story. Of course it's a scandalous idea that can get them all killed, but Skeeter finds one woman brave enough to tell her story. This movie is funny, heartwarming, and inspirational, not to mention the acting is top notch. Viola Davis deserves an Oscar nomination for her performance, which is one of the strongest I've seen all year. The Help is an amazing story, with a terrific cast, and a big upside. It has a unique and inspiring story that takes us back to a very tumultuous time in American History, and I can't recommend it enough!


                
Just watched this very compellingly historical drama with my movie theatre-working friend who seen it twice before. We both enjoyed this fictional account of many of the African-American female maids and their stories they tell to an aspiring author named Skeeter (Emma Stone). Among those female servants, Abileen (Viola Davis) and Minny (Octavia Spencer) provide the most interesting of their trials of working for their employers. The most mean of the white employers is one Hilly (Bryce Dallas Howard) who gets most of her comeuppance in the most dirty ways one can imagine. Then, on the other side of the tracks is Celia (Jessica Chastain) who somehow becomes Minny's savior and vice versa. There's also good supporting turns from Sissy Spacek, Cicely Tyson, Mary Steenburgen and especially Allison Janney. Since I haven't read the book, I'm sure there are some details I haven't been privy to that I'm sure might have made this movie even more compelling. But what I've seen is good enough for me to highly recommend The Help.


                
I just watched for the filmography of Emma Stone and found this movie. I didn't think about racism and even the feminism. Nowadays these two topics are hot for discussing in our country. The racism are still remained to our lives and feminism is ahead for the progress. The woman Emma stone played was really progressive person. She even gave up her love for fixing the wrong culture. I could know the phases of the times she lived. I thought that the racism was removed in the world's society, but from the surfing the internet, I could find many examples of 'still remained race discrimination. Also this movie made me to start having interests about feminism and the rights of women are not totally implemented. This movie's story was full of touched and I could see the steps that many people experienced from the times to have their rights.


                
I saw "The Help" at the movies with a group of female friends. The character development in this film is really a great match for the story line. I have a list of my favorite characters which you likely agree that they are all an enterprising bunch. The storyline is in a remarkable setting brought to life from a time of racism. I love that the movie presents the perspective of a number of the characters instead of just being from the perspective of just one character. It definitely has some hilarious moments and even some tear-jerking moments. Its definitely not just a film for women or women of a particular race. It's a film that all can enjoy. They couldn't have picked a better cast to play these characters. They really sold the story line to the viewers leaving us wanting to know more as it was served. It's a fan favorite movie that I can definitely watch again and again.
I loved, loved, loved Viola Davis as Aibileen. She overpowered the movie with the sense of her history and background through her sheer presence on the screen. She'd just be standing there framed in the shot and you knew what she'd gone through and how she carried the weight of her regrets and sadness on her back. I can't rave about this performance enough. She so embodied Aibileen, in a way even more than what I imagined. Her last moments were stunning, saying goodbye suddenly to Mae Mobley and the fear of leaving behind what you've always known and loved. This to follow a dream you might fail at, but either way your hope and faith says you must take the opportunity in the name of all you have lost. In her walk down the road to the bus you know without her saying that taking part in the writing of The Help she has done all in her power for Mae Mobley's future and because of that she has the opportunity to pursue her son's destiny to become a writer herself. Through love and letting go of the hate and disgust she's put herself on the road to a better future no matter what roadblocks she faces. Hehe, yeah I got a lot of unspoken messages out of Viola Davis' performance.Jessica Chastain rocked Celia Foote! Even though a lot of what I loved about the character was slimmed out of the movie I thought Chastain really took every moment to embody Celia. The screenwriter did a solid job keeping enough about the character that her arc didn't feel choppy or all over the place. This gave Chastain a good foundation for the character but I feel like the actress worked well not only as her character but in conjunction with Octavia Spencer as Minny and with the cast as a whole. Her role was a rather physical one in comparison to Viola Davis who had to stand around and emote. Chastain really excelled in this aspect. Balancing seems to be a skill she excels at. Watching the second time I found myself even more moved by her entire story as her relationship with Minny was a powerful as Aibileen's relationship with Mae Mobley.Sissy Spacek as Missus Walters rocked it! Wow! I could have watched an entire movie with her and Minny in some kind of Odd Couple or Grouchy Women knock off. She added such dimension I believe to both Minny and Hilly. In fact, I think she made the movie version of her character pop in ways the book version washed out. Cicely Tyson as Constantine Jefferson did the same thing for Skeeter except she only had one scene to do it. Talk about a master! From that one scene you got the movie version of Skeeter's motivation and the root of her ability to withstand her family and friends opinions and disapproval. The moving scene where she packs her belongings and touched Skeeter's height markings<U+0085>wow, nothing even need be said how much she loved Skeeter. I hate to write so little when the performances were so powerful but a lot of their accolades are directed to those they supported.Ahna O'Reilly as Elizabeth Leefolt and Allison Janney as Charlotte Phelan were fine in their respective roles. O'Reilly portrayed Elizabeth as what she was a follower. Janney very subtly worked her role as Skeeter's mother. There were a lot of changes to her story arc and so there were changes to the character. I didn't love these changes but I feel like they were no reflection on the actress.As for winning any of the Best Ensemble Awards I believe they are totally deserved, even with my criticism for some of the acting. This might seen hypocritical to some – I don't think so though. The acting was solid in the movie. There was a lot of different elements to the characters and the plot to balance and if the director seemed to drop the ball at times that wasn't really the actresses fault. I guess what I'm really saying is I think the missteps I perceived were in the acting upon my first viewing were not acting problems so much as direction problems. Perhaps he was too close to the material or the people involved. Perhaps balance is not his forte. As a story lover some of the characters didn't quite jive with their arc on a specific level, but for most I believe it works on the more general one.The movie was good. It didn't blow my mind like the book though. I would have loved to have seen a little more of the finer details transferred from the written medium to the visual. Still I think everyone ought to at least see the movie if you aren't one for reading. The cast is worth the effort.To read more about the adaption of the book to the movie: http://yaykisspurr.wordpress.com/2012/04/12/which-skeeter-is-better/
If you have read and enjoyed the novel by K. Stockett, you won't be disappointed by the movie, on the contrary you will love it, too. The picture proves definitely up to the novel, that same entertaining and sensitive touch is evident from the first shots, and it's very easy to be drawn into the story and the characters.Certainly, "The help", both the novel and the movie, does not have the sharp and dramatic edge of "The long walk home", and although truly committed while representing the condition of black maids working for white families during the 60's, some light is shed, in a way that racism and intolerance are to be counterbalanced by the idea that something could really change. Focus in on the womens' relationship, and also the contrast white-black is explored from a female point of view, around the themes of motherhood and the role of women in Southern society, inside a story where the male point of view is almost absent.The movie is wonderfully acted, once having read the novel, I could not have thought of better interpreters, Viola Davis, Octavia Spencer and Emma Stone are exactly how I had devised Aibileen, Minnie, and Skeeter in my mind. It is as if the story and the characters I had devised in my mind while reading the book, were visually developing through the picture. Also the characters of Celia, Hilly and Skeeters's mother help compose a great female cast, and make the movie truly enjoyable from beginning till end. In the end, a movie definitely worth watching, in the same way as the book was worth reading.


                
In 1963, a young journalist and aspiring novelist returns to her hometown, Jackson, Mississippi, at a time when the civil rights movement is gaining momentum. Her job on the Jackson Journal – writing a column on house cleaning tips – leads her into contact with the experts: black women who are the nannies, cooks and housekeepers for rich white folk. Thus begins an unlikely alliance that exposes the indignities suffered by black maids at the hands of Southern belles who ironically spend their idle moments raising money for African charities. The ultimate revenge of the maids is both funny and gross. The movie evokes many emotions; laughter, tears, anger and perhaps even shame. There are wonderful performances by the maids, Octavia Spencer and Viola Davis, who surely must be in the running for Oscar nominations.The book on which the movie is based is pure fiction but the interspersing of historical facts – the murder of a civil rights campaigner and the assassination of President Kennedy – create the feel of a true story. The excesses of the era, from Ford Thunderbirds to the women's dresses and hairstyles, are authentically depicted. And there are real parallels between the fictional novelist (Skeeter Phelan – played by Emma Stone) and the book's author, Kathryn Stockett, who was born in Jackson, raised by a black nanny, and who struggled to get her first novel published. The movie can also be viewed as a social commentary on the times. As such, it has been criticized for its stereotypes, caricatures, hyperbole, even racism. Such a criticism would be valid for a documentary but not for a work of fiction. Perhaps the criticism is an indication that the topic can still hit a raw nerve.


                
This Movie is proof that Hollywood can still produce great films!! The Help is a picture that will have something for everybody. You will laugh, you will cry and ultimately come out of the theatre feeling changed from when you went in. It will be no shocker to see this film being recognized when Oscar season rolls around. Both Viola Davis and Emma Stone truly shine through this well acted and directed picture. I was extremely pleased to see Stone taking on a more serious role that allows the audience to finally discover just how talented she actually is. Overall The Help was a complete breath of fresh air on what has been a somewhat dismal year of film thus far. GO SEE IT!


                
A very well developed story. It is definitely bound to move you and it puts across beautiful messages that defy any racist stereotype about colored people. I recommend it to anyone who is fond of social movies and want a happy, funny and cozy film with tremendous meaning behind it though.


                
Reviewed April 2012Not many movies can be branded clichéd, stereotypical, predictable and at the same time excellent and interesting. This movie is just that, of course some excellent acting and likable characters did help too. I always admire a maker's clarity on what they want to present, even if there are some glitches in execution, but this movie has none. Skeeter (Emma Stone) an aspiring author during the wake of Civil Rights movement, wants to write a book on the African-American maids point-of-view on their masters. The times are dark and for a black person to come forth and talk is also a crime in the State of Mississippi. After a few refusals, Aibileen Clark (Viola Davis) comes forth to talk and share her views. After a few more incidents, another maid Minny (Octavia Spencer) joins. Soon there are plenty of maids who want to share their stories after an injustice after another mounts on them. Skeeter has a neutral point-of-view and is determined to complete what she started, no matter what sacrifices she has to make. As I had mentioned earlier, this plot is completely cliché driven and the characters and sequences align themselves to present a viewer friendly closure to every incident present. But this whole mess is wrapped in such a nicely packed presentation, though it crossed the corner of my mind while watching, I could point them out only when I think of the scenes when writing the review. So in a way the movie has succeeded it's objective of holding the viewers attention and entertaining them too and the portrayal of those stereotypical characters to be likable is another peak to mount, which this ensemble cast does with ease. A special mention should go to Viola Davis and Octavia Spencer as the maids in focus, they are the ones that produce and control the emotional aspect of the movie. There she is, Jessica Chastain again featuring in the immediate movie I have watched, she does her reputation no harm here also displaying another dimension to her acting. She resembles a lot of Julia Roberts to me in both looks and acting wise. All the negative things you might have heard about this movie are probably true. But what triumphs is the excellent presentation and it should be a case study for that aspect, to hide all the limitations and plot holes at least until its runtime. A definite watch.


                
"The Help" is a film set in the 1960s just as the Civil Rights movement is taking off. Skeeter (Emma Stone) returns to her home town in Mississippi after college, desiring to become a writer. Shocked by the way some of the women treat their Afro-American maids, Skeeter decides to write a book from the viewpoint of the maids. Her family had a maid who basically raised her, Constantine (Cicely Tyson), but she's left the family, and Skeeter is unable to find out anything about why or what happened to her.The first housekeeper to open up is Aibileen (Viola Davis) and eventually more women join in. And it's quite a story they have to tell. Little do they know, they are on the cusp of the Civil Rights movement. Change is coming.The cast for this film is magnificent -- Bryce Dallas Howard is the nasty Hilly, Octavia Jackson plays a maid, Milly, who goes to work for Celia; Allison Janney is Skeeter's mother, Jessica Chastain is the heart-of-gold, rejected Celia, accused of breaking up a marriage. Every one of them creates a full character, and their acting is perfect. Both Howard and Stone step into a new category of acting expertise.Cicely Tyson has a few very small scenes, and she nearly steals the film. It's her performance that will haunt you.Also in the film are Sissy Spacek, Mary Steenburgen, Leslie Jordan, and Dana Ivey.This film will make you laugh, make you angry, and finally make you cry. It catches the '60s atmosphere and also the varying attitudes of the southern women, many of whom are bigoted and condescending.Unfortunately the racial problems in this country have yet to be solved. I remember one black woman and her husband going to Buffalo, New York, and being amazed that they could walk into any restaurant and not be thrown out. Another friend's father became ill while they were traveling in the south. They went to a clinic - because her father was of Sicilian descent and had been in the sun, he was cared for on the black side. Being from the north, they had no idea there was a black and white side.When you think about how many of these people had to live their lives, the restrictions they lived under, the lack of opportunity, it's sobering.Excellent film, thought-provoking, and highly recommended.


                
This film came highly recommended by classmates of mine, and I must say it did not disappoint. After watching this film I now can't wait to read the book.The entire story is based around the theme of social problems. In the film the social problem of race issues are represented when a small minority group makes the choice to speak out and about life as they know it in their small town of Mississippi. The premise of the film starts with Skeeter (Emma Stone) graduating from college and in desperation to start her writing career takes a job writing for a cleaning column at the local newspaper. Skeeter struggles with understanding the simple mindedness of her childhood friends when it comes to how they treat their staff. Skeeter, desperate to share her observations, decides she would like to write about it all but in the perspective of the maids. At first and as expected, the maids refuse to help. After a stroke of courage, Aibileen (Viola Davis) does concede. Skeeter and Aibileen meet and the stories begin to pour. Aibileen's good friend Minny (Octavia Spencer) finds out about the secret meetings of Skeeter and Aibileen and also decides to join in with her story. Many other soon follow their lead to take Skeeter's writings to a much higher level than even she anticipated.The social problems theme in the movie is relatable to that of the film the Green Mile. Although the characters in this film are not being physically abused the maids are constantly being abused verbally and emotionally. Given the time period in which both of these films take place the social problems are almost identical. Both films deal with race as the issue as well as have at least one person of a different race that is able to see past social status and color to try everything they can, to make some sort of difference. In my opinion both the musicality and the lighting not only made this film extraordinary, but helped to re establish the theme of the film. Examples of this can be seen in many different scenes. For instance the lighting constantly reminds us how taboo it is for women like Skeeter to be seen with the help. When Skeeter travels to Aibileen's house to discuss the book, the lighting is dark helping the viewer to grasp the uneasiness as well as restate how unsafe, and illegal it was for Aibileen and Minny to be collaborating with Skeeter. The same can be said for the musicality of the film. Very often there is soft subtle music playing in the background giving the viewer the extra push to feel what the characters are feeling. Specifically in the scene where it is raining and everyone is made aware of how Hilly Holbrook (Bryce Dallas Howard) feels about the help using the restrooms in her house. The scene starts with slow, soft, subtle music by the end of the scene Minny has been fired and is walking in a storm the slow heartbreaking music gets louder forcing the viewer to be emotionally vested in what just took place for Minny, and once again re iterating the theme of what is or was socially acceptable in that time period and in the film. For a film that takes place roughly 50 years ago in the civil rights era, and primarily focuses on the social problems of that era, it was both entertaining and engaging.


                
The world is a combination of species that do not necessarily need to be mixed, but if you need to create together, the framework that gives you that magical texture to today. The history of Mankind is perfectly prepared, personalized, in fact every crazy thought and benevolent, but that mixture of thought, is where the new born and most beautiful human behavior. Each story is a time of learning, a time where many people was the sacrifice for us to learn a lesson, how sad is when some forget when some break the chain of knowledge that has cost both to mankind. Thanks "The Help" We can still remember the lessons learned and help those even after so long not been able to learn from our past, that we are all part of the great network called humanity.


                
Recently, I have re-watched 'The Help', and I can already say, the film is even better the second time I've watched it. This film is a true masterpiece and I'm surprised that people disliked the film. Still, opinions are opinions, and it seems that they have their own. In this review, I will go through a summary of the film, talk about the characters, the presentation, the problems and my opinions on the film.The story is about an aspiring author named Skeeter choosing to interview black women to write a book full of their views on situations. During the story, many scenes occur emphasizing the discrimination back in the 1960s. The jokes that show up in this film are hilarious and the scenes of drama are done perfectly. You feel empathy for the main characters when they're put in certain situations which could end up changing for the worst. To sum it up, the story was brilliant and I couldn't find any problems or flaws with the story.The characters each have their own unique personalities and stories. Unlike Frozen, the characters and support characters actually mean something. They have stories that leave you in tears. Minny is a hilarious character and has two lines that stay in your mind for a while. Skeeter is a very interesting character. The story emphasises her desire to write a book, and eventually, that dream comes true. Abileen is very three dimensional and has many great moments. She is a great character because without her in the plot, the story wouldn't be able to develop. Overall, the characters are brilliant and even the smaller characters are as good as the main.The presentation is great. The lighting is vibrant and smooth, and the houses and sets are bright and spacious. The trees and plants in this film are bright and green. One thing I like about the lighting is how the film is possibly set in summer. They have obviously done a good job with the lighting, and it makes the film's scenery pop.With every film comes a problem. One of the problems of the film was too careful not to offend anyone. They held back on the truth of what the times were like back then, but I'm sure they wanted to keep this film at a 12+ rating. Another problem is how saturated the lighting is. Yes I was praising the lighting for looking smooth and vibrant, but the colours seem unrealistically bright at times. In conclusion, I think this film has done a good job with showing off 1960s America without going overboard. While they may hold back on a few aspects, they make it up to you with hilarious comedy, great drama and memorable quotes. If you see this film in the shop, I recommend buying it to see how it holds up for you. I give this film an 8/10.
I found this movie sad. It depicted the way colored people were treated and they were treated as sub-human. Those parts of this film made me angry actually. I did really like the revenge parts of what the one maid did to her employer... Without adding spoilers to this, the other revenges which took place...It was a very good film actually and with very good acting...I was very much moved by the film and at times almost to tears with some parts...Octavia Spencer and Viola Davis were awesome in the film...I would recommend this movie to be watched..It does tell the true way of how colored people were badly treated and regarded as slaves to racist white people.


                
The help is a film full of emotion, and hope, telling the story of the black housemaids in southern Mississippi and their relationships with their white employers. A college graduate of Ole Miss, aspiring journalist and society woman of Mississippi, Skeeter Phalen, goes to work on a piece that evolves into a sort of exposé on the help and their relationships and feelings toward their white counterparts. Throughout the movie you are taken on a journey of highs, and lows, that is very emotion evoking. Aibileen Clark and Minny Jackson are the two main maids that Skeeter gets her information and stories from, however once they start talking, many more women tell their stories as well. There is a background element of the secret that Skeeters mother is keeping about the mysterious disappearance of Skeeter's family's own housemaid which is just another one of many elements that keep you wrapped around the story and wanting more. The whole story serves as a kind of hopeful element of this time, among the tragedy that is touched on throughout the movie, it doesn't seem to focus so much highlighting the very terrible ways that whites treated their black slaves in this time, but rather on the fact that through the use of Skeete and her sympathy and interest toward the help that not all white people were terrible people back then, which serves as the element of hope for society throughout the movie. Overall I was very impressed with this film and would definitely recommend it to anyone who is interested in historical happenings of this nature, or are just in the mood for a heartwarming story.


                
Over all the movie I thought had a touching message and was brilliantly acted by all the actors that portrayed these characters. As a movie based of a book I say that they followed the book pretty well. The reason this movie did not get a perfect 10 from me will be very apparent if you look at the historical inaccuracy of the book. Although the movie does portray a broad range on the 1960 from Jim Crow laws to the KKK and even Kennedy's assassination it down played the way living in Mississippi in the 1960's would have been like. Instead of showing the horrificness of killing, rape, abuse, lynching and racial slurs it was substituted by mean hose wife's who crated drama. Although maid at that time were a lot closer the the children then their own mothers were it doesn't excuse the fact of the movie tiptoeing around what it was actually like down south. Another thing that they hovered around was the maids telling the story knew and told of why it was dangerous but the sense of the physical danger they could face was missing. Overall it was a well casted movie and very touching storyline but not historically portrayed well.


                
I thoroughly enjoyed this movie. It's a nuanced depiction of a certain aspect of American racial segregation (domestic 'help' provided by black women to white families) on the journey into the civil rights movement.Unlike other films on this topic, this isn't a dark or unsettling movie. None of the characters meet a tragic demise. The Hell is moving, yes and doesn't shy away from realism, but it's produced in an upbeat, often very funny, style.In fact some of the scenes are laugh out loud funny. There's a brilliant, pivotal moment where the disturbing practice of getting black women to go outdoors when they need the toilet, is turned into a hilarious opportunity to humiliate a domineering white socialite.It was also nice to see a film in which all the lead actors and the main supporting actors were female. I thought they all played their parts perfectly, including a deserved Oscar-winning performance by Octavia Spencer.This is a great little gem of a movie that really surprised me.
In my opinion, The Help is a nice introduction to how women were treated/perceived in the 1960s, and more importantly a good way to instigate a conversation about the civil's right movements with young kids because this movie touches these subjects without getting too deep into it. It's the Disney version - meaning it's not gritty and raw - it's neat and clean, meant to not offend anybody but the everything is there even when it's only hinted.The movie's long, over 2h30, but it has a lot of ground to cover and before I looked it up I didn't even thought it was that long. It can only mean that it is a smooth experience. I don't mean smooth as in it's a blend, monotonous movie because it's not, you are pulled into the story and get emotionally invested without getting too riled up - it's Disney after all.The source material is good but the cast really did an amazing job. Each and everyone of them portrayed their character, however stereotypical some of them might have been, brilliantly. It was simply great ensemble that director.@wornoutspines


                
I guess the movie achieved what it aimed to achieve: to make me care about the subject, to make me upset, and to make me hate our American ancestors a little bit more. But hating is OK in this case, because it's a proof that I truly enjoyed this movie.The director takes us to Mississippi, around the time of the Mad Men. Although, in this case, it's all about their wives, their lifestyles and the silly habits they developed to look like they have a happy life and a perfect family. The reality though is that around the house, they owe everything to their black maids. A group of hard working and lovable African-Americans, who have to put up with humiliations and hardships on a daily basis, in the fear of losing their jobs. However, a glow of hope presents itself for these ladies: a young and courageous white author who was raised by one these maids decides to take action and sets to publish a book about their stories for the world to read. But will the maids overcome their fear to tell the world what they are going through, or will they carry on with their lives as if nothing was happening? Two of them find the bravery to talk, and that's how we get to discover the social differences of those years and the ridiculous contradictions from a time when no contact was wanted with black people, yet you allowed them to raise your own children! You didn't let them use your bathroom, yet you let them cook and touch your food, etc<U+0085>All these elements of injustice are the perfect ingredients to make for a touching and often upsetting movie, but it does find ways to be amusing, and it's super entertaining from the word go. I honestly laughed more than I was angry. All in all, I thoroughly enjoyed it, and I am willing to say that i would have loved for the movie to last a little longer. Watch it. Do not hesitate a moment.


                
The help is a movie about a girl who wants to be a journalist and who writes a book based on the experiences of the black maids that work for her friends. The movie handles a difficult subject really well, bringing lightness to it, so that it won't get tiring for the audience, but, at the same time, it doesn't robes the subject off it's importance and seriousness. The story follows the lives of many characters, not only the main ones, but it doesn't gets confusing, as many movies with more than one stories to show gets, and, as I said previously, it doesn't gets tiring to watch. The performances were great and that helped a lot the film to be as good, but the set and the costumes contributed as well. There was only one thing I didn't like, and that was the ending, because it didn't keep up with the movie and got stuck into the corny happy triumph that many movies have as an ending. Other than that the Help is a great movie, so 8 out of 10.
