One of the early scenes in "Pulp Fiction" features two hit-men discussing what a Big Mac is called in other countries. Their dialogue is witty and entertaining, and it's also disarming, because it makes these two thugs seem all too normal. If you didn't know better, you might assume these were regular guys having chit-chat on their way to work. Other than the comic payoff at the end of the scene, in which they use parts of this conversation to taunt their victims, their talk has no relevance to anything in the film, or to anything else, for that matter. Yet without such scenes, "Pulp Fiction" wouldn't be "Pulp Fiction." I get the sense that Tarantino put into the film whatever struck his fancy, and somehow the final product is not only coherent but wonderfully textured.It's no wonder that fans spend so much time debating what was in the suitcase, reading far more into the story than Tarantino probably intended. The film is so intricately structured, with so many astonishing details, many of which you won't pick up on the first viewing, that it seems to cry out for some deeper explanation. But there is no deeper explanation. "Pulp Fiction," is, as the title indicates, purely an exercise in technique and style, albeit a brilliant and layered one. Containing numerous references to other films, it is like a great work of abstract art, or "art about art." It has all the characteristics we associate with great movies: fine writing, first-rate acting, unforgettable characters, and one of the most well-constructed narratives I've ever seen in a film. But to what end? The self-contained story does not seem to have bearing on anything but itself.The movie becomes a bit easier to understand once you realize that it's essentially a black comedy dressed up as a crime drama. Each of the three main story threads begins with a situation that could easily form the subplot of any standard gangster movie. But something always goes wrong, some small unexpected accident that causes the whole situation to come tumbling down, leading the increasingly desperate characters to absurd measures. Tarantino's originality stems from his ability to focus on small details and follow them where they lead, even if they move the story away from conventional plot developments.Perhaps no screenplay has ever found a better use for digressions. Indeed, the whole film seems to consist of digressions. No character ever says anything in a simple, straightforward manner. Jules could have simply told Yolanda, "Be cool and no one's going to get hurt," which is just the type of line you'd find in a generic, run-of-the-mill action flick. Instead, he goes off on a tangent about what Fonzie is like. Tarantino savors every word of his characters, finding a potential wisecrack in every statement and infusing the dialogue with clever pop culture references. But the lines aren't just witty; they are full of intelligent observations about human behavior. Think of Mia's statement to Vincent, "That's when you know you've found somebody special: when you can just shut the f--- up for a minute and comfortably enjoy the silence."What is the movie's purpose exactly? I'm not sure, but it does deal a lot with the theme of power. Marsellus is the sort of character who looms over the entire film while being invisible most of the time. The whole point of the big date sequence, which happens to be my favorite section of the film, is the power that Marsellus has over his men without even being present. This power is what gets Vincent to act in ways you would not ordinarily expect from a dumb, stoned gangster faced with an attractive woman whose husband has gone away. The power theme also helps explain one of the more controversial aspects of the film, its liberal use of the N-word. In this film, the word isn't just used as an epithet to describe blacks: Jules, for instance, at one point applies the term to Vincent. It has more to do with power than with race. The powerful characters utter the word to express their dominance over weaker characters. Most of these gangsters are not racist in practice. Indeed, they are intermingled racially, and have achieved a level of equality that surpasses the habits of many law-abiding citizens in our society. They resort to racial epithets because it's a patter that establishes their separateness from the non-criminal world.There's a nice moral progression to the stories. We presume that Vincent hesitates to sleep with Mia out of fear rather than loyalty. Later, Butch's act of heroism could be motivated by honor, but we're never sure. The film ends, however, with Jules making a clear moral choice. Thus, the movie seems to be exploring whether violent outlaws can act other than for self-preservation.Still, it's hard to find much of a larger meaning tying together these eccentric set of stories. None of the stories are really "about" anything. They certainly are not about hit-men pontificating about burgers. Nor is the film really a satire or a farce, although it contains elements of both. At times, it feels like a tale that didn't need to be told, but for whatever reason this movie tells it and does a better job than most films of its kind, or of any other kind.


                
I can only speak for myself, but I had never seen anything as stylish, cleverly constructed, well written and electrifying as this milestone when I first saw it in 1994. What really pulled me in right from the start is what we've now come to know as a Tarantino trademark: the dialogue. When gangsters Jules and Vincent talk to each other (or all the other characters, for that matter) there is a natural flow, a sense of realism and yet something slightly over the top and very theatrical about their lines – it's a mixture that immediately grabs your attention (even if it's just two dudes talking about what kind of hamburger they prefer, or contemplating the value of a foot-massage). Then there's the music: the songs Tarantino chose for his masterpiece fit their respective scenes so perfectly that most of those pieces of music are now immediately associated with 'Pulp Fiction'. And the narrative: the different story lines that come together, the elegantly used flashbacks, the use of "chapters" – there is so much playful creativity at play here, it's just a pure joy to watch.If you're a bit of a film geek, you realize how much knowledge about film and love for the work of other greats – and inspiration from them - went into this (Leone, DePalma, Scorsese and, of course, dozens of hyper-stylized Asian gangster flicks), but to those accusing Tarantino of copying or even "stealing" from other film-makers I can only say: There has never been an artist who adored his kind of art that was NOT inspired or influenced by his favorite artists. And if you watch Tarantino's masterpiece today, it's impossible not to recognize just what a breath of fresh air it was (still is, actually). Somehow, movies - especially gangster films - never looked quite the same after 'Pulp Fiction'. Probably the most influential film of the last 20 years, it's got simply everything: amazing performances (especially Sam Jackson); it features some of the most sizzling, iconic dialogue ever written; it has arguably one of the best non-original soundtracks ever - it's such a crazy, cool, inspirational ride that you feel dizzy after watching it for the first time. It's – well: it's 'Pulp Fiction'. 10 stars out of 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
To put this in context, I am 34 years old and I have to say that this is the best film I have seen without doubt and I don't expect it will be beaten as far as I am concerned. Obviously times move on, and I acknowledge that due to its violence and one particularly uncomfortable scene this film is not for everyone, but I still remember watching it for the first time, and it blew me away. Anyone who watches it now has to remember that it actually changed the history of cinema. In context- it followed a decade or more of action films that always ended with a chase sequence where the hero saved the day - you could have written those films yourself. Pulp had you gripped and credited the audience with intelligence. There is not a line of wasted dialogue and the movie incorporates a number of complexities that are not immediately obvious. It also resurrected the career of Grease icon John Travolta and highlighted the acting talent of Samuel L Jackson. There are many films now that are edited out of sequence and have multiple plots etc but this is the one they all want to be, or all want to beat, but never will.


                
If you think "Pulp Fiction" is brilliant, you're wrong. It's more than that. It's a milestone in the history of film making. It's already a classic. But why? Because of the many "f" words, or maybe because of the brain and skull pieces on the rear window of a car? No, that's surely not the point (unfortunately some other users - fortunately the minority - don't get it). Tarantino has made a movie that's someway different from many other action, gangster or crime movies. What's so different? He knows the subject of the movie is "cool", he knows it's a product of mass culture, and he even likes it by himself. But he smiles at it and tells three great stories with a lot of irony. And this irony is the first point. The second point is that he gave souls to extremely schematic characters. They surely aren't another action heroes who you forget as fast as you can twinkle. They are human beings like we are, talking about Burger King and McDonalds, about TV series and a foot massage. They just earn their money with killing others or selling drugs. What else is so great about "Pulp Fiction"? It's the acting, the directing, the cinematography, the soundtrack, the sense of humour and the whole rest. In my opinion it's all worth nothing less than a 10 out of 10. A masterpiece.
Viewers are taken on a ride through three different stories that entertwine together around the world of Marcellus Wallace. Quentin Tarantino proves that he is the master of witty dialogue and a fast plot that doesn't allow the viewer a moment of boredom or rest. From the story of two hit-man on a job, to a fixed boxing match to a date between a hit-man and the wife of a mob boss. There was definitely a lot of care into the writing of the script, as everything no matter the order it is in, fits with the story. Many mysteries have been left such as what is inside of the briefcase and why Marcellus Wallace has a band-aid on the back of his neck, which may be connected. The movie redefined the action genre and reinvigorated the careers of both John Travolta and Bruce Willis. This movie is required viewing for any fan of film.


                
Pulp Fiction may be the single best film ever made, and quite appropriately it is by one of the most creative directors of all time, Quentin Tarantino. This movie is amazing from the beginning definition of pulp to the end credits and boasts one of the best casts ever assembled with the likes of Bruce Willis, Samuel L. Jackson, John Travolta, Uma Thurman, Harvey Keitel, Tim Roth and Christopher Walken. The dialog is surprisingly humorous for this type of film, and I think that's what has made it so successful. Wrongfully denied the many Oscars it was nominated for, Pulp Fiction is by far the best film of the 90s and no Tarantino film has surpassed the quality of this movie (although Kill Bill came close). As far as I'm concerned this is the top film of all-time and definitely deserves a watch if you haven't seen it.


                
Quentin Tarantino's Pulp Fiction is a terrific film. It also gets better with each viewing, especially if one of those happens to be on a big theatrical screen where all of the BIG compositions get bigger and more detailed. How much else is there to talk about it after all these years? It's filled with dynamite, sudden and always interesting action, great and naturally clever dialogue, and memorable characters. Also, the acting is always something to behold as by turns straightforward, over the top, subtle, and just downright menacing and spot-on. The directing is one of the strongest that we've seen from Tarantino, as he makes his choices in pacing with shots in unconventional ways but never in a way that would be distracting. And writing, already noted, has been copied by many, and only equaled by a select few. The dance sequence. Samuel L. Jackson's superlative monologuing. It has loyalty among low lifes, and many other odd characters that are all bad and not one is a villain or hero. And somehow even after years of parody and terrible rip-offs, it holds its own and- as one can say after seeing it at a midnight screening- holds its audience as much as it had the countless times before they saw it (or if they are, the first time). The first time you're surprised, the second time you look for the clues or other ambiguity, and then the third time you laugh you head off. The fourth time... I'll leave to you.


                
It kind of feels redundant trying to write a review for Pulp Fiction as it approaches its 20th birthday. As a film it needs no introduction, it won the Palme d'Or at Cannes, won a BAFTA and Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay (Tarantino), and garnered a whole host of other awards and nominations. Box office beef was meaty and its reputation even now shows no sign of waning (it currently sits at number 4 on the IMDb top 100 list), it is by definition one cool MOFO of a movie, a picture loved by a cross section of demographics. But why?Pulp Fiction oozes humour, romance, violence and stylish flourishes. It remains compulsive viewing throughout; even as it threatens to get submerged in its own complex structure. Film lover Tarantino takes a number of low life and unfortunate characters from Los Angeles, mainlines then with movie clichés, and then amazingly breathes new life into them. It knowingly winks at B movies from the past yet always remains fresh on its own terms. I myself having just revisited the film after a 5 year gap can attest to just how well it holds up, laughing at the dialogue, perched on the edge of the seat as violence starts to rumble, and yes, singing along with that most catchy of soundtracks.Yet for all its flashiness and hipster chattering, there's one thing that often gets overlooked when talk of Pulp Fiction's greatness arises. That of a basic human urge to survive or find salvation, Tarantino's main characters may be bottom feeders or scummy operatives of the underworld, but there's love and needing beating slowly in its dark heart before the drugs and violence take a hold. Neat trick that from Tarantino, brilliant in fact. 10/10


                
The hit-men Vincent Vega (John Travolta) and Jules Winnfield (Samuel L. Jackson) work for the powerful mobster Marsellus Wallace (Ving Rhames). Vincent has lived in Amsterdam for three years and is assigned with Jules to retrieve a suitcase that belongs to their boss. There is a shootout and Vincent and Jules do not die because the shots of one gangster fails the target. Jules believes that God's hand has interfered in the bullets and he decides to redeem himself from his life of gangster. Vincent is assigned by Marsellus to go out with his wife Mia (Uma Thurman)while he is traveling and he is scared when she has an OD. Marsellus pays the boxer Butch Coolidge (Bruce Willis) to lose his fight on the fifth round, but Butch wins the fight. He flees from Marsellus and his gangsters but his girlfriend Fabienne (Maria de Medeiros) forgets to bring his golden watch that belongs to his family for many generations. Butch returns to his apartment and he faces Vincent first and Marsellus later. But an incident with sadistic perverts brings Marsellus and Butch side by side. "Pulp Fiction" is one of my favorite movies ever. I had seen this movie for the last time on 11 January 2002 and today I have just watched it again. When we compare the nominations for Best Picture in the 1995 Oscar ("Pulp Fiction", "The Shawshank Redemption" and the winner and weakest "Forrest Gump") with the movies nominated this year we can see that the Oscar winners are not necessarily the best movies of the cinema history. "Pump Fiction" saved the career of John Travolta that was in the ostracism and put on the spot Quentin Tarantino after the cult "Reservoir Dogs". The complex screenplay with four entwined story has shown to the world the brilliance of Quentin Tarantino. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Pulp Fiction – Tempo de Violência" ("Pulp Fiction: Time of Violence")


                
It's no surprise that 'Pulp fiction' is a movie that made cinematic history and defined the pulp fiction genre. It features a series of conversations and events coherently, but not chronologically, told. Tarantino tells three different but intertwined stories. Each of the stories are clichéd and have a noir feel but Tarantino gives them a different and unique treatment and adds sharp witty dialogues full of truth and irony (and references to many classic movies and popular TV shows). He uses a lot of warm colours and the film is slightly sepia tinted. Also there's a lot of attention to intricate detail and it is a finely layered movie such that one discovers something new with every subsequent viewing. There's also a certain ambiguity about it. It's not certain in which time the film is set or what was it in the briefcase that stunned Ringo...lots of questions and the answers are open for discussion. The cinematography is slick and sharp and the soundtrack is a classic. Then there's the outstanding cast that includes, John Travolta, Samuel L. Jackson, Tim Roth, Bruce Willis, Uma Thurman, Rosanne Arquette, Eric Stoltz, Ving Rhames, Maria de Medeires and Amanda Plummer, all of whom have a magnificent presence and memorable dialogue delivery. There are so many classic scenes that people discuss, even today. My personal favourites are the date sequence (and the scenes that follow) with Travolta and Thurman and the series of conversations between Travolta and Jackson. I doubt there's anything to say about 'Pulp Fiction' that hasn't been said. Whether one likes it or not, this movie is here to stay and even today it is among the most talked about movies. I have already seen it at least four times and it still amuses and fascinates me just like it did during first viewing.


                
Grade: A +Is it a redemption story? If so, of human nature, or the characters themselves? A simple buddy film where action and comedy is spliced together? HELL NO!! This film has a left mark ever since I saw it. It was so different, so humorous, and yet so moving. All of this in one genre that is in itself truly hard to define.Tarantino has truly written a masterpiece. This film in reality tells three stories, which one such as myself, upon first viewing, found confusing. What can I say; it was my first Tarantino film! But after watching it several times, as I have also done, it really starts to hit you. Simply said, it really is a redemption story. Our characters are hit men, drug dealers and proud users and crime bosses. They make a living off killing and sin. So, in essence they are the "bad guys". And yet the audience is drawn to them due to the comedy they use. The dialogue is so rich and original we get to see two hit men talk freely about foot massages right before busting a mission, and yet it isn't regarded as silly. What other film can do that; none!In fact, it is these moments that give "Pulp Fiction" that flame. Perhaps the best example of this savior of the human soul theme is Samuel L. Jackson's character, Jules. His performance is probably the most vivid in the movie. Every line he utters is a testament to what Tarantino envisioned. The human soul is a vile corrupt thing, but it can be reformed. It can be saved. But one has to be willing to make that change. Many times it takes a miracle for us to realize that and to make a change. It can even be our destiny to save the souls of others, as the final scene depicts with Pumpkin (Tim Roth) and Honey Bunny (Amanda Plummer). There are cruel consequences that fate can play against those who refuse their destiny, as the tragic case with Vincent's death.The cast is spectacular. John Travolta and Uma Thurman (Mia) have a genius yet troubled 'love-story', twisted with temptation. Christopher Walken appears as Captain Koons and Ving Rhames as Marsellus Wallace. My favorite actor besides Samuel L. Jackson has got to be Harvey Keitel, who is known only as the Wolf. Every actor brings a different emotion to the film, really spicing it up and making it a varied film.One of my personal Top 15 films ever, "Pulp Fiction" is widely entertain and will invoke the curiosity of movie goers for years to come.
This is Tarantino's absolute best work and quite simply one of the best films ever! with brilliant storytelling and incredible performances. All the characters are wonderful and very memorable, and there are plenty of surprising and shocking moments throughout, plus Samuel L. Jackson,John Travolta,Bruce Willis and Uma Thurman are all simply amazing in this!. The dialog is extremely intelligent and witty, and I thought the whole foot massage story was really funny, plus The opening and ending are both especially awesome. I believe this film deserves to be #9 on the top 250! and my favorite segment has to be the watch with Butch Coolidge (Willis), plus Jackson and Travolta were so awesome together and had brilliant chemistry!. The music is fantastic, and Mia's (Thurman) OD'ing scene is both disturbing and somewhat funny at the same time, plus I thought the character development was outstanding. Ving Rhames is ultra cool in his role, and this is extremely well made and written as well! plus the scene where Mia and Vincent Vega are at the diner is just fascinating!.I remember watching this when I was about 13 or 14, and thinking it was so boring, god how could I have been so stupid!, this is truly what brilliant filmaking is all about, plus all the characters are extremely likable. I personally thought Quentin Tarantino was great in his scene and it is quite violent at times, plus one of my favorite scenes is when Vincent Vega's gun accidentally goes off in the car, as I found that to be a great bit of dark humor in my opinion. Harevy Keitel's scene is a memorable one was The Wolfe, and Uma's ketchup joke was funny, plus it all feels like a Dark comedy to me!. Travolta's joke about how they call the quarter pounder with cheese in Paris was very funny and Samuel L. Jackson had some brilliant lines as well! plus I loved Eric Stolt'z character as well. This is Tarantino's absolute best work, and quite simply one of the best films ever! with brilliant storytelling and incredible performances, and if you haven't seen it, what the hell are you waiting for? do so immediately you won't regret it trust me!.The Direction is masterful. Quentin Tarantino does a masterful job here, with fantastic camera work, awesome angles, and lots of other awesome shots as well, plus he kept the film at an extremely fast pace.The Acting is incredible!. Samuel L. Jackson is amazing here, he gives quite possibly his best performance, is hilarious, had brilliant chemistry with John Travolta, had some of the coolest lines of all time, really seemed to be enjoying himself, and just gave one of a kind performance, he was amazing (Jackson Rules!!!!). John Travolta is just as good, he rejuvenated his career, with his role here, and rightfully so. his scene with Uma Thurman in the diner, was especially awesome, he also looked damn cool. (Travolta Rules!!!!). Bruce Willis is amazing as always and is amazing here, he played one of his coolest characters, and it was basically an action role, but damn was it a good one!,Butch was my favorite character along with Jules!, he was just perfect for Butch (Willis Rules!!!!!!!). Uma Thurman also gives one of her best performances here, as the drug addicted Mia, she didn't have all that much screen time, but she made it memorable!(Thurman Rules!!!!!). Ving Rhames is excellent here as Marcellus, he was just a bad ass, and had a very cool scene with Willis!. Eric Stoltz cracked me up as Lance, he was one of the funniest characters in the film in my opinion. Christopher Walken had a cool cameo here and was great. Quentin Tarantino is actually really good as Jimmy and was quite funny. Harvey Keitel is awesome as the Wolfe as he cracked me up I loved him. Tim Roth and Amanda Plummer are both awesome as the robbers, and were just great. Rosanna Arquette(Jody) did what she had to do well. Rest of the cast do fine. Overall if you haven't seen it please do so immediately you won't regret it. ***** out of 5
This is without a doubt, one of the finest movies ever made. It has an oscar winning script, great characters and some career performances from Jackson, Willis, Travolta and Thurman.This movie is so clever and well thought out. Some people find it confusing. Rubbish!. The structure of this film is one of the things which makes it so good and original. when put in chronological order, the story makes complete sense, the stucture is not a gimmick.The cast of this film is truly excellent. Travolta got nominated for best actor at the Oscars but lost out to Tom Hamks (who was truly deserving as forest gump but, IMO, not as much as Travolta was as Vincent). The character of Vincent is a scumbag but Travolta's performance makes him lovable and funny and likable. Sam Jackson also puts in a stunning performance (The scene in the diner is truly stunning acting).I could talk this film up all day but i wont. Just go see it and you'll see for yourself how films should be made.


                
Interweaving three stories about small time gangsters, "Pulp Fiction" proved to be one of the most interesting, original, and entertaining films of the last fifteen years.  Using Tarantino's characteristic dialogue, in which the characters speak about everyday things rather than just the plot, the movie creates a light atmosphere, counterpointed by moments of extreme violence and intensity.  An infusion of many classic genres, such as noir, it manages to put a new spin on many old cliches.  A must see for any  appreciator of cinema.


                
I first saw Pulp Fiction on a bootlegged copy on VHS while it was still in theatres, which was funny due to the fact it still had the segment where Mia Wallace "interviews" Vincent before their date on a video camera. How surprised I was to see it in a theatre and see the scene missing. Quentin tacked it onto "collector's edition" VHS copies later on.The reason I watched it on video first was that I was sure I'd hate it; instead, it's unique, funny, touching, profane, cringy (hello, zed!) and flat out a great ride all the way. This movie is Also Bruce Willis' BEST performance by far. Most people talk about Travolta who is wonderful, but Willis pulling off a truly sympathetic and likable character is amazing. Sam Jackson also pulls off a career best performance - not everyone could deliver those lines from the Bible and make them sound as menacing and convincing.


                
I love the screenplay of this film.  Some people say that All About Eve is the greatest screenplay ever, I beg to differ.  Q takes us on a roller coaster ride with his words.  After the film has ended you'll find your self going back, just to try and memorize the amazing one liners.  His characters are extremely likable despite there flaws, and there are some moments in the film that will stay with you forever!A testament to great writing and other movies had tried to copy the style of Q's film..........some have succeeded, but most have failed because there is only one PULP!


                
OK, I loved this film. LOVED IT. But it's not perfect. The main problem with the movie is that the best scene is at the beginning: the histerical what? conversation. This scene comes very early in the movie, so you would expect that the rest should equal or top that perfect scene. And while the movie is always interesting and has some other moments of great humor, it never reaches the greatness of that scene. Compared to that incredible scene, the rest of the film is a disappointment. That wouldn't be a problem if the scene had been left to the end, but since it's at the beginning....Putting that aside, this movie is so original. The characters speak a lot. In many movies, the characters only speak the necessary to advance the plot, and the action is given more importance. However, in Pulp Fiction, characters are given the chance to talk, as we talk in everyday life. As a result, the characters seem incredibly real and we care a lot about them. The non-linear structure is another plus. It's a very intelligent way to grab the audience and not letting go. At times the movie gets a little boring but you never lose interest because you always want to know whether the movie will move forward or backwards. Movies that play with time always work. Well, most of the time, at least.What about the acting? My personal favorite was Samuel L. Jackson. But everybody did a good job including Quentin Tarantino as the guy who helps the guys hide the body but is afraid that his wife might arrive and discover the whole deal. Uma Thurman was also great at portraying that strange woman who apparently likes to play with people's feelings, knowing that they're afraid of her, because of her husband. John Travolta  was my least favorite. He was too inexpressive for me, although, perhaps he did that intentionally because the character required it.Overall: 9/10.


                
The movie has its own spirit. The realistic rude behavior every actor pulls in the films makes the movie complete.Warning! Warning! This may destroy some of the experience if you haven´t seen the movie yet. If you already have seen it, check this out! The briefcase Vincent and Jules are going to pick up over at Brad´s place. You know there with the Big Kahuna Burger. The briefcase has a code lock. The code is 666. I don´t know if Tarantino is christian or satanist, but take it as a symbol. Every time somebody sees the content of the briefcase they go, wow! Their eyes are glowing with greed. It´s the temptation. Marsellus Wallace (Ving Rhames) is the devil. Trying to buy Butch Cooligde´s (Bruce Willis) soul or just trying to get him to take a dive in the fight. Jules Winfield (Samuel L. Jackson) is the good man. Sees the shoot-up mistake in Brads place as "divine influence". Switch some of the letters in Jules and you get "Jesul", close to another name. Vincent Vega (John Travolta) is the bad man. He denies that there is such power controlling the universe in the ways Jules thinks. Mia Wallace (Uma Thurman) is just another human satan uses to tease Vega. Mr. Wolf (Harvey Keitel) is the demon that frightens the good man. Do you see the posibility, as Jules, or is it just coincedences, as a true Vincent?  Now see the movie again and think of the posibility and make up your point with the movie!


                
Sorry to degrade from the structure of how things go, but this is a hybrid between a review and a defense of the film.As far the movie itself, I could be locked in a room for a few weeks with it. It's what movies where made for. It is entertainment- sure and simple. I'm not gonna dive really into what the movie tries to do, because I see that more as a viewer's perspective. I can say, however, that whatever it it tries to do it does well. The acting, the dialogue, and everything else about it is gripping. The most overarching thing about it to me, though, is the absurdity. The absurdity is concocted at just the right angle so as to create a strange world, but one we can dwell our minds in. Reality itself is absurd in itself, is it not? This is what particularly draws me into this movie, and makes me like it so much.This is also the reason I think a lot of people hate it. The main insults toward the film regard it's "lack of plot," "lack of core," and "lack of meaning, or anything at all." Did I miss some section of the Geneva Convention that mandated how a movie had to be made? Yeah, typically a more linear and mountain shaped plot/ story line give that feeling of satisfaction at the end, but leave that to other movies. There are plenty to spare.People accuse it of being hollow as far as spirituality and meaning go. I find this kind of funny and ironic because I think that is exactly how it emphasizes these two subjects. The interactions and experiences of the characters in this absurd reality are what make it so real. We really don't have lives much different from Vincent and Jules. We're all figuring it out as we go, , under pressure of constantly changing circumstances, making decisions for ourselves in a place where we don't have much direction.If you can't find in this movie what others do, I guess you just aren't catching with them. It's really a matter of choice. These are all things that make Kurt Vonnegut novels what they are. Lack of tangency with seemingly pointless digressions. But that is what makes them brilliant. They place a film on life to view it with a new perspective. It's up to you how much value and entertainment there is in something like that.


                
The first gangster film to make inane yet paralyzing dialog the star of the movie. Brilliant and engaging, endlessly quotable and visually alluring, PF made all the top lists, regenerated John Travolta, solidified Bruce Willis, centered Samuel L. Jackson as a leading man and cemented Christopher Walken among creepiest of cameos ever. The side characters are more accessible and reminiscent as friends of ours then they are as plot worthy points of interest. They discuss everyday trivial matters intensely while the viewer is wondering about the ramifications of the events just watched or know is around the corner.... and we actually see very little violence play out! Tarantino's use of the chopped up time line only added to the Pulp mystique as well as it's charm. Imbecile gangsters charming? Regressive American social interaction cinema worthy? When combined , it remains a perfect storm for Quintin & company.


                
It took me next to twenty years to review this film appropriately; i should say, it took me the best part of ten years to realise that not everyone might see it my way. Under close scrutiny, the world of cinema goes this way, more or less: Kurosawa, a Japanese, and two italians, Fellini and Antonioni, subvert just about every rule that Hitchcock laid down; then nothing else happens for thirty years, with Hollywood slowly draining the life out of world cinema (see Transformers 2), until a guy called Quentin Tarantino released this second film, after the poor (or great, if you are a traditionalist) Reservoir Dogs, called Pulp Fiction. And it obliterates every rule that every filmmaker across the civilised world ever tried to establish.John Travolta takes flight to a role so high across the sky that no reviewer is ever going to be able to demolish it, no matter the angle. This is the role that will inspire humans for the next two hundred years; this is the Shakespeare of the modern world. The first director to utilise black actors effectively. The first example of 100% quality production after the dust and sweat of traditional Hollywood arenas. Pulp Fiction is a film of such incredible intricacy that it's unfathomable to anyone but a big-brain film school student, and even than, who knows. Do not feel ashamed if you miss its finer points. But for history, this is the one, the only, the film that takes over from Yojimbo, from 8 1/2, from La Nave Va, from Shichinin no Samurai, and more ... and just moves on forward. There is more film in twenty minutes of PF than there is in the whole of a typical Hollywood production of the 70's. So there are those films above this one. Space Oddissey. The Godfather. These are just targeted products. You will never find someone who has a coherent film critique of Pulp Fiction. Mastery in work, spark of genius, there is no way that this film can be any less than 10/10 and the best film ever made.


                
After watching this movie, I knew it was going to be a masterpiece. I mean, it's classic Tarantino. And, it's got everyone who is anyone in it: John Travolta, Samuel L. Jackson, Uma Thurman, Bruce Willis, Ving Rhames, Tim Roth, Amanda Plummer and so many more. It was nominated for several Academy Awards. But, what really struck me, was the witty dialogue and hilarious scenes between Vega and Jules. And, what scene is more remembered than the dancing scene with Vega and Mia? The story is in 3 parts, all put together, flawlessly. The ending was clever and really made you "think". Oh, and the Big Mac scene in the beginning, genius!
"Pulp Fiction" is a brilliantly crafted film. The many separate vignettes all are quite compelling and fit together wonderfully. And, on top of that, the script and acting are exceptional. And, most importantly, the film is wildly original and very, very stylish. The only reservations I have are minor. First, while this is a very, very good film, I can't see why it is ranked #5 all-time on IMDb. This seems wildly overrated and too often more recent films seem to dominated IMDb's Top 250. Second, this film is certainly NOT for everyone, as in spots it is tremendously violent (like any Tarantino film) and should not be viewed by kids or the overly sensitive.Because there are so many reviews for the film already, I won't bother to try to give a synopsis of the film or do an in-depth analysis.


                
Pulp Fiction is ridiculously cool. Filled with cool characters and cool dialogue, it is truly epic and lives up to its reputation. I have never seen a film anything like this, with no consistent plot and no one objective, it is easy to view this film as a messy one, but I would say the opposite. It is a film that contradicts all the norms of Hollywood, and focuses solely on intricate and detailed moments of characters. We don't get back story, we don't get explanations. All we get is scene after seen of pure entertainment, excitement and comedy. Tarantino is an absolute genius to have created this, it is a film that you can never tire of. All of the actors give outstanding performances, even Tim Roth and Christopher Walken who barely appear, but manage to make a mark. Samuel l Jackson is so good as Jules and so funny, and Uma Thurman is mesmerising. I can see why this won best original screenplay, as the dialogue is absolutely spot on! This film has a profound spot in cinema history, a place truly deserved!


                
I could write an entire novel reviewing this movie. So let's start off with the one negative which is likely the most common issue for those who don't like the movie. It's not action packed and it's not gory like kill bill or django. But what this story lacks in action sequences it more than makes up for with unique dialogue, completely original story (and story telling). When this movie ends and you turn off the TV it leaves one pondering about life and the choices we make. Everyone in this movie learns a lesson; whether or not they get lucky or learn them the hard way. You'll be able to sympathize or empathize with a vast majority of the characters (a few stragglers aside). The non linear chapter set up for this movie might leave one confused at first, but you have to observe each segment as their own movie then try to connect the dots (harder to do than it sounds). To this date there has not been a role that fits Sam Jackson as well as his character in this movie. And even though the last chapter is technically not the "ending" it works much more as such. I would not consider this an action suspense film; I would feel better calling it a very dark comedy. But if anyone reads this review all the way through and hasn't watched it yet. Do so now and even if you don't like the film you still have to appreciate its originality.
