I've seen a couple of reviews that say the jump between the second season and the first is a huge mistake, and initially I would agree with those reviews. The team from the first season was the one I knew and loved, and for the first couple episodes, the decision seems to be a mistake. However, as they have fleshed out this seasons story line and developed these new characters, I have liked the series more and more. Impulse and Blue Beetle have turned into some of my favorite characters, and the plot twists throughout this season have been absolutely incredible. I know it might be hard to jump into the first few episodes of the second season, but if you give it a chance, you will enjoy it just as much of the first.


                
Don't confuse this show with Teen Titans or anything like that; yes there are adolescent teens in this show discovering their potential like many other great kids shows on the market, like Avatar, Steven Universe, Adventure Time, DragonBall, The Legend of Korra and so-forth, but Young Justice is like a spiritual sequel to the Justice League & Justice League Unlimited cartoons from the 2000s and more. This cartoon is super kick-ass stuff! 
It's what superhero shows like Ultimate Spider-Man WANT to be, but struggle to find the right balance between entertainment and broadly appealing wisdom that kids and adults can enjoy in the same way. Young Justice masters that: it's got solid drama, nice splashes of humor throughout and of course some great action that shows this great team working some difficult stuff out.This superhero fest gets 4.5/5 stars.


                
Not quite among Cartoon Network's all-time best shows(Dexter's Laboratory, Courage the Cowardly Dog, Johnny Bravo, Powerpuff Girls, Cow and Chicken). But in recent years, alongside Regular Show, Adventure Time and the first three Ben 10 series- Omniverse is a huge disappointment- it is one of their better shows in recent years, The Amazing World of Gumball is also mostly great apart from some weak writing early on. Young Justice isn't quite perfect, the season 2 finale does feel too convenient and incomplete and not all the voice acting was quite there; Brent Spiner is nowhere near sinister or insane enough as Joker, too restrained, Kevin Michael Richardson is over-parted and all his characters sound exactly the same(Mal Duncan is the worst case), and while Nolan North has times where he is right on the money at others he is not powerful or heroic enough as Superman.The rest of the voice acting though is fabulous, all the Young Justice team are voiced with depth and a great dynamic. Even if Jesse McCartney does start off a tad too lightweight for Nightwing he does mature, as Robin and Dick Grayson he is spot on. Bruce Greenwood is pitch-perfect as Batman, he doesn't erase memories of Kevin Conroy but is suitably dark and brooding. There are no complaints to be made of Vanessa Marshall and Maggie Q as Black Canary and Wonder Woman, and Phil LaMarr is a good Aquaman. For the villain roles, Miguel Ferrer, Oded Ferr, Mark Rolston, Keith Szarabajka, Danny Trejo and Arnold Vosloo are particularly good, though all except for Joker are good. The secondary characters are memorable, the likes of Phil LaMarr, Tara Strong, Edward Asner, Crispin Freeman, Jeff Bennett Geoff Pierson and Cree Summer are without fault. G. Gordon Godfrey is annoying in a way and the only character who isn't (intentionally) likable, but Tim Curry voices with such adept smarmy drollness and sinks his teeth into Godfrey's monologues.But it's not just the voice acting that makes up and comes across strongly in Young Justice. The animation is great here, somewhat anime in look but colourful, detailed and atmospheric, when it calls for it to have a serious approach- and there are numerous cases of that- it does so very effectively without being overly so. The fluidity of the backgrounds and character movements and how dynamically the colours and shadings are used are to much admired. The music has a feel and orchestration that suits the tone perfectly without making too serious or upbeat, with some beautiful and haunting moments. There's nothing cheesy or forgettable about the theme tune either(unlike other Cartoon Network shows like Ben 10: Omniverse and Johnny Test, how is that show still airing?) From a writing and narrative standpoint, Young Justice also scores. The dialogue is very thought-provoking and intelligently written, doing a great job at giving the characters depth and complexity and also with an ability to provide emotional depth and a some subtle humour. The story lines are always compelling and succeeds in drawing us into the world the characters live in, there is great atmosphere and the action is exciting and well-animated. It is true that narratively the first season is better than the second, the second season was still interesting and well done on the most part if not quite as well-developed and focused in tone. The characters really make the show work, Robin and Speedy stand out in the Young Justice team though all of them have likable and resourceful personalities. Batman, Black Canary, Wonder Woman and Aquaman come off best in the Justice League, and you even root for the fun and charismatic villains especially Vandal Savage and Ras'Al Ghul.All in all, a terrific show and it is a shame that it was cancelled- maybe its erratic scheduling got the better of it- because it did have potential to have more and the ending of season 2 did suggest that somewhat. 8.5/10 Bethany Cox


                
Young Justice, it could have been a pathetic attempt at a kids show with superheroes, but it became an icon for everyone from 10 to mid 30s. The show tackles difficult boundaries not just young love, but identity, morality & many more. Young Justice follows the story of the sidekicks of the Justice League, Robin, Superboy, Kid Flash, Speedy, Miss Martian, Artemis & a whole lot more. The show doesn't just deal with fighting the bad guys & saving the day, there's also their "normal" lives they have to traverse through. With 2 spectacular & heartbreaking seasons, fans are still waiting & petitioning for a 3rd & rightly so. Young Justice did something, no other show, superhero or not, at such a short amount of time, they made you care for the characters, both hero, villain & anti hero.If you're a fan of good storytelling, great characters & don't mind getting a little misty eyed, you'll love Young Justice.


                
To begin, this show is really two separate shows with the same title, such are the differences between the first and second seasons in tone and content. This is largely due to the ageing of the team and the absence of the Justice League for large parts of Season 2 leaving the team in a position where they have to step up.Season 1 is lighter in spots and has enough comic relief to keep the chuckle in. The ages of the team mean that there is little or no scope for more adult humour and the villains don't engage in it either, but nevertheless, cameos from fan favourites such as the Joker etc. (more "Under the Red Hood" than "Animated Series") will always go down well.The five year gap between the Seasons is one of the reasons that this show is not worth ten stars. It does two things that should make any fan of this show annoyed. 1. It meant that the show's writers were running out of ideas despite the brilliant set-up that they had left at the end of Season 1. This includes the development of the fringe characters and sub-plots a bit more, who have enough in them to justify a few episodes apiece. 2. As the title of the new season suggests, the crew are dealing with an alien invasion, the ending to so many brilliant series, which would be a travesty for this show.However, the five year gap also matured the team to allow the inclusion of more adult directed sub-plots, such as relationships taken to the next level, our place in the world and the effects and consequences of decisions made earlier coming back to affect team members in quite brilliant and believable ways. While the raft of new characters is slightly annoying, most are well known enough for even the most casual of fans to know who they are and their probable roles within the team.With that in mind, apart from clunky dialogue, from some of the Justice League in particular, that has not stood the test of time but is nevertheless expected by fans, along with the trigger-happy nature of introducing the alien invasion plot-line, the show is nigh on perfect and will stand the test of time while, as time goes on, some of the other, brilliant DC efforts may date poorly and not blow fans away like this one will.
When big studios announce something related to their big franchises but "teen version" of it, I'm usually pretty wary about it.Luckily, there are some great shows that surpass that teen-cliché stuff, for example Armored Adventures and X-Men Evolution.In that same manner comes Young Justice with young, post-sidekick heroes eager to prove themselves as equal counterparts to the legendary Justice League. Show spans through connected multiarces into one big story over two seasons and one not-so-good-but-not-that-bad video game that fills the 5 year gap between seasons.Acting is AAA solid, animation is mostly great, scripts and stories could use a bit less of deus ex machina resolutions but overall are good and in true DC spirit. Main characters are pretty damn interesting even if they don't look like that in the beginning because they have great shoes to fill. Which is also a big plot point of the show as well, them, escaping from the shadows of the main JL team.Episodes are mostly connected so you can't watch "just one episode" and feel the aster, you can try, but good luck with that :D


                
Best superhero cartoon after Batman. And it's closer then most would think! It's a sin it was cancelled...


                
I watch animated superhero shows on Saturday morning to satisfy the inner child in me and my favorites so far were Batman TAS and Justice League. But this show blew me away, probably because my expectations were so low about a show revolving around the sidekicks. But it quickly establishes that the stakes are high and it finds a good way to integrate the story and the characters into the DC universe. The stories are complex, the characters fleshed out and it finds an almost perfect balance between action, story and characters. It's not about wanna-be heroes but heroes in the making. Taking season 1 alone I would give it 10 out of 10 and maybe even call it the best animated show in the DC universe, but unfortunately TV business intervened. The show didn't hit the intended demographics (too many girls were watching - which just demonstrates how ridiculously archaic the TV and advertisement business really is) - anyway this led to the tinkering of the 2nd season's setting and the premature cancellation. The quality of season 2 is still high, but you can never shake the feeling that they abandoned a great show and made too many compromises to cater to a specific audience.


                
Young Justice a great animated series based in the DC universe and my favourite comic based animated series since Batman The Animated series its just fantastic with a more grown up feel to it with alot of adult themed storylines but still manages to be sutible for all ages and fans of comics.The animation in this series is incredible and each episode always adds something different to each character and is just a blast from start to finish.
The first two seasons are awesome and just brilliant stories.
However season 3 Outsiders took a while to get going but with the last few episodes it really stepped up In quality and did some fantastic adaptations of certain characters like Cyborg.The action is great and each character has there own style which adds to there character.
My favourite character in the series is Aqualad he is such an interesting character and with him taking up the mantle of Aquaman in the new series just makes him more interesting and it's great to see him move from being a sidekick.I also like that each season takes a time jump but still manages to follow on really well from the previous story it's just a compliment to the writing that they can start something different but still build up to an overall story and follow on from each season brilliantly.Just a fantastic story and a great animated series with fantastic characters and great animation and storytelling that adds alot to the DC universe and does different adaptations which makes it feel original.Verdict 9.5/10 great series that I love watching each week fantastic stories and great animation.
