Having been to a few of Wes Anderson's films, the twee, absurd caricature, dead-pan precious, lush, scenic, cardboard Tim Burton-esque cinematography that many insisted is synonymous with "intelligent humour" were all expected. What wasn't is the insufferable, sophomoric idiocy of the story, gratuitous characters and shallowness of the plot, the script, the character development, the entire purpose of the making of this film. What on earth is it suppose to say?! What deeper layers are there to uncover other than it being a madcap caper about promiscuous hotel staff carrying on with obscenely rich geriatrics, murderous villains and relatives, an outrageous and unbelievable jailbreak adventure? What is the point to this wedding cake indulgence of a film, exactly? And please don't sniff haughtily with a "You just don't get its brilliance/genius/subversion/provocation, blah..blah...blah...go watch a Tom Cruise flick!" retort. I honestly don't get much more from this film than its gruel thin plot.
Having lost almost 2 hours of my life watching this pretentious, awkward, tedious,repetitive nonsense masquerading as a film, I felt an urgent need to warn my fellow movie goers of this stinker of a movie.The Great Budapest Hotel is "in your face" director's overindulgence in experimenting. It lacks even pretense of trying to tell an entertaining story. Its caleidoscope of disjointed themes crawls, mostly sideways, with the dreadful quality of a nightmare.One might fall into a trap of wishing to explore the latest "oeuvre" of a "cult" director/screenwriter. For those of you be warned, you'll need a strong motivation to sit through this indulgent mush of an experiment in viewers' goodwill.The one star goes for some striking images which "do not a movie make".


                
Wes Anderson must have been high as a kite when making this film. The onslaught of colour and the architecturally questionable locations could only have been thought to be a good idea by someone who has just consumed a truckload of industrial strength LSD. Frankly watching the mentally unstable characters bounce around the screen was an experience I can only compare to being repeatedly hit in the face with a sock full of sick. The music was only comparable to listening to someone urinate on a cat and the script seemed like something that would spring from the mind of a dog sat at a typewriter.Ralph Fiennes was pretty good though.


                
I can barely bring myself to write a summery of plot. I gave up paying attention after 15 minutes. A hotel employee is framed for the murder of one of the frequenters but none of it is actually essential to the filming of a project that most likely appeals to Wes Anderson fans only. With a pinch of 30's slapstick here and a steal from Burton there, one finds himself a hostage for 2 hours having already paid the admission fee. Familiar faces come and go as the ridiculous and overbearing Anderson antics occupy the screen. Repetition is not a problem here. The jokes are funny only when on certain drugs and the story a mere vehicle that could have been about a snowflake falling in love with a cloud if it would provide the required running time and the opportunity to set a handsome decor. Though Fiennes gives us one of his best performances to date, I wouldn't recommend this juvenile exercise in self-indulgence to anyone.


                
Never did i think that i would ever be enough intrigued by the awfulness of movie to create an account just to write a review about it. I can't possibly understand how some people would ever enjoy such a movie. So boring and lacking an interesting story. Let alone the fact that its not even funny! I felt sorry for the crowd watching the movie with us, i could feel the pain in their eyes and i could hear the prayers inside their heads hoping that the movie gets better! I mean come on look at it's high rating! It must be good, i will get better, it should! But it never did. I usually appreciate the "artsy" side of movies, but this one i couldn't even swallow it. And don't even get me started with the horrible animated scenes. As an animator, it felt like poison to my eyes!


                
So, here I am again after trusting the IMDb rating only to be disappointed. Does this movie deserve the 1 star rating that I have given it? No. Does it deserve the bloated hyped 8.4? No. This movie is a 6. However I feel as though I owe to the IMDb community to help balance the rating.I was looking forward to this movie, excitedly anticipating it's release date. Visually, this movie had it all, which is what you would expect from a Wes Anderson movie, however, it did not have anything else. It was almost as though we are expected to be satisfied by just that. Don't get me wrong, I love and cherish most of his works. I mean Moonrise Kingdom has to be one of my all time faves..and Fantastic Mr Fox's genius screenplay will always be my cussing fave. But this movie felt empty, it lacked something. You cannot churn out the same visual beauty every time and expect the same hype, there needs to be innovation, whether it is visually, via screenplay or plot. This is what upsets me, there was no innovation. Without innovation there's nothing new, the punchlines are few and far in between, the plot was boring and character's were not well rounded.Maybe the money that should have been spent developing the above was spent sending armies of people to bloat this rating. I don't know. I will not jump on this "It's a Wes Anderson movie so I have to love it" bandwagon. That's my rant over. Until next time!


                
What a waste of time and money. A cartoon type of film. Actor dialogue was rapid pace and hard to follow at times. It appeared to me that there was a lot of models used in lieu of locations. Went with another couple who were really upset since I based my recommendation of seeing this movie on comments made by reviewers. One seldom heard any laughter in the theater and when you did, it seemed contrived. The film attempted to capture the 1920 film making style but truly missed the mark. I saw some reviews liken the film to Around the World but it was not even close in capturing that flavor.Better off staying away from this dull piece of work. I think the producers must have paid a lot of folks to submit reviews because I really can't believe so many saw value in this corny flick.


                
I am shocked how well this movie has done among IMDb users and critics. The cast is amazing, but the movie is truly terrible. I walked out of Rushmore and would have done the same here. The characters were annoying, the dialog pointless and I was just waiting for it to end. Bleh.I did not understand why any of the characters acted the way the did. The little cuts that Anderson employees so freely for dramatic effect just seemed pointless. There was a sequence where there were cuts between different hotel managers that was funny through two cuts and then just dragged on and on as each manager had to stop what he was doing and put his Boy in charge. That is this movie in a nutshell -- it dragged on and on. That could have been interesting to see how a whole network of hotel managers could have been activated, but it just ends up being pointless.


                
I have given this film 1/10, only because it is not possible to rate it zero. I don't know why I never learn: ever since Rushmore, a film to which I simply could not warm up, every time I watch one of Wes Anderson's films, I end up disliking it intensely. That was the case with Rushmore, then The Royal Tennenbaums, followed by Moonrise Kingdom, and now The Grand Budapest Hotel. Two of my good friends, whose judgment in films I trust, told me what a great film this was. With that in mind, I began watching it, but within 20 minutes, I realized I would not like the film, just as I had not enjoyed watching the other Anderson films before. One reason was the manic pace at which the actors delivered their lines and the musical score rolled; another was how completely indifferent to their predicaments the characters left me. The Grand Budapest Hotel is a pretentious film, in which visual style stifles any substance its talented actors might have brought to the story.


                
Rented on video and nearly switched off. Don't know what the fuss is all about. Didn't like Moonrise Kingdom either. Rubbish. How this type of film wins a Golden Globe confirms either I am completely out of touch or the awards are. Not seen Birdman but put off by the fact it won a Golden Globe. Saw a useless film starring Brad Pitt called Tree of Life or something similar. Waste of money producing. Then again Shakespeare in Love and Ordinary People won Oscars for best movie. Seem to remember Forrest Gump beat Pulp Fiction. Wes Anderson films are not for me. Pretentious drivel. Rather watch Wes Craven and that's saying something.


                
The trailer for this film enticed me to see it. The film was, however, a total let-down and may well be the worst film I have ever seen.The plot was almost non-existent. It certainly had no sense nor direction.The film rambled through a series of mostly boring events punctuated by a liberal dose of expletives that added nothing whatsoever to any aspect of the film except to place it in the smut and filth category.The author must have been high on something when he wrote this one. Unfortunately whatever high he was on, did nothing to make this film worth viewing.


                
The trailer in the extra features section really sets the tone, letting you know you are in for an extraordinarily pretentious and self-indulgent mess. Most people will hate this, but even if you are drawn to the descriptors avant-garde and quirky you may still be disappointed. The Grand Budapest Hotel embarks on what is supposed to be a surreal, violent, grotesque, mythopoeic, symbol-laden, allegorical journey to spiritual enlightenment. Even taken as a series of allegorical parables, the experiment is a failure. The imagery is rarely interesting, and the symbolism manages to be at once heavy-handed and empty of real meaning. Ideas are essentially thrown at the proverbial wall in the hope that some will stick, like a novice writer who overuses Bartletts and Rogets in an attempt to show off.Wes appears to lack original ideas and so makes superficial use of symbols he doesn't truly understand in a series of cinematic Malapropisms. The film is poorly acted, amateurish, incoherent dreck which tries to convince the viewer that it is something more. Various reviewers have described it as masturbatory, which is accurate.The truly great surrealist artists reject conventions as a choice, but are capable of folowing them: Breton could render a realistic portrait of quality. Many who style themselves as surrealists are people who produce chaotic and shoddy works because they aren't capable of anything else. Don't feel like you have to like this to impress your friends. Its crap. And if you must watch one surrealist western centered on religious themes to make your checklist complete, queue up Greaser's Palace or El Topo instead. They are superior on many levels.
1.over hyped,overrated,overrated director who makes you sleep 2.Maybe nominated for Oscar 3.Praised by critics 4.its comedy but you wont laughfor god sake don't believe the critics its boring except for beautiful cinematography 1 star for that.2. aspect ratio i know they try to make it look like classic old lookingbut why are we reading a book this is waste with beautiful cinematography its should be wide screen come on every oneeveryone knows which scenes is flash back 3. last things is just boring,forgettable film ever made.


                
This movie made GIGLI look like an Oscar contender. What on Earth was this movie about? It was a disaster from the get-go, the first 15-20 minutes were so boring, so awful, people were talking saying, "is this the right movie?" The movie does not really do a great job with anything. The fact that the main character looks nothing like his older counterpart later on aside, there is just utter nonsense here.Laughs: maybe 2-3 outloud laughs. Whoever is rating this over a 3 needs to have their head examined. Maybe they were pumping laughing gas into your theatre for you to write a positive review.The scenery is about the best part of the movie and even half of that is fake Hollywood green screen. This was akin to taking $20 of my money and throwing it out the window on the highway. Strike that, actually that would have been BETTER than watching this abomination of a movie.Whoever approved producing this? FIRE THEM Bill Murray? Yeah, just a pay day for his 5 minutes on screen. Don't expect to see him much. And when he does show, there is no explanation for who he is or why he is even there.There are so many side stories to the main story it gets bogged down in boredom. I would say that of the 50-75 people who saw this nightmare with me, 95% left saying "what the H@#$ was that!" when leaving.If you are reading this, do not see this movie, do not rent it, do not read positive reviews because they are lies. This is not something that can be remotely seen as a good movie on any angle.If you want to waste 2 hours of your heartbeats on junk, this is for you. Otherwise, see ANYTHING else. See NOAH twice. See CAPTAIN America or ROBOCOB 3x before seeing this once.


                
To be honest I still fail to understand what the fuss is all about, the film has 0% funny scenes, there is nothing funny about the chars dialogs, it is listed as "comedy" and yet there is 0 comedy in this supposed "master piece", I will admit the storyline is entertaining but up to a certain point and to me that's about the first 30m of the film, I could honestly not watch it for any longer than that, it got boring after that.Why do people keep giving this film such ratings? so far we've indicated the film has 0 comedy, a boring plot and well I ask myself, what is the point of this crap?, I have seen many movies and few times do I find crap like this but its usually voted poorly and yet this is the first boring film with such rating, I fail to understand SO MEH.


                
I did not know in advance what this film would be about. That was the first mistake. I thought I would indulge in two hours of grandeur, somewhere in the spirit of Titanic and Winter Tale. The first minutes made me sober up already. The next part was more or less bearable, but not really. After 50 minutes I did not know what bothered me more: the film or those bloody uncomfortable chairs in the socialism era built cinema in Slovakia. This film is not brilliant or anything of the exaggerated attributives as I have read here. It is just an utterly boring caricatural persiflage of various comic TV series. The main ingredients are cheap copies of humor chewed out long ago. A little bit of Monty Python, James Bond, Colditz, etcetera, etcetera. The only reason I stayed in the cinema was my wife: I know she does not like it when I walk out of the cinema during a film (Lord of the Rings, Harry Potter, Avatar and other examples of movie failures).


                
There isn't a zero rating? or a "minus" rating? wasted characters, wasted dialog, disjunctive, listed as a "comedy" and is NOT a comedy by any stretch of imagination. quick shot of fellatio....stupid. replace the "apple" painting with a woman fondling another woman....dumb. Adrien Brody screaming obscenities at the reading of the will...why? Willem Dafoe on skis, being chased...what? Harvey Keitel's prison character with a bad-fitting bald-thing covering his head. Bill Murray, Owen Wilson, Edward Norton....shame on you. Adrien Brody---WHY???? people either loved it or loathed it, it seems. I really wanted to ask for a refund. I really don't understand the positive reviews---I guess I wasn't existential enough.


                
POSSIBLE SPOILERS AHEAD: Based on a preview trailer my wife and I saw at a theater recently, and based on reviews and other small things we'd seen in the interim, both of us went to the theater yesterday to see "The Grand Budapest Hotel" (2014). Evidently, it is so popular it is showing in three different parts of the theater we attended! Well, within five minutes - I literally mean five minutes - of the beginning, the 'humor' had dropped to a sophomoric level. Within ten minutes the attempt had dropped to freshman level. By fifteen minutes of the show, the scene had shifted from the Grand Budapest Hotel to another place and I was beginning to wonder where this - this thing - was going. We were now at an eighth grade level, and all was looking as if it were going to skip a few grades - downward - in the very near future. By an hour into this - thing - I was looking how many people I needed to crawl in front of to leave, and I realized it was far too many. Willm Dafoe had turned into a Hannibal Lecter-like nasty without the hunger pangs, just sadistic beyond three-year-old anger fits. Ralph Fiennes' lines had become so cynical - and this was supposed to be funny! - that the humor level had dropped to near unborn - it was far below Kindergarten. Although it is a delicacy in Tuscany, kid veal is illegal in the United States where veal needs to be at least two and a half years of age. Humor should be the same way. Unborn humor should be illegal here, too. I know of no place where it is a delicacy, however. By the time the hour and forty minutes of the film had passed, we both realized that we had witnessed no movement of the stars: rather, the show was more a movement of the bowels. We realized that the characters were possibly not as dysfunctional as the writers themselves had been. We also realized that the film was a function of Dis. Hell hath mo' fury when a man is horned. All's hell that ends in hell. We'd been there, and now we could finally leave and go get a pizza. I wasn't necessarily hungry, but I ate voraciously if only to forget...
Unfortunately I watched this film from beginning to end and could not believe that people paid good money to make this let alone to watch it. It was utter drivel throughout. The emperors new clothes comes to mind! Do professional film critics of today have no concept of what the ordinary man or woman in the street might actually think? It was thoroughly incomprehensible. The film plot was ridiculous. The acting was weird. I despair that film makers seem to have resorted to this sort of infantile production. Whatever happened to a good story line? Whatever happened to believability? I don't know what else to say other than to advise that if you miss seeing this film you will not be missing anything at all.


                
To watch that movie is the same thing as to look to a very old album of photograph. An album from an unknown person. An album from someone you never knew. It was extremely boring. Total waste of time. I want my money back. I saw the viewers opinion and thought it was an exceptional movie. But it was impossible not to sleep. I wonder how could such got actors accept to participate such a movie. I always read the viewers review in this site to decide what movie to see. That was the first time I got disappointed The movie had such a good punctuation. Next time I will not trust the viewers review. Maybe the evaluation made by the critics never really expresses the opinion of regular people. Next time I will be careful on the viewers opinion.


                
Little, yes. Because of "Grand" it has nothing. Grand offense for my eyes and ears and for all the other people that were in the cinema with me. (Exactly 3 people); or I'd say two because one of them was my father, (sleeping), and I had my eyes completely "blank" like I had been assassinated by the movie. The Vissual effects were alright, but they could have been a lot better. I think that was the only good thing that the movie had. I didn't even get the funny jokes or even know what was exactly the plot of the movie. Absurd I would say. I was so glad when the intermission came in the middle of the movie and I could get some m&m's to tray and calm down from that horrendous nightmare that was the movie.


                
This could involve SPOILERS (you have been warned) So recently decided to watch this film, watching the trailer I had quite high hopes for the film.The film makes no sense characters come and go constantly so every character seems to be pointless. You care about no character in the film.Also one of the characters between past and present changes race which seems to make no sense. This is by far one of the worst films and a an absolute waste of 100 minutes of my life.The only thing someone may like about this film which I did not agree with is, if they like films that are odd and disjointed If I could give this a rating of 0 I would, it is the worst film I have seen in years Do not watch this film!
This movie reminded me of sitting through Charlie Chaplin or Buster Keaton type films for some reason. It clearly wasn't realistic, or designed to be taken as real, more a stage drama on screen. There were scenes in the Alps, for example, where the main characters remained in their shirtsleeves, impervious to the cold. There was a scene where criminals carried a ladder past the camera and it went on and on and on and on and ... Chaplin-esque comedy. The cinematography was amazing. The sets, costumes etc, all really impressive, but it just didn't work for me at all and I couldn't wait for it to end. Ralph Feinnes was exceptionally good, however. Almost worth watching for his camp performance.


                
Watched the entire movie, and really have nothing great to say about it. It did not catch any attention, the script is mundane, it is definitely over-hyped. It tries to come off as something very special, and with complex narrative, by creating this beautiful atmosphere, but delivers nothing to me. Honestly, 2 hours wasted. I did not find the movie philosophical or in any way profound.


                
I'll even take the Bates Motel in Psycho after seeing this truly awful film. How did the likes of Ralph Fiennes, Adrien Brody and F. Murray Abraham ever get suckered into making such a colossal mess as this film?You would think that this film could have done without the constant narration and would have been on the scale of a Grand Hotel like atmosphere. Instead it concentrates on the relationship of a concierge and bell boy, with the former jailed for allegedly poisoning a frequent elderly guest. Most of it concerns itself with the bell boy aiding the concierge's escape from prison and the two constantly alluding the authorities.To me, this made absolutely no sense whatsoever. Abraham relates the story as he did when he played Salieri in Amadeus in 1984.
