My heart is still rolling from the escape to 30's Europe this afternoon, and without jet lag. This movie is an inspiration, a dream, a walk through a painting and a study of humanity. Ralph Fiennes<U+FEFF> is a phenomenon as M. Gustave. his interactions with every cast member and especially newcomer Tony Revolori are fantastic. The later holds his own weight beyond belief and the entire film is an amazing adventure with James Bond style chases, a large murder mystery, the best placed cussing and of course the sensational cinematography. The sets, models, angles and even the most nondescript characters come to life each on their own and together as a symphony of beauty. It's freaking brilliant; The Grand Budapest Hotel.


                
Wes Anderson is one of the last directors -auteurs- who's got complete control on the film set and has the power to make whatever kind of film he desires. His distinct visual style is apparent since his 1996 debut Bottle Rcoket. But that was just a start, with every film he made he was perfecting his technique more and more. This marvelous attention to detail, the way he composes his shots( tracking shots, the symmetry, the characters running in slow-motion), chase scenes, love story, nostalgia, explanatory montages, the colourful set design and the prevalent theme of every one of his films: family. This all adds up to the reason why the audience enjoys Anderson's film so much. This all is brought to perfection in Grandhotel Budapest. Through complex narrative framework, which itself is a mockery of all these films that are being narrated by someone and is also being an excuse for not being too realistic, we get to a story of a young lobby boy named Zero Moustafa and Gustave H. (Ralph Fiennes)the concierge of the Grandhotel Budapest. Many of the female guests of the hotel mainly come to enjoy Gustave's company. When one of these ladies passes away, Gustave grabs Zero and boards a train for her mansion. Soon he's blamed for her murder and hunted by police led by Edward Norton and a grim-faced assassin played by Willem Dafoe. There also is a love story between two young teens - Zero and Agatha (Saoirse Ronan) who has a birthmark in the shape of Mexico.I frankly don't understand how can this film be successful in the USA. This film is just so typically European, that I guess some aspects of the film Americans just aren't familiar with. Some of the humor reminded of old French, Italian and Czech comedies. Wes Anderson remains to be a stand-out filmmaker who never disappoints with any of his creations and is a safe bet to rely on his qualities. You won't want to return to the real world when the credits start to roll.


                
I have, honest to god, seen this move a number of times succeeding that of my fingers. And every single time, it never ceases to amaze me.This movie is evidently, a beautiful one. Every scene, every prop, every colour, and every shot is so deliberate. Yet, the movie, in its entirety, extend far beyond a series of colourful and lavish shots. The dialogue is impeccable. Each character is given their own personality; a quirky set of dispositions that remain, throughout the movie, largely believable, and more importantly, strongly enforced. From Zero, to C. Gustave, to Agatha and Jopling, you are left, not only wishing them to be real, but very likely believing it yourself.On the surface, you may gather that this movie conveys a grand adventure, through the plains of all worlds, in recovery of a painting. It is very much a grand adventure, but this term should be applied to the relationship formed between Gustave and Zero. I find, that if you consider this notion when watching the movie, all the deliberation of camerawork, care in colour, and attention to detail will leave you truly amazed.


                
An extraordinary cinematic confection and probably Wes Anderson's greatest film. Ralph Fiennes plays the concierge at the Grand Budapest Hotel in the 1930s, which exists in a fictional European country in the Alpine range. He has a habit of keeping some of the old women who stay at the hotel company. When one (Tilda Swinton) leaves him the valuable painting Boy with Apple, Swinton's evil son (Adrien Brody) frames Fiennes for the murder. Fiennes' closest companion, the hotel lobby boy Zero (Tony Revolori), and his girlfriend (Saorsie Ronan) conspire to free Fiennes from prison and sell the painting for loads of money, hopefully enabling them to leave the country, which is being overtaken by fascists. The story isn't much more than fluff (though there is a nice tinge of poignancy), but it's enormously amusing fluff. The highly amusing trailer did give away many of the film's best gags, but this is a laugh a minute movie. The visuals are absolutely delightful. Sure, it's all nothing you haven't seen before from Anderson, but I found it his most perfect accomplishment. The film is loaded with great cameos and little roles (the woman behind me almost had an orgasm when Bill Murray appeared), but my favorite was Willem Dafoe as a toothless heavy.
Loved it Loved it. Loved it. Beautiful, funny, smart, silly, sad, fantastical. I will probably see this movie at least a dozen more times in my lifetime. Can't wait.Why is there a minimum of 10 lines required to make a review? Weird. Anyway...Ralph Fiennes is wonderful. Could end up being a signature role for him and one that is remembered for some time - although I keep forgetting his character's name. That's a problem.All the usual players show up and their all good to fantastic. Willem Defoe is especially fun. Adrian Brody might be the weakest featured player in the movie. He just doesn't quite seem to match up with the rest of what's going on. Same with Ed Norton, although he's less of a sore thumb. But they aren't problematic for the whole movie. Just very very minor distractions - for me, anyway.I just loved it. So much!


                
Wes Anderson is not for everyone. At this point, his films are an acquired taste, and there's enough of a body of work for people to make up their minds whether they like the brand of hand-made, exquisitely carved life-sized doll houses he's selling (if you told me a major director was also a serial killer, my first guess would be Wes Anderson). I happen to be an avid Anderson fan, but I don't argue with people who aren't. His bouts of whimsy are prone to self- indulgence, and his austere emotionalism can be hard to connect with. He's a tremendous filmmaker but he isn't invincible—The Life Aquatic is self-indulgent, The Darjeeling Limited is just plain bad. Still, Wes Anderson on his worst day is better than 98% of working directors on their best.The Grand Budapest Hotel is Wes Anderson working on a very, very good day.


                
When it came to comedy in my younger days, I always watched movies that make me howl with laughter like Ace Ventura or Animal House, but when my parents recommended The Grand Budapest Hotel, I watched the trailer and it peaked my interest and I later watched it and absolutely adored it. From it's ingenious writing and glorious visuals to it's comedy and acting, this is what so many modern comedies aspire to be and yet always fail.The movie opens in modern day where a young woman reads from a book by an author who vacationed at a run-down hotel in the Republic of Zubrowka called The Grand Budapest Hotel in the 1960s where he encounters the owner named Moustafa who tells him the story of how he inherited the hotel. We are than again thirsted back to 1932 where the Grand Budapest's attendant, M. Gustave is busily attending to the desires of the hotel's rich customers as well as educating Moustafa who is the hotel's new lobby boy, but when a favorite client of his is killed under questionable conditions, he is framed for killing her and is placed under arrest but is able to escape. Now, Gustave and Zero must clear his name and reclaim what is rightfully his.While on the surface, the movie may seem like a zany comedy with a murder thrown in for good measure, it's actually a series of arranged events in which many people tell the story of M. Gustave over the years while the extraordinary intro hints at the boundless creativity of director Wes Anderson. Some viewers might think that it's pointless, but it does give a lot of background when the last title card shows up, summing up the reason for the time skip, but it doesn't let up as the movie is a comical multiple genre journey that never seems to slow down for a breather, but even when it gets to the tense moments, there's always a sense of cheeriness right up until the movie ends. Much like what Quentin Tarantino did with Inglorious Bastards with it's self-awareness and adjusting of history, it's hardly surprising that Wes Anderson added in references to WW II throughout the movie as it's based off of a few books by author Stefan Zweig which adds to the authenticity of the movie not to mention that throughout the movie, the war rushes our heroes and villains to carry out their motives rapidly in order to accomplish their various ambitions which adds to the authenticity of the movie.While the human characters are fascinating, The Grand Budapest Hotel feels like a character itself with its spectacular setting, the baths, the hallways, tall roofs, soft colors and identical carpets and walls all give the viewer a sense of grandeur and awe making the viewer feel like they are actually staying there while the visual landscape and photography is simply gorgeous and not only ingenious in approach but also beautiful in gorgeous and smooth editing not to mention the production design, the clothes, hair and make-up all justly earned their Oscar wins as they encompass a distinctively bright and enchanted aura to them while at the same time giving meaning to the gloomy aspect that mirrors the crime drama characteristics of the movie wonderfully. The musical score by Alexandre Desplat is also wonderful with its memorably compelling and captivating musical themes while the film's score crafts a whole new setting for the movie's characters to thrive in and the themes for the various characters are just as attention-grabbing. While the movie has an undercurrent of seriousness, it's still a laugh riot and there's pretty to chuckle at in the movie from Gustave's prison breakout scene to him and Zero fleeing across the snow. The characters are portrayed to such excessiveness that it's impossible not to be entertained by watching them in spite of the dangers they face, the witting too is marvelous with plenty of hilarious lines that are bound to make you laugh your head off more times than once during the movie.To make the movie complete, Anderson recruited one of the best ensemble casts for a comedy I've ever seen and everyone is perfect in their roles. Saoirse Ronan is wonderful as pastry chef Agatha, Tilda Swinton leaves a wonderful impression as Madame D and gives a fine performance, Jeff Goldblum is fantastic as a doomed attorney, Bill Murray is great in his role as is Owen Wilson, Edward Norton is great as the police chief, F. Murray Abraham is wonderful as the older Moustafa, Adrian Brody is awesome as Madame D's conniving son while Willem Defoe is perfect as the evil and brutal psychopath especially when he's standing in the shadows and endangers unsuspecting targets. Ralph Fiennes is fabulous as M. Gustave and brings his familiar endurance to this outlandishly bizarre character, but in a comical curve puts on a formal yet amusingly vulgar witty persona that is more than captivating and there's no absence of hilarious dialog coming from his mouth as he spouts passionate poetry, biting banter or distasteful fits of swearing, truly one of the finest comedic performances of the decade. Assisting in Ralph's crazy adventures is the inexperienced yet ever devoted Zero, perfectly acted by Tony Revolori who brings a dash of boyish zazz to the role as Zero learns his surroundings, but we do learn about his troubled past later on in the film not to mention the interaction between him and Fiennes is so heart-melting as it feels like a father-son relationship by the movie's end.Honestly, there's nothing else I can say about the Grand Budapest Hotel, it's a wonderful comedy that provides plenty of laugh-out-lord moments but still manages to stand above most other comedy movies by being intelligent with it's writing, characters and humor, so if you want a comedy movie that won't insult your intelligence than this is your movie.
Wes Anderson is pretty much the kind of director who never betrays his cinematic trademark no matter how small and unconventional it looks. Just like most of his films, the style and personality are written all over it, from aesthetics to pizazz, but compare this to the others, The Grand Budapest Hotel crafts something that is nearly otherworldly which (obviously) makes it very charming. It is a part thriller and part comedy film that is perfectly coated by its artistic panache, but looking deep within the structure, you may also find a bunch of witty humor and rich character development from the two leads which makes it a really special experience.The film is actually a set of layered events telling how many generations have reached the story of the past hotel owner, Gustave H. That strange piece of intro immediately presents the endless creativity of the picture. Some might think it's unnecessary, but it gives a lot of sense when the final title card appears, pretty much sums up the purpose of that period jump. But it doesn't stop there, of course. The whole film is an amusing multi-genre adventure that takes you to whimsically designed places. Even when it hits to the suspenseful moments, it still sticks to the lightheartedness until every color fades into black and white. It's a quite sophisticated direction, anything else is a pure delight.The aesthetics are an undeniable visual feast. You couldn't ask for anything more than that, the film adds plenty of quirky action within this fabulous looking world. The perfect blend of buddy comedy, mystery, and suspense is all what you need for this platform video game looking environment. But then, it's not complete without the joys of the characters. The real shining moments here is the relationship between Gustave H. and Zero. Ralph Fiennes is wondrous to the role. He made Gustave H. a very likable fellow in spite of his obvious insecurities and selfishness. But then it's an overall compelling performance. Tony Revolori also shines as his apprentice. The misfit pair sparks chemistry that adds more color to this already colorful world. The rest of the cast are just equally terrific at they are doing, whether it's to deliver great humor or give a lot of life in each scene.The Grand Budapest Hotel is often manic yet (obviously) often creative and witty. It's all classic stuff: it suddenly creates a captivating universe where its imaginations are free to express endlessly. I mean it even ends with an animated dance at the credits. Everything is not a surprise from the director, however it is still kind of a refreshing cinema. Because definitely it has larger than life painted exteriors, delightful characters, brilliant humor, and smart filmmaking that do not always exist in your everyday entertainment. It's just a fun caper that is easy to love, no matter if your interests to movies is mainstream or art-house.


                
I have never been fortunate enough to watch works of the Director Wes Anderson but I do not usually connect with the works of a director in today's movie industry but the satisfaction of laying eyes over the imagination and absolute freedom of this director attracted me to write a review.The Grand Budapest Hotel wasn't flawless or a masterpiece in my eyes or even what I would categorize as a movie. It was odd even in the oddest categories of films that I have had a chance to watch. It merely gave away a confusing vibe, felt cheap at points and it had wrong pacing at points but the fact is that The Grand Budapest Hotel is a movie for just about 2 minutes until you are immersed into the words of a book for a matter of minutes and then again into imagination and thoughts of a fantastic listener who barely lays a word into the story. It is confusing but yet it all feels so cunning and organized that even from a newbie's perspective of his work it seems that even the confusion and pacing was so brilliantly placed. I will leave the rest for your eyes and imagination. As for the rating, I would give this movie a 10/10 because of how much freedom the director took, it made my jaw drop at points and had a sincere smile and a few killer laughs at times. I will watch it again very soon for that I already miss the feel of great imaginative adventure with a touch of brilliant comedy in this film.


                
Ah,Wes. You never cease to amaze me. This is one in a row of many that came before it. I feel like this could only be called a ''little brother'' of a movie,strange as it may sound. In retrospect,I can see myself watching it with a hot cup of tea (or coffee),on a rainy day,wearing a big woolly jumper,all wrapped up in my favorite blanket. Of course,none of the mentioned was actually put into action. None the less,this picture is such a treat. Similar to Agatha's 'Courtesan au Chocolat',it is a beautifully decorated piece of perfection,hiding a chocolate surprise on the inside,and packed in a pretty pink box with a signature blue ribbon. A few things come to mind with such a grand slice of cinematography; the guests(ranging from somewhat sane to completely cuckoo),Mr. Gustave's polished black shoes,and of course - pink. Pastel pink everywhere. I also take a liking to the hints of awkwardness that arise,as well as the tension in the air between the characters,so thick you could cut it with a butter knife. Or perhaps,the 'Throat Slitter'... It is clear,from the very beginning of the movie,that everything had to be done perfectly,or the magic of this divine hotel would be lost. A tiny slip up is all it would take for us to lose the smile that'd been lingering on our faces through the whole film. I can say,with out a doubt,much like the painting 'Boy with Apple',this quirky movie is a masterpiece!
I just watched the movie and I'm not even sure if I understood all the implications of what I saw: I wonder if the settings, the register of the dialogues, the many and many things that delighted me meant more than what appeared at first sight. If something hidden hit me. I can only say that in the end I was really touched, as if I were in love with what I just watched. I think it was the brilliance of a human mind that struck me so much.I never read Stefan Zweig's writings although I'm aware of how great a writer he was. I'm particularly intrigued now by his autobiography, 'The World of Yesterday', if for no other reason than for the fact that he completed it the day before he took his life. But while watching this film I couldn't help but thinking of the great deal the Author owed to Georges Remi's Tin Tin for the relentless action, the silhouettes, the endless running and the overall imagery.There are no flaws in this film, I can only state my admiration.


                
No one has ever confused the films of Wes Anderson with those of the Dardenne Brothers, but in their own inventive way, they can be just as touching. Anderson's latest, The Grand Budapest Hotel, is very much in the audacious visual style of his previous comic fantasies - absurd situations, oddball characters, and zany action unfolding at a frantic pace. Here, however, the film's unique voice and compelling performances has an underlying humanity that celebrates the social fabric of a civilized society where sensitivity and consideration for others had not yet gone the way of the hula hoop.Inspired by the autobiography, The World of Yesterday, by Stefan Zweig that describes the culture of intellectuals, poets, composers, and playwrights in pre-World War I Vienna, The Grand Budapest Hotel takes place in Eastern Europe in the period between the two world wars, when fascism began its barbaric onslaught against civilized society. Set in the fictional country of Zubrowka, the film opens in the mid 1980s as an elderly author (Tom Wilkinson) talks about his meeting in 1968 (Jude Law playing the younger writer) with Zero Moustafa (F. Murray Abraham), the owner of the Grand Budapest Hotel, a once luxurious but now decaying palace high on a remote mountain accessible only by cable car.As Moustafa relates how he began as a lobby boy and rose to be the hotel's proprietor, the scene shifts to 1932 where Gustave H., played by Ralph Fiennes in one of his most convincing performances, is the flamboyant concierge who services some of the elderly hotel patrons in more ways than one. His closest relationship appears to be one with the 84-year old Madame D. (Tilda Swinton) whose sudden death touches off a drama that involves Gustave and immigrant lobby boy, Zero Moustafa (Tony Revolori) in one caper after another, the mutually supportive relationship between Gustave and Zero being the centerpiece of the film.As the threat of war hangs like a pall over the horizon, Gustave is left a priceless painting (Boy With Apple) in Madame D. will leading to his pursuit by Madame D.'s treacherous son Dmitri (Adrien Brody), whose hit man is the sinister Nazi-like Jopling (Willem Dafoe). Another of his pursuers is the much gentler captain of the Lutz Military Police, Albert Henckels (Edward Norton), an old friend of Gustave whose heart doesn't seem to be in his job. Madame D.'s lawyer, Deputy Vilmos Kovacs (Jeff Goldblum) who insists on applying the rule of law, is one of the few sane people in the film.The plot is full of twists and turns, filled with one hilarious situation after another, all unfolding with high energy and backed by the luminous score of Alexandre Desplat. One of the highlights is a chase scene between Gustave and Zero being pursued by Jopling over a Winter Olympics downhill course where red flags provide no obstacle. When Gustave is framed by Dimitri and ends up at Check Point 19, a forbidding looking prison resembling a concentration camp, Zero and his fiancée Agatha (Saoirse Ronan), a pastry chef apprentice who makes super appealing confections created in the kitchen of Mendl's Patisserie, help him escape with the aid of Buster Keaton-type ladders, the criminal Ludwig played by a bald Harvey Keitel, and a secret society of hotel concierges known as the Society of Crossed Keys (Bill Murray and Bob Balaban among others).Eventually, they are confronted by Nazis who are coming to power in the area and have moved into the hotel. Though on the surface, The Grand Budapest Hotel is a Mack Sennett-like comedy, beneath the surface, the film touches on universal themes and has a serious purpose. Old West story teller Charles Russell wrote an inscription in a gift of his stories to an old friend that could serve as a metaphor for the film, "Friend Tom," he wrote, "this book is of the days that you and I knew. They are history now. When the nester turned the west grass side down, he buried the trails we traveled, but he could not wipe from our memory the life we loved. Man may lose a sweetheart but he don't forget her." Like the book, we cannot easily forget this film or the nostalgia it invokes.


                
"Take your hands off my Lobby Boy."This is outrageously brilliantly funny. A wonderful modern-day classic. An instant gem of this year of 2014. A perfect film of hilarity, laugh out loud comical banter and acting mastery. You the viewer are sent on a trippy world that only Wes Anderson can make up. The costumes, the sets, scenery are all flawless and truly is the Wes Anderson's persona of making films. He has away with telling the story, directing and getting his characters in the flawless brilliant, funny scenarios that will leave the viewer with a lasting impression of his ultimate, original brilliance.The Grand Budapest Hotel is an instant classic. An instant favorite of mine. It is a must see, must praise and as of now, this brilliant film is added to my all-time favorite movies. Adding it to my all-time favorites is a reality that does not happen much. Few films are added to my 1000 movies you should see before you die. I feel this is a film that is magical and truly a gifted weirdness that grabs the viewer in all its twisted comical realities and takes them on an unforgettable funny, dorky, silly wonderful journey of pure originality and perfection.The cast alone is absolutely extraordinary. There are more actors in this film then can be believed. The actors and there characters create an unbelievable persona and sitting for the viewer. All the acting is brilliant. The stars just shine off screen and are bubbly, hilarious, funny, silly, dorky and absolutely entertaining.Wes Anderson is a genius.The story is wild and brilliantly entertaining. A mix of wild comedy and a coloring book flare. I love the narrative and the ultimate conclusion of perfect comical reality. You never know where Anderson is going and that's the ultimate beauty of his cinema world. The Grand Budapest is a wild story of murder, escaped killers, sex with old people, a lobby boy and deserts and a painting of a boy with an apple.The shining stars are Fiennes and Revolori. Both work off each other in a golden comical way of perfection. Revolori as the Lobby Boy deserves an award for his character of comical banter and flare. Fiennes deserves to be nominated for best actor this year for this wild, over the top beauty of comical mastery. He gave it his all and created a character I will remember the rest of my movie loving life. I love Wes Anderson's creation of characters and the beauty of their persona's and dialogue and the ultimate situations only an original master like Anderson could come up with. I think the golden ticket goes to the surroundings and odd coloring sets and motels and situations where it was filmed. It bleeds nostalgia and retro eye candy. Awesome spots of filming that give all the more reality to the picture.Willem Defoe as the murdering thug is a priceless character. Defoe is a god of acting and he aced this motorcycle, leather wearing, fist rings and mayhem to a memorable and laughable reality on screen. Brody is awesome as the money hungry son and Edward Norton as the law is a magical moment. I have to say this is Anderson's best. I love most all his films but this one truly shines in the odd, original and twisted nature of his cinematic beauty of silliness and over all cast of characters. His creation through, only scenarios he could make up and film as visionary, shines for the watcher.Gustave and his sidekick The Lobby Boy is on the run. Gustave is accused of murdering his elderly lover. He has to figure out the truth through twisted scenarios of adventures and actions that cloud his path of freeing himself. One crazy ordeal after another leads to a wonderful hilarious good time."Can I interest you in a plate of mush?" www.abucketofcorn.com


                
The Grand Budapest Hotel is one of those rare gems ~ visually stunning, fabulous narrative and flawless characterization - oh and the sounds! in my opinion a perfect film. I have never taken the time before to write a review. I am doing so for this film.It will win Oscars. Everything about this film is an experience of light and sound and storytelling. It is magnificent.It is not fair for me to try and point out who is in it and who says what. just watch the movie. it's amazing. If you have just seen it and like me don't check IMDb until after I have watched - then I am quite sure you agree with me.if you are the person who checks IMDb before watching a film - then you are in for a wonderful ride. enjoy.


                
Wes Andersen is one of the truly great directors of our time. The way he makes movie is just delightful to watch as he uses his skills to make a movie as entertaining as possible. When it comes to "The Grand Budapest Hotel" Wes Andersen has hit the bullseye on achieving this!!When i go to see a Wes Andersen movie i like going in without knowing what the movie is going to be about. That way i get even more surprised when i see what the director puts on screen. So what i would like you to know about the plot is that it's about a concierge (Ralph Fiennes) at a hotel called Grand Budapest. Thats just what i want to tell. Because the less you know, the more surprised you will be i hope. What i will say about the plot is that it's a great story that kept me interested from start to finish.What i can tell you is that i could't stop watching it and not smile. Every scene in this movie just had something to enjoy. Whether it's Andersen's style, writing, atmosphere or camera technique. Andersen just had a lot of enjoyable scenes which mixed comedy, violence and absurdity. The actors worked wonderful in this movie. Combining Andersen's classic actors featuring Bill Murray, Jason Schwartzman, Owen Wilson and a lot of other actors with Ralph Fiennes and newcomer Tony Revolori. They were both fantastic as the characters in the movie and fitted well into Wes Andersen's weird and absurd world as well as a lot of other actors in the movie.Why all of these characters worked so well doesn't just come from the acting, but also from the wonderful writing. The script is just simply amazing featuring dramatic moments as well as funny moments..and i do mean funny moments. I do believe this is perhaps Wes Andersen funniest script yet which a lot goes to Ralph Fiennes character who delivers them perfectly so you know just when to laugh. There are just so many quotable lines here that I'm sure you will memorize a lot of them after you've watched it.But it's not just the characters and writing that makes this movie so good. What really helps making this movie so good is the atmosphere. The set, color and location in this movie is just so beautiful to watch that almost every shot could have been the poster. This place that Andersen show us is just so wonderful that we want to live in it. Andersen's camera style and technique is perfected in this movie as we feel every shot throughout this movie was planned and accomplished just as the people behind it wanted.. The camera movements and the lens angle has become one of the most associated thing with Andersen's movies and people who haven't seen it before will without doubt love it when they see it for their first time. It's just such a visually stunning film you can't stop feeling like you have been transported into another place that you never want to leave.Since i didn't want to discuss much about the plot I'm not going to say what message this movie is trying to give, but i suggest you reflect upon it after watching the movie and look it up since it made this movie such a more delight for me. I don't know how much more praise i can give this movie. It's just a really great movie and Im considering this to be one of Andersen's best films, but as i am a huge fan of Wes Andersen it's hard for me to choose, but it is without doubt one of his greatest achievement in cinema. I don't think there are a lot of people who wouldn't enjoy this movie as i think it's the best movie that has gotten out this year and it will remain in my head for a long time.10/10


                
Orson Welles Famously said something like "Hollywood has given me the greatest toy set a boy could ever want." Wes Anderson is one of the Few New Hollywood Directors that has Embraced that Boyhood Enthusiasm and Unleashed it Upon His Body of Work with Joyful Abandon. He doesn't give a Hoot if it is Commercially Viable, Sellable, Marketable, or even Understood by the Great Unwashed. This is Anderson at Play take it or leave it.Most Critics Love His Quirky, Offbeat, Out of the Box take on Mainstream Movie Making and Relish in His Delivery of Unexpected, Untried, Ultra-Realism. His Dialog is not Easily Digested and doesn't Fit Comfortably in the Ear. His Visuals Overwhelm the Eye and Stimulate Cortexs that are Not Known to Exist.Watching His New Movie it is Obvious that He has Perfected His Craft and is so at Ease with His Art that the Complications look Effortless. What Emerges is an Art Form within an Art Form for the Art-Film Connoisseurs and a Vibrant Free for All for Anyone with a Modicum of Interest in being Entertained, Albeit, in a Distinctly Unconventional Method.No One is Making Films like Wes Anderson and there Probably isn't Room in the Multiplexes for Many to Try, and some may be Relieved that He is a One of a Kind. It is Verbally Futile to Describe the Insanity of the Plot and to Try and Review what took place On Screen. It is better to just sit back and Watch it All Unfold and be Amazed at its Wonderful and Fully Fledged Pretensions.Note<U+0085>If you really must know what it is about then be advised, it is a screwball, slapstick, satire, fantasy, action, romp. The Marx Brothers meet Monty Python. But that hardly begins to describe what it is. It is more, maybe, or less perhaps. Depending.


                
Camp, pure camp. Wild farce. Nostalgia. Tears, laughter, fear, joy, wonder. You must, you simply must, let this film take you on it's bizarre journey into Europe's past. Accolades are inadequate. It will be watched over and over. And over. Each character is presented with such skill that after only two viewings, I can visualize and describe at least a dozen of them. The plot elements are secondary and are only as the plate is to the wonderful dinner. The story of Old Europe passing away as the war rages all around, can only be told as the people who lived it are shown. Anderson shows them, and makes the viewer feel that he has comprehended their true nature. It is so sad that they are all gone now. The distant past, known to my grandfather. All faded into the pink mist.


                
Artistically a triumph, cinematographically peaking with experiments (variating dimension viewing formats e.g. 16:9, 4:3, 16:10 e.t.c. regardless from their cinematic-friendly potentials), and finally some screen writing common sense providing narrative coherence (the technique of off-narration hadn't been used thus, since the time of Good Fellas and Casino)with deliberate and tight pacing of rhythm, that maximizes suspense and leads into a grand finale only to retrieve back into the opening sequences once more.. i'm not commenting on the all - star cast performances, or on the intriguing music score, which were more than adequate and efficient to finally help the filmmaker visualize this wonderful project. At last a clear and undisputed nomination for cinematic Brilliance!! If the music band tool ever made a film this one easily could be it!! A film that many contemporary creators should envy..


                
Who would have guessed the ideas for this preposterously hilarious film came form the seeds within Stefan Zweig's mind? Well, Wes Anderson is the man about wild ideas and he surpasses his own impressive credits (Moonrise Kingdom, Fantastic Mr. Fox, The Royal Tenebaums, Rushmore, etc) with this zany and delightful romp.GRAND BUDAPEST HOTEL recounts the adventures of Gustave H (Ralf Fiennes, a legendary concierge at a famous European hotel in the fictional Republic of Zubrowka between the wars, and Zero Moustafa (Tony Revolori), the lobby boy who becomes his most trusted friend. The story involves the theft and recovery of a priceless Renaissance painting and the battle for an enormous family fortune -- all against the backdrop of a suddenly and dramatically changing Continent. The big-time cast includes Mathieu Amalric, F. Murray Abraham, Adrien Brody, Willem Dafoe, Jeff Goldblum, Harvey Keitel, Jude Law, Bill Murray, Edward Norton, Soarise Ronan, Jason Schwartzman, Tilda Swinton, Tom Wilkinson, Owen Wilson, Bob Balaban and others. Granted, you must be in a good state of mind to get all the innuendos and in-jokes that fly through this film, but go along for the ride. It is gorgeous to look at, has glorious musical score by Alexandre Desplat, and makes of an evening of escapist fun. Grady Harp, December 14


                
Wes Anderson's "The Grand Budapest Hotel" is a great film and one of my favorite Anderson films. He has come a long way from "Bottle Rocket" and has perfected his style. The story is about hotel concierge Gustave H (Ralph Fiennes) and lobby boy Zero Moustafa (Tony Revolori) as they navigate their way through a murder mystery and a growing war in Europe in the 1930s. It's an epic tale that is fast paced, witty, and bitter sweet. "The Grand Budapest Hotel" is simply a great story where everything is just what it needs to be. Ralph Fiennes is hilarious as Gustave H. Many of the actors in this film have been in other Anderson films, but Fiennes fits right in and dishes out laughs. Anderson has fun playing around with frames. Whatever time period the film moves to, the framing complements the time period it is in. When we are in the 1930s, the framing is thin and tall like the films of the that time. As time progress, the framing gets wider. It's clever and and meaningful, just like the rest of the film.The film looks great thanks to all the focus on the small details of the sets. Robert D. Yeoman's cinematography is always balanced and complements the wit of the story. Alexandre Desplat's playful music adds laughs and captures Anderson's blend of humor and drama very well. It is a very colorful film (both figurative and literally) and has the dollhouse composition Anderson fans have come to know. "The Grand Budapest Hotel" has everything you want from an Anderson film. Whether it is Billy Murray and Jason Scwartzman or characters with passions or long tracking shots or childish adults and children beyond their or funny original artwork, it's all there. Anderson has perfected his craft and this film shows it. This is one of my favorite films of the year and I hope it isn't forgotten about when awards season comes. It's a funny and meaningful story with characters that you get attached to. Anderson takes you to other worlds and engages you with tales and characters that aren't afraid to be original. "The Grand Budapest Hotel" is a movie that I think everyone can enjoy and I'm glad it is getting recognized.


                
The Grand Budapest Hotel is now one of my absolute favorite movies. I've never read the book, but the film was fantastic. Some of Wes Anderson's other movies(The Royal Tenenbaums, Bottle Rocket, etc) are a bit slow paced and lost my attention at times. However, The Grand Budapest Hotel held my attention throughout the entire movie. It's fast-paced and I fell in love with all of the quirky characters. It's such a great, feel-good movie and I highly recommend it! Ralph Fiennes is wonderful, as are all of the usual actors in Anderson's films. I was worried the film would be slow, but it was so endearing and entertaining! Every little detail and quirk made it so much better!


                
I am not very experienced when it comes to Wes Anderson. I despise his adaptation of 'Fantastic Mr. Fox' and I had not seen another of his films, until Grand Budapest Hotel (GBH).I have now however decided to add GBH to my favourite films list, and for good reason. Firstly the drop dead gorgeous cinematography, which is so stylish and clever that it almost becomes a character in its own right. The angles used perfectly to emphasis the emotions of the characters and give personality to the settings (most notably the hotel itself).This along with the lavish set design and stunning scenery are undoubtedly the film's greatest strength and are amongst the greatest examples of the craft I have ever seen. If the Oscar's fail to recognise these achievements, I shall be horribly disappointed. The performances and writing are also great. Ralph Fiennes steals the show with his hilarious, detailed and unique performance in the lead role. Adrein Brody, Tony Revolori, Willem Dafoe and Saoirse Ronan also deserve praise for their enjoyable and distinct efforts in the films glorious ensemble cast. All the characters are written beautifully and highly entertainingly, with Anderson injecting his style without allowing it to overwhelm the film or consume the characters.Finally, I appreciate the film's sharp pacing and tone. It keeps things brisk, light and energetic (I'm amazed so much was squeezed into 90 mins so effortlessly), however still for slow moments of character and atmosphere. The film also balances darker character moments and the use of the film's primary framing device is integral to it's almost dreamlike atmosphere.In conclusion, Wes Anderson has won me over with his masterful work. I guess you could call me a fan now after all.


                
Most films that are released now are either cheap comedy films, cliché action films or superhero movies. Apart from some exceptions. The Grand Budapest Hotel is one of those exceptions. With the perfect blend of dark humour, a brilliant storyline and fabulous directing this certainly is Wes Anderson's best film yet. Anderson's films are definitely stylised to say the least and not all people like his style of still shots with a vintage look and feel. Personally I love it, he is one of this generations best directors. That man is an artist. You can tell the amount of effort from, not just Wes but the cast as well, that went into every shot to make it as good as it can be. The soundtrack matches perfectly to the film and the humour is laugh-out-loud funny. The Grand Budapest Hotel is now one of my all time favourite films and I am proud to say so. I look forward to Anderson's films to come and I hope he continues to make fantastically beautiful films for a long time.


                
I have not seen all of Wes Anderson films, but what I have seen I like. I have not seen every picture in the museums of Europe and New York, but of the ones I have seen I know which ones I like. I liked this film very much; I like it better than any film I have seen this year. It is visually pleasing, the actors are familiar and magnificent and the story was timeless and incredibly human. It is an original work of art that uses humor to convey the realities of human behavior, including greed, lust, love, brutality and the idea that life, in the end, can be what we make it. Ralph Fiennes, Tilda Swinton, Edward Norton, Adrien Brody, Willem Dafoe, Harvey Keitel, Jeff Goldblum, Bill Murray, Owen Wilson and others will keep you entertained while Anderson spins this historical fairy tale. This film might not be for everyone but as Anderson says, you can tell he gets it.


                
Wes Anderson has done it again. Grand Budapest Hotel is the best of 2014. This film shows the genius of Anderson with his quirky, different style of filmmaking. The writing and filming designs are some of the best and unique in Hollywood today. Grand Budapest Hotel is definitely more of a piece of art than ordinary movie. The cast includes huge names in Ralph Fiennes, F. Murray Abraham, Adrien Brody, Willem Dafoe, Jeff Goldblum, Jude Law, Etc. Ralph Fiennes gives his best performance in years as M. Gustave. He really brings a uniqueness that fits well with the movie. He was rewarded with a Golden Globe nomination. He has some quick humor and energy that keeps the film moving. Wes Anderson mainstays Adrien Brody, Bill Murray, Owen Wilson, and Jess Goldblum give Grad Budapest the classic Wes Anderson feel. The storyline takes you on an adventure. It is a story that only Anderson could tell. The effects are a bit different than most movies but fit the theme. M. Gustave (Fiennes) and his story will make you appreciate Anderson in a new way. By far the best of 2014.
