I am probably in a minority when I say that I didn't enjoy this movie, I wanted to like it, the idea seemed sound and the cast is a cavalcade of top notch actors.I am still trying to work out what it was that made me dislike the film, maybe it was the simple fact that there was no plot to speak of, a tenuous vehicle to give the actors a chance to show their stuff. Admittedly the sets were grand (as the name implies), the production company went all out to create this world; and the acting was excellent but there is a problem here too.The problem I found with the acting was that each member the ensemble cast didn't get a fair crack of the whip when it came to showing their stuff. Most of the actors/characters got just a few minutes of time (apart from the leads of course), I wanted more interplay between these actors, surely there was time for that rather than long rambling scenes of inane dialogue.When the film ended I was left with a feeling of "so what", I didn't care about the outcome of any of the characters. I am sure that some people will enjoy this but I didn't.
I hadn't heard of this film when I and my wife decided to watch it on Sky a couple of days ago and I was stunned when I heard today it was up for multiple Oscars.We couldn't make it past about 40 minutes - it literally did nothing for us at all. It just seemed dull, awkward and a bit too arty at the expense of plot.I don't mind films starting slow and laying the foundations for the characters and the plot. But this film just didn't appear to be offering me any incentive to stick with it.Maybe we were missing something. Or maybe this is one of those films you're supposed to like even if you don't


                
I think some moviegoers wrote positive reviews of this horrid picture just to show they belong to some intellectual elite, which they do not. (Written by graduate of a "name" law school, with an M.A. and Ph.D. in political science, not to brag, just to show I am not particularly dumb.)I lost so much interest in this boring debacle that I almost walked out--I have, literally, never come close to doing that with any movie before, and I see at least 10 or so a month.In the hands of a Woody Allen, it might have been tolerable, but not so here.I am glad it was a box office no-show,despite its appealing name. Thank God some people apparently spread the word of how bad it truly is.


                
I've really enjoyed some of Anderson's films, and even "Moonrise Kingdom," which wasn't good, had some thought-provoking qualities. This one, by contrast, was awful, and to me it suggests he has become "full of himself" or is "mailing it in." It's not funny, nor insightful, nor compelling on any level. At the very beginning, the worn, 1960s decor was amusing, and overall I got the sense that this was going to be about a small number of "quirky" hotel guests in the mid 1980s. These were people who were trapped in the past, but didn't know how to move forward because they had enough money to keep them at the "luxury resort hotel." I was really looking forward to that kind of presentation, but instead we are then taken to another flashback !We are then introduced to a "lobby boy" and a hotel manager (who is "full of himself" and rather unappealing) who are living during the heyday of the hotel, several decades earlier. Now I'm thinking that this still might be about quirky hotel guests, but of a different period, and seen through the eyes of these two (or at least one of them). Instead, the film degenerates into a ridiculous plot about the manager (Fiennes) being framed for murder, then plotting to escape, then trying to clear his name. Not long after he does this, he is killed by Nazi-like soldiers (why couldn't they be actual Nazi soldiers?). The lobby boy's wife dies in childbirth, along with the child, for no good reason, and we have to be told that this happens - we don't see the lobby boy and his wife as a married couple (so there is no character development).There are a few crude jokes, and several murders, one of a cat that seemed like it was something from a "Beavis and Butthead" episode. Overall, this was a very unpleasant cinematic experience, and even the special effects, which tried to create a cute and "magical" atmosphere, did not fit in well - some were used over and over again, to the point of being irritating. If you are not going to create realistic characters, then there needs to be something compelling. The special effects certainly don't make up for this shortfall, as can be the case in action or sci-fi movies, nor is there anything in the plot that works, such as an elaborate murder mystery. It's not even a "feel good" film with a message about "personal redemption" or "doing the right thing."Now I'm all for "dark" films about subjects like "losing faith" (which often contain insights one can't help but ponder), yet you're not going to get anything like that here either! As my title suggests, this is a bizarre "cute" yet mean and nasty effort, and I gave it an extra star because it's outright weird, conceptually. I was not impressed by "Moonrise Kingdom," but I think I understood the "coming of age" idea behind it; with this film, I am left wondering what Anderson was trying to accomplish. If you enjoy this film, that's fine with me, though I have no idea what you could have found compelling or humorous, but if you think it's some sort of contribution to the history of cinema, I think you would benefit from taking some college courses on this subject. If you are a fan of old, silly-looking decor, go ahead and watch the first ten minutes, but after that, I can't imagine what anyone could enjoy about it, other than a few seconds here or there.
As with RUSHMORE, DARJEELING, MOONRISE KINGDOM, ZISSOU, etc., GRAND BUDAPEST HOTEL is all style, no substance. I would say it's cinema for cinema's sake, but this isn't even cinematic, it's just desperately visual. There are zero ideas. Every scene strikes the same note. The characters are mannered and empty of interest. There's some visual wit, but almost no verbal wit. Wes Anderson, the mysteriously admired director, seems to have gotten all his skills from watching sketch comedy on TV. Weird people, weird situations, weird visuals-- that seems to be enough for him. He uses an inner circle of friends/ actors, and often chooses to feature people who aren't even actors in lead roles (that includes the expressionless Jason Schwartzman who, happily for the audience, has only a minor role in this film). Actors who really need direction, e.g. Edward Norton and Adrien Brody, languish in Anderson's hands.As for plot and content: If Anderson is aware of what Central Europe was like as Hitler rose to power, he shows no indication of it beyond the trappings-- costumes, set design, both of which are very good, as is the music. Indeed, Alexandre Desplat's score provides the only feeling the movie has. GRAND BUDAPEST is superficial from the first frame to the last-- and an insult to Stefan Zweig. If you see it, watch for the fake Egon Schiele painting, "Two Lesbians Masturbating," and ask yourself, why? Why that subject? My guess: because Schiele is still, almost 100 years after his death, a radical painter-- an adjective Anderson would like applied to himself, though he is really only pretentious, delivering well-funded displays of superficial eye candy.


                
While the film was beautiful pictorially, the all-star cast was wasted on a flimsy script that couldn't decide whether it wanted to be funny or serious. The story itself is a good one, and might have been very compelling if it were handled in a serious way but they way it was handled was plain awful. If Anderson wanted to make a comedy if should have had many more laugh lines in the script. The chuckles from the audience were few and far between, and in fact, they almost sounded somewhat embarrassing, like we're supposed to laugh at this part. You really wonder whether any of the cast actually read the screenplay beforehand. I'd have to say this was pretty disappointing.


                
Although I don't consider myself a Wes Anderson fan, and I can't stand Tilda Swinton, Bill Murray or any of the Wilson brothers, the reviews of this movie were distinctive enough to get it into my otherwise empty DVD rental queue - but only because there were no other movies that I actually wanted to see.Now that I've seen it, I'm still not a Wes Anderson fan, and I still can't stand Tilda Swinton, et al - and now I also don't like people I've liked in the past, like Jason Schwartzman, Ralph Fiennes, Murray Abraham and Tom Wilkinson. Only Jude Law has emerged unscathed. Every time I see him I like him more.Wes Anderson has legions of ardent, devoted, cult-like fans, but I'm not one of them. His stuff just bores and annoys me, and his favorite actors are among the ones I most dislike even in other directors' movies.


                
I started watching this film with high expectations after all the trailer did show some noteworthy actors but within 15 minutes it became clear that these cameos were only provided to offer a false perception of a movie.I mean why did they cast Bill Murray or Jeff Goldblum if their only screen time lasted less than 5 minutes each?The plot started off as interesting but loses its way about a third of the way through the movie then the rest is really bad cgi effects (the ski scene was notably bad in particular).And why did it need to be a flashback story? Was the appearance of Jude Law really needed to tell that story? You would think for a title including the hotels name there would be a real story behind the Hotel itself but alas no, just the previous lobby boy and his protégé who is accused of murder and has to clear his name.It seems to me that the story was thrown together after the budget was spent on the special effects and pointless high-end actors that had little to no connection with the actual film. What surprises me the most is that IMDb gave it over 8 out of 10? What were you thinking? The only reason i continued to the end was Ralph Fiennes excellent acting otherwise without his it would be just 120+ minutes of bad cgi and pretty scenery.
Bear in mind, I am a huge fan of "Tenenbaums." This movie, however, is nothing but Anderson's statement that he just loves the current trend of men having douchebag moustaches and prancing about like dandy fops. Easily 85% of the male characters are afflicted with the upper-lip-hair scourge, and any semblance of a plot was soon overshadowed by the unveiling of yet another moustache. I could just picture the director being giddy with excitement as yet another such face appeared on screen.The narrator and the dialogue in general are characterized by a pompous, effeminate, overly genteel affectation, and felt contrived and stilted throughout.


                
Bottle Rocket, Wes Anderson's debut film, was a comic delight. Since then, most of his films have left me unimpressed or disappointed. He has resorted to quirkiness and deadpan dialog increasingly. While I found "The Royal Tenenbaums" at least watchable, as was "Rushmore", (though neither worth recommending), "Moonrise Kingdom" and now "The Grand Budapest Hotel" are examples of a director who is so consumed with his style, that the story takes a back seat. All the dialog sounds like it came from the same person. As others have noted, like the naked emperor, Anderson wants you to notice how cute he can be, with centered shots that have characters emerging from a hole one at a time from each of four 90 degree angles. Ha Ha Ha! But despite this being a comedy of sorts, laughs from the audience I was in were few and far between. I gave the film 2 stars, mainly because the sets were so pretty to look at, but like this film and Moonrise Kingdom, they were simply facades, with little substance beyond the surface appearance.


                
Before I start, let me say I enjoyed The Royal Tenenbaums, so I didn't have any prior negative feelings about this director. When I heard how many awards this latest film was up for, and that the local library was having a free showing, I high-tailed it down. Wow -what a disappointment!I found this film depressing on many levels. The word that comes to mind is COWARDICE, fluffed up with CGI artifice. For starters, there were so many opportunities with the material that included issues of race, culture, class, sexual orientation, aging, war, etc. ALL of them missed! All of them treated with the same shallow-as-a-birdbath approach. I truly felt sorry for every actress in this film. They were all either grotesque gargoyles or saintly and scarred like Agatha. If you were to take all the lines collectively from every actress in this film, I've no doubt they'd easily fit on 1/2 sheet of paper. The ratio of women to men was worse than a Saturday Night Live cast list. That said, there was more genuine life in Tilda Swinton's 20 seconds than in the entire rest of the film! This was a new low for LOW emotion fans. The director was too timid to even penetrate the heavily perfumed facade of his main character. In the scene where he's been sprung from prison and is vomiting a racist diatribe on his underling's head, the latter responds by saying how war forced him to leave his country, after his family and town were destroyed. Suddenly Zero is a "refugee" and that magically causes Gustave to apologize profusely to him. Voilà! Zero becomes a Hero and aren't we glad we don't have to think about such nasty deep seated beliefs ever again! Similarly, the director appeared to have been too afraid to even use a real Nazi symbol in the hotel, instead going for some pseudo Art Deco/Fascist Lite look. Yes, some of the set design and outdoor CGI scenes were nice to look at but not for that long. I must have looked at my watch 7-8 times. Thankfully I saw it for free - I only regret I paid for parking!
I have a fantasy. Sometimes I imagine a film festival, not necessarily Oscars, just a festival. There are some nominees for awards of course. Then it comes to announce the winner, the hostess announces that no movie won the award as none were good enough to be worthy of consideration! It may be my fantasy but it reflects the reality of the movie business. Mind blowing movies are endangered breed these days and film festivals to continue their game are choosing between crap and crappier to award something to someone. Grand Budapest Hotel is one of the much debated movies of 2014 and won some awards, most likely it will find its way on Oscars too but does it deserve the buzz? The answer is BIG NO! The story is plain boring with with no emotional or mystery factor to encourage audience to watch it without getting bored till the end. Character development is crude and senseless. Cinematography is cheesy at best and there are insanely stupid mistakes/deficiencies in production such as English writing on everything even the temporary passport instead of German or Magyar! Seriously! LOBBY BOY???? Was it a movie or Pink Panther cartoon? Or maybe they taught the audience is illiterate and stupid! Young Mr Moustafa is very dark. Old Mr Moustafa is white! Hair gets grey by age but the skin only gets darker not whiter! The story is supposed to happen in year 1930 something. The Austria-Hungry empire has been collapsed for 15 years and yet in Captain Henckel's office (The police chief) we see the picture of emperor Franz Joseph of Habsburg dynasty and numerous other mistakes and deficiencies. I wonder how they managed to lure all these big names into an insanely stupid movie like this? And also I have zero ability to understand why critics acclaimed this movie. I would say a watchable movie, do not expect "Grand Hotel" out of it, just a movie to watch and maybe go to sleep in the middle. 2/10!


                
What stands out in this tedious apology for a movie is the succession of clichés inherited from the so-called belle époque, a delight for pseudo-intellectual snobs. To name just a few: the cunning, suave concierge who scores with ALL the wealthy widows who visit his hotel; the upright lawyer who reads out a will to the assembled family (do they really exist?); the 'glamorous', sophisticated middle-European clientèle. Plus a chase through the skiing slopes, following a daring escape from a prison. In addition to the above, we now have some more recent obligatory clichés: foul language, same-sex relationships (preferably involving bisexual partners); etc. etc. There is virtually nothing to recommend this dog. What a colossal waste of talent, time and money.


                
"The Grand Budapest Hotel" is set in the fictional Kingdom of Zubrowka. Gustave (Ralph Fiennes) & Zero (Tony Revolori) lead us through an animated adventure involving stolen art work, hit men, a brazen prison break, human greed and - above all - revenge. Is it entertaining? Hardly. Funny? Not very! In fact, Anderson's film is full of horrible caricatures of Slavs, Sikhs, and silly visual clues and symbols (e.g. the dead cat, "Guard Bunk Room", the Society of Crossed Keys, to name a few). The ending is predictable and the acting is quite uneven (Cameo appearances by Tilda Swinton & Bill Murray do little to save this one from ignomy). The kingdom has spawned a Trip Adviser site where you can post fictional reviews of this fictional property: http://www.tripadvisor.ca/Hotel_Review-g6840479-d6776131-Reviews- The_Grand_Budapest_Hotel-The_Republic_of_Zubrowka.html
I give this Wes Anderson movie a '2' simply for the fascinating oddity of its comic-book style. Come to think of it, he might as well have made an animated feature, for all the reality you'll ever see in this toy-theatre of a show.Anderson has made pretentious claims to being inspired by the writings of Stephen Zweig. This is giving hostage to fortune, because when I investigated the nature of this influence, I found it explained precisely why this film is the quintessential Anderson contrivance, and as unsatisfying as the luridly-coloured, insubstantial confections his characters are so addicted to.Michael Hofmann, writing in the 28th January 2010 edition of the London Review of Books, has the following choice comments about Anderson's literary hero, which serve to tell us a lot about the film maker's taste:'Hofmannsthal's friend Leopold von Andrian put himself through a Zweig novella . . . 'reluctantly, a spoonful a day, like a nasty-tasting medicine', and, in the course of a comprehensive, paragraph-long taking-apart, wrote: 'each sentence incredibly pretentious, false and empty – the whole thing a complete void'.' '. . . there is an unusual consensus here – Mann, Musil, Brecht, Hesse, Canetti, Hofmannsthal, Kraus – to the effect that Stefan Zweig was a purveyor of Trivialliteratur and, save in commercial terms, an utterly negligible figure.''Zweig himself speaks a little smugly in his autobiography, The World of Yesterday, of 'this preference of mine for intense, intemperate characters in my novels and novellas'. 'The typical Zweig story,' the critic William Deresiewicz notes, cooling to his subject in an afterword, 'is a tale of monomaniacal passion set loose amid the veiled, upholstered civility of the Austrian bourgeoisie, the class into which Zweig was born.' ''Zweig is both an absolutely natural and an absolutely dreadful writer; the one quality of course does not preclude the other.'Indeed. Anderson has great technical facility, and the films he cranks out are like meticulous clockwork complications that are the be-all and the end-all of the exercise. But we don't go to the cinema to see a clockwork doll. We go to expand our sense of humanity. Anderson has, with 'The Grand Budapest Hotel,' produced something that is certainly the masterpiece of his airless, unreal personal fantasy. His cutely contrived models are manipulated with obsessive skill, and animated with all the hyperactive energy of automata. Any stray reflection of adult or real existence is instantly trivialised, and drained of all life by the manic mimetic puppetry of a creation that is trapped in the primitive ethos of childhood's purely sensory and dynamic distractions. How Anderson's embarrassingly immature entertainments have ever been credited with the status of artistry is beyond me. He's like a teenager still fixated by an infantile world he is unwilling or unable to put away. His inappropriately prolonged innocence is not charming - it is embarrassing. It is a kind of decadence. It is perhaps honest insofar as it is a true reflection of the profoundly infantile nature of most North American culture. This is play as self-indulgence, not as wit or irony. It is the world seen at the level of the rug-rat, with a prospect of weird multi-coloured toys scattered in improbable relations by the drifting inconsequence of free-wheeling fantasy. It is a world that charms similarly immature and adolescent sensibilities, but repels those with more grown-up tastes.
There is absolutely NOTHING witty in this film! Witty is NOT a word I would use to describe this film! Boring, tedious, dreadful, Very overly long, these are all the sorts of words that describe the film, not witty!!!!!!!! The cameos from all of those people were far from necessary! The makers, the writer and director etc. obviously thought 'Hmmm how can we get this crap to sell? How can we bring the viewers in? Cameos! And over-hyping! That's what we need! We need lots of cameos by lots of different actors and actresses and lots and lots and lots and....of over-hyping! If we offer enough money and they have room in their diaries.... and if we hype this rubbish as much as we possibly can....' and lo viewers came in their hundreds and thousands and spent a huge heap of money on a truly dire film! And as awards ceremonies such as the Academy Awards are just advertising and promotion(al) vehicles no wonder this crap film won awards in various places, it needed them! Oh, and if any proof was needed that we humans are all sheep then the fact that so many people flocked to see this rubbish and then actually watched it and then rated it so highly and gave it such good/great reviews proves it! There was such a long gap between plot points causing the film to feel very slow and very lumbered! Every time I have tried to see the film I have fallen asleep! Ralph Fiennes was good and carried the film. Thanks to all of the sheep flocking to the cinemas I bet Ralph, and the rest of the cast, is now pleased this crap is on his, and her, C. V.!


                
