Wes Anderson has great style and wit but THE GRAND BUDAPEST HOTEL is one more effort from Anderson that is totally satisfied with being nothing more than cute. The film looks great, quite amazing in fact, but really is this trite exercise all that this talented filmmaker and cast can really accomplish? A little soul, an inkling of depth or insight would be nice. Anderson clearly has it in him to offer more. His earlier films all reached much further. But now the cute factor has taken over.Ralph Fiennes totally scores though in a wonderful central role and Tilda Swinton who is in the film for about 5 minutes leaves a very lasting impression in more ways than one.


                
I don't care for Wes Anderson. Every time trailers give me the impression it's going to be funny, I'm deeply disappointed. For me, Wes Anderson's works range from stupid to really stupid. Grand Budapest Hotel is typically stupid. What makes it a little better is the true humor of the sets and costumes. From the Easter egg candy colored hotel with delightful columns, a grand stair-step tram to raise visitors to the heights of the hotel's entrance, delightful hotel staff costumes and villains costumed in traditional black, this Wes Anderson did give this viewer one arena of entertainment that the rest, acting, story (what story?), plot (what plot?), characterizations (who cared about any of them?) lacked. I did enjoy the stellar cast. I think they do Wes Anderson's films because making them must be fun. My favorite of the cast? Jeff Goldblum. I liked his character. And his was the only character about whom I had any feeling for care or concern.Will I ever watch a Wes Anderson film? Yes, but only for the reason I dragged myself through it this time-- it was on the IMDb 250 top films list on the 31st of December. For those who like Wes Anderson, your sense of comedy is different from mine, not better, just different. As for me, I think I'll go back to Woody Allen films.


                
Third film I see from Mister Anderson... (wait for it... Anderson!!! - sorry, couldn't resist.) Anyway, third film I see and second confirmation that the writer/director has nothing to say and no story to tell.Still, if you like his previous works, you may enjoy this one as well. Which I didn't either. To his credit, he has perfected his visual technique, and produced a lot of appealing pictures. Unfortunately, that's all there is to see. It plays out as a long succession of vignettes, of stills, some of them very much like Flamish paintings. And the initial appeal gets old pretty quickly. It's not so much a film as it is a slide-show. Or at times a cartoon. Not a funny one; the cartoonish scenes, like the snow chase, are plain ridiculous.Maybe, just maybe, Wes Anderson works hard to emulate some talented directors he likes, but without the flair and a decent writer. I must however commend his insistence in treating the mundane and the ugly in the most aesthetic manner. Even desperate cases like Owen Wilson.Definitely not my cup of tea. I'll watch another of his directorial efforts one day, but I'll wait for one that he doesn't write himself.


                
"The Grand Budapest Hotel", Wes Anderson's most successful film to date, is visually enthralling, every frame a veritable art museum painting (and not just on the level of "Boy with Apple"), cleverly utilizing glass-paintings and CGI-enhanced locations in Germany and Poland actually to the level of picture postcards. That may also be its problem. As interesting as the film would seem to be theoretically, it seems as hollow and superficial as a picture postcard. Its extraordinary cast members (which includes 11 previous Oscar nominees and 5 Oscar winners) posture themselves like mannequins throughout a fast-paced exercise that feels no deeper than an elaborate puppet show. Admittedly, I've had a long-term aversion to Anderson's 'style', so annoying in its contrived stance of false naiveté. While overwhelmed by the beauty in every sequence, I search in vain for the least empathy with a single character and any emotion beyond the superficial. Many swoon over this film, but its adoration to me makes more sense on a sociological level in sync with the Twitter and Instagram sound-bite age we live in. As I said to a good friend (who's a Wes Anderson fan) after we left the theater, "How could anyone spend so much money on such a marvelous cast and such gorgeous images and produce something so shallow and emotionless?" I'm still waiting for the answer.


                
Strip the harsher bits of the language and a few brief graphics, and all you have is a children's story. Add the language and graphics back, and you have a film suitable for nobody.Visually, it's quite bold, but like the scripting, it suffers from not knowing when less is more. I felt like shouting "shut the frack up" so many times, there were so many words with so little positive contribution to my experience. Some of the less gaudy imagery, and the skillful integration of the music with the visuals, was quite Greenaway-ish, but please forget I mentioned a visionary like that in the context of tripe like this.Editing was painfully cartoonish. Plot was about as complex as a typical children's cartoon too. Pretentious visual masturbation, not even particularly well done, to be honest - you can see the joins. Best left on Wes Anderson's Kleenex, not my wall.Oh dear, I've just found out that this was supposed to be a "comedy". A few bits of slapstick does not a comedy make. Extreme drugs required in order to get any giggles out of this.


                
What a disappointment! The story starts really slowly but had just enough detail and setting to keep me in my seat - at the 1 hour mark I wanted to leave. The sets are visually pleasing particularly the heavily wood panelled rooms and staircases of the buildings. The little models of the hotel are obviously that. The characters are bland as hell perhaps with the exception of the neurotic old lady near the beginning. The acting is deliberately very deadpan with some (correct?) idea that central Europeans are ultra reserved, uptight, solitary. The cameos are really annoying as they add absolutely nothing - no humour or intrigue. The script is wanting in the extreme and contains N. American language/swearing/syntax that is completely out of place in this film. The screen play needed desperately to be reworked a few more times with a twist or two to satisfy the audience. The audience - many older, seasoned movie veterans, sat in silence almost all of the time - two brave souls tried to applaud at the end but thought better of it. I had the impression this was an American film, with potential, that should have been handed over, in toto, to the Brits to make it much much better. In summary, it was a waste of $12 X 2.


                
After reading on line that this was up for an Oscar and saw the many celebrities in the cast I was anxious to see this film. I think I laughed once during the entire film. Maybe I am dense or maybe I am the wrong nationally to enjoy this flick, but I just didn't get it. I actually fell asleep I was so bored. I was very disappointed as I love Ralph Fiennes but I felt this role was totally beneath him. Also the portrayal of a main character when he was older was totally off...confused me terribly. I did however enjoy the scenery thought it was beautifully done. Perhaps I should read the book and then I would understand exactly what was going on. Again it bored me, I was waiting for something exciting to happen and I felt as though it never did.


                
The Grand Budapest features a drab storyline, wrought from the dullest fairy tales. The cast is of a magnificent blend, but their name alone is the upside. They make minute appearances, lasting no longer than several minutes in length, and as noted earlier, manipulated in an unfavorable way by the director- casting their acting skills to the toilet. The three stars I do grant this movie comes from the performances given by Ralph Fiennes, and an honorable mention to Tony Revolori. Ralph Fiennes commands the screen, drawing the illusion that he truly was a concierge in the 1960's.The director makes use of novice camera tricks, and the movie has the feel of a parody the likes of which has been seen in Monty Python, and Weird Al Yankovic music videos. This is not a notable movie, and a tremendous letdown by the ratings from IMDb, Metacritic and Rotten Tomatoes, it really should be titled The Grand, Blandest.


                
What happens when Max Fischer graduates from Rushmore and goes to Hollywood? He reads Stephan Zweig and makes a totally pretentious 'art-house' movie 'inspired' by a cursory reading of a few of Zweig's minor novellas. In his own imagination Max Fischer is a great director/playwright (and also master of calculus) but in the real world he is an industrious but dim-witted student whose grades are so low he fails to graduate from high-school. On a subject which he knows something about, which is documenting the torment of his daily life at Westchester High or describing the interactions of the members of his very odd family the level of writing/directing is what one might say juvenile (that is written by a juvenile, and in this case for a juvenile audience) but decent. Now, the young Mr Fischer with a few movies under his belt may well imagine (as he is prone to) that he is the next Dostoyevsky, but that does not make it so. Just as he might imagine himself to be the next Einstein of mathematics when in the real world his endeavours are failed by his 11'th grade math teacher, this work is equally woeful in respect of literature. The really sad thing is that some really quite good actors have fallen for this claptrap, as have almost all professional movie critics.So what is it about this movie that flags up amateur night most prominently? It is probably the name of the fictional country in which the film is set: the republic of 'Zubrowka'. Which is the trade name of a polish vodka, previously banned from the American market due to a toxic grass extract but which was reformulated specifically for the American market in 2011, and promoted with an equally pretentious 'art-house' advertising campaign. Can you imagine an author like Zweig or Dostoyevsky being so taken by a 30 second vodka spot that they turn it into a novel or play? And these are not Ridley Scott mid-80s European type advertisements (which have some small modicum of artistic merit), but much more run of the mill adverts for the American market (where shouting about a 'monster truck rally' is considered normal fare). At the 'monster' truck rally young Max might have seen an advert for 'my brother is facing the electric chair for a crime he didn't commit ... after his appeals were exhausted we knew there was only one way to get him out ... blam! blam! blam! ... Prison Break! Thursdays 8:30 (9:30 mountain), only on Fox!!'.Yes dear reader, when the vodka runs out (which takes about 10 minutes) we move straight on to Prison Break. Once the protagonist has broken out of prison (which is very long and tedious, taking about half the movie) we move on to a pursuit by 'Jaws', of the Bond variety. And then it's fair to say it only goes downhill from there.Now if Wes/Max had stuck with the pretentious pseudo-arty vodka advertisement then the resulting short film would probably have been OK, rescued perhaps by Ralph Fiennes performance. Set design is quite nice but very 'stagey'. It's a bit like one of the plays-within-the-film that Max puts on in Rushmore, which we are led to believe are fairly pedestrian but have amazingly intricate sets. What is missing is the real movie outside of this play within a movie.For Max's next movie I would suggest a film about a very 'artsy' and pretentious Hollywood writer/director who leads a very dull drab life, is picked on by his peers and is forced to make very stupid movies about monster trucks ... which despite the prosaic subject matter are amazingly intricate and detailed (like transformers as animated by ILM) ... of which we get to see interesting fragments to punctuate an otherwise dull drab cruel world.


                
So, I've been meaning to watch TGBH for a while now, and finally got around to it. I knew it would be visually appealing and figured there would be some good chuckles as well. However, I didn't find anything worth laughing at, nor even chuckling at. It seems Anderson just phoned this one in and relied on his name for the accolades and praise he received from his army of pretentious and elitist sycophants. I think he really needs to learn what this means: A little can go a long way. He could have reduced the dialog by half and nothing critical would have been missed. And the vulgar language could have been omitted altogether without losing anything. Swearing just for the sake of swearing isn't "edgy". Its embarrassing. The one scene (and I'm sure there are many more if I really reflect upon it) that went beyond verbose with its ridiculous dialog was when Fiennes was berating the bell boy just after the prison escape. That exchange/rant went on for like two or three minutes and was just stupid. I mean, garbage like that - did Anderson really believe that when Fiennes apologizes afterwards in the manner that he did, that the audience is meant to find that funny? Got news for ya Wes - it wasn't. Something tells me Anderson has surrounded himself with a bunch of "yes men" who will tell the emperor how fantastic everything is. And at this point I'm sure Anderson now believes all the bull blown up his behind and has an ego to rival any top professional athlete's. Now, I understand that directors have a pool of actors that they like working with, and vice versa. However, it really is time for Wes to consider other actors. Does Owen Wilson, Bill Murray, Schwartzman, Goldblum, have to be in every one of his movies??? And especially Schwartzman! That guy really rubs me the wrong way and I do not find him funny nor charming in the least. How he's able to sustain a career as an actor should be one of the modern day wonders of the world. But I digress, back to Anderson and his battalion of actors - its like he's got a checklist going and every time he cameos one of his "regulars", he marks it off. Wes, for the love of God, get some new blood in there. And as for his legions of brown-nosers and their "Anderson is God / Can do no wrong" devotion - look up the phrase "Self- fulfilling Prophecy". None of these pretentious blow hards would ever admit, under threat of torture, that they just wasted 2 hours and $10 on this movie. All I know is that I'm certainly glad that I didn't blow $10 or more watching this in a theater. And I'm sure the art/coffee house types will dismiss me as being a cretin who doesn't "get it" when it comes to this movie. However I'm sure that deep down they really know that this was sub-par at best.
you will not laugh in this movie, unless you enjoy delusional British comedy and by that I mean jokes of an up-tight 60 year old and over blown conversations with stuffing needless words like " quite absurd and tedious " which ironically describe the film.I watched this movie because it has a lot of movie stars that I like which obviously was intended for selling the film, lets add a 2 second shot of Bill Murray answering a phone or just walking by !!William Dafoe's character was the only thing remotely enjoyable in this piece of torture and time waste. it drew a sad smile on my face during the length of praying for a laugh !I don't recommend this film unless you feel like boring yourself to death.


                
Concierge M. Gustave (Ralph Fiennes) is accused of murder of one of the Hotel's more wealthy clients, goes on the run, is captured and goes to prison. Then he escapes. What they showed in the promos were some of the most clever skits and I thought I would enjoy this. Didn't happen. The story was simple enough but the director made it more complicated than it should have been. I believe the idea here was to incorporate fantastic visuals regarding the photography, and cinematography. And, they were fantastic. Visions of SIN CITY and DICK TRACY visuals filled my head at those times. This story was dragged out to the glee of some and no-glee to others including me. Yes, I took a few naps along the way and missed nothing. The dialogues were all monotone which helped the road to slumber land at times. ( Monotone? Really?) Yes. Although billed as a comedy, there was nothing funny in here. A few clever lines, and bewildered looks do not a funny movie make. I won't mention that sometimes the characters spoke so fast I had no idea what was said and just went with it hoping that something later on would translate those dialogues into something that I could understand. But, I won't mention that. HA!The only funny thing I, sort of, laughed at was when Kovacs (Jeff Goldblum) notices that Jopling (Willem Dafoe) throws his cat out the window. More slap-stick in here would have gone a long way to being a funny movie. If no comedic lines would be forthcoming, bring on more slap-stick. Didn't happen. I enjoyed Ralph Fiennes as the Concierge and if he had only been given better comedic lines and rose above the monotone acoustic level, he would have been as fantastic as the photography and cinematography were. Yes, yes, I do understand that his position really wouldn't allow for that but<U+0085><U+0085>.. Didn't happen. In a word, this turned out to be quite boring. By stifling Fiennes' character Gustave this became, well<U+0085><U+0085><U+0085> still quite boring. I did recognize Bill Murray as Ivan, Jude Law as the young writer, Jeff Goldblum as Kovacs, and Willem Dafoe as Jopling and they were okay. There were other stars in here with small parts, but they were in camouflage mode and I didn't readily recognize them. See if you can. In the beginning there were hints of sexual hi-jinks with someone being serviced orally and later we see a graphic painting of nude lesbians touching each other. I thought there would be more of this along the way, but the director was still too concerned with the photography and cinematography and as mentioned these were fantastic and we saw no more sexual hi-jinks. This was way too long and lost me often, but keep in mind the focus was to present the photography and cinematography and that was successful. The dialogues were entirely predictable run-of-the-mill utterances. Not good. All in all this was very disappointing and not the class act some think it is. Boo Hoo. (3/10)Violence: Yes, some not much. Sex: No. Nudity: Yes, a water hose washing down a backside. Language: Yes.


                
The film is listed as a comedy. This is not a comedy. The entire film was one or two funny scenes. An interesting drama, and not a complete waste of time, but still a disappointment. I do not understand why this movie has such high ratings. I looked at the descriptions of other users who have described this movie brilliant, perfect for stay at home, absurd, amusing, violent, simply beautiful and so on. Frankly, none of that I have not seen. I saw a couple of famous actors and I was expecting a lot more. The biggest disappointment brings it I expected a good comedy with a good rating from users here and looked mediocre drama.


                
You know the type: Birdman or The Shape of Water, etc Films that make no sense and are largely boring too.


                
I feel sorry for the operators and all the other technicians that were recruited to produce this visually excellent picture about nothing. The script is so empty and devoid of any sense whatsoever that it made me question the emptiness I constantly feel inside my own life, and convince me that my life is actually full of wonder and magic compared to the dullness of this film's script. Wes Anderson must have indeed been on drugs. This movie is pure trash.


                
The universe of this movie presents us in a quite significant way an SS-like military formation stationing in a building with pink walls. So why did they removed the pink elephants dancing between the scenes? Because this form over substance picture apparently lacks some clear circus transitions between scenes. Especially as there is this proper piece of music for such a dance, that is played when the end titles are finally rollingThis is nothing more than a pretentious attempt on an art film. A bunch of good and great actors had to be somehow mislead into showing up in it. Humor has the level of middle school students that have just discovered Monthy Python. Beautiful sets crafted with details were contaminated with quasi-fantasy approach. And the whole unrealistic story and behaviors may fit well within the semi-fictional universe, but they sure do not help the film itself: the further it goes the more of tiresome starts to leak out from the screen onto the viewerTo be honest, one must admit that there are some good or interesting moments or ideas; that were unfortunately simply wasted or misused. There are also some masked / reworked events from history of Europe and parallels to today's problems (like mass migration). But overall, this movie should be re-titled into something more appropriate, like "The Grand Cinema Joke"


                
...by 'fascists'? The film was interesting at first but it slowly oozed into a mess due to a poor script that stilted any energy in the story. It wanted so much to be a adult version of say 'Alice In Wonderland' but the choice of roles and the numerous cameos (concierges) added to the repetitive poor attempt at humor. Nothing really dark here more of a boring tale that left the talent of a great ensemble elsewhere.The director gave us an 'All Star Team' of the Americans vs. the Euros (heavily stroked with de rigueur 'Brits').Do what I did - go to your local public library and borrow it - a loss of 90 minutes with a cutesy plot that goes no where.


                
The movie starts and we already have a flashback. We see almost 15 minutes and then we have another flashback.
In this "inside a flashback" flashback, we see the history of the Grand Budapest Hotel, but for just ten minutes, the script keeps changing the scenario after this and returns to the hotel only in the last ten minutes of the movie. So, don't get misunderstood about the movie's title, the hotel is what you'll less see.
The next topic is the Boy With Apple paint who, like the hotel, we don't see too much. The paint appears at the beginning of the movie, is forgot in the middle, and, finally, remembered in the end.
The Grand Budapest Hotel has a lot of funny jokes but, unfortunately, don't have more than this, what explains why the hotel is closing the doors.
The Grand Hotel Budapest is the most overrated, contrived and pretentious movie I've see in a long time. The audience is supposed to love it because it is a welcome break from those horrible cgi sci-fi movies, explosions, blood an gore epics and insipid romcoms that are about all Hollyword produces anymore. Sorry, this isn't much better. It is predictable that the artsy crowd would fall in love with it, since it is calculated to appeal to them. Anderson has it screaming "Look at me, I'm an artiste!!" in every frame.Of course, it didn't help that it starred one of my least favorite actors Ralph. Fiennes. I swear, one these days he's going to win a best actress Oscar.


                
Visually and conceptually, this film is a 10 out of 10. But where Anderson's films usually generate a great deal of empathy and affection for the characters, I felt very removed from this movie. It was funny and beautiful and clever on the surface of the screen, but I never felt involved in it.That's fine, actually. I don't mind being challenged a bit. Directors make some films for audiences and some films for themselves. I get the impression that Wes Anderson made Grand Budapest for himself. It was not really for me, as much as I love most of his films, but I appear to be in the minority.


                
