Wes Anderson is undoubtedly one of the finest directors we have working today, and this is very much evident throughout the span of his latest film The Grand Budapest Hotel. His choice of adjusting the screen format, his color pallets and sleek cinematography are what save this movie from being a flop. Yes, it is great directing. Yes the performances, especially Ralph Fiennes, are top notch. This is a decent movie, but decent is where it stops. It doesn't have anything to separate itself from previous quirky and dark humor filled films that Wes Anderson has released, it doesn't have the heart from Moonrise Kingdom, the charisma of The Fantastic Mr. Fox, or the mystique from The Darjeeling Limited. Yes, every director may have their own styles and tweak it differently for each of their works, but Wes Anderson only adds some minor plot differences to his films to make them slightly "different," yet still far too similar. I have been fine with them in the past, but by The Grand Budapest Hotel, his fourth main entry, the goofy style becomes a little tedious and actually difficult to get through in some scenes. Many trivial things are presented as important matter in drawn out sequences, making it all the more difficult to watch. Yes, I am harshly bad mouthing this movie, but I did still find some enjoyment in watching the gorgeous film making and the once in while funny script, but come the third act, all the twists just become much too predictable, and ultimately unsatisfying. I hope Wes Anderson has something up his sleeve that can add variety into his collection, because my patience level for this is slowly declining. GRADE: C


                
In contrast to other reviewers, I am quite disappointed of this film. It is a rather weak comedy aimed at a British/American audience with limited knowledge of Central Eastern Europe's cultures and languages - and its bare content may therefore appear exotic and hilarious. The whole actually resembles Swedish comedy movies from the 80s, but with modern aesthetics.The weakest link is the script and especially the dialog. The film starts of in an extreme tempo, as fashionable nowadays, probably not to risk boring any potential young and inexperienced viewers, maybe to appear smart and fresh - with the consequence of the audience losing half of what is going on. The extraordinarily many famous actors do not reach anywhere to potential - instead it seems like squeezing in as many stars as possible in roles that do not offer full scope for their talent.The second character, Zero Moustafa, as young played by an Indian-looking (apparently Latino) actor, as old by a white Caucasian (why?), may ring fresh with current political news for a British/American audience as he is a refugee who has had to leave his home country due to war - and due to this fact the constant nonsense-speaking Gustave excuses himself for a "racist" remark. And then they run around lightly clad in the snow together for much of the rest of the movie. For me, not finding anything funny, the only joy is the great cinematography, the photo and the music. The whole show is certainly wrapped in luxury paper - it feels like a waste with such weak content. But dollar-wise it might still be a success


                
I attended this film with my wife and an absolutely packed theatre of moviegoers. My wife fell asleep (literally) and about two hundred others around us sat in uninterrupted silence as a litany of dreary antics and pratfalls ensued. Truthfully, there were no more than a handful of audible giggles throughout the entire length of the film. Personally, I found it mildly humorous at best. One interesting aspect was watching the long list of cameo appearances by so many well-known names, while the story, within a story, within a story narration was mildly intriguing. The chase scene in the snow was insufferably long and cartoonish. Such a disappointment.


                
When I came to the theater to watch the movie, I had no preconceived expectations about it. 20 minutes into the movie I realized that it was not a movie made for large audiences, but rather a movie created to please the sensibilities of those that view life in a peculiar way. It reminded me of "The Big Lebowski" and "Adaptation," which have their own cult following.The movie does rely on a superb cast of actors that won't disappoint any moviegoer; but the problem with the movie is the story itself. In a unique way, it rehashes old themes of greed, intolerance, and obsession with the material world. It helps perpetuate the notion that humanity is flawed and that life has no ultimate purpose. It seems to reinforce those sensibilities generated or amplified explicitly and implicitly by individualistic life choices and humanistic thoughts within the confines of the human experience.Artistically, it lacks the complete range of human emotions necessary for a wholesome movie. Nevertheless, in an uncanny way, it would certainly connect with those that already made up their minds about the meaning of life in a subtle and reaffirming manner.


                
I had great hopes for this film, I liked the previous titles of the director, and mostly, find him imaginative and cheerful. Also, this film featured a lot of good actors, and even Bill Murray!.But it falls short, it's not really funny. There are a lot of dialogs, that try to be fast and brilliant, but they get tiring after a while. There are a bunch of repetitive jokes, that are not funny. I was really expecting to laugh, and you know that feeling when you are trying to laugh on a film, but it doesn't deliver. Seems like the visuals, while powerful, were meant to be the main part of the comedy. But they don't really add a sense of comedy. Not even the hotel is an important piece of the history. Maybe I was expecting it to be a comedy, but that was not the intention of the director?And then, the just mere circumstantial appearance of Mr Murray.


                
This is only for people who are want something special from a movie. I watched it based on IMDb rating and totally disappointed. I was extremely bored and it was a torture to watch it till the end. I don't have words to express my anger. This was one of many movies I watched based on IMDb rating and got disappointed. I now understand pretty much what kind of people come and rate movies in IMDb. Not those with similar taste as me of course. I sincerely hoped someone to write a review same as mine, so I would have been prepared, but no all popular reviews are too positive. This means IMDb ratings are not for everyone, its for those who takes movies very seriously, not for people who wants some honest entertainment for a few hours of their busy life. I will never ever believe the ratings here.


                
There were major crowds to see this movie in Scottsdale, AZ. So large were the crowds that I was turned away on my first attempt. Undaunted, I decided to see this movie at the same theater as a Monday matinée. Again, the theater was very crowded.Considering the crowds (and the professional reviews of 8.4) I could not wait to see this film. To my disappointment I found the film to be unfunny and boring. I could not wait for the movie to end. It had the feel of a 1960s Blake Edward's comedy. Think "The Pink Panther". Those movies were funny in their day, but not in the 21st century.Unlike Anderson's "Moonrise Kingdom" there was not one memorable moment. Anderson would be better to come up with a novel concepts rather than attempting to use worn out themes from the 1960's.


                
I was very disappointed. At points I thought it could have been a good film; good actors, good decor, seemingly reasonable budget. With such a high rating I expected a decent film, however, it is lacking in suspense and excitement, as in my opinion the most intense or interesting parts of the film are made light of, making it rather monotonous. The story and the film in general after the first 45 minutes or so became rather boring to the extent I would have got up and left had I been alone. There is no real connection with the characters or the plot and the viewer is left indifferent as to the end result. I found to be meaningless and insincere, and found myself wanting the film to end just so I could leave.


                
I for one haven't recovered from the dissonance between this movie's rating on IMDb and my own viewing experience. Maybe my expectations were too high because of the rating? It's one of those things that you like it if you like it (circular argument, but that's exactly my point). Many of the rave reviews I now realize come from Wes Anderson connoiss-fans.The positives: it is a feast of visual surrealism; it's a virtual fireworks of movie mega-stars that make for a dazzling show. But when the smoke clears, there's not much left. Decent entertainment, but neither brilliant comedy nor sophisticated satire. The cast of the movie would have been capable to deliver either in spades, but the script and direction fell short.


                
I admire the effort and meticulous planning that goes into his scenes. It's a breath of fresh air to see a director take passion in the colour palette of a film and stylise it so. However, what happens to your actors when they can only walk either vertically or horizontally? It becomes flat. I get the overwhelming impression that Anderson has planned his scenes so much so that there is absolutely no spontaneity. I think this is probably the most frustrating film I have ever seen, mainly because of the amount of effort that has gone into it but the lack of exploration given to the actors over arches the entire production. It's close, but miles off at the same time. I literally had to turn it off half way through after the 100th symmetrical scene or a shot in profile / head on. What had happened to exploring the 3 dimension world the film is shot in. I actually feel like within 30 minutes his direction becomes lazy and he has forgotten what the emotion of film is all about. Incredible scenes are lost because of the direction being so caught up in its own aesthetic. It's almost like watching Pac man for 2 hours. Shame, obviously a great script.


                
Wes Anderson is back at it again with another one of his quirkfests, this time entirely convincing most critics that he's crafted a masterpiece. Most are mesmerized by the production design, which truly deserves an Academy Award. Anderson opted to use miniatures for wide shots of the hotel and did extensive research for the interiors. The Görlitzer Warenhaus, a defunct German department store which survived World War II, was a stand-in for the Grand Budapest's lobby. Anderson's cinematography, which features all kinds of shots from unusual angles was probably another reason the critics were so impressed with the film (take note of the prison escape scene in particular). But I believe critic Stephanie Zacharek of The Village Voice gets it right when she concludes that Anderson's narrative, is wholly one-note in nature: "This meticulously appointed doll house of a movie just went on and on, making me want to smash many miniature plates of plaster food in frustration."The narrative begins when a famous author in 1985 recounts a visit he made to the then decaying Grand Budapest Hotel in 1968; he then met the owner, Moustafa (F. Murray Abraham), who recounts his days as a lobby boy at the hotel in 1932. The hotel is located in the fictional Republic of Zubrowka, a remnant of the old Austro-Hungarian Empire. One is reminded of the Marx Brother's take on their own fictional Balkan Republic, "Freedonia," but alas in Anderson's "homage," there are no laughs!Ralph Fiennes plays M. Gustave, the concierge at the hotel, who takes Zero, the young lobby boy (who is the narrator of the story in his old age), under his wing. Gustave, an admitted bisexual, has been having a very brief affair with the elderly owner of the hotel, "Madame D," who soon dies under mysterious circumstances. She bequeaths a rare painting, "Boy with Apple," which enrages the Madame's son, Dmitri (Adrian Brody), who insists Gustave is not entitled to it. Despite Dmitri's opposition, Gustave steals the painting anyway (aided by Zero), and returns it to the Grand Budapest Hotel, where he places it in the hotel safe. Gustave makes Zero his heir, in return for his help.The Madame's secretary, Serge X, is forced into accusing Gustave of murdering the old lady and Gustave ends up in prison. Gustave remarks that he earned the respect of hardened criminals by "beating the sh-t out of one of them for challenging his "virility." To make a long story short, Gustave digs his way out of prison using tools hidden in cakes baked by Zero's fiancée, Agatha. He and Zero are pursued by an assassin hired by Dmitri, Jopling (William Dafoe) who ends up murdering Serge. Jopling gets his comeuppance at the hands of Zero, who pushes him off a cliff. If this isn't enough, there's also a gunfight with Dmitri and the discovery of a second will inside the painting, proving Gustave's innocence. The reason, most of this hokum isn't funny, is because Anderson's antagonists are unlikeable. Take for example Dmitri—when he first encounters Gustave he calls him a "fagg-t" and slaps him in the face. While Anderson attempts to lighten the scene up when other characters start hitting each other in the face, the damage cannot be undone: Dmitri remains an unpleasant villain throughout. In real farce, we experience the outrage without the consequences. But there are consequences aplenty when Serge is murdered up at the rectory. Even Gustave's death during the epilogue, at the hands of those fascist-like soldiers on the train, sounds the wrong note for a film that should be light-hearted (just like "Duck Soup"). And why all those anachronistic expletives throughout the movie? Why must the elegant Gustave say things that he beat the "sh-t" out of that prisoner? Anderson relies on these out-of-character remarks, to obtain a few cheap laughs.Dana Stevens wonders in Slate Magazine, what Anderson is really trying to say here: "As played with a melancholy rakishness by the handsomer-than-ever Fiennes, M. Gustave is one of Anderson's more memorable creations—but he's stranded in a movie that, for all its gorgeous frills and furbelows (including a lush musical score by Alexandre Desplat and a surfeit of charming cameos from Anderson regulars like Jason Schwartzman, Ed Norton, and Bill Murray), never seemed to me to be quite sure what it was about. Youth, age, rivalry, and mentorship? Nostalgia for a lost way of life? The ineluctable slaughterhouse of 20th-century European history? These are big, dark themes, ideas that the director (who also wrote the screenplay, with a story assist from his friend Hugo Guinness) seems both obsessed by and game to explore. But somehow Anderson never quite lets himself (or his characters, or by extension, us) get to the deepest, darkest places those paths might lead." Stevens gets it right when she concludes that with Anderson "everything remains in that familiar register of chilly, stylish remove."Ultimately, one can never care for any of Anderson's characters. They are written intentionally not to be taken seriously. Take Agatha and her death from "the Prussian Grippe." Not only does Agatha die but so does her infant son. Agatha is supposed to be one of the sympathetic characters, but here Anderson bumps her off too with a cheap aside.Why do so many people find Anderson's vision so enchanting? Perhaps it's the pleasure they feel when his quirky misfits triumph over a coterie of reactionaries (as the evil Dmitri fails to deprive Gustave of his inheritance). Underneath all the slapstick, is standard melodrama (the bad guys getting their comeuppance), mixed with a touch of black humor. In the Anderson oeuvre, there's a lot to see, but he has hardly anything to say.
Before I say anything negative about the film, I will admit that the premise is entertaining and had potential, and that it has a fantastic cast. That being said, I couldn't stand watching this movie, which is typical for me when it comes to Wes Anderson. There may be some bias there, but I find this, along with most of his other films, to be desperately trying to catch and keep the viewer's attention with rapidly changing colors, plots, and characters. This greatly detracts from what could have been a very funny movie. It strikes me as something made for the ADHD people of the world, making sure something is constantly distracting the viewer. When you can focus and look past the elaborate sets, you see a very shallow movie with little to offer. Very disappointed with that waste of my time.
The acting is good and the story is okay but I'm not a big fan of this movie. Everything is laid out too precisely; everything is made to fit. All the details are handed to the viewer; it's too easy. I never felt I had to think about anything. Some people may like that but I don't.I enjoy movies that challenge me; that engage my mind in some way. To understand, follow, and appreciate them, the viewer has to think. I didn't get that with this movie. I also couldn't relate to any of the characters; they felt flat and one-dimensional. As a result, I didn't feel invested. I simply did not care about them or their outcomes.Really, I'm not trying to bash the movie. I just felt it was too basic, too simplistic for my taste. This stripped down style of storytelling seems to be used often by Wes Anderson. I hadn't realized it but I've seen quite a few of his films. I don't remember them all but the most recent I've seen, Moonrise Kingdom and Darjeeling Limited, have a very similar feel as TGBH. In fact, that's how I realized they were related.


                
I was really looking forward to this movie, having seen the promising trailer. However, watching this movie is another story. I found it very painful and was glad when it was finally over, in my opinion complete waste of time. The reasons are as follows: 1) The movie is boring from the very beginning to its very end. 2) Predictable: many things happen but who cares? 3) Having not read the review I would not recognize this is a comedy. Is there anything funny at all? 4) The plot is very poor, the story does not make any sense even if it were just a wild fantasy. 5) What am I suppose to take out of this movie? A number of nice pictures? Is it not too little? 6) The movie is full of stars. However, I am afraid it does not help at all. In summary, I really regret watching this movie. I really looked forward to seeing it but in the end it spoilt a day for me.


                
My fondness for Royal Tennenbaums combined with the critical acclaim and distinct look of Wes Anderson's movies always sucks me in, but I've regretted every Anderson film I've watched from Darjeeling Limited on, and Budapest Hotel is no exception.I can't say a lot about the plot because I saw the movie on a red-eye and slept through the middle. From what I saw it's about a man who inherits a painting and has some trouble about it.The man is played by Ralph Fiennes and he is terrific as a cool, quick-witted, unflappable character. His dialogue is sharp and funny. The movie overall is pleasantly goofy.,So why didn't I like it? Well ...Some movies engage and draw in the viewer. Some movies try to do that a fail. But Budapest Hotel strives to distance the viewer as much as possible. Characters are filmed at a distance and speak in rapid-fire patter that never achieves the warm quirky charm you get from patter-classics like The Front Page or Bringing Up Baby. The movie feels like a clever experimental short built around the concept of people in a dollhouse and stretches it out forever. Everything in this screams out FORMAL EXPERIEMENT; nothing screams out CARE ABOUT THIS.Would I have enjoyed this movie more if I'd not been so sleepy? Maybe a little. I might have found this a more almost-fun movie like Fantastic Mr. Fox rather than an increasingly annoying one like Moonrise Kingdom. But ultimately I find all of Anderson's later films are quirk-heavy stylistic exercises that leave me cold, and there was nothing in what I saw of Hotel to make me believe my reaction wide awake would have differed much from my reaction half asleep.So this is it. No matter how the critics rave, Budapest will be my last Anderson movie. For those of you who like this sort of thing, ENJOY!


                
What does award worthy cinematography, brilliant set design, milk drinking, flamboyant moustaches, impromptu poetry readings, deadpan facial expressions, characters so eccentric it hurts and weird cheek birthmarks all have in common? You guessed it! All of these aspects play a huge role in the new Wes Anderson film.I hope you're sitting down, but I wasn't crazy about "The Grand Budapest Hotel". Those who are familiar with my more public rants know my feelings regarding writer/director Wes Anderson: A master craftsman when it comes to visual composition, while simultaneously constructing plots and developing characters (and dialogue) which are nearly always eccentrically excessive, rambling and fashionably nihilistic, in the most annoying way possible. That said, upon entering the theater, I did manage to do my duty as a critic and put all past feelings aside.Synopsis: Beginning with a sequence which was described by a critic much smarter than myself as a "hipster inception", "The Grand Budapest Hotel" tells the story of a concierge (Ralph Fiennes) annoyingly and constantly referred to as Gustave H., who heads up (you guessed it) The Grand Budapest Hotel and has a fetish for having sex with the elderly. Zero is a lobby boy, annoyingly and constantly referred to as "lobby boy" or "my lobby boy". The two, for some reason, become friends just in time for Gustave H. to be accused of the murder of one of his many friends with benefits.With a director whose films should always be up for Oscar consideration in every "visual" category, there is a lot here which is atheistically pleasing. And if you can get into the type of high brow (or pretentious) humor Anderson is throwing at you, then the 2nd Act is full of funny gags and clever lines of dialogue; some of the funniest situational dialogue Anderson has written since "Rushmore".Final Thought: I have a feeling that the people who found this movie hilarious, will point to the ever-winking, "aren't I clever" diction, which goes hand in hand with the classic Anderson motif of proper people acting silly, as some sort of defense of their proclamation that "The Grand Budapest Hotel" is one of the best films of the year. And to be fair, unlike "The Royal Tenenbaums", this is a film which contains a halfway interesting plot (inspired by the writings of Austrian novelist Stefan Zweig). But meanwhile (in reality) this movie is way too eccentric for anyone who doesn't already worship at Anderson's feet. And in the end, the 3rd Act dwindles into nothing, so what's the point, really?


                
This movie is weird, boring and stupid. I am surprised it has 8.1 score, even if it is not my type of movie I still cannot rate it too high, the story is trivial there is nothing special about the movie, the only thing is that is strange and non-ordinary. I think the maximum I can give is 4, just because of some nice scenes and colors. Otherwise it is not interesting it is not funny just boring. Sorry. Also strange is the format, it comes 1.37:1 I guess to look like it was made back in the pre WWI years. Nevertheless I did not like that too. I look at the reviews and I just cannot share the opinion, they say great movie that puts them back in that times and great play and so on, I did not see that myself


                
OK this film is visually wonderful. All the actor are fantastic, they play their roles in a very special way that i believe is very difficult for someone to succeed. It is a film with particularities and it makes it very different from others. But it is not a comedy!! Comedy is meant when someone is laughing not by passing his time pleasantly. In my belief, it is wrong to get in the mood for comedy before watching this film. Unfortunately i disliked this film that has a magnificent cast and an equally wonderful director. If the genre of this film was different i may have rated the film with a higher grade. I liked the mystery of this film the visuals and the plot but i would not categorize this film as a comedy. I understand that it is a new sophisticated way of comedy but i am sticking at the old fashioned comedy.


                
