Hospital horror Dark Place is the creation of awful writer Garth Marenghi (Matthew Holness), who wrote, directed and starred. He claims it is deep and inspirational, when in fact it is just shoddy and awful.Darkplace isn't joke orientated, its the terrible production and acting that provides all the laughs, that mainly come from Garth's publisher, Dean Learner (Richard Ayocade) who plays the hospital boss Thornton Reed. His inability to do two things at once when it comes to acting (for example deliver a line and hang up a phone) is hilarious to watch. Some of the highlights include a "dirt bike" chase through a forest (using tiny children's bicycles), a doctor being attacked by a steam iron and another being chased by a possessed stapler, a woman turning into broccoli and Dean Learner trying to justify how he punched a child actor. However, you have to see it to realize how funny it really is, my words can't do enough. Darkplace won't appeal to everyone's tastes, but still it looks like it will probably be a cult hit. If its ever repeated, its worth a look just to see what you think. It provides a refreshing change from awful reality TV and soap operas.I, for one, can't wait for the DVD and/or a second batch of episodes "from the Channel 4 vaults". I give it a solid 10/10.


                
"In the 1980's the horror writing  genius and self confessed "sooth" Garth Marenghi penned a ground-breaking series of tele-plays.  Of the 64 episodes written, only 50 managed to make it into production during the two-month filming.  Marenghi's aim was simple: "To change the evolutionary course of mankind over a series of half-hour episodes".  However, Merenghi claims that his series was too ground-breaking, and too shocking for the public, and for the past twenty years direct government intervention prevented the shows from ever seeing the light of day.  That is, until now.  Channel 4 (and E4) are now for the first time running six episodes from the series, and Garth Marenghi has said he is willing to be personally held accountable to God for the consequences."Garth Marenghi's Dark Place is a spoof of all horror films, tv and action tv from the 80's. Its set up as if the series was made in the 80's and was banned and is now eventually being shown. Throughout the episodes we get to see the cast and crew's comments on the episode's scenes. This is the best comedy since the office.9/10 (and I've only seen 3 episodes from the first series so far)"the pube on the pipe idea came from a real life situation" Garth Marenghi


                
Recently I came across Garth Marenghi's Darkplace. And I am glad I did. I will try to keep this short, this show is one of the funniest shows.... No, this IS the funniest show I have ever seen. Hilarious puns and story lines, outrageously obvious usage of miniatures, its just all around great. The editing is fantastic and really helps push the already funny dialog over the top. After I watched the series I found myself unable to sleep! All I could do was lay there in bed and giggle. And when I woke up it just started all over again. All day at work I just kept remembering funny dialog. And laughing out loud like a madman. The show is great. Its just too bad there's only 6 episodes! Search until you find it, take a day off from work, make your favorite lunch, turn your damn cellphone off and watch Garth Marenghi's Darkplace!


                
Words cannot describe just how good Garth Marenghi's Darkplace is. But I'll give it a shot regardless. Darkplace is an intentionally poorly made surreal and nonsensical medical drama show within a show. It follows a group of doctors tackling supernatural oddities, with hilarious commentaries by the real life actors who play the actors in the show who play the doctors in the show within the show. I know that's a little confusing. What makes Darkplace so unbelievably brilliant is the continuity errors, bad acting, awful dialogue, gaping plot holes, and absurd story lines (all deliberately done, mind you). Highlights include a woman turning into broccoli, an awesome bike chase through a forest (with out of place motorbike sound effects), some incredibly offensive Scottish stereo- typing, and the unforgettable fake 80's song "One Track Lover," which must be heard to be believed. There's so many more hilarious moments, but most are so absurd that their really difficult to try and explain, so I'd just say watch the show for yourself. It's a pity this show was cancelled so soon, and unfortunately, there's only six episodes. Maybe that's to be expected when a show is as unique as this one. Still, those six episodes are filled with so much awesomeness that they must be seen.


                
This show is by far the funniest thing I have seen on TV in a very long time. The concept of the show is genius, and the acting and props are all so perfectly bad (in a good way). The way they spoof the various 80's hospital dramas,actions shows, and blend them with some b-movie horror w/ some low budget sci-fi thrown in, is just amazing and works so well. The over-dramatics, the intentionally bad acting, the low budget look, and the interludes with the actors speaking about their vision for the show, blends into this comedic over the top, ridiculousness. Every line in this is either a hilarious well placed cliché, a silly premise, or utter silliness, all perfectly coming together to make a spoof piece that lampoons a variety of eighties shows and kept me entertained laughing out loud. It is also one of the most quotable shows ever. It is like the Spinal Tap of 80's television. The show is done so well, with every subtle little thing imaginable thrown in. You can watch it over and over and find even more jokes. Everyone who has a dark sense of humor needs to watch DARKPLACE.


                
I'm basically recapping what other people have commented on, but I'm desperate to share my love for this truly hilarious and original comedy that I'm stuck on like a pube on a pipe. It's a take off of cheap 1980's horror/sci-fi shows such as Dr. Who with acting and sets that make crossroads seem like a big budget Hollywood production and with more cheese than an Emmenthal festival in Vienna. Matthew Holness has created a very dark macabre comedy , sometimes with disturbing scenes  (the giant eyeball) but always excruciatingly funny ones (the giant eyeball). I find the originality of the show refreshing  and the situations  and spoofs are genuinely funny (Thornton Reed's lack of emotion and terribly timed cues are a prime example). It's hard to explain why I find Darkplace so funny.
This show is brilliant and so clever. On first glance it looks like a cheap spoof but the more you watch it the more details you notice. The film used is authentic 80's quality, there's a million tiny deliberate errors and the whole show is a brilliant stab at horror writers that take themselves way too seriously. There's recognisable bits of many a horror writer in there.The cast is fantastic and nearly every line is memorable and funny. What's really annoying though is that Ch4 did their usual balls up with the show. Because it won't sell overseas (see some of the comments from the colonies on this one) and because it's hard to categorise by dull marketing types the show got next to no advertising and was thrown on at something like 11pm on a Thursday evening. Viewing figures where therefore low and the dull marketing people could nod and feel they were right in not backing it in the first place.Seriously, it deserved a second series on the strength of it's one song alone! In these sad days when tripe like Three Pints of Lager and a Packet of Desperation gets 7/10 on here it's good to see original and very funny comedy, even if it doesn't last long.


                
As I post this we are only 2 episodes in, but this is the funniest spoof I have ever seen! A lot of bad dubbing, god awful acting, even worse special effects make this program what it is, a spoof on 70s/80s sci-fi/horror programs mixed in with dark comedy. I can see this getting a cult following, its sure as hell not for everyone.You may recognise  'Garth Marenghi' from doing a cameo as that computer geek who corrected a comment on Bruce Lee on the classic Office. You can see the links between the programs, and co writer Stephen Merchant has a cool part on episode 2.Overall, brilliant program that can only get better as it goes on! Roll on the DVD!


                
Me and my husband came across this entirely by accident one night while flicking through the channels and couldn't stop laughing at it. we were devastated when it was only on for a few weeks and we still talk about it now. It really needs to be brought back onto the telly for people to enjoy it all over again. I would love a new series too but just seeing the original would be just about good enough. All the cheesy '80's'style bad wobbly sets and stilted acting are spot on. Trying to explain the premise to people is impossible, the only way to get it across is to watch it. If you watch the IT crowd you will be familiar with some aspects of it. The boss in the IT crowd will point you in the direction of the amount of cheese.


                
(HEY!) I seriously can't believe how badly this series has been treated by Channel 4. A simple repeat and an early DVD release would have turned this show in to a huge success. (If only it wasn't cancelled for a re-run of Who's The Boss) This show is one of the extremely few shows I can watch over and over again, and it still remains funny. Scrap that, it gets funnier. (It is funny. It is funny. Oh my goodness, ohhhhh yessss) And just the fact it's shot on old 16mm gives the whole show a surreal epic production value to the thing whilst still maintaining the fact it was supposed to be shot on no money in a garage.It's not often you see a show where every line is a work of genius. You can skip to any part of any show and you'll instantly be at something hilarious. Me and my friends have had proper Darkplace tourrettes since we first saw this show, and it never gets old.I'm hoping people will still buy the DVD (When it comes. IF it ever comes) despite the fact I can't find many people who haven't seen an illegal download of this show.You WILL love this show. If you don't, you're a FREAK.This review is littered with quotes. And I'm off to the quote section to read some more.


                
I must say that this is one of the best programmes ever to be mistreated by British television! After just the first 5 minutes of the first episode I was on the phone to tell others to switch to Channel 4. The love of all things cheesy is apparent as soon as the opening credits begin and the programme itself doesn't let up once it starts. It has everything - terrible acting, awful dubbing, wobbly sets and ridiculous plot-lines. All done with a straight face by the superb cast. Try naming another series that captures the horrors of Eye-children, Monkey hands in surgery, Telekinesis caused by flipping chicken, a woman turning into broccoli and the best retro-80s montage song you will ever see! I cannot recommend this enough. If you appreciate the more ridiculous things in life, you have to buy the upcoming DVD. Hopefully this release will prompt the powers that be to do the right thing and support another series! 'I wish I was more attractive like Dagless......Still, I can only dream'
This has to be one of the best shows ever made! I've never laughed at a show as much as this. Dodgey sets, acting and scripts with some of the funniest one-liners that would make Bruce Campbell fell proud. And this is only after the fist 3 episodes


                
Three episodes in, and this show is so far hilarious... the interview segments are sweepingly satirical, whilst the actual "show" itself, Darkplace, is VERY funny. Bad acting, hilarious dialogue, great cuts, great dodgy special effects, it runs the full gamut of fun-poking. I can't wait for it to be released on DVD!


                
What I love about British comedies is that they're always looking for something new. They're never content with repeating the same ideas under the guise of new actors and story lines. Garth Marenghi's Darkplace is one of those crazy new ideas. Richard Ayoade and Matthew Holness return to the '80s, look for everything that was bad in that decade's TV shows, for what was in need of a send up, and created this show which spoofs anything from A Team to Night Rider to Miami Vice.Garth Marenghi is a horror writer, a visionary, a dream weaver, or, as he puts it, an imaginer. He's really a mediocre novelist and a worse director and writer. But somehow he manages to get a TV show made with his publisher, Dean Learner, and actors Todd Rivers (the amazing Matt Berry) and Madeleine Wool (Alice Lowe). The show is awful, with corny plots, bad sfx, and a synth-heavy score typical of the time. Garth believes the show was so ahead of its time it could change the world. Unfortunately no channel bought it and Darkplace remained in his basement for nearly twenty years (except for a run in Peru).Decades later a channel decides to air the show. For this Garth adds a few interviews with himself and the crew. Many times they interrupt the action to comment on it. Obviously, these are the finer bits, with the serious way they discuss the show they made, incapable of realizing how poor it is.Alas, they only made six episodes. I can't understand why it didn't gain more popularity. The episodes are short and one will feel hungry for more. For this reason buying the DVD is a good idea. The crew created two extra interviews, each 30 minutes long, which are as amusing as any of the episodes and give a lot of insight into Garth, Dean, Todd and Madeleine's mysterious fate. This is the only DVD I've actually bothered to watch all the extras, they're all amazing and add a lot to the original show.Up there with the modern shows of its kind - The League of Gentlemen and The Mighty Boosh - this mix of humor and horror, of TV and movie spoofs is one of the most original and unforgettable shows made.
Most parodies are content my simply adding a laugh track to a preestablished dramatic program, whereas Darkplace manages to parody the very show with the overlying interviews. The show works as both a comedy and what it is parodying. Perfect!


                
It's amazing. I can't do it justice in a review, you should watch it, if you haven't already.


                
I just want to comment on what a burst of comic genius came out of 2004. The Dean Leaner character (shows Director/writer/creator?) went on to have his own talk show called "Man to Man with Dean Leaner" , he plays Moss on the "IT Crowd",played "Dixon Bainbridge" in the Mighty Boosh (Pilot) instead plays now "Saboo".All of these guys (Julian Barratt) as "Padre" who stars as Howard Moon in "Mighty Boosh" now. They all play on one another's projects now.I really hope to find out was it "Darkplace" which all gave them a foot in the door with a network. There has to be some big movies due out from these guys. Because in America we have just given up on film. All my horror films now come from Korea or somewhere west of Hawaii. Thank god the U.K. are still putting out something original.I have a DVD suggestion. If you are living outside of the states check out the DVD of a show called "Sea Lab 2010", "Aqua Teen Hunger Force" just check it out they are as strange and funny.Good night my Rottweiler is being very passive aggressive with me so now I have to go. "Duke not the look, we agreed never the look" , and now he is pretending too ignore me. This is unbearable,if anyone of you has a 135lbs Rottweiler you know how powerful they can be emotionally."OK Iam turning off the computer, and yes I will get you a cookie" Big baby.Over and out, Cheers,M.D. IVPS I was not joking about the dog.


                
Darkplace is absolutely fantastic!!! Some may not get it, but for the ones with a brilliant eye for comedy and attention to detail, this in my books has yet to be beat. I love the office (UK) but this just pips it at the post. So many subtle strokes of wit and genius are hidden under the mask of the pretend fake cheap sets etc.Little nuances of dialogue, and facial expressions that could be easily missed by the casual viewer. Amazing quotes, and the setting is so authentic.Some cool quotes...Padre to Dagless " You're the most sensitive man i know. And I know god!" Sanchez. "Its egg in soup, serve that with a pork-pie/sausage roll." Thornton reed" And I've worked with Lulu! and 5 other people." I have just realised that merely writing down these quotes will do little to prove its comedy. Its all about the delivery of the lines and the comedic timing. Every single line of dialogue uttered by Sanchez and his actor alter-ego Todd Rivers, is pure gold. I'm glad he made it into the rather weak "IT crowd" in series 2, he truly made that series worth watching. The brilliant music video played in episode 6 "Red hot lover" is worthy of recognition alone. It even beats the "Rick rolled" video of Rick Astley on the web. Hilarious! I truly hope that Darkplace gets a much needed second series. Man to man with dean learner was good, but it suffered a lack of Sanchez.I also read rumours that a movie of Darkplace was getting made. I really hope this comes true.Come on channel-4, MORE DARKPLACE PLEASE!!!!!!!


                
We've all sat thought a TV show or movie that was so bad it was good. Why we would have guilty admiration or even like them despite how badly their put together let alone content, it's hard to say. May'be it's because we sense the people who made it at least tried to make something good despite the end result, yet weirdly enough it actually turned out to be good in a not so good way.This is one of my favorite comedies of all time but it's also one of my favorite parodies in the genre. This is the kinda show that the guys from "Mystery Science Theater 3000" would have a field day with. It's basically a parody on both Steven King novels, 80's TV shows, and badly made shows all wrapped into one which I'll admit makes a very tasty combination.I just love how everything in this show is just so deliciously bad, which is why this parody works so well. From the premise which feels more like a mish mash of premises that don't really mesh well together, where it's a hospital drama, day and nighttime soaps, horror, action and cop show all at once; I'm not kidding. It's almost as if they creator that made this didn't know what in the hell he wanted the show to be which makes it all the more funny because literally the creator was more busy being creative than actually concerned with the content of his work (has he never heard of proofreading).The whole show is pretty much a character of it's own because it was obviously done on a low or no budget. Production value is not on par, the acting is terrible, writing is bad, fight and shootout choreography is off (in some shootouts you don't even see them use blanks just the sound of gunfire that at times isn't even on sync with the characters pulling the trigger), the list goes on. Yet you really like this show because it really feels like they tried, if not very well.One of my favorite episodes is "Scotish Fog" (I'm not kidding that's the title). To me this episode was a dream come true because it's a homage and parody to two of the films "The Fog" and "Halloween" from my favorite movie director John Carpenter. Another is the Brochali episode where we see one of the worst one on one fights ever, it was just fraking hilarious as we see how badly choreographed it is, the cinematography in both the punches and kicks is angled wrong so you can easily see their not connecting. The sound effects aren't in cynic, let alone both actors Garth and Luchen both haven't trained you can easily see Luchen's kicks are pathetically too low as if both actors are only imitating what they saw in martial arts films. Then we see Dean come in a break up the fight which is hilarious because he is caring a 12 gauge with him which is just so random, why the heck is he even carrying one? The characters in the parody are great, I really like Garth whom is a Steven King like writer whom is obviously a total hack. Not just from creating, producing, directing, and acting in the show which was a big mistake on all fronts, but even his novels aren't very good (how their highly successful is beyond me).I like how in each episode you hear him read off of one of his novels, the content is just so deliciously terrible you can tell he doesn't know how to generate suspense or each kill just seems to simply happen out of nowhere. And each of the stories he reads don't really correlate with the title of the book; I only have two conclusions to this: One, either he mistitled his stories after he wrote them. Two, as he was writing his story he had another idea in mind that overlapped what he was writing.What I like about him is he's not an egotist the guy is just someone that despite not knowing entirely what in the hell he is doing, is a person that tries and really believes in what he does despite the end result; which to me makes him kinda a holy fool. And he is an imaginative person despite a flawed imagination but hey some imagination is better than none.Though my favorite character is Dean Larner whom is Garth's publisher. He is just so fraking hilarious he just has some of the best lines and scenes. One scene that was great with him was probably the worst chase scene I've ever scene where he's chasing down a car by riding a bike as what looks like super speed, it cracks me up because you can clearly see behind him is obviously screen background and it's moving back too fast, let alone his character was meant to ride a motorcycle but they didn't have the money to rent one. I really like seeing him try to act which he can't he's merely just trying to imitate a police chief type from 70's cop shows.And of course what he says in the interview segments which are also the best part of this parody. One great think he says is when he mentions how were living in dangerous times and that reading, the horror genre, and everything else is in decline. I thought what he said was funny because it's kinda true to how I feel about what's currently happening in the entertainment right now. How most companies are more concerned with making more money than the quality of their product whether it works or not. Overall if your a fan of the parody genre and your looking for something different than "Garth Mareghi's Darkplace" is the best place to be.Rating: 4 stars


                
Nearly 10 years on, this one-off series is still, for my money, the last true work of genius to have invaded the small screen of UK comedy (or anywhere for that matter). Much like The Office, Brass Eye, I'm Alan Partridge and Spaced before it, there are so many hysterical laugh-out-loud moments and so much attention to detail that even on repeated viewing you are sure to catch something new or only half-remembered from each of the 6 episodes. Some quotes/scenes seemed to achieve instant cult status among fans, but there are other bits no one ever mentions: for e.g. the introduction of 'the temp' from episode 2 which manages to put me on the floor every time I see it, or the random nurse + patient love scene at the beginning of the episode Scotch Mist, which could just be the most awesomely rubbish 60 seconds of TV ever created. To name but two examples out of hundreds!It's a shame that Darkplace has apparently never seen a region 1 DVD release because this means most US fans will have missed out on what are probably the best selection of extras on any DVD I can think of. The two half-hour documentaries, comprised of more interviews from the actors, are almost as funny as the episodes. Garth Marenghi's rants against authority, Dean Learner's musings on production techniques, and in particular Todd Rivers discussing everything from the plight of sex-pests to bad acting on Eastenders - while cradling a nearly empty shot-glass of whisky - really add to the Darkplace experience. Subsequent UK comedies such as The IT Crowd, Mighty Boosh, Peep Show, and The Inbetweeners may have received way more success and critical acclaim, but in my opinion they're not a patch on Dagless and co. Stay holy!


                
Ignore the people drinking the Hatorade, this show is so quotable it almost hurts. I can't believe I missed it the first time around.Philby, you need to define your love of "British comedy". I mean, you end you end your critique with a bastardisation of a worn out catch phrase from an unfunny commercial by Telstra (the equivalent of British Telecom), and as such I advise readers to take such opinions with a grain of salt.The comedy writing here is top notch. As for comparisons with The Office or the Boosh, the fact that Steve and Julian appear in episodes might lead one to think that they were fans of the show as well, yes?


                
This is an absolute gem of a series. Everything is spot-on with the acting, sets, stories. If you watch one comedy show this year then this is the one. I remember watching really bad horror series and films in the 80's and this recreates it perfectly.The characters are perfect, Dr Lucien Sanchez has got to be the best character on the small comedy screen for a while.Get the DVD as it's got all 6 episodes plus some really sketchy and random extra scenes.All I can say is get this now if you like your comedy a little weirder than normal. You won't regret it traveller.


                
I stumbled across this gem a couple of years ago late night after a few drinks. Coming into it about halfway through and a bit drunk i was thrown and unsure whether it was supposed to be taken seriously.Needless to say after a few minutes i soon realised that it was in fact comedy gold. I've just rediscovered it on 4OnDemand after someone reminded me about it in work and its just a good as i remember. Glaringly funny at points however it has fantastic intricacies you only catch the second time around (the old C4 logo needless detail but makes a massive difference).The only further comment i can give is ....WATCH IT!!!


                
Kudos to Channel 4 for showing this amazing comedy but damn them to Hades for not releasing this sooner. This comedy really will divide opinion, those who don't get it REALLY don't get it but for those that do, you really are in for a treat. Hammy doesn't do justice to the acting! Horrendous would be the best thing you could say about the story, dialogue and pretty much everything else about this.But before you run away, stay and watch just one episode and you'll see what a genius Matt Holness is and what a find this comedy is.10-4 (You'll get it after!) PS Why does the DVD of this keep getting put back?


                
I see what you mean by saying you have to watch it to understand it. I went through a stage of insomnia where i would stay up watching TV all night, channel 4. This was around the time that Darkplace was first aired. I can remember seeing an advert and thinking "what utter rubbish". I am so annoyed I missed out on discovering it earlier. It is similar to The Mighty Boosh in the way it is very hard to describe and therefore make advertisements for. Perhaps this is the reason the second series is unlikely to make it to channel 4 due to poor ratings on the first series. Come on people, spread the word of Darkplace! I have loved all the episodes in the series after just watching one, Skipper The Eyechild. You'd be mad to miss this show! Greg


                
