glad to see here that I'm not the only one already hooked after just 3 episodes.I've tried to explain to people why they must watch it, but the only way they will understand is to watch it!Its hilarious: terrible acting, atrocious script, wobbly sets, appalling dubbing, and some very alarming wigs.And lots of slow motion (well, its hard to fill a half hour slot with story all the time)I'm looking forward to saying 'I told you so' to lots of people when they 'discover' this show in 6 months!


                
Like most parodies – especially of genres that are practically already parodies of themselves – this can be uneven. It can be repetitive at times, and some jokes fall off the cliff from the heights of Monty Python like silly, to just dopey. But when it IS funny, it can be laugh out loud funny. And this is another one of those cases where the DVD extras are arguably even better than the show itself. Garth Marenghi (Matthew Holness) is a very low rent variation on a Stephen King type novelist, whose horror books once sold in the millions, but whose latest novel sold either 213 or 179 copies depending on whom you believe. Possessed of an ego the size of all outdoors, Marenghi wrote, produced and starred in this low budget horror series set in a hospital, where he plays the brave and brilliant head doctor. Marengehi introduces each of the six episodes, and they are interrupted for occasional commentary by Marenghi and sometimes his publisher Dean Learner (played by creator Richard Ayoade) a fast talking guy who seems more like a pimp on a 70s TV show than a purveyor of literature, and who has been convinced by Marenghi to play his boss in the series – despite the fact that he has absolutely no acting ability whatsoever (but he's cheap). They're joined by Todd Rivers (Matt Berry), a hunky leading man in decline from drink who pronounces every line like he's doing Shakespeare in a huge auditorium and Madeline Wool as the obligatory female who seems to be in the show to be a punching bag – literal and figurative (Alice Lowe). All the actors are very funny as bad actors in an awful TV show and also as 'themselves' in the interview sections. (Although, curiously, Alice Lowe as Madeline is left out of all the interviews). For me the very funniest bits were the lengthy extra 'interviews' on the DVD, which feature some hysterical (and clever) improv as the cast (always in character) discuss the making of the series. Those left me wondering how they didn't crack themselves up more often (you see than almost fall apart more than once). Uneven yes, but also a lot of fun.


                
