...House meets Deadwood. I suppose the business of getting a TV show commissioned involves many creative compromises, and a lot of playing safe. So if 'The Knick' seems to be reminiscent of other recent blockbuster cable-TV series, then that's probably the only way the producers (Clive Owen an executive) could ensure a green light. Trouble with that is, unless the characters are more engaging and the stories better than the series being referenced then all you've got left is admiring the CGI, the period detail, the art direction, and the contortions the writers have had to make in order to make the formula follow the characters, not vice versa. (And for me, the contemporary techno music works. But it's what ER did again).And it can't be good to watch a show continually thinking, 'ER did racial issues better, 'Clive Owen looks like Ian MacShane and sounds like Hugh Laurie', 'When is Dr. Thackray going to get off with the rookie nurse?', 'Six Feet Under/M*A*S*H/House did all this with a bit of humour', etc. The Knick is OK, but by no means compulsive viewing, unless you really enjoy watching hundred-year-old surgical procedures done by constantly miserable-looking people in period costume. My experience of people in this sort of profession is that they often enjoy a laugh. The Knick staff don't.


                
You know what? You can skip "The Knick" and just shout out load: " white men are evil" It would do the same, why? Because it's all about this: white men are worst creature on the earth, and black guys are the most high morality human being since ever been. Every second of it is full of discrimination of white people toward black people, like the only thing that white men have ever done in the history is discriminating black people and nothing else, and ind the other side black people always have suffered from this discrimination and didn't do anything wrong EVER, I mean EVER! Like "America's X history" the two side of the game: the black guy is the absolute image of morality and sensibility and white guy is awful! But who cares? Nobody believes in something like racism toward white people, because these are white people who always abuse everyone and it's IMPOSSIBLE that a black guy would be NOT angel. I think there's no point to saying these things because nobody cares about this REVERES racism, but since I've seen this, I couldn't stop myself to not think about how it's unfair and how it's horribly far from any reasonable judgment.


                
Every character is drawn from a standard prescription. Corny accents and speaking styles, tired storyline, has to use the gore of surgery for cheap thrills. Your 13 year old might be sucked in, but adults will be bored. Not worth a second of your time.


                
