Wow. This new show certainly knows how to get your attention. Within the first five minutes of the first episode you will have a very clear picture of what it meant to have to undergo surgery at a time when even today's most common surgical procedures had hardly been tested – let alone successfully. With this new series, writers Jack Amiel and Michael Begler have created a fascinating – and gripping – look at the humble beginnings of modern medicine, and frankly: it made me realize just how lucky I am to live today. The show's title is derived from the 'Knickerbocker Hospital', a fictional hospital at the turn of the 20th. century in New York which serves as the centre stage around which the lives and struggles of the protagonists revolve. 'The Nick' shows us an uneasy, turbulent time where everything is in motion, and although the benefits of the so called "modern age" are already waiting around the corner, the situation for people without money is grim. Immigrants live in horrible sanitary situations, little children have to work in factories and social frictions and racial prejudice run deep within society.Clive Owen does an excellent job portraying a conflicted but passionate surgeon who's constantly trying to push the boundaries by inventing or refining surgical methods in the hope of lowering the mortality rate among his patients. The rest of the cast is also terrific; their performances - along with the great writing - help create a sense of realism that is rarely seen in films or TV-shows depicting that era. The same can be said of the fantastic production values – the team behind 'The Knick' obviously went to great lengths to portray everyday life of that era as accurately as possible. Virtually every frame oozes quality: the city of New York at the beginning of the twentieth century has been meticulously recreated and every busy street corner, alley or candle-lit room feels authentic. Small wonder, perhaps, given that the director, producer, cinematographer and editor of all 20 episodes is none other than multi-talent and Oscar winner Steven Soderbergh.My verdict: This is a fascinating, gripping portrayal of the dawn of modern surgery as well as an intense human drama and an authentic look at an era we normally only get to see in films about Sherlock Holmes or Jack the Ripper. Highly recommended. 9 stars out of 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
Every single episode is directed by the legendary Soderbergh so with each frame you can feel the drama or tension shining through. It seems like it's all natural lighting in most scenes which makes it beautiful and authentic. And the real gem..Clive Owen. He was born to play Thackeray. The knick is an incredible series with too real medical scenes that I warn you can be hard for the weak stomachs. The second season has been just as good as the first. This is a must watch with an excellent cast and acting. The procedures are phenomenal and awe inspiring. Do your self a favor and watch this incredible show


                
The Knick is a television show anyone interested in very relevant topics of our day should not miss. On the exterior, The Knick is a historical look at early 1900's New York City and the plot is based around a newly promoted head surgeon, Dr. Thackery (Clive Owen), of The Knickerbocker Hospital. The medical aspect of the show is truly fascinating, intense and shocking. The surgeries shown on the show are not for the faint of heart and have the look of a butcher shop rather then what we currently expect in an operating room. The sets are beautiful and well done to portray a century year old time period. I have heard complaints about the music and blurry vision of some of the cameras and shots that Director Steven Soderbergh incorporates throughout the show. If you want a clean cut narrative with perfectly clean shots and no unique sound, then feel free to go watch network television. I find the electronic music very interesting and almost a sort of heart beat to the show. The blurry shots are absolutely justified as this world is dimly lit and fuzzy on its own accord. The music and cinematography do it great justice.The acting on the show is also top notch as Clive Owen leads a team that is in sync throughout. Andre Holland is a revelation as Dr. Algernon Edwards, a African American doctor literally fighting for respect in an extremely racist medical world. These two characters and their relationship form the essence of much of the show's themes which are very relevant even today. Beneath each character there lies more depth then you will receive in most television. Dr Thackery is burdened by his past and his temptations, yet is dedicated to saving the lives of his patients and not selling out. It is a gray world at The Knick and one in which lies death, drugs, sex, racism and deceit, and at the same time brings us heroics, ethics, humanity and discovery.


                
I cannot get enough of this show, it is extraordinary in so many ways and I am restlessly awaiting the start of season 2. As a long time health care professional, I especially enjoy all of the "modern technology" of the era, that today we just take for granted. The Knick really does have something for everyone - sex, drugs and a rock star chief of staff, to name a few. I like to describe this show as a health care history lesson, on a massive dose of steroids. The peak into the medical and clinical protocols of the day are just as intriguing as the systemic administrative practices that are questionable at best. I only wish more people knew about The Knick so I could discuss each week's episode over and over again. Hurry up with season 2!


                
As a physician, I watched the entire House MD, Scrubs, most of ER and grey's anatomy. As a dedicated reader, I read a lot in medicine history. I'd like to reassure everyone who is afraid of watching another regular medical drama, this show is about medical history with it's bizarre and crazy events (which truly happened allover the course of medicine History), but in the same time it's a perfectly crafted piece of art from attention to small details to acting, writing, camera angels, sound tract and off course directing by Soderbergh.Dr. John Thackery is a character built on 1900s Dr. William Stewart Halsted who is considered the greatest physician of the whole Johns Hopkins group, also Throughout his professional life, he was addicted to cocaine and later to morphine, which were not illegal during that time. The beauty about Thackery character is that it's a true character with his addiction and the predicted mood changes (even if there is some alteration, the character frame still the same, not like the case of G. House who was clearly a fictional character).I don't want to go in details about the technical elements of the show, but one look over Steven Soderbergh's traffic, Erin Brockovich or even Ocean's eleven will be more than enough to understand that you are facing a spectacular show which has more and more to offer with each new episode (no wonder it was renewed for a second season before airing the first one).The Knick is a too much sophisticated show to be compared with other shows from the same genre and IMO it shouldn't be compared with them at all. My advice to every one: see the first season now because if you're a TV person you will end up watching it anyway.


                
I would not imagine that a series equivalent to unholy alliance of House and Sherlock would be on Cinemax. The Knick is a collection of dysfunctional characters that roam the street of last century New York, dressed as doctors, nurses, and even high class patrons. It's an utter delight to see their shenanigans as well as depravities. This is the period of obviousness, medical advancement, racial profiling and all of these are presented like Sherlock with morphine overdose.Everyone is flawed here, even if their motive might be just, the moral ambiguity plagued any on-screen persona. Clive Owen plays as Dr. Thackery, the head surgeon of the less profitable partial altruistic hospital The Knick. I can't imagine Clive Owen without the stache anymore, this is a character with such determination that the only drive rivaling it is his addiction. Other notable character is Dr. Edwards by Andre Holland who's a brilliant colored doctor who must deal with racism and his own vices.The pace wastes no time to introduce many subplots and characters. It's rare that nearly every perspective is appealing. On other series they have strong leads and probably one or two well written supporting cast. This is not so with The Knick, audience would find something endearing in the unorthodox characters as they all have their unique slightly destructive charm.With Steven Soderbergh at helm, the artistic vibe just oozes from the dirty New York. Continuous scenes happen so often that they can adsorb audience in the immersive atmosphere. The soundtracks are intriguingly contagious, they are modernized version of old school tune. It's strange, catchy and really set up the quirky mood. Furthermore, it has some of the most convincing practical effects for anatomical and cringe purpose.The Knick is a top shelf drama, administered with style and not only embracing all of its undesirable oddities, but put them in proud display.


                
Wow, what a dark and disturbing series, and it's excellent. The racism portrayed on The Knick is worse than that in 12 Years a Slave, but it takes place in NYC around the turn of the 20th Century. Even the "heroes," the smart ones, are racists, although they gradually overcome prejudice when presented with a Model Negro, the brilliant surgeon and inventor portrayed by Andre Holland. But every black person in the city is one wrong move away from lynching by the Irish cops and the Irish populace. And that's just one theme: the hospital portrayed in The Knick is in the forefront of surgical innovation, mostly advances in stanching bleeding while sewing up internal injuries. There are lots of shots of internal organs and blood oozing out of human bodies, more gruesome than anything I've ever seen. (The show strives for accuracy in its portrayal of medical history.) The lead surgeon, portrayed by Clive Owen, performs miracles while addicted to every drug available in the hospital and in Chinatown, where he spends all his off-duty time. It's a powerful show, and the only reason why I continue to subscribe to Cinemax. The show is created and often directed by genius Steven Soderburgh. And it's filmed in New York, which gives it greater authenticity. And an electronic music score mesmerizes.


                
Most period shows suffer from the temptation to show ancient times through a modern lens. Writers seem to believe "Bah! life was dull back then, nothing new here, let's improvise some!" Anacronism and political correctness abound in period shows and such; not even Game of THrones dares to call Tyrion "a midget", it's always "dwarf" or "little people". Cut to The Knick. Yes, this was America in 1900. Corruption, racism, arrogance. No, the hero is not a nice guy and he's a cocaine addict. No, the director of the hospital is not an asshole, he's quite a nice chap, though he tends to steal money from the hospital's budget. No, the rich people are not arrogant, they are quite condescending to those poor little blackies. And the Negroes, no, they are not brave and indomitable people making the best of a racist society, they tend to be rough, stupid and weak. The nurses? White and dumb. The surgeons? Ignoramuses! The state authorities? Corrupt. THe patients? Doing quite well, considering they know that 'disease', in 1900, is synonymous to 'death sentence'. Three episodes down, zero survivors. Not bad! That's what I like in this show: they don't wash down the late 19th century cultural arrogance, they don't make racism look pretty, they don't fall into stereotyping the rich and powerful. Everybody here is a nice person, everybody has a moral fault, everybody is human. THe Knick is possibly the best show in decades. And Clive Owen rocks! Give that guy an Emmy already!


                
My great uncle was a doctor in the1920s and 30s. When I was 9 or 10, my parents and I went to my great aunts house and 'opened' the doctors office at the premises where he practiced and subsequently died in ~1950. I was utterly fascinated with the instruments, exam table and all the medicines and gear that was there. I still have photos and several pieces from that office.Having been the victim of a major accident five years later, subsequently spending months in the hospital, I again was fascinated by the differences between modern medicine and what served as medicine in the early 1900's.Watching this show, the subject comes back again; it is intriguing, fascinating, compelling... So realistic and true to the day. The make-up, effects and realism of the sets is stunning. If you were to look at operating theater photographs from the early 1900's era, you would see the realism that the show has created in these scenes. Add to that the elaborate street scenes, amazing costumes and attention to detail that the production employs and I hope that you will see the extreme talent and effort that has gone into The Knick. Take special note of some of the special effects showing medical conditions and operating trauma, it's very realistic and downright scary. It will make you thankful for modern medicine and the amazing advances of the medical establishment during the 20th century.The direction and cinematography is well done. Dialog based scenes are typically shot with the rule of thirds followed (pleasing) but there are many non-dialog scenes where the director moves away from the banal by shooting action from odd angles (carving of pig carcasses with action at mid-line filmed low) or a fight sequence filmed with a wide angle 'behind the hero' view -- this keeps the visual story interesting. Add the Contagion-like soundtrack (I know - a 1900s drama with a techno music track = ?) and the overall experience is captivating.Finally, I am not sure everyone is familiar with the 'steampunk' enthusiasm (movement?) that is finding its way into both culture (art, collecting) and mainstream style (go to a high end plumbing /appliance store and you will see what I mean!) -- this show captures the industrial late 19th century look extremely well. I am literally sad when each hour is over. This show is among the best shows I have ever watched. I would be thrilled if every episode were 2 hours long. It's that good.The acting is good; Clive Owen is not only very believable as Dr, Thackery, but really has a strong command of each and every scene he is in. Some of the characters do not stand out as well, BUT: Special kudos to Eve Hewson, she not only performs with incredible expression, style and emotion, but really looks the part! Amazing actress -- thank you!Overall, Bravo!


                
The Knick is a TV drama set in the turn of the 20th century in NYC, and focuses on the lives of the doctors, administration and staff of the Knickerbocker Hospital, notably the brilliant resident physician Dr John Thackery (Clive Owen). Having finished the second season (the whole series to date), I can honestly say this series is a must watch. Firstly, the show's attention to detail and historical accuracy deserve a chapeau, be it the costumes, the attitudes, sets, as well as the social and medical issues prevalent at the time. The show also managed, much like other excellent dramas this past decade (Mad Men, Boardwalk Empire) to weave actual historic events into the show. The show's strongest point is its' character study. Every single actress/actor on the show is flawless in their portrayal of their respective characters. Throughout the two seasons, each of these characters' personal and professional growths is detailed, as well as their inner turmoil, doubts, opinions. The brilliant thing about the show is that each character (mediocre or not) has a quality about them, so you get to love some characters and hate others. The acting and character development is THAT good. I have to add my favourite characters on the show are definitely Sister Harriet (Cara Seymour) and Tom Cleary (Chris Sullivan), whose character development from episode one really shows that one shouldn't take things at face value. This principle applies to other characters too, but I won't get into detail. That's up to you to find out !


                
Cinamax is really coming together. Banshee and now this. Two totally different spectrum's and platforms! The best part is when all this takes place. Before modern medicine...I just love it! From the beginning scene to the last scene you feel trapped and curious about this wicked plot. It feels like all the actors hit their marks with out hesitation. The filmography is amazing. I love the old, rustic look and feel the show brings to its audience. I can't wait to see how this show will unfold. I am a TV junkie (hate to admit). When a good show like this hooks me. I'll watch from start to finish. I'm actually going to re-watch the first episode again.


                
wow, the contrasting soundtrack is barely discussed by reviews. It was unique and contrasting, been modern against a period series. Just red the Rolingstone mag article, they didn't brought how important the sounds and music was to make the show so atmospheric and successful .Thanks for those 2 seasons to all involved!


                
This series is amazing!!! I got hooked up on the first episode and can't stop watching it. It is amazing to see how things were at that time (in 1900), how the hospital worked, what diseases existed and how they were treated... and the small details, the blood suction being made through a foot or hand pump, the ambulance that is a horse-drawn carriage, the poor surgical and medical material, the important discoveries and inventions those doctors made at that time and throughout the episodes... I am just amazed with this show! It is definitely one of the best series ever made. I highly recommend it to everyone that is interested not only in medicine but also in the evolution that science has made since those times!!


                
I'm surprised that this Cinemax series wasn't more successful. It has everything going for it like solid writing, acting, and high quality production. Set in 1900 New York City, the Knick is short for the Knickerbocker hospital. Just like other businesses, hospitals have to make a profit and survive. The Knick is a 1900 version of St. Elsewhere about a struggling hospital. The first season has ten episodes starring Clive Owen as Dr. Thackeray, a renowned surgeon and secret drug addict. Andre Holland plays Dr. Algernon Edwards, an African American surgeon trained at Harvard and worked in Europe before coming to the Knick. Juliet Rylance plays Cornelia Robertson, the hospital administrator and daughter of its owner. Cara Seymour plays a nun with quite a secret that you won't see coming with complexity and devotion. The rest of the cast is stellar but I can't name them all here. Eve Hewson is perfect as the West Virginia transplanted nurse who knows and protects Thackeray. This series is almost flawless and perfect but I can't understand why I didn't see or know about it before. This series deserved some respect and accolades like other series.


                
This is another very gripping and flawless TV series. The direction is perfect. Wonderful costumes, sets and historical elements greatly credible. Actors are all very well chosen. Excellent photography. Slight musical interludes, subtle, enigmatic and enjoyable. The plot is truly informative and interesting, at least, to my personal taste.The series bring us at the time, dark, dirty and perfectly represented, where medicine and surgery began the first steps that would take them to today development. In this scenario around an hospital (The Knick) come to life, intertwined and developed, the characters' stories, all very distinct and credible. Stories of exciting, but also horrible, scientific medical research and experiments. Stories about love and betrayal, faith and secularism, discrimination and racism, disease, blackmail, drugs, corruption, death and murder. The series subtitle, sums up all this, very well: "Humanity is hard to cure". It is like a 16 hour impeccable movie with no frills and never boring. A masterpiece to me. Some scenes as realistic as they are, can be rather harsh for delicate stomachs, but this is not a defect to me, on the contrary adds value. The only negative note is that unfortunately ends, in contrast to other mediocre series that, instead, last for years.It is unique and original and I have not found any single reasonable reason not to give full marks.10/10 Very recommended.


                
I mean wow!!! Shows just don't get better than this!! So of course they had to cancel the show! Always the logical thing to do when you've got the best show around!!! I can't say enough great things about this show! I was hooked from the first second! I even contemplated missing work just so I could binge watch!!! It's that good.... Shame on the network Cinemax and HBO for not continuing.. You made us all think we were getting more seasons!! lost my subscription for this reason!! I was so sad to hear.


                
The Knick is an excellent series that sadly ends to fast. If it was up to me they could have made much more seasons because the subject is a bottomless pit. The show is about discovering new techniques of surgery and medicine at the turn of the 20th century. I'm glad I could just watch it on television then living it for myself because let's be honest there are some pretty scary procedures in The Knick. It doesn't look very sterile at all. And having a surgery in an auditorium while a bunch of people are looking at you isn't my idea of a safe environment for a surgery. But the show itself is fabulous with great acting performances and with an excellent story. All actors and actresses were great in The Knick. I really wished there would be more then two seasons because The Knick is so much better then most of the other shows that seems to keep going on forever. Certainly one of my favorite shows of this year.


                
The first episode captivated me. The contrast between the dating of the scenes and the music is oddly brilliant and gives the show a dramatic feeling all the way through.SPOILER:Doctor's Thackery brilliance is mastered by Owen who portrayed the downhill of his addiction since the first episode. How he manages to stay fully functional through all procedures and adding his ice melting sense of humor is rather addictive. The way that the writers didn't focused on emphasizing from the beginning that Thackery was a genius but instead of showing the audience step by step all the achievements the respected doctor will reveal is just magical. All of the characters are extremely well though and none of the side stories are boring or randomly placed, it all adds up to a fully addictive TV series. Love the show, I watched the first season two times in a row. Just cant stop watching it. The sound track by Cliff Martinez y more that just music. Is a journey through the time. A really mystic and futuristic touch that blends perfectly into this show. Absolutely gorgeous.
Funny, the only bad reviews are the few people who are offended by certain aspects of the show- related to politics, religion, etc.One reviewer is mad at the show, claiming that the show praises progressive liberals, when it was actually the Republicans who were abolitionist, and that the writers are trying to claim they magically changed places. Well guess what moron- the Republicans back then WERE the liberals, and Democrats were the conservatives. What do you think the definition of progressive is anyway? If you are an abolitionist, you were automatically a progressive (regardless of political party) because you are trying to PROGRESS opposed to CONSERVE the way things are. They don't really exist today, but it wasn't that long ago that 'Liberal/progressive Republican' was a common phrase. I'm sorry to go into politics in a show's review, but it's absurd that someone would dislike this show and get mad at it for political reasons... talk about uptight!What an amazing show! I apologize for my simple review that doesn't give much info, but there are several other great reviews that will tell you all about it. MUST WATCH!!!


                
After watching the first four episodes, unless there is a drastic drop off, this is a super-good series done by Soderbergh. It was a weird rationale to put it on Cinemax rather than HBO, but if it gets people subscribing to Cinemax, then it was a successful choice. It's another example of how the best TV shows in America are found only on the premium channels (e.g., HBO, Showtime, etc.) Although Clive Owen is the star and does a great job, just about everyone in the cast is superb. But what to me is the "star" of The Knick and makes it so interesting is showing what New York City was like at the turn of the century. I'm no expert, but it seems realistic and believable, and is fascinating to see, including the medical field at that time, the introduction of electricity, the super-wealthy and super-poor living side-by-side in Manhattan, and the overt racism, even though Manhattan is not even remotely the South.


                
I don't recall EVER reviewing a television show after only one episode. The Knick is my exception. If you are into American History at all you will find the sets, surgical instruments, and clothing to be very authentic. I especially liked the scenes with the "Health Inspector", and horse-drawn ambulances. Speaking of the ambulances, my father has told me several stories regarding ambulance services in "the old days". He basically told me that all of them were in competition with each other and would sometimes fight over the injured, and dead alike. It's crazy to think precious minutes would be wasted trying to save someone's life, in order to have a street fight with the competition. Alas, The Knick shows us that this really used to take place. I've been a Clive Owen fan for quite some time, and his portrayal of Dr. John Thackery is amazing. I do have one issue with Soderberg's script though. In the scene where the nurse comes to his house to fetch him for emergency surgery, he is curled up on the bed and in a cold sweat from not injecting his cocaine the previous night. The nurse has to inject him as he's too shaky to do so himself. This sounds a lot more like heroin withdrawal than cocaine withdrawal. There are usually not serious physical withdrawal symptoms from discontinuation of cocaine. Cocaine is not physically addictive. It's a mentally addictive drug. This mental addiction can manifest itself physically, but not to the effect on the show. That being said it was still a very good episode and I am really looking forward to this series.


                
I don't think I have anything negative to say about this show. I was hooked after one episode. The acting, screenplay, setting, story, the music.... all fantastic. Once it hits you, that all the surgeries and medical procedures that we take for granted today at one point were experiments that required numerous attempts, you will be mesmerized. The show has so many different plots and story lines, all fitting for the 1900s. I would highly recommend watching this show. Do not let the fact that it is on Cinemax and not HBO or Showtime scare you away. This is the best show on TV.


                
One of my favorite series. My only regret is that it is only a few short seasons.


                
..especially now that we've had a good eight episodes for characters to develop and become better known to us; it's not merely period drama. The atmosphere inside and out of the Knickerbocker are what you can imagine NYC being at the turn of the previous century. While Mr. Owen is the primary, the secondary players in this program are equally as keen to pull you into their part of the 1900 world. The amount of swindling and payoffs is believable although disheartening. The Knicks benefactor placing his daughter in charge seems to be a bit of a stretch until you think of early pioneering women in medicine; she however is only there to keep her busy until her father see's her married off producing children. I do not believe she'll so easily fall to his whims. She just might be the only honest and caring person in the hierarchy at the facility. All of this is done with usual drama to keep a story line going, yet.. again, it's all consuming with the care people received back in the day. It's no wonder it took most of the last century for people to stop avoiding hospitals. Many checked in, and never checked out. They were the guinea pigs in the testing grounds for what was to come later. Though I will not be around to see whatever a hospital procedural might be on (television?) 86 years from now; it would be interesting if they found the medicine of today as torturous as we find theirs to be in 1900. Very good program. You have characters to admire, to detest, to feel pity for, to rally, etc. It's interesting that the same human traits of their time are still in practice a century later.


                
As as student studying medicine, I absolutely loved this show. Not only is the cinematography phenomenal, but I really enjoyed the moving plot and character development. The most attractive aspect of The Knick is how viewers can truly see where surgical procedures came from, like administering an epidural or keeping hands above the waste line after sterilizing them. Yet, it is fantastic to imagine how different medicine was back in the day, like ambulance buggies or the fact that none of the medical professionals wore gloves when performing surgery (!!???). If you have any sort of medical interest, I would recommend this show to you.
