(Updated after Season 2).Good, original hospital drama.Set in the Knickerbocker Hospital in New York from 1900 onwards, a series about the lives of several of the doctors, nurses and staff.Very original. Hospital/medical dramas are hardly a new or rare thing (though this hasn't prevented there being some brilliant ones - Scrubs springs most immediately to mind). The Knick is quite different though. Being set in 1900 you don't have the luxury of modern medicine and you often get to see now standard procedures being developed in front of your eyes. Also shows how far medicine has come in the last 115 years.Also easily the most graphic medical drama you'll ever see. You see the surgeries being done. I didn't think I was squeamish until I watched this. Does give the series a very realistic, gritty, unglamorous feel.Its not just about the medicine. The series also tackles issues such as racism and inequality, abortion and drug addiction (cocaine and heroin were legal at the time...). Has the usual relationship and romantic stuff too, though these generally weaken the series. While everything else seems to capture the spirit and feel of 1900 quite well, the writers and director quite keenly project 21st century morals and relationship conventions onto their 1900 characters - it just seems out of place.In addition, Season 2 was less compelling watching than Season 1. The novelty may have worn off for me, I fear.


                
An interesting series portraying the medical, social and racial challenges in a hospital in New York at the turn of the last century.This show has the potential to be one of the best on TV. The setting, story and atmosphere are excellent. Visually it looks gorgeous and the direction is top notch. I have two criticisms one minor and one major: the acting is at times weak by some of the supporting cast, this is not bad enough to have significant impact, however, my major criticism is with the music I have yet to come across such incongruous music with a TV show. To me synthesizer noises just seem totally out of character with this kind of program. The music is so out of character that I nearly rejected the show because of it. I really hope that for season 2 if there is one they reconsider the choice of music.


                
I really like Clive Owen, so when I saw he was staring in the Knick I did want to watch it. I found the show much darker than I expected. The show is definitely unique (I've not seen anything like it on the screen to date) for that I give it a good rating. Clive doesn't disappoint he carries any role he's given to play. I didn't like the first couple of story-lines for the show, too gruesome for my taste but I can see others might like it. I'm still watching it, out of curiosity as to where they are heading with this show concept.. But the x- girlfriend without the nose was really too much for me. Anyway, make up your own mind, it is unique.
Would enjoy it more if the video quality was better. Superb series loses much with poor video quality and very dark lighting. Acting excellent and period accuracy seems on target for historical value both medically and everyday times. All story lines and characters are interesting ...not thrown in for filler. Well researched. Presented as it was without bias or concern for 'political correctness' because there was none. View of life as it was, tough to live. Music choice enhances the series to the max. Details of costuming, even food preferences and habits keep the attention. Very graphic ...for those who are not into that sort of thing.....be aware.


                
