I would not imagine that a series equivalent to unholy alliance of House and Sherlock would be on Cinemax. The Knick is a collection of dysfunctional characters that roam the street of last century New York, dressed as doctors, nurses, and even high class patrons. It's an utter delight to see their shenanigans as well as depravities. This is the period of obviousness, medical advancement, racial profiling and all of these are presented like Sherlock with morphine overdose.Everyone is flawed here, even if their motive might be just, the moral ambiguity plagued any on-screen persona. Clive Owen plays as Dr. Thackery, the head surgeon of the less profitable partial altruistic hospital The Knick. I can't imagine Clive Owen without the stache anymore, this is a character with such determination that the only drive rivaling it is his addiction. Other notable character is Dr. Edwards by Andre Holland who's a brilliant colored doctor who must deal with racism and his own vices.The pace wastes no time to introduce many subplots and characters. It's rare that nearly every perspective is appealing. On other series they have strong leads and probably one or two well written supporting cast. This is not so with The Knick, audience would find something endearing in the unorthodox characters as they all have their unique slightly destructive charm.With Steven Soderbergh at helm, the artistic vibe just oozes from the dirty New York. Continuous scenes happen so often that they can adsorb audience in the immersive atmosphere. The soundtracks are intriguingly contagious, they are modernized version of old school tune. It's strange, catchy and really set up the quirky mood. Furthermore, it has some of the most convincing practical effects for anatomical and cringe purpose.The Knick is a top shelf drama, administered with style and not only embracing all of its undesirable oddities, but put them in proud display.


                
..especially now that we've had a good eight episodes for characters to develop and become better known to us; it's not merely period drama. The atmosphere inside and out of the Knickerbocker are what you can imagine NYC being at the turn of the previous century. While Mr. Owen is the primary, the secondary players in this program are equally as keen to pull you into their part of the 1900 world. The amount of swindling and payoffs is believable although disheartening. The Knicks benefactor placing his daughter in charge seems to be a bit of a stretch until you think of early pioneering women in medicine; she however is only there to keep her busy until her father see's her married off producing children. I do not believe she'll so easily fall to his whims. She just might be the only honest and caring person in the hierarchy at the facility. All of this is done with usual drama to keep a story line going, yet.. again, it's all consuming with the care people received back in the day. It's no wonder it took most of the last century for people to stop avoiding hospitals. Many checked in, and never checked out. They were the guinea pigs in the testing grounds for what was to come later. Though I will not be around to see whatever a hospital procedural might be on (television?) 86 years from now; it would be interesting if they found the medicine of today as torturous as we find theirs to be in 1900. Very good program. You have characters to admire, to detest, to feel pity for, to rally, etc. It's interesting that the same human traits of their time are still in practice a century later.


                
It's turn-of-the-century New York at the Knickerbocker Hospital. Dr. John Thackery (Clive Owen) is the aggressive chief surgeon and a drug addict. Dr. Algernon Edwards is a black surgeon struggling against racism in this exclusive field. Herman Barrow is the manager struggling with the finance. Lucy Elkins is the supportive young nurse. Cornelia Robertson is one of the directors from a wealthy family. Dr. Bertie Chickering is a young surgeon at the hospital.This is an unique vision from Steven Soderbergh. There are some out-there surgical scenes. The characters are compelling led by the terrific Clive Owen. I also like Eve Hewson. It does falter from covering too many characters and their side stories. Nevertheless, this is unique television. Somewhere along the negotiations, Soderbergh is unable to come up with an agreement. The show definitely deserves to continue despite the specific ending to the second season finale.


                
I haven't watched Dexter, House MD, or Grey's Anatomy. So this makes my first medical TV drama.And boy, am I impressed?!Steven Soderbergh has always fascinated me with his thematic films, the last being Behind The Candelabra. And now when I learned that he will be directing Clive Owen, my hopes instantly crept up. And I was not disappointed. Telling the story of the Knickerbocker hospital of New York in the 1900s, The Knick follows the lives of Owen's character and his medical team as they struggle to find panacea for ailments. The pilot gives insights to what, how and when.It further succeeds in forming a perfect introduction to what may or may not be a breakthrough story-telling. I know it is fiction, but when it samples topics like race, medicine, authority and the period which saw the largest inventions, I can't complain. However, I am lauding the makers for giving me the pie.It has thrills, it has drama. Moreover, it has a story which it narrates rather finely. The performances are great and so is the wicked music.BOTTOM LINE: Definitely have a look at few episodes and if it hooks on to its fabulous story-telling, continue. Otherwise, we have plenty of new series to watch out for.Can be watched with a typical Indian family? YESGore: Infinite


                
I am enjoying this series but I find the music in it hard to get around. It's awful and at times seems to dominate. Sometimes it has a bubbly sound and some of the sentimental scenes have a piano playing a plink, plink sound. I try to overlook that, I don't want to stop watching a good series. The performers are great, Clive Owen is amazing. The settings for that period are very well done and you really get a feel for those times. A lot of scenes in it are gory and graphic. The topics disturbing. I think that the average person could feel injured seeing how the brilliant young black doctor was spoken to and how minorities were treated. When you see how medical problems were handled back then it makes you appreciate today's technology. I look forward to watching the rest of it. This kind of music worked in Solaris even though it was a bit heavy handed in some parts. Just didn't work in The Knick.


                
After the disposable Side Effects, Haywire and Magic Mike, the freedom of TV backed productions seemed to give Soderbergh's career a much needed shot of adrenaline. First with Behind the Candelabra and now The Knick, a pulpy trip through the sewer of 1900 Manhattan. Clive Owen, who's career has been in free-fall, turns in his most committed performance in years and even though his American accent still sounds like Clive Owen, it's never distracting and he does good work here. Each character is well defined, with inner demons that seem to usually make an appearance and one of The Knick's strengths is never to fall into melodrama, but play out as a witty demented drama. It's a feast of grotesque behavior as we follow a cocaine addicted surgeon, an abortion performing nun, racism that's never sugarcoated and gallons of blood. It all makes for an irreverent and well crafted good time. The cast is uniformly excellent, the period design is convincing and the surgeries are staged fantastically, usually in long uninterrupted takes.


                
This show would have been a true masterwork, if it wouldn't be so obsessed with the main character's drug addiction.But first, the ensemble of actors is really great. Even small roles are cast with great actors, and even supporting characters get their own little (or bigger) story-line. Clive Oven may have had the role of his life. I did not find any weak moment with him (nor his fellow actors, I must add). The director obviously have realized his talent. I do not know why Soderbergh doesn't make more shows like this, since he has quite a hand for supporting his actors.Then the production - it's a beauty in pictures and depicts perfectly the time and atmosphere of that period. Wherever a scenario takes place. And that's sometimes in the operating theater - gruesome !And the details - I often found myself searching the invention of this and that, and it's mostly correct. It inspires one to investigate the most simple things which are so common for us today, but which had to be carved out by suffering great losses, with much observation, sometimes under great pressure. One main statement of the show (as I understood it) is that we can call our selves lucky to live in such modern times and not then.The story itself - which is about the interwoven fates of people related to the hospital - I found very interesting and diverse, despite I am otherwise not very interested in hospital shows. I gave it a try, and I was hooked.A strange thing is the experimental/minimal music, that may be sometimes irritating, or unfamiliar, but I found it always quite fitting and driving.One advantage of the early 20th century (for addicts) was, that Heroin, a medical product (by the German Company Bayer, which is now a huge corporation) that could be purchased freely by everyone. The main character here of course comes from Opium to Heroin, and his addiction is too much observed and accompanied for my taste. It seems a bit, that the authors admire that addiction in some ways I cannot fully follow, because drug addiction is today much more of a problem than then. Therefore, sometimes I got tired of watching a drug addict struggling with his addiction, withdrawal, relapse. That's worth another show.But that is the only thing I have to criticize. 'The Knick' was really worth the time spent, a great series.Some operation theater scenes are very bloody and can be disturbing, so be warned.


                
This show is far left propaganda and extremely offensive to Catholics. A nun would never condone an abortion, let alone perform one. Chinese man, "My wife thinks the procedure (abortion) is contrary to the will of God." Tom Cleary, "What do you know about the will of God? You're bloody heathens." Chinese man, "We are Christians. We were converted at the Methodist school in Peking." She's a f***in Catholic nun. There's not a higher authority in the land when it comes to matters of the f***in Catechism." Cleary now speaking to nun. "God, f**in Methodists. I'm just trying to ease her conscious a bit. There, look she's all docile and ready for you." Then a few scenes later the nun explained that she didn't go through with the abortion because the Chinese woman was 7 months pregnant and the baby was kicking. Nun to Cleary, "Let that be a lesson to ya. It would have been a sin."


                
