Wow. This new show certainly knows how to get your attention. Within the first five minutes of the first episode you will have a very clear picture of what it meant to have to undergo surgery at a time when even today's most common surgical procedures had hardly been tested – let alone successfully. With this new series, writers Jack Amiel and Michael Begler have created a fascinating – and gripping – look at the humble beginnings of modern medicine, and frankly: it made me realize just how lucky I am to live today. The show's title is derived from the 'Knickerbocker Hospital', a fictional hospital at the turn of the 20th. century in New York which serves as the centre stage around which the lives and struggles of the protagonists revolve. 'The Nick' shows us an uneasy, turbulent time where everything is in motion, and although the benefits of the so called "modern age" are already waiting around the corner, the situation for people without money is grim. Immigrants live in horrible sanitary situations, little children have to work in factories and social frictions and racial prejudice run deep within society.Clive Owen does an excellent job portraying a conflicted but passionate surgeon who's constantly trying to push the boundaries by inventing or refining surgical methods in the hope of lowering the mortality rate among his patients. The rest of the cast is also terrific; their performances - along with the great writing - help create a sense of realism that is rarely seen in films or TV-shows depicting that era. The same can be said of the fantastic production values – the team behind 'The Knick' obviously went to great lengths to portray everyday life of that era as accurately as possible. Virtually every frame oozes quality: the city of New York at the beginning of the twentieth century has been meticulously recreated and every busy street corner, alley or candle-lit room feels authentic. Small wonder, perhaps, given that the director, producer, cinematographer and editor of all 20 episodes is none other than multi-talent and Oscar winner Steven Soderbergh.My verdict: This is a fascinating, gripping portrayal of the dawn of modern surgery as well as an intense human drama and an authentic look at an era we normally only get to see in films about Sherlock Holmes or Jack the Ripper. Highly recommended. 9 stars out of 10.Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
The Knick is a television show anyone interested in very relevant topics of our day should not miss. On the exterior, The Knick is a historical look at early 1900's New York City and the plot is based around a newly promoted head surgeon, Dr. Thackery (Clive Owen), of The Knickerbocker Hospital. The medical aspect of the show is truly fascinating, intense and shocking. The surgeries shown on the show are not for the faint of heart and have the look of a butcher shop rather then what we currently expect in an operating room. The sets are beautiful and well done to portray a century year old time period. I have heard complaints about the music and blurry vision of some of the cameras and shots that Director Steven Soderbergh incorporates throughout the show. If you want a clean cut narrative with perfectly clean shots and no unique sound, then feel free to go watch network television. I find the electronic music very interesting and almost a sort of heart beat to the show. The blurry shots are absolutely justified as this world is dimly lit and fuzzy on its own accord. The music and cinematography do it great justice.The acting on the show is also top notch as Clive Owen leads a team that is in sync throughout. Andre Holland is a revelation as Dr. Algernon Edwards, a African American doctor literally fighting for respect in an extremely racist medical world. These two characters and their relationship form the essence of much of the show's themes which are very relevant even today. Beneath each character there lies more depth then you will receive in most television. Dr Thackery is burdened by his past and his temptations, yet is dedicated to saving the lives of his patients and not selling out. It is a gray world at The Knick and one in which lies death, drugs, sex, racism and deceit, and at the same time brings us heroics, ethics, humanity and discovery.


                
As a physician, I watched the entire House MD, Scrubs, most of ER and grey's anatomy. As a dedicated reader, I read a lot in medicine history. I'd like to reassure everyone who is afraid of watching another regular medical drama, this show is about medical history with it's bizarre and crazy events (which truly happened allover the course of medicine History), but in the same time it's a perfectly crafted piece of art from attention to small details to acting, writing, camera angels, sound tract and off course directing by Soderbergh.Dr. John Thackery is a character built on 1900s Dr. William Stewart Halsted who is considered the greatest physician of the whole Johns Hopkins group, also Throughout his professional life, he was addicted to cocaine and later to morphine, which were not illegal during that time. The beauty about Thackery character is that it's a true character with his addiction and the predicted mood changes (even if there is some alteration, the character frame still the same, not like the case of G. House who was clearly a fictional character).I don't want to go in details about the technical elements of the show, but one look over Steven Soderbergh's traffic, Erin Brockovich or even Ocean's eleven will be more than enough to understand that you are facing a spectacular show which has more and more to offer with each new episode (no wonder it was renewed for a second season before airing the first one).The Knick is a too much sophisticated show to be compared with other shows from the same genre and IMO it shouldn't be compared with them at all. My advice to every one: see the first season now because if you're a TV person you will end up watching it anyway.


                
Most period shows suffer from the temptation to show ancient times through a modern lens. Writers seem to believe "Bah! life was dull back then, nothing new here, let's improvise some!" Anacronism and political correctness abound in period shows and such; not even Game of THrones dares to call Tyrion "a midget", it's always "dwarf" or "little people". Cut to The Knick. Yes, this was America in 1900. Corruption, racism, arrogance. No, the hero is not a nice guy and he's a cocaine addict. No, the director of the hospital is not an asshole, he's quite a nice chap, though he tends to steal money from the hospital's budget. No, the rich people are not arrogant, they are quite condescending to those poor little blackies. And the Negroes, no, they are not brave and indomitable people making the best of a racist society, they tend to be rough, stupid and weak. The nurses? White and dumb. The surgeons? Ignoramuses! The state authorities? Corrupt. THe patients? Doing quite well, considering they know that 'disease', in 1900, is synonymous to 'death sentence'. Three episodes down, zero survivors. Not bad! That's what I like in this show: they don't wash down the late 19th century cultural arrogance, they don't make racism look pretty, they don't fall into stereotyping the rich and powerful. Everybody here is a nice person, everybody has a moral fault, everybody is human. THe Knick is possibly the best show in decades. And Clive Owen rocks! Give that guy an Emmy already!


                
Cinamax is really coming together. Banshee and now this. Two totally different spectrum's and platforms! The best part is when all this takes place. Before modern medicine...I just love it! From the beginning scene to the last scene you feel trapped and curious about this wicked plot. It feels like all the actors hit their marks with out hesitation. The filmography is amazing. I love the old, rustic look and feel the show brings to its audience. I can't wait to see how this show will unfold. I am a TV junkie (hate to admit). When a good show like this hooks me. I'll watch from start to finish. I'm actually going to re-watch the first episode again.


                
I'm surprised that this Cinemax series wasn't more successful. It has everything going for it like solid writing, acting, and high quality production. Set in 1900 New York City, the Knick is short for the Knickerbocker hospital. Just like other businesses, hospitals have to make a profit and survive. The Knick is a 1900 version of St. Elsewhere about a struggling hospital. The first season has ten episodes starring Clive Owen as Dr. Thackeray, a renowned surgeon and secret drug addict. Andre Holland plays Dr. Algernon Edwards, an African American surgeon trained at Harvard and worked in Europe before coming to the Knick. Juliet Rylance plays Cornelia Robertson, the hospital administrator and daughter of its owner. Cara Seymour plays a nun with quite a secret that you won't see coming with complexity and devotion. The rest of the cast is stellar but I can't name them all here. Eve Hewson is perfect as the West Virginia transplanted nurse who knows and protects Thackeray. This series is almost flawless and perfect but I can't understand why I didn't see or know about it before. This series deserved some respect and accolades like other series.


                
The Knick is an excellent series that sadly ends to fast. If it was up to me they could have made much more seasons because the subject is a bottomless pit. The show is about discovering new techniques of surgery and medicine at the turn of the 20th century. I'm glad I could just watch it on television then living it for myself because let's be honest there are some pretty scary procedures in The Knick. It doesn't look very sterile at all. And having a surgery in an auditorium while a bunch of people are looking at you isn't my idea of a safe environment for a surgery. But the show itself is fabulous with great acting performances and with an excellent story. All actors and actresses were great in The Knick. I really wished there would be more then two seasons because The Knick is so much better then most of the other shows that seems to keep going on forever. Certainly one of my favorite shows of this year.


                
After watching the first four episodes, unless there is a drastic drop off, this is a super-good series done by Soderbergh. It was a weird rationale to put it on Cinemax rather than HBO, but if it gets people subscribing to Cinemax, then it was a successful choice. It's another example of how the best TV shows in America are found only on the premium channels (e.g., HBO, Showtime, etc.) Although Clive Owen is the star and does a great job, just about everyone in the cast is superb. But what to me is the "star" of The Knick and makes it so interesting is showing what New York City was like at the turn of the century. I'm no expert, but it seems realistic and believable, and is fascinating to see, including the medical field at that time, the introduction of electricity, the super-wealthy and super-poor living side-by-side in Manhattan, and the overt racism, even though Manhattan is not even remotely the South.


                
I don't recall EVER reviewing a television show after only one episode. The Knick is my exception. If you are into American History at all you will find the sets, surgical instruments, and clothing to be very authentic. I especially liked the scenes with the "Health Inspector", and horse-drawn ambulances. Speaking of the ambulances, my father has told me several stories regarding ambulance services in "the old days". He basically told me that all of them were in competition with each other and would sometimes fight over the injured, and dead alike. It's crazy to think precious minutes would be wasted trying to save someone's life, in order to have a street fight with the competition. Alas, The Knick shows us that this really used to take place. I've been a Clive Owen fan for quite some time, and his portrayal of Dr. John Thackery is amazing. I do have one issue with Soderberg's script though. In the scene where the nurse comes to his house to fetch him for emergency surgery, he is curled up on the bed and in a cold sweat from not injecting his cocaine the previous night. The nurse has to inject him as he's too shaky to do so himself. This sounds a lot more like heroin withdrawal than cocaine withdrawal. There are usually not serious physical withdrawal symptoms from discontinuation of cocaine. Cocaine is not physically addictive. It's a mentally addictive drug. This mental addiction can manifest itself physically, but not to the effect on the show. That being said it was still a very good episode and I am really looking forward to this series.


                
Since the first episode I am hooked. Watching drama unfold in a time that we ( at least I am ) are glad we weren't alive in or even more glad not to be sick in! In the first few minutes of each episode I watched, ( 4 so far ) I either react in disgust or in awe at the scenes we get to see. The cinematography is excellent although some might not be a fan of the way the camera angles are shown. Special effects are amazing, image in first few minutes of episode 3 comes to mind as you get first side view / frontal view of the female patient... The feel that comes across watching the streets of NY at that time period with horse & carriages and costumes is real authentic. The attention to the medical side of things is amazing and maybe my most favourite part of the show. The research going into these scenes must have been real hard work and nothing but credit goes to those departments / people involved. Having seen images from that era and how they replicated wards/ treatments for the show is worth the watch alone!The acting is wonderful and I already am looking forward to watching certain story lines develop. The scene with Thackery getting his cocaine shot in that special place from Nurse Elkins, is one that was very believable on Clive Owen's part. The shaking and his facial expressions in that moment are awesome to watch! At times I really have to bite my tongue, but it's how people were treated at that time. If you have a weak stomach you might not like some of the more gruelling scenes, but I guess they come pretty close to how things were done without proper anaesthesia and operating tools. In that way the show is educational as well.Each time the hour has passed I wished it would be longer and I long for the next episode. Glad it was renewed for a second season even before the 1 st episode officially aired. Soderbergh at his best! You won't regret giving this show a chance :-) You will get hooked.
Great attention to medical detail with a good story line from an excellent cast especially Clive Owen. This new series has all the hallmarks of a long running show. It could be a 1900's "House" The setting of 1900's New York should give much scope for expanding the plot. I am sure all the many medical advances of the period will be written in to the show. I look forward to more episodes which will expand on the initial theme and continue to develop the storyline and tell of the lives of the characters portrayed in the hospital and in the city of New York.I hope that this excellent new series will go on for many more series.


                
While extremely well acted, there are story lines based on actual, historical fact (both period and medical).Etched in my mind is one particular show whereby the character was admitted to a mental institution. Upon a visit by her husband, a surgeon, she opened her mouth to reveal a toothless, bloody mouth.All of her teeth had been extracted!!!It turns out that was the thought process of the time by Dr. Henry Cotton was that pulling teeth would cure mental illness. And, if it didn't, he would remove other parts of the body as well! Research on my part revealed this was historically correct, albeit a practice that makes one cringe. https://www.theatlantic.com/health/archive/2014/10/the-tragic- sadistic-mental-illness-treatment-from-the-knick-is-real/381751/ https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Henry_Cotton_(doctor)
I am kind of hooked this one. Someone compared it to Boardwalk Empire meets Gray's Anatomy. It's better than both put together. I just love Clive Owen more and more every time I see him. He is brilliant in this. It's one of his best rolls and he has had some good ones. All the acting is first rate. The sets and costumes are accurate and thought out. They've definitely don't their homework. I'm sure a lot of it isn't completely accurate, but they do take actual historical things and infuse them pretty ingeniously into the plot. Plot lines include the first hook up of electricity, African American civil rights, wars that were going on, and even Typhoid Mary. They also have a lot of experimental drugs, equipment, procedure, operations etc. Things are invented along the way that save people lives in the end, but on the backs of a lot of casualties. A lot of it is sad and horrifying and makes you really glad you live in this time with all our medical advances. They use Cocaine and other drugs we know today are highly addictive and dangerous on everything. One scene involves removing all the patience teeth to cure their "ailment". If you have any interest in history, you will me enthralled. I just watched season one and I can't wait for season two.
I love this show. I was hooked from the first episode and I'm happy to say the series only gets better as it goes on. Owen is superb as Thackery,brilliant and broken,the whole cast is terrific,as is the story,cinematography and of course Soderberg's brilliant direction.Some have spoken of their dislike of Cliff Martinez' score for the series,but I think it's an amazing touch and adds greatly to the uniqueness of the show,it matches the visuals perfectly. I consider The Knick to be of interest to anyone that likes their TV held to a higher standard,and along with True Detective,Fargo and Hannibal,is a nice change from the same old thing.


                
I love this show. And it has done a great job in being perfect on attention to detail for circa 1900 in just about everything! But to my unpleasant surprise, in episode 3 of season 2, in the court scene, there was the US flag as in all courtrooms. BUT....it happened to have 50 stars! How can that happen! Come on people. Everything in that show is perfect to circa 1900, but when it comes to the US flag no one could catch that? But other than that, The Knick is a great show. Hopefully more and more people will watch it. HBO needs to continue to tease it's HBO subscribers so more can get CineMax. That is how I was hooked onto getting CineMax back with season 1.


                
