I've seen plenty of existentialist BS about this show, but frankly it is just lame. no reason to dig deeper and try to make something valid out of something that isn't. It's like making a child's doll out of your last turd. Seriously...It's that bad. It smells that bad, it is that bad. I am so disappointed that I lost my time to this turd. So I'm looking in the mirror, admitting it, and moving on. I only wanted to warn the next person. If you want to watch a turd circling the toilet there are easier ways.
This is arguably the worst show on television. I almost never write reviews but this one forced me to do so. I gave the show 15 minutes of my time and I almost wanted to sue Eric Andre for wasting my life. He is the worst "comedian" I have ever watched. I love Adult Swim, but if he does not get taken off of it I will go on strike and encourage many others to do the same. At least push him back to 3am. Giving him a 7.1 out of 10 makes me question all of the reviews from IMDb. I had more faith in whatever group is in charge to not assume the show is funny simply because it is on adult swim. Here is another thing, how about the guideline for the review doesn't force the writer to provide a minimum of 10 lines. I am just sitting here rambling about nothing. I even resorted to watching the Eric Andre show to give me some more material to rant about. The show is awful and again I pray that it discontinues. I envision Hell as someone being forced to watch the entire first season of this show. They don't even have to watch it for eternity just one time that is how bad it is.


                
By far the worst thing I've ever seen. The host never does anything funny,he's obnoxious and ridiculous. All he ever does is smash stuff and harass his guests. The ideas are overused, the set is boring, the cast is stupid and the show just makes adult swim unimaginably displeasing. I would rate this show a zero if they'd let me. 10/10 times I will always change the channel and would never recommend to anyone that they watch this garbage. Eric Andre does not deserve to be called a comedian. In my opinion, I'd rather be dead than have to watch his show. And this is me on a nice day. Whoever runs adult swim should be ashamed of themselves for keeping his show on this long. He does not deserve money for acting stupid. It's seriously the worst thing I've ever had to see. If somebody doesn't stop him, Jesus might just resurrect one more time and do it himself.


                
Seriously, why was this show even approved to be on the air? There is absolutely no point to it; just random stuff happening and nothing is even relevant.....stupidest thing I've seen since the blair witch project. Im not going to go So far as to wish something else such as daria instead but let's face it, anything would be better. .. here's a thought. .. fill that time slot in with more commercials. . Or even more "off the air" time. Anytime i see this show i have to turn the channel. The whole thing is more annoying than fingernails running down a chalkboard...even tatyana ali couldn't figure it out! Somebody cancel it already. .. obviously this guy is no comedian.


                
If you think intentional awkward pauses, endless streams of non-sequiturs, and humorless Jackass-style hidden camera interludes are the pinnacle of comedy, then I know you'll be absolutely delighted by the Eric Andre show.However, if you have more refined tastes that prefer actual *humor* to accompany your comedy, then The Eric Andre show will leave you flat.I have already encountered plenty of reviewers who are determined to find some transcendent 'anti-humor' at work here and insist that the show is great.I am of a contrary mind.It's simply not that complicated. The longer you explain the joke, the less funny it becomes. Explaining the wit behind The Eric Andre Show would require a full course-load of lectures followed by a Master's Thesis.The show is clearly unique. It's a parody of the traditional chat-show format, Eric Andre isn't afraid to 'get in everyone's face' without breaking his straight-man persona.I get it. It was sort of funny when Ernie Kovacs started doing it about sixty years ago, and it's been excellent filler material for generations of cable access comedians.The trouble is that Eric winds up with about three kernels worth of humor and seems to think that's enough to feed a whole team of horses.It's not.This entire concept might be funny as a segment on a sketch comedy show. As a stand-alone series, it creaks and collapses under the demands of fifteen minutes and delivers only awkward cringes instead of laughs.


                
it boggles my mind how anyone can actually watch this on the regular, or call it brilliant or genius. some unfunny guy making his guests mad. If you like this show you are one of those people that probably plays video games and dies on purpose to make people mad. I can't believe people actually go on the show as guests. Cartoon network has had a steady decline of good programming in my opinion and this just adds to the pile of garbage, they already show. Sometimes i think who ever owns cartoon network is just a rich person that shows whatever they want because they can. I then realize some of these shows actually get viewers and i am sad for our world.


                
A poor show from a very unfunny mind.Eric Andre is a try hard that couldn't come up with original funny material on his own to save his life.He tried to invade the RNC and couldn't improvise, he ended up being the but of his own joke at the hands of two old men proving Andre to be an embarrassing fraud.Here's a perfect example of a no talent hack getting a show because of connections and nepotism.This should be following Million Dollar Extreme: World Peace or better yet just cancel it, it's garbage.


                
I watch Comedy Central almost every night. When this show comes on It time for a BRB.....Watching a man throw himself across the stage and break fake back drops. That's all he does...What is this suppose to represent? STUPIDITY is my best guess...Some of the things are so vulgar and gross I cant imagine any sponsor wanting to support this show. The only good thing I can say about it is that it's only 15 minutes long and not 30....Just the right amount of time to take a P and get some pop corn...Any longer and I would end up in the ER from severe nausea...If the stunts made sense perhaps I might understand it. The entire show is just STUPID!


                
Why has adult swim become an endless parade of cookie cutter shows that glorify vomiting. Well, here's another one. I can't believe 12 Oz. Mouse and other thoughtful well written shows were abandoned for this kind of drivel that seems as though it was written by by a 13 year old. Show reruns of FRINGE, CONAN or something half way appealing for taint sakes. Bring back Korgoth of Barbaria or Eagleheart. This show just seems to imitate Tim and Eric like so many of the other shows that air on adult swim these days. Bring back the good old days of Reign the Conqueror and Home Movies. I'm not a prude, I just have tastes that super-cede the 11-14 year old humor range of bathroom humor and being disgusting just for the sake of being disgusting, as do most of the people that have been watching adult swim since it's inception.


                
This is hands down, the worst show I have ever seen in my entire life. Being bad on purpose, does not make a funny show. If you find this show enjoyable you are probably 13 years old and suffer from autism. The fact that it has a rating of 8.6/10 makes me horribly sad for the human race. It's literally just 10 minutes of LOOOOOOOOOOOL SO RANDUM HAHAH and takes the joke way to far. This is actually my first review ever, I just had to do one so that I could mock this show in 1,000 words. Just because everyone on the show is self aware on how terrible it is does not make it funny. Every episode is incredibly stupid jokes, over-the- top bull crap and running around breaking stuff. This show is bad, simple as that.


                
I've been a loyal fan to Adult Swim for years since it first aired when I was a teenager. I've went through the program changes in the lineup and there isn't too many shows I dislike but this is one of them. I first spotted Eric Andre doing guest spots on random shows like Two Broke Girls so I figured I'd give his own show a chance. I was wrong and I want my 15 minutes back! I couldn't even last five minutes with this show it made no sense and it just wasn't funny. It seems like this show is using similar style of Tim and Eric and Dr. Steve Bruele which I do not like those shows either. I literally shut my TV off when this show comes on. I really wish it would go off


                
I am a huge fan of Adult Swim and have NEVER given a bad review over a show aired on Adult Swim. However, this show is the dumbest, pointless and most uninteresting show on television. I HATE when I turn on the T.V. and this show is on. I pray EVERY TIME I do, that this show isn't on. God, please take this show of the air!!!!!!!! PLEASE!!!!! Maybe Adult Swim could replace this with more American Dad or Family Guy. Hell, Daria reruns from MTV would suffice. Or maybe, only have it on once a month at 1:00PM or something... So the rest of us Adult Swimmers can game in peace knowing that what we're listing to in the background isn't The Eric Andre Show! P.S. THANK GOD ITS ONLY 15 MIN LONG!


                
