Although Ken Burns documentary is well researched, it still lacks a larger view of American history as it stood at that time. Shelby Foote is over utilized and his sympathies are quite apparent. David McCulloch gives the documentary an instant legitimacy that no documentary deserves. An unknown narrator would have given this show a better push for viewers to search out this war for themselves. And what of the "Nullifiers" and their precious 10th Article of the Constitution? The Civil War started decades before 1861 and current events show that it's still being fought today. This series, even giving it's length, is nothing more than an overview, a glossing over of events. But that's his style, all style. Billy Crystal and Bob Costas for "Baseball", all style, all voices, all faces. As a documentary film maker, he's not in the top 10. Given his funding, that's a terrible shame.


                
I had to watch a civil war movie for my AP/IB History class over Christmas break. I don't own any discs of such content because my family has never been into history like that. So, I searched on Netflix. This show and the movie, Lincoln, was the only things I could find. Lincoln, we watched in class so that was out. Now my only option was this super long tv show that was basically 9 movies long compared to others in my class who were probably watching an hour and a half movie and done with it. Well, I ran with it. It was definitely super song, but if we're thinking about the positives of the show, it gave me all the details about the Civil War. I know what caused it, how it began, all the battles, all the disputes and arguments, and how it ended, and what came next. The lengthy show gave me all the information necessary. I really enjoyed watching this documentary show. I would definitely recommend this to other people because it was very interesting and you learn so much from watching it. This was not my cup of tea, but I'm glad I tried something different!


                
THE AMERICAN CIVIL WAR is the lengthy documentary TV series which propelled Ken Burns into fame and fortune and helped pave the way for a continuing career of similarly-made documentaries. It provides a definitive retelling of the infamous war that cost the lives of more than half a million Americans as well as forever changing the United States in every respect. Although good, I found this not quite as compelling as the later documentaries that Burns has made about the Roosevelts and WW2, for example. The lack of barely any newsreel footage or indeed photographs means that it feels very dry and heavy at times, with the repeated use of the era's tunes and scene-setting to evoke the long-dead era. It's still very good, full of the facts and figures and personal accounts that you want to hear; it's just that I think Burns has gone on to do better.
