This seems to be Miyazake's most personal work, clearly a serious design. It is set in an imaginary time which blends the time of the ancient gods (Shinto style, gods of place and nature) with the settlement of humans and the coming of metalworking and war.  The world is not in balance, and a distant conflict between industry and nature has wounded one of the gods of the forest, which is then killed by a sentry boy as it rampages into farmland he guards.  The evil controlling it transfers to him, beginning a slow takeover, and he must journey to the origin of the conflict to find a way to cure himself and incidentally, as he will learn, to try to restore balance.  But this is not a simplistic tale, he finds there are other characters in play, and there is good and evil in everyone, and no easy balance.  The Princess (Hime) of the story is a mysterious human who has been raised by wolves (which are themselves powerful forest gods, a little reminiscent of the Amerindian Coyote myth), who becomes both his ally and his enemy.  The story is not easy to understand.  It has many Japanese mythic elements but even then, it is a work of Miyazake's unique imagination, and is not intended to be simple or to have a clean resolution.The animation is spectacular, and unusual, with new elements even for Miyazake and marks a new departure for style which you can see continued in his next film, Sen to Chihiro - more nature, more wild, more jamming on elements from Japanese myth and folklore.  And, continuing the trend to be more personal, concerned with ethics and character, and less sci-fi. There are at least half a dozen well developed characters threaded through the story, and their animation is wonderful in displaying subtle character.The original Japanese soundtrack has some amazing singing and draws upon some of the best talent available for voices - in Japan, Miyazake is universally known and this was a masterpiece carefully crafted.  Japanese television documented a lot of the production.  The English translation drew on some good talent but they seem not to have "gotten it" quite so intensely as the Japanese crew.If you haven't seen Miyazake, give it a try (but maybe look at Sen to Chihiro first, or even Laputa or Kiki's Delivery Service, for easier and lighter introduction to his work).  Some say he is the Japanese Disney, but I don't like that.  His work has a depth and sophistication that goes beyond Disney cute.  There is no other animation like it.  This is truly an adult work: children might like some of the visuals, but I doubt that many kids below teen age will have any idea what it is all about, and even adults will get more out of this each time you see it again.


                
I saw Mononoke Hime on its USA release back in late December 1999 under its U.S. title Princess Mononoke.  I had read quite a bit about this film and its director but was still totally overwhelmed by the beauty and brutality of this movie.  The complexity of this movie is something never seen in the United States in an animated movie and even exceeds that of most live action movies as well.  It combines love and hate, war and romance, nobility and deception in ways rarely seen in movies today.  Lines of good and evil are anything but clear cut and in the end is hope but no guarantees, no promises.  This is truly an adult movie but my children, ages 12 to 15 all loved it and talked about it for days later.  Even my wife who holds a strong prejudice against Japanese animation enjoyed this movie.Go and see this movie.  You won't be disappointed.


                
The first time I saw Princess Mononoke I was completely moved and surprised. Since it was a Studio Ghibli film dubbed by Disney I liked the fact that it wasn't a "they all lived naively ever after" film. There were no complete "good" or "bad" guys. Even Lady Eboshi the most antagonist character in the movie had a reasonable motive for trying to get rid of the animal gods and cutting down the forest. Although it her actions were environmentally damaging and wrong in general, she did it to help her people survive which is what all the species on Earth strive for. Another wonderful aspect of the plot is that it sends a message - Protect the Earth and all will survive in peace - a message either discreetly or strongly portrayed in many of Miyazaki's films. Perhaps the portrayal of this message (and the tiny hint of San and Ashitaka's romance and Moro's views on nature) was what made the film so touching to me.Like many Miyazaki movies, the animation (as always) is wonderful and nicely detailed which is also another quality that genuine Disney films lack (thank goodness for Studio Ghibli). The music was beautiful and well suited to the movie.The only predicament to the movie is that it is a bit downbeat and does not contain much happy laughter (oh well, I can watch My Neighbor Totoro - also a good movie - for happy laughter.).10/10 - And my favourite movie of all time.


                
Princess Mononoke is, without a doubt, one of the best films I have ever witnessed. There has never been an animated film even close to this -- I kept thinking after I left the theater, how can Disney even have the guts to make another film after seeing this? Even live action movies pale in comparison to Princess Mononoke. There has never been a film to pay such close attention to details. Watch for the magnificent and subtle flying insects throughout the film, especially in the ancient forest, where bioluminescent dragonflies glide gently around the screen. There are thousands of subtleties such as this. You'd have to see it a dozen times to appreciate this film fully. Aside from it being the most beautiful film I've ever seen, it also has an enormously powerful script. The characters are some of the the most well rounded in all film. Ashitaka especially, the main character of the film, is so nuanced that he has become in my mind one of the great characters in film, up there with Charles Foster Kane and Jake LaMotta. I would compare him to Freder, the main character of Fritz Lang's Metropolis. His role in the film is a mediator between the forces of humans and the gods of nature. Both sides comment several times that Ashitaka must be on the other side, when he is trying desperately to convince everyone that there are no sides. Peace is the way. There is a little to be desired in the American voice talent. Claire Daines was certainly a wrong choice for San (Princess Mononoke), and Billy Bob Thornton just could not hide his southern accent, which made the character of Jigo seem more comical than he was probably supposed to be. Gillian Anderson's voice clashed with her character, the wolf god Moro, a bit. It hardly affected my passion. The film was so spectacular and beautiful that James Earl Jones could have voiced San and it would have detracted little. Definitely, though, I'm praying that they release the DVD with subtitle options. Anyway, Princess Mononoke is the best film of 1999, the best film of the 1990's, and, in my personal top ten list, no lower than #5, but closer to #2. 12 hours later and my heart is still beating with the power of Princess Mononoke! America: SEE IT!


                
Fantastic film! It makes me speechlessly. Good dialogs, beautiful soundtrack,incredible animation effects (take a look at the rain, at the movement of the grass, hear the sounds of the steps) and interesting characters,who are everything but ordinary. Ashitaka is captivating (what a strength, what a heart, what a soul!); San (the Princess Mononoke herself) is intriguing; and Lady Eboshi is ambiguous -is she the villain? I don't think so. After all, who can blame her? Don't let the over exploration of themes related to ecology discourage you. Go ahead and watch Mononoke. It's a totally new way of treating the conflict between men and nature, which is far from its ending. Definitely, a jewel among the predictable animations of Disney and Pixar's also predictable jokes. There are no jokes here. TAKE A LOOK AT IT!


                
I saw this film in Japan, in Japanese with no sub-titles, I don't speak a word of the language and I was still enthralled!  It is Miyazaki most visually intense (surpassing, at long last, Nausicaa) and is alive with color and movement the like not yet seen in anime.The story is complex, and after talking with Japanese friends, it is clear that much of it went over my head (particularly that relating to specific Japanese myths), but the important elements came through. Miyazaki's long infatuation with technology verses nature and man's relation to God (or gods) weave throughout the film as does his trend for strong women characters. Even with the language barrier, the film is of such intense emotion that it caries you through to the end. The change in dynamic between the crashing fight scenes and the quiet scenes of healing by the lake is so broad and so well paced that I can't remember a film where my emotional state was so expertly varied.If you have a chance to see this film, in any language, I recommend you do.


                
I have seen many many animated features, but none compare to the talent that is shown in this anime. After seeing this for the first time, I could see why so many animators (especially disney animators) consider Mr. Miazaki a GOD! His animation style has the best "flowing motion" I have ever seen.The American dubbing team, whoever they are did an excellent job picking voices, they got top notch actors to do the job right (unlike most animes today). They even took on the hair-pulling task of RE-ANIMATING the mouth movements to match!This is by far one of the best films I have ever seen.


                
Im a Big fan of Miyazaki... This movie is Definitely in his top 3... Princess Mononoke's story is very in depth and it grabs your attention. Time after time. You may have to watch it a couple times to catch everything but you will fall in love with the characters and story every time you sit down to watch itAs for the art... Its Visually stunning yet again. Everything is depicted so well in Miyazaki's artwork from the humans to the Forest gods and everything in betweenthis definitely worth watching.And if you like it you should definitely check out some of his others like Castle In The Sky, Howls Moving Castle and Spirited Away


                
In its theatrical Japanese release of 1997, PRINCESS MONONOKE was the hugest box office grossing movie of all time in the land of the Rising Sun until it was overtaken by James Cameron's TITANIC, and, four years later, director Hayao Miyazaki's own SPIRITED AWAY. No wonder. This movie, like an earlier project of Miyazaki's, NAUSICAA OF THE VALLEY OF THE WIND, explores man's relationship with nature, hatred causing destruction, and, more importantly, real characters (in other words, no real "hero" or "villain") trying to get by in a world continually torn by war.This is not a movie for young children, as there are disturbing shots of decapitations, amputations, and occasional blood spurts. Sometimes these elements of violence turn squeamish viewers away from Anime (especially when they're done gratuitously), but Hayao Miyazaki presents it not to sicken people but to show it for the horror that it is (plus, in this film, the violence is not overdone). Take, for example, the scene where the protagonist, Prince Ashitaka of the Emishi Tribe, possessed by a curse he received from killing a Demon God (in trying to protect his village), tries to stop samurai attacking innocent people, and in doing so shoots the arms off of one man, and, later, takes off a man's head with two arrows. The sight is horrifying to see, but the deed also increases Ashitaka's demon mark on his arm, which is slowly preparing to take his life. This is a truly horrible depiction about the dangers of violence.Also worth noting is Princess Mononoke herself, a human girl named San raised by the Animal Gods, and her struggle against Lady Eboshi of Iron Town, who is destroying the forest merely for her people's own good (the folks are outcasts, including lepers and prostitutes). San distrusts and despises all humans, and is especially determined to destroy them all (particularly Eboshi)... or die trying. When she's rescued by Ashitaka, however, a conflict within her begins to surface: are *all* humans evil, or is there at least one who is trustworthy? If there is any character who could be considered a villain, it would be the monk, Jigo, who wants the head of the Spirit of the Forest to bring to the Emperor. Such a deed would destroy the entire forest (as we find out in the film's chilling climactic scenes) but even Jigo has his own motives, too. He is not so much evil as much as he is just "trying to get by". This pretty much sums up the conflicts between all our characters here.PRINCESS MONONOKE may not have enjoyed similar box office success here in America, but at least a lot of work and care went into the translation. As with Disney's other English language tracks for Miyazaki's films, this one is very, very well done. Acclaimed writer Neil Gaiman worked on the script, rewording it only to a) fit the mouth flaps, and b) make it understandable to a non-Japanese audience who would probably not comprehend a lot of the cultural nuances found in this film. Added to which, the voice cast includes a commendable list of stars; Billy Crudup is perfect as Ashitaka, eliciting just the right amount of warmth, kindness, compassion, wisdom, and courage, while Claire Danes delivers passionately angry, conflicted turmoil to San. (Folks said she was miscast, but I beg to differ; her character is *required* to be outraged and aggressive, and Danes does have a strong voice to carry such emotions.) The rest of the cast includes Billy Bob Thornton as Jigo (a grossly underrated performance; his Southern drawl adds to the character), Minnie Driver (elegant choice!) as Lady Eboshi, Gillian Anderson as the Wolf-Goddess Moro, and Jada Pinkett-Smith as the friendly (if no-nonsense style) worker Toki. The translation flows smoothly to those who are not familiar with Japanese folk tales, and the story succeeds in making its point, too.This movie may not be for everybody, as it is the kind of film that may disturb young children, but older audiences will find themselves absorbed in the artwork, which showcases gorgeous, unmatched imagination, from the finely detailed forests to the cute little Tree Spirits who appear and disappear at will to the Forest Spirit itself -- a huge deer who makes plants grow with each step he takes. And at night he becomes a ghostly specter known as the Nightwalker, traveling higher than the trees. Such images warrant the purchase of this film. Better yet, its message is not too preachy, and rarely do animated movies (save those from Japan) showcase characters portrayed as, well, human beings.
Studio Ghibli has been Japan's leading anime Production Company since the 1980's, when legendary anime director Hayao Miyazaki released his first feature film "Nausicaä of the Valley of Wind" (1984). From the very beginning, it was clear that the Japanese director had a fantastic flair for animated film, and the uncanny ability to engross his audiences beyond the normal movie-experience that makes him the King of Escapism. Over ten years later, it seems that Miyazaki is still just as good, if not better, as he invites the world into his latest visionary fantasy, the cult classic "Princess Mononoke".The film is set in Japan, during the Muromachi Era, and begins in the quiet peaceful township of the Emishi tribe, when young Prince Ashitaka (Yôji Matsuda), the last of the Emishi royalty, is wounded slaying a demon in an unexpected attack. When the tribe's wise-woman tells Ashitaka that the wound is a curse of hatred that will eventually kill him, he sets out on a journey to the west to discover the origins of the demon. What he finds is a war being waged between the villagers of Iron town, an industrious Iron-works fort led by the ruthless Lady Eboshi (Yûko Tanaka), and the beasts of the forest, represented by the beautiful Princess Mononoke (Yuriko Ishida), a human girl raised by wolves, with whom the cursed prince falls in love. Soon Ashitaka's efforts to make peace are put to the test by each side's bid for allegiance."Princess Mononoke" is a fantastic work of art on many fronts, and arguably Miyazaki's best film to date. While some of his other projects have had the same enchantment and excitement, "Mononoke" has an intriguingly dark and infinitely more mature feel, established by the bloody battle-scenes and sensitive color treatment, and solidified by a complex plot and rich, interesting characters. The most obvious illustrative trait of the film is the ambiguity of the characters' nature; the lack of distinction between good and bad. The ruthless lady Eboshi, while caring nothing for the forest or its inhabitants, is very compassionate towards the underdogs of her own community, such as the brothel girls and the lepers. And the wild wolf-princess, while desperate to defend her fellow forest-dwellers and protect the forest spirit, has a deep-seated mistrust of humans that even steeps into self-loathing at times. These interesting character traits make the film a lot more rewarding than many of Ghibli's other works, which were aimed mostly at children.Of course, all these intriguing themes and characters are only a part of the film's wonder, because Miyazaki's true gift lies in imagery. The detailed animation of "Princess Mononoke" is astounding, drawing its audience into its environments, from lush forest to open fields to crowded marketplace and more; the team of animators that poured their hearts and souls into this film should take utmost pride in their accomplishments. Using minimal and tasteful CGI, the movie stays very warm and inviting even when the subject matter and mood is less-than-friendly. This is also owed to the audio aspects of the picture; the voice talents involved are highly engaging and enjoyable, even in the English dubbed version, which features such big western names as Billy Bob Thornton, Minnie Driver, Billy Crudup, Clare Danes and Gillian Anderson. Joe Hisaishi's music is also a rather splendid complement to the film.Overwhelming success of the anime production in Japan alone stands as a testament to its fine quality. Breaking a 15 year record held by Spielberg's "E.T.", "Princess Mononoke" became Japan's No. 1 movie of all time in the year of its release, as well as taking the title of best-selling video/DVD of all time. It is also the most expensive animated Japanese feature in history, reaching a budget of 2.4 billion. Outside of its home-country, however, the film continues to inspire and engage audiences from all corners of the globe, taking a well-deserved place in the list of cult-favorites for film-lovers everywhere.


                
I just thought its just the another kid stuff before I saw that movie. But I am really in shock and all my attention sink to the movie when I watch it . I drop my mouth down and I really can't speak while I was watching this Mononoke and Ashitaka nightmare adventures until the end.After enjoy watching the movie, I got many thoughts, philos and knowledge of what we are living for and what we believe in. In this movie, for my point of view, nobody is a bad guy and a good guy.Everyone live on what they believe in and express on they are living for. All the characters have different strength and different way of living but they all are same in just one thing, its called "HOPE".They live what they hope for and eager on what they believe. I would nearly cry as the climax is on way too high and after that this story of all meanings is about war and peace, love and hate, positive and negative. Its totally what its called "master-piece of ART" and many appreciate to everyone who create this.


                
Ever since I was a kid, I was fascinated by animation, I watched way too many cartoons and would often drawn them myself. I never thought of animation as "real art" or anything fancy, just one of life's simple pleasures. Sure Disney had made some ground-breaking animated features, and technology was allowing for more and more detailed and intricate animation techniques, but no animated film had ever moved me as much as a Godfather or Unforgiven or Dr. Strangelove, that is until one fine day in 1999. I was in high school, and Princess Mononoke was premiering at the Coolidge Theater in Brookline, I was pumped as I really enjoyed Castle in the Sky and Totoro, so I went to the theater with a few friends and was absolutely clown away for this. This film is so spectacular in almost every way and every piece comes together perfectly. The animation is top-notch, not that shoddy 1980's anime style, but the mind-blowing animation techniques that made Miyazaki the maestro his is today. The score by Joe Hisaishi is tremendous, though at times it may seem a bit overly dramatic (I mean this is an animated feature, not Lawrence of Arabia), but this is the ultimate animated epic, so it fits in well. The plot is dense and the characters are well-developed, there are no true "good" or "bad" guys in this film...and Miyazaki includes his favorite underlying theme of Man vs. Nature throughout. Some may argue that Spirited Away was Miyazaki's crowning achievement, but I believe that Mononoke Hime is his true Masterpiece.
This is one the best movies Hayao Miyazaki has ever made. Absolutely wonderful job. The plot was at first a bit confusing, this is a movie that you have to watch more than twice: Its hard to get at first.With beautiful backgrounds, carefully chosen seiyuus, Mononkoe Hime entertains both adults and kids.The first time I watched Princess Mononoke, I was a bit confused about the characters. I wasn't sure what was going on, and who was this movie about again, who is this "Mononoke Hime". But as I watched this movie over and over again, the plot started opening, and I began to understand and realize things I didn't notice before. I have always loved the way Miyazaki draws his characters expressions. Unlike some other anime movies I've seen, Miyazakis characters are more easier to read. And this is where the difference of reality and cartoons steps in. Its easy to overdo your characters expressions, and so spoil the movie, and make it look stupid, even childish. This isn't a mistake that Miyazaki would do. A big bonus for that!Mononkoe Hime surpasses even the famous "Nausicaa, the valley of the wind". Im totally impressed!


                
Fun info: This is Miyazaki's first forgo into computer animation, used in the dark "snakes" near the beginning and a few other scenes and is also one of his most violent films. It also has a solid English dub.It concentrates on a different type of character than most of his films, a young man, Ashitaka, rather than a young woman. His quest does not change him like in many other films but rather he changes many others. The film leans just enough on environmental issues to show a cause while allowing the graphics and story you desire from a Miyazaki film. Special note to the soundtrack which is one Ghibli's best. It concentrates on an iron-works and the battle between various factions of humans, the beasts, and others.I don't plan on spoiling much else as the films plot speaks for itself. My only complaint is that certain scenes drag a bit too long and if anything a bit too much blood spills at a certain part of the film. Otherwise, this film is excellent and one of his best.9.5/10


                
Some might watch Princess Mononoke and find ambiguity at times. It's goes beyond formula into something that challenged me, the interplay between the forces of nature where sometimes the seemingly 'good' side is not what it seems, until the bigger, darker picture comes into view. It's a purely imaginative effort, with a level of dramatic- more over cinematic- power that I'd compare with Kurosawa on a level. Princess Mononoke, in its uncompromising way, details the violence without pulling away while also being rather anti-violent in the process. It is also hard to pinpoint on any one level. Visually it's got so much going on to practically experience the abstractions that Hayao Miyazaki folds up into the rest of the story. The story itself trails along with the best of epic fantasy, with this crucial, earth-shattering quest that works on that level of action-adventure (possibly more for adults despite the PG-13 rating here in the States) as well as the mythological side of things. Some have written that it is a bit of a complex film in structure and storytelling, bordering on confusing. I would disagree, though I can see what they mean- you have to pay closer attention than usual of more American films. But on a more profound level, if one could call it such, it's really not hard to follow.The hero of the film, interesting enough, is the type of tragic hero, though with one clear sight amid the chaos on the two sides he encounters- peace. He is cursed by a sort of wormy-jelly demon that runs unyielding in the darker recesses of the world. He searches for something to rid him of his scars while on the human side at some points (mostly dominated by the women impressed- or against- his skills), and with those of the wolves on the other side. The title character is part of the latter, though also human, bringing a little more of the underlying symbolism with a character. Then there are also the boars ready to destroy the humans, even to their demise. Amid the battles that rage on, leading to the significance of a certain 'Deer God' as the centerpiece of the balance of the forests and civilizations, not too much is made explicit. At the same time, the side taken by the cursed hero is even questioned by one character, and with that part connected with the others the story trumps what could have been a kind of smothering over-symbolic representation into what is necessary and spectacular about the film.In fact, I would estimate on just the near bravery of what Miyazaki is achieving in the film, it's one of the best films of its kind. And 'of its kind' in this case is the animated film that breaks conventions and the typical 'good vs. evil' logic. Many times the suddenness of things had me wide-eyed, and each creature or little variance on the creations- both good and evil- are elaborated with out compromise. The digitally-animated worm-Jelly type monsters are some of the more memorable ones, to be sure, as they book-end the picture in different extraordinary ways (the climax in particular probably ranks with the best of the last decade or so). The tiny bobble-headed alien creatures are also a delight as they rattle and gather and multiply and flee all around; this is the kind of scene that is dream-like to a truly weird and bright sensibility. And many scenes that have more of that samurai-movie quality to them (again, Kurosawa) are extremely well-done on their own as then they become mixed around again with the fantasy elements.To say that the film is really a 'family' film might be not entirely accurate, as some of the battle and attack footage is pretty graphic in its own ways, if not as much as other more adult anime like Fist of the North Star or Ninja Scroll. There are even moments I would say that, had I been little and watching some of the more twisted and macabre scenes, I might have cried from it. But this is a credit to Miyazaki and his Studio Ghibli; for older kids this could mark as something that is, indeed, foreign to their expectations, at least American ones. It is a work of art, not just animation, that takes chances and isn't afraid to go for the right twists and leaps of creation and at the same time keeping its message noticeable but not overbearing. It's a film I can't wait to see again, and likely my favorite of the filmmaker's too, with the same cinematic drive as in the other works I've seen but reaching the ambitious heights it intends.


                
I'm so thrilled that I decided to watch Princess Mononoke for the first time ever on the big screen. Studio Ghibli is just nonstop in terms of their animated quality (leaving most animated studios in the dust) even in times like the 90s when this film was released. The action sequences are crafted with such care and such brutality that it's hard not to be remarkably energized by them. The characters surrounding the movie are so engaging and iconic which immensely supports a deeply fleshed-out and powerfully thought-provoking story. Princess Mononoke is a breathtakingly painted tale of a man on a quest to balance two opposite ends of a war filled with hatred, greed, and violence. The conflict of siding between two teams is quite apparent in the film, and it's resolutions are as beautiful as they are significantly important in the real world throughout human history and especially today. (Verdict: A)


                
Up until a certain point i regarded spirited away as Miyazaki's masterwork and my favorite of his filmography; Spirited Away is still his best and Miyazaki at his peak, but Princess Mononoke has resonated with me like a film never has. From the opening narration provided by Keith David to the final shot of San and Ashitaka in the field together, the film is perfect in every sense of the word. The soundtrack alone, composed by the immensely talented Joe Hisaishi, is completely cinematic and transportive. What adds to the greatness of this movie is how un-miyazaki it is, considering how, for lack of a better term, family friendly the rest of his films are; this one is a sharp, but welcomed departure. With thematic elements of war and conflict between the preservation of nature and the advancement of human civilization, Miyazaki does not downplay the severity and importance of these elements and injects his genius into it as he does. The characters are nothing to laugh at either as they are layered as you'd expect a studio Ghibli character to be, you have an exiled prince looking to relieve himself of a curse cast onto him by a demon while trying to act as a peace keeper between man and nature, a girl who was abandoned at birth that was adopted by a forest deity and acts as a primary point of interaction between the humans and nature, and a well intentioned matriarch who saves women in this world from brothels and is a pioneer in the advancement of human civilization, and the list goes on. I would be remiss if i did not talk about how gorgeous this film is animated, there are stills in this that if i just took it out of the film, framed it, and placed it in the middle of a prestigious art museum it would not look out of place. I've lost count at the amount of times I've seen this film and i am still enamored by it.


                
Princess Mononoke is a story of adventure and yet love too. I hope you enjoy this movie as much as I did! My brother loves anime and showed me Spirited Away, Final Fantasy, and Princess Mononoke. From then on I loved anime. Anime always has good animation and is usually interesting. If you are a true fan you will like this movie. This, to me, is one of Miyazaki's best movies. I hope he continues to make these movies and animate and design. Although there is a rumoor going around saying he's retiring. Miyazaki is the best anime director for me. Someday I hope you appreciate anime as much as I do. Thank you and God speed.


                
The *cinematography*: wind blown prairies and lakes, morning sunlight filtering through the forest, sudden, brief mountain showers: Hiroshigi as an animator! Too bad they didn't work in a snow scene too; the Emishi lived in the north of Japan which gets plenty of snow.Iridescent dragon flies.San pre-chewing food for Ashitaka: moving and erotic.The Great Forest Spirit/Deer God as the Night Walker: Liquid Godzilla.Vegetation springing up in footsteps of the Great Forest Spirit and butterflies feeding in the tracks afterward.The Great Forest Spirit's pool and the islets within: a graveyard littered with bones.Dead Kodamas falling from the trees like autumn leaves.One objection: The apes. They appear in three separate animation styles, the first two being well below the standards of the rest of the movie. Only in their last scene are they even convincingly apes, although even then they are not the right kind of ape. Japanese macaques are instantly recognizable with their bright pink faces and bushy gray-blond hair.
There aren't words describing how much this movie means to me. The first time i watched this movie i was not myself, but it would change my view on life forever! Miyazaki's Masterpice Princess Mononoke is packed with incredible music, amazing anime, vise dialogs, and an extreeeeemly good story!: Humans against nature and its animals! It shows in beautiful characteristics haw much damage mankind does to nature simply by being humans, and way to many! This story takes place in a time long ago when there were few humans and gods roamed the earth. now there are even more of us, and gods have become humble beast for us to kill, stalk and eat. I eat beef and i love it! don't get me wrong! after you see this film and more of Miyazakis films like "Nausicaä of the valley of the winds" or Takeshi Kitanos "Pom Poko" i hope you will take another look at the world like i have and see like i see! thanks to this movie! "....and a little help from my friends..." ;)


                
... despite much has been made of Neil Gaiman's dubbed lines, you should absolutely watch it in Japanese with subtitles. The dubbing actors seem not to completely understand the intonations their characters' lines require, which, to me, made the first 20 minutes rather confusing. It was only when I switched to Japanese that it all seemed to make sense. Don't ask me why, like I said I guess it's intonation. Furthermore, it's always daft not to see a movie in its original language. And that goes for anime too, unless you still believe it's not real film.But this is! OK, we've seen the story about nature vs humans before (after all, is that not what the Arthur / Merlin / Morgana / Mob legends are all about?), but what makes this one stand apart is 2 things: 1. no one is all good or all evil; 2. the visuals are stunning and testify of an imagination unbound by logic. These 2 points are crucial, for it is there that most Disney films or plain Hollywood films go wrong - one could say that they're made by 5 year olds. But no, it's just the reverse! Most Disney animation and Hollywood stuff is made by 'soundly reasoning' adults with an emotional life not reaching beyond love and hate, motivational insight not going beyond revenge (or getting laid) and an imagination enslaved to logic. This film isn't, and as a consequence some call it 'difficult'. And not suitable for children. Let me tell you, 5 year olds have, with their boundless imagination, no difficulty getting into this.This film is just so good it's hard to believe someone just sat down at a table, wrote the thing and then drew it on a piece of paper.** Addition ** I've recently read the Nausicaa anime, and it becomes even clearer now that Mononoke is Miyazaki's re-take on his Nausicaa film (which was premature even in its full-length format), with Nausicaa split in two over Ashitaka & San. However, though this is obviously Miyazaki's second best (after Laputa), it remains difficult to pour all the complex musings about man's relationship to nature in 2 hours (the Nausicaa manga is over a 1000 pages long and took him 13 years; when it was finished he made Mononoke). Hence, some things (like Ashitaka helping out Eboshi even after she's done such evil deeds) have left some viewers bewildered. In all, I found the persona of Nausicaa (in the manga) more fit, in her responsible role as a princess, to convey The Message than the split version here. Still, the very idea about man & technology vs. nature and the question of "is anything ever over" (ewige wiederkehr, the cycle of life) is at its most nuanced here. In any case, image-wise, I doubt you'll ever see anything as beautiful as this.


                
This has to be one of Hayao Miyazaki masterpiece's, one of the films that made Studio Ghibli legendary.Prince Ashitaka falls under a curse that is slowly killing him when he battles a demonic boar, Ashitaka is forced out of his village and forced to seek a cure, during his travels he stays in a mining town called Iron Town, during his stay it unravels that Iron Town is trying destroy the Forest God in order to kill the forest to make more room for Iron Town and its mining operations. Princess San Mononoke is a princess who has been raised by wolves in the forest, and she decides to go to war with the humans to save the forest. Ashitaka makes it his mission to try to make the forest and humans leave in peace, and during his mission he falls in love with San, the Princess.The films voice acting in the English edition is perfect, with the characters speaking with realism and emotion, the only thing better than the voice acting is the scripting, animation, and direction, this film is one you have to see!10/10.Review courtesy of the Anime Community, Anionline.net
I haven't seen this movie in a long time, but I still stand by my choice as this being the best film of the 1990s (that I saw anyway). This was simply the most stunning and beautiful animation I have ever seen. Disney wishes they can make a movie that looks this good. From the opening scene in Ashitaka's village to the forest of the gods, and even the factories of Iron Town, Miyazaki never lets up on creating a wonderful piece of cinematic beauty (He drew over half the frames himself). Also his attention to detail with how the rain falls and hits the ground, how characters move and talk, and flies buzzing in the background. Hell, live action movies wish they could do something this good.All that is worth two hours of your time, but now we add a complex story where there are no good guys and bad guys just people. There is a lot of action in this film which is unusual for a Miyazaki film, but the plot calls for it, and it doesn't detract from the character development. Each character is well defined and has real depth. The screenplay is powerful and emotional. Most live action films can't achieve the complexity of Princess Mononoke, and it would have to be even harder for animation to convey real life feelings, but as I watched it, the script and beauty kept drawing me in further and further.The voice acting was OK for the US version, and outstanding for the Japanese version. Billy Bob Thorton was completely wrong for any part of this movie (a southern accent in Japan?). The other American voices were all adequate. Interesting note, the voice for the wolf god that Gillian Anderson does was done by a male for the Japanese version. The music was as breathtaking as the animation, and was a perfect match, especially at the end during the restoration scene. This is one of the best musical scores I ever heard, and I'm surprised it didn't get the recognition it deserved. Anyways, the song (Japanese, not American) was also beautiful. 10/10 for both US and Japanese versions, but watch the Japanese version if you can.


                
This is a sophisticated film with complex cultural, political and personal themes which just happens to be animated. As in real life, each character has parts that you love and parts that you hate. Ashitaka's impassivity in the face of his fate seems beautiful and noble at the beginning of the film but becomes frustrating, even enraging at the end. Eboshi destroys nature to rescue humans on the brink of destruction. Nobody apologizes for their bias, just like in life. Some critics have accused the plot of being driven by the stupidity of the characters, but this critique holds them to the standards of current US society. Nineteenth century Japan was a society strictly regulated by traditions, traditions that were being threatened by Western incursions into Japan. The characters act the only way that they can act - they do their best in an incomprehensible, unsolvable situation. Personally, I sided with Mononoke, but Ashitaka acts with honor in every situation that he faces. I hope that I would have his inner strength in the face of such problems. Things are not neatly wrapped up at the end. This is only one battle in the war between burgeoning Japanese industry and the ancient gods. The war still rages on in Japan as it does in the United States. Oh, the animation is superb. And, for goodness sake, watch it in Japanese with subtitles. If you watch the English version, you won't see the movie the way that it's intended.


                
I'm a kid of 14 years old and i watched this movie at 2004. i was really touched by the screen play the dialogue and every thing about it. i couldn't have been touched if the music wasn't so brilliant. i was so touched by the music i bought the soundtrack and kept listening till it made me cry (i don't why). The characters are great the prince and the princess. Shows me a lot what i can do when I'm older, movie is very touching and also very 'breathtaking'. If anything i recommend this movie. if you are my age you will love it go on and try this movie out. adults same thing goes to you P>S i think this the best animated movie made nothing can change that


                
