I would never say that I hate anime, but I am usually bored and confused by it. So much anime acts thoughtful and deep, but ends up being fairly shallow and simple (see: Neon Genesis and Death Note). Miyazaki has always been a person I could turn to for anime that is both fun AND thought-provoking. Please understand that I am as surprised as you are when I say that I really didn't like this movie.Now, I don't hate Mononoke. I enjoyed the spectacle, and I recognize that it is very well-made. The story is competently told and the setting is interesting.My problem is with the characters. No one in Mononoke acts like a human being. The prince is a perfect angel who isn't affected by human emotions like fear and greed. He is utterly flawless and boring. I mean sure, he's been cursed, but it doesn't really seem to do much to him. In fact, it only appears to make him stronger. What's he complaining about?The women of Irontown are the most hateful people I could possibly imagine. After the attack, one of them joked, "If you hadn't been there, we'd all have to find ourselves new husbands." That's really funny, except to all of the women whose husbands are actually DEAD. What sort of callous, spiteful monster would say something like that? And worse, who would laugh at such an inappropriate joke? That same lady's husband was pushed off a cliff, almost died, and struggled for days to return home to his wife. When he finally makes it back home, what does she do? He calls him a dumbass and berates him in front of everyone. "I wish the wolves had eaten you! Then maybe I could've found a real husband." What a heartless bitch! There is no sense of love or camaraderie from anyone. I don't believe that these two have ever actually loved each other.I could understand this if the animals were portrayed sympathetically. They are not. All of the animals are rather dickish about eating and destroying everything in their path. The people of Irontown are only trying to defend themselves and they are made out to be the villains. Sure, they're destroying the forest, but it doesn't appear like the rest of the world is all that bad; just this place.In fact, the only person in the movie who I actually liked was Lady Obashi, the evil gun-toting power-hungry psychopath. Sure, she wanted to rule the world, but she felt like a human being. She was kind to the lepers, took pity on the whores and gave them all new and rewarding jobs. She loved her people and wanted to protect them. But she's supposed to be the villain? I don't buy it.And what about the pig? I understand that the first pig turned into a demon because he was filled with rage, but what about the old pig? The last thing he felt was hope that all of his warriors were still alive. Why did he become a demon when he wasn't full of hate? For that matter, all of the other animals WERE full of hate. All of the wolves, the monkeys, and most of the pigs were hateful, vengeful bastards. Why didn't they turn into demons? It doesn't make any sense.Perhaps the depth of this movie has been lost on me. Perhaps Miyazaki is trying to say that war can make a monster out of anyone, no matter how noble his cause. I suppose that would make for an interesting film, but I don't feel like that's what Miyazaki was trying to say. As it currently stands, I think that this is Miyazaki's weakest film.
I'm not a huge fan of anime, so I'm not the best person to review this film. Nonetheless I found myself watching it to find out what all the fuss was about.Initially, I found the film gripping. The old-fashioned animation felt fresh and I loved watching the colourful panoramas play out on screen. The early scenes involving the terrible forest monster chasing the film's hero were vivid and exciting; then Princess Mononoke is introduced.Gradually, I lost interest in the film. I found the story far too slim to support the lengthy running time. Myriad characters are introduced and underdeveloped, and the emphasis seems to be on repetitive action involving the different factions battling each other. Certain sequences are certainly captivating on the animation front - especially the huge, translucent forest god creature - but the story just didn't keep my attention.


                
I don't understand what all the commotion is about with this film.. Yes, it is beautiful to look at and has great characters and artistry, but it's so hard to follow!  It suffers the same deadfall that many, perhaps MOST anime films do.. The plot is just too confusing.  It starts out ok, even the middle of the film is engaging, but by the end of it there is utter confusion:  Too many characters fighting for too many different reasons.  I am even a science major, an adult, and an animation connoisseur, and this film stumps me.  There are all of these different parties going after the forest spirit, but also fighting eachother.  The forest spirit is ambiguous itself, friendly one moment, and then dangerous when its head is cut off. Warriors want to keep the head as a trophy, so they're stirring up trouble for everyone. There are the metal workers who are doing their own thing but inadvertently creating demons when animals get shot.  Sometimes.  Depending on the species of animal which is infected with the bullet. I think.  Then you have the boar people who are fighting everybody and trying to protect the forest.. And the princess and the wolves, who are really aloof and not on anybody's side.  And then there's Ashitaka, who is mixed up with all of them and has the demon infection himself and wants to find a cure. And we have to hurry up and reunite the forest spirit with its severed head, or we're all doomed.Get all that?  Lovely artwork from the characters to the landscape to the action... Breathtaking scenery and mysticism, but a little too muddled to come off triumphant.  This film would be excellent if it were more explanatory, or just had its plot streamlined a bit.  Anime fans may get it, but I think the average American viewer will be up the creek without a paddle.  Or maybe on the shore WITH a paddle.  Anyway, I'm getting dizzy just trying to sort it out.  A for effort, though..


                
I did not enjoy this the way so many people do. The boars were very repulsive.


                
1st watched 9/12/2009 – 4 out of 10 (Dir- Hayao Miyazaki): Complex and slow-moving battle between humans and the forest gods didn't really play that well to me. Maybe it has something to do with the fact that I'm not that in tune with the Japanese culture, but I just have to call things as how I see them and this animated movie by famed director Miyazaki didn't cut it for me. I think the main problem is that he didn't make us care for the characters involved and any movie that misses this part, I usually don't recommend. Miyazaki definitely winds an inventive story with unique animation and interesting demons and creatures as he usually does but the heart comes across missing. The story is about a group of humans who want to take the forest back from the animal gods who currently inhabit it and sometimes cause havoc with they turn into demons. This situation occurred early on and the prince of the story becomes infected to the point of having a curse on him that will eventually cause him to die. He's sent west to a forest area to hopefully get cured by the Deer God. He then meets up with Princess Mononoke, who is a half-human, half-wolf protector of the forest and tries to combine with her to help the cause, eventually. Battles ensue, and we do end up getting a happy ending – which we knew we'd see eventually, but two hours of the preparation for it was too much for me. I think the purpose of the story was to get us to see how we need to protect the forest, which I think we know, but the slow moving narrative ruins the purpose. So, a beautiful film again by the director but this one didn't hit home.


                
Miyazaki is truly a genius and so is Jo Hisaishi.  But in this film their ambitious intentions get in the way of what usually turns out to be a moving, inspiring and beautiful film.Mononoke Hime fails in that respect because regardless of what people say about the film's ambivalent perspective on the characters/sides it doesn't really teach us much.  It merely shows it and that doesn't provide any sort of enlightenment any more than reading a horrific episode of war atrocities of a little known faraway land in the newspaper does.  It doesn't go an to emotional level that his other films do.  It merely sits at the ferocious level (or game face) of the characters.  Which is why we can't really cheer or sympathize with any of the sides.  This leads to an indifference regarding all sides and the ending turns out to be unsatisfying as a result. I never really moved by San and Ash, the townspeople, or the Gods. Surprising since I've found other Miyazaki films one of the most moving experiences in cinema matched by only a few films.The music while the most grand of Jo's works is forgettable.  I cannot remember what the soundtrack sounds like.  In contrast, I cannot forget the music of Nausicaa or Laputa.Again the intentions of leaving something unforgettable gets in the way of what these two artists were accustomed to doing and ultimately turns out to be this film's downfall.


                
