If, like me, your heart sinks at the prospect of another pious, sanctimonious, tub-thumping eco-fable, give "Mononoke Hime" a chance all the same. It does have a distinct, and far from subtle, ecological message, of the "can't we just live together?" variety, but on the other hand it's far from clear that the answer the film suggests is "yes", and there are plenty of nuances and subtleties along the way. More to the point, there's a proper story, well-conceived and well told, there's a memorable, beautiful and violent world, credible characters and a good deal of charm.The animation is mostly very fluent and careful, though not flashy in the way we're getting used to in this CG age. ("Mononoke" uses cgi, but subtly and with restraint, so that the feel remains that of a group of traditional craftsmen under one guiding hand). Quite often one finds that there are more static elements in a tableaux than you'd expect in a Disney animated feature, but I think this is an aesthetic choice rather than a mere economy: it stylizes and formalizes, while focussing attention on the important elements in the frame. But there is occasional jerkiness, though not enough to detract seriously, and perhaps it wouldn't trouble audiences whose frame of reference isn't so western as mine - I'm not sure.Talking of the western and eastern sensibilities, the Region 2 DVD which I'm reviewing gives you a choice of English and Japanese dialogue, and though I watched the American dub first, I'd generally prefer the Japanese version, for the key roles of Ashitaka and San. Billy Crudup is appealing but too low-key, and Clare Danes strikes me as badly miscast: she sounds a bit too old, and altogether too urban to bring out the core of wildness or the steely sense of loyalty to her world. Like other reviewers, I have trouble with the Texas drawl of Billy Bob Thornton, which is just too regionally specific to match the look of the character (please understand that I'm not suggesting the cast should all have done fake Japanese accents!). On the other hand, it's pretty much a toss-up between Yuko Tanaka and Minnie Driver (who's very closely attuned to the aesthetic of the original) as Eboshi, and Gillian Anderson and Jada Pinkett Smith are just right. Still, overall you get more vividness and conviction from the original voice cast.  Oddly, the lip-sync seems more approximate in the Japanese version, perhaps a fault in the synchronization on the R2 DVD.  The subtitles unfortunately but understandably come from Neil Gaiman's adaptation of the screenplay rather than re-translating the Japanese - one's aware, for example, that Gaiman has added bits of extra, explanatory dialogue.With all that out of the way, let's concentrate on what makes the film work: it delineates a world that's at once mythological and believable, and refuses to sentimentalize or simplify (even if it occasionally allows itself to preach).  There are feuds and failures of trust not just between the humans and the animals, but within each world - and the animals seem as ready as the humans to exclude the other from their world. Indeed the conceit of the film seems to be that language, rather than being a product of distinctly human evolution, was originally shared among mammals at least, and it's as the war with the humans goes on that the animal kingdom becomes more brutish and less coherent. For all the prince's idealism and the delicate rapprochement some of the characters inch towards, one gets the impression that the logic of conflict will be hard to resist.Perhaps the most appealing and intriguing element in this world is the kodoma: the little, voiceless tree-spirits seem to be a cross-between a mushroom, a toddler and a rattle, and I defy anyone not to be captivated by them.


                
No matter what the New York Post said about it (as is recorded on many of the DVD editions of the film), this is definitely not the pinnacle of animated films, nor even of Miyazaki's own work. I really, really wanted to like this film more than I did. I am a big fan of Miyazaki and this is supposed to be his masterpiece, but I'm just not able to go that far in my own assessment of it. It was complex, and beautifully animated (as you expect from Miyazaki), but it left me a bit hollow. Part of it was the incredible violence in the film (NOT for children under 13, IMO), and part of it was hearing Billy Bob Thornton's drawl as the voice of Jigo, but a big part of my reluctance to rate this film more highly is that it felt a bit like Miyazaki was reaching for something that he had already grasped. I think he addressed almost identical themes in a much better way in Nausicaa. Princess Mononoke seemed uncharacteristically "preachy" and heavy-handed, in contrast with Miyazaki's generally subtle style. I know it's super popular and has a stellar reputation, but I just can't recommend it when there are so many other great works available from this true Artist of Anime.


                
Animals, their gods and humans clash in this fantasy adventure from famed Japanese animator Hayao Miyazaki. Consequently, nature vs humanity is a strong theme throughout Princess Mononoke, meaning that this is an animated movie with a definite message. Most of the humans, after all, are from a mining village who rape the earth, while the sympathetic people are Ashitaka, a boy who fights to bring peaceful co-existence between the opposing forces and Princess Mononoke who actively sides with the animal world and lives amongst them. It's quite clear, therefore, where the film's sympathies lie, although the ecological message is never delivered in a trite obvious manner and there are many shades of grey throughout.The tone overall is decidedly more mature than most animation and is one of the films from Studio Ghibli that goes for an older adult audience as opposed to the usual family friendly one. It's even quite violent in places, including several decapitations. But irrespective of the darker material it resembles Ghibli anime quite clearly. In any case this renowned animation studio had already released adult fare beforehand, anyone who has seen the harrowing Grave of the Fireflies will understand this. But in terms of visual artistry Princess Mononoke fits right in to the whole Ghibli cannon perfectly. In fact, this one has to be one of their greatest achievements on this front. The forest scenery is stunningly rendered and the invented creatures are consistently interesting. Of note are the wild boars, the night monkeys and the wolf god Moror but most spectacular of all is the deer-like god Shishigami - the colossal nightwalker. This latter being stalks the land in the twilight and generates a strange atmosphere and ambiance all of its own. The scenes towards the end involving it, illustrate the sheer imagination that Ghibli is famed for. The plot-line is not especially great if I am honest but it allows for the film to cover its themes successfully, while integrating them into a wonderfully rendered fantasy world. Like all Ghibli, it benefits considerably too from evolving unashamedly and organically from Japanese culture and mythology; this ensures that from a western perspective, it consistently remains unpredictable and fascinating.


                
I'm not hostile towards anime, but neither am I an anime fanatic. I enjoyed "My Neighbor Totoro", "Ghost in the Shell", and "Akira", and have suffered through Tenchi Muyo, Ranma, Final Fantasy, and others.If you like anime, it's certainly worth watching. If you're a regular movie-goer, there is something lacking. There is a lot of complexity regarding who's who which is easy to miss. There's an interesting point to the film about how anger can just take over somebody and turn them into a monster. But I found the fantasy components to be a little too silly. Various gods have various powers and relationships for little reason.Who should see this film:-- adults who like anime, or kids-- fantasy movie goers who might dip into fantasy once in a whileI'll give "Princess Mononoke" a 5 out of 10.


                
No one tells a more imaginative, original story than Hayao Miyazaki. While fantasy is a genre with limitless potential, there's still nothing like one of Miyazaki's animated fairy tales and "Princess Mononoke" is one his finest.The story follows a young warrior named Ashitaka who gets bitten and cursed by some sort of forest demon. The wound is surely fatal unless he embarks on a journey to find a cure. In his travels, he stumbles across a town of iron miners who are seemingly at war with wild animals, namely a pack of wolves and their princess, San. Ashitaka must try to play peacemaker as the forest's deer god--who both sides seek out for different reasons--might be his only means of a cure.The animation that brings a world of fantasy but also of feudal Japan to life is excellent. So many of the creatures are transparent, the large demons and gods are drawn of individual organism-like things that all move on their own while also making up a whole. The work must have taken forever. The nature backgrounds are also beautifully drawn. While most of the work and figures are in traditional anime style, the magical creatures will amaze you and the action is particularly well-directed to enhance the visual experience."Princess Mononoke" is a film for those who either have an appreciation of anime or more simply, an appreciation for imagination. Miyazaki's deer god sweeping through the land, his forest demons consuming people, Ashitaka's living scar, etc. are all things that simply inspire the imagination in everyone.While the film leaves its biggest impression as just a one-of-a-kind fairytale, there is some definite effort made to show that this battle between the humans and the wild animals is representative of man's struggle with nature. It is a fantastical dramatization of how we often upset the balance and harmony between the two. For people who have been exposed to nothing but Western film with Western ideas, this is quite a refreshing theme rooted in Buddhist philosophy and other Eastern religions, but certainly one all cultures can understand.


                
This is such a wonderful movie from the cultural viewpoint.  Unlike American attempts at morality, it raises questions for children, and adults, that show conflicts in moral issues.  For instance, the character a woman who is a destroyer of nature is a champion for women and disadvantage people. She is both good and evil.  Princess Mononoke loves nature and animals, but hates people.  Things are not simple.


                
I have read about Miyazake work and I decided to watch this movie, also because recommendation. I got entertained all the movie and thing the story and animation is great but I did not engage too much with the main characters I think they express very little also the final is like very short, think could be much better than that.


                
Attacked by a wild boar and infected by the madness that drove the boar insane, a young warrior stumbles upon a war between human villagers and intelligent wildlife in this animated drama from the imagination of Hayao Miyazaki. The film benefits from having no clear-cut villains or heroes; both the humans and the wildlife merely want to use the same territory for their own means and the project as such comes with some positive ecological messages in terms of trying to be sustainable and live in harmony. The most fascinating character is the title one though - a human raised by wolves as one of their own. Oddly enough, considering that the film is named after her, the Princess is only ever a supporting character in the proceedings. Furthermore, the film only ever lightly touches on the intriguing personal identity issues that come with being raised as something that one is not. Fortunately, the infected warrior is a curious enough character with his resilience in the face of impending death that the film still chugs along well. It is also refreshing to see an animated fantasy film that dares to show graphic carnage in order further the story-line. If not quite as dark and impressively nightmarish as 'Watership Down', this Japanese offering certainly comes close to it. In short, this is a relatively engrossing tale if not nearly the best thing that Miyazaki has ever done.


                
On a journey to find the cure for a Tatarigami's curse, Ashitaka finds himself in the middle of a war between the forest gods and Tatara, a mining colony. In this quest he also meets San, the Mononoke Hime.While Americans rarely see much for cartoons beyond the world of Walt Disney (or perhaps Don Bluth), we can thank fantasy author Neil Gaiman for getting this Japanese film properly released in the states. Between "Princess Mononoke" and "Spirited Away", there is much to be seen in the way of Japanese animation beyond the omnipresent anime.Roger Ebert of the Chicago Sun-Times called Princess Mononoke "a great achievement and a wonderful experience, and one of the best films of the year." He is not alone in that sentiment. Almost twenty years later, the film has not decreased in its critical praise.


                
"Mononoke-hime" is a movie which has to do with a quest of Ashitaka who tries to find the medicine for Tatarigami's curse, and in his effort he finds himself in a war between the forest gods and Tatara which is a mining colony. In his journey finds also the Mononoke Hime.I liked this movie because for one more time Hayao Miyazaki did a great job in the direction of it and as we can see in the movie his contribution is very big. And I believe that the success of this movie is a result of the Hayao Miyazaki's direction.Finally I have to tell you that I liked this movie very much as I also liked the other movies of Hayao Miyazaki such "Spirited Away", "My Neighbor Totoro" and "Howl's Moving Castle". If you liked this kind of movies then you have to see this movie.


                
An eyepopping piece of animation, with a unique story.This anime does not confuse, or leave the viewer bored.  There are always interesting characters to run into such as the small tree spirits, or the gigantic forest creatures.The message at the end is a bit preachy, but the idea and concept of living in harmony with nature is told well.  The story even makes it more interesting when they parable the infighting with some of the other forest creatures as to how they should deal with the encroaching humans.Not the best anime I have ever seen, but CERTAINLY not the worst.Rating 7 out of 10


                
This is truly one of the best anime movies to come over to America and I have seen my fair share of them. It is a very intense storyline. It is odd obviously seeing how it is anime and if you seen anime you know the story lines are strange but this one is not so crazy.On a journey to find the cure for a Tatarigami's curse, Ashitaka finds himself in the middle of a war between the forest gods and Tatara, a mining colony. In this quest he also meets San, the Mononoke Hime He soon sees hes stuck between sides.This movie is really good. Like I said it is a bit strange so a lot of people will be turned off because of it but if you like anime and then you will know what to expect and you will love this movie for sure.


                
Although not among my favorite Miyazaki films, Princess Mononoke must be given high praise for what is the standard for classical animation - Miyazaki. It's story is intriguing, but perhaps the most violent of any Miyazaki film - maybe too much. Despite that, it conjures up an interesting more historically leaning movie pitting man against nature. My favorite ideas in the movie were the kodama or forest sprites living in abundance to mark the health of the natural growth of plants, flowers, and animals as well as the kami-shika (deer god). Both were fantastically creative. The characters in the movie were fairly well done and the lack of romance was appealing. Perhaps more than other Miyazaki movies the hues of green in this movie jump out of the screen in colors as striking as any Miyazaki film. What I found a bit lacking (only in comparison) was some of the wonder and fantasy in other Miyazaki films which carry them to truly magical heights. Nonetheless, Mononoke-hime is a violent cautionary tale maybe meant to be so to jolt his usual audiences.
It is a story full of secrets and riddles but at the end you see a clear intention behind the story. Impressive but a little too dramatic. After all still one of the best japanese animated movies. The music is impressive and the drawings are perfect.


                
Of all films directed by Hayao Miyazaki, there is no doubt Princess Mononoke is the highest regarded by his fans. Taking place in medieval Japan, it is the story of a cursed and exiled young prince involving himself in a war between man and the spirits of nature. The iron-producing town led by the strong Lady Eboshi is pitted against a mysterious young woman running with the wolves. Other cynical players enter the conflict for their own gain.The virtues of this movie are many: A largely credible set of ambiguous characters, a grand plot wrapped in a dramatic and moving story, a stunning soundtrack by Joe Hisaishi, an ecological message, as well as Miyazaki's famous attention to detail, which contributes to main as well as back story.The movie has a serious problem, however, which prevents this reviewer from ranking it among their top Studio Ghibli. The protagonist, in sharp contrast to the rest of this movie's ambiguous world, is completely faultless. Prince Ashitaka has got to be one of the most boring characters ever encountered in storytelling. Despite all his trials, he is never more angry than required, always courageous, kind, and ready to help. This deprives the story vastly of its sophistication.It is, nevertheless, possible to interpret this as another virtue. By seeing San and Lady Eboshi as the real protagonists, you can say Ashitaka is really a metaphor for new and progressive thought, the emergence of which makes it possible to mitigate deep conflicts. But whether or not Miyazaki intended it this way, it is hard to say whether such an interpretation is shared by the fanbase. Also, the movie strongly pushes Ashitaka as the protagonist, not encouraging the alternative interpretation.Also, keep some distance from the English dub. There are two reasons. First, Neil Gaiman, writer of the dub script, obviously saw Miyazaki's own sense of humour as insufficient, and decided to add some dialogue jokes on his own where the animation allows it - rather poor jokes. Second, Claire Danes' rendition of San is a painful experience. She makes the brave warrior princess sound like a whiny teenage girl, so much like those familiar to readers of Robert Jordan. Billy Crudup is not really helping either - his temperless voice adds to Ashitaka's infuriating lack of character.In short: Whether this is a good or a great movie really depends on your interpretation. And try to get a subtitled version.


                
Recap: Suddenly a great monster leaps out of the forest attacking the village. Ashitaka, with a steady hand on his bow, slays the monster but is at the same time stricken by its curse. He must leave his village and travel far to find the Deer God, deep in his forests, and hope that the Deer God will save him. Once there, he finds that humans and animal gods are fighting. Humans are destroying the forests in the process of gathering iron and the animals are fighting back. In the lead is the wolf Moro, her two cubs and Mononoke, a girl raised by the wolves. Ashitaka finds himself in the middle, and also find himself attracted to Mononoke.Comments: Rather good actually. The tempo in the movie is not high, but not so slow either that you get bored, a problem I find with a lot of other animés. I also liked the story, as it really had a beginning, a comprehendible and motivated plot, and an end. But it still is an animé where the scenery takes much space and focus in the movie. Small creatures that have really no place in the story comes and goes. But they never gets overhand over the actual story and just enhances it with some cute mystery. There evidently also is an idea with the story, a message but I will not comment further on it. So I haven't very much more to say actually as the movie to me was quite average. Pretty good, but not spectacular.7/10
I admit I liked this film and thought the animation was very good, but what's with all the hype???  I have read so many reviews saying how incredible this film is and quite frankly, it's just pretty good.  I actually thought it was quite boring in parts. Am I missing something??  As far as animated films go, Heavy Metal is the best!!!


                
It was a meaningful movie. Although it was made in anime form, but the messages were still well-delivered. It was a movie about the equality values in city lives and jungle lives. It was a movie that made us ponder about our way of treating the wild animals. Human usually consider themselves higher and more developed than any other animal, but that isn't the alternate truth. Animals have developed the same society as us, but it is not yet discovered. We should stop putting us on the top of animal chain but learn to accept and to love all us equally. I loved the main girl, she's really brave and wise. after all it was great.


                
In feudal Japan, Ashitaka protects his village and kills an attacking demon boar. Part of the curse infects his arm. Village elder tells him to travel west to find a cure and encounters a monk who tells him about the great forest spirit. In Irontown, he finds leader Lady Eboshi who freed girls from the brothels and trying to perfect her guns. She is cutting down the forest and killing its animals. Her holy grail is to cut off the head of the forest spirit. She is opposed by animals of the forest and Princess Mononoke who was raised by wolves.I really like the spirits of the forest. I wonder if the movie needs a true villain. Lady Eboshi is more of a Captain Ahab character. The conflict doesn't have the same punch. The other main problem is the clunky dubbed dialog. It really takes work to make the dialog sound natural and not just simple translations. Overall, this has some great imaginative concepts and spirits. This is a special animated movie.


                
I almost gave up on this movie , 45 minutes into it. But, I am glad I didn't because this movie pays dividends!So, the start is very interesting.. but too complex and it hits you with tons of information to inform you of the world on the screen. The spirits, the different people , the leaders, and tribes and ..Then, as the story unravels, it grips you to the screen!! It becomes amazing!Still, this isn't exactly my cup of tea. What I would like to see, is some more romance and tension and interaction between Ashitaka and San.All in all, slightly under my expectations, but I could definitely sense the magical moments of this movie.Maybe I have just seen too much and have grown out of it. (Warcraft 3 story has lots of the elements of this movie, and I am kinda allergic to seeing the same ideas and twists over again)Also watchability could be a bit higher and the graphics could be a bit better.Real rating: 7.3
The story was well built, i felt like it had a good purpose. It was about strength, peace, war and love for other creatures and as well hate. The main character has a goal and a journey in front of him and we get to witness the obstacles he faces throughout the path. The main character is a brave and honest young man, who is struggling to keep his strength up most of the time, but is burden by his curse. As we progress further in to the movie you come to realize the rivalry between the different kinds of races we witness, they just won't get along. But still this movie had these moment of greatness were you felt an big urge to pay even more attention to it and you forget how uncomfortable you lie in your bed. There are a few fight scenes that i thought were very well done, it was these sound effects other than the usual that made it spark a bit (not literally) and the fight were not too long or made you bored in any way. The music had a bit classic feeling, or kind of typical music in movies made by Asians, don't get me wrong i loved it, they made the music match well in to the movie. Of all the anime/Manga iv watched one thing always catch my interest is that the animation and sound effects is always astonishing, in one way i really can't explain so good, the voices don't fit it but it still works well, I'm not sure why. I usually don't watch anime/Manga but my friend made me watch this movie, i don't dislike anime its just that in most cases it isn't something that interests me.


                
If you can look beyond the hype, this film is fascinating and radically different from its U.S. competition.  It's an odd rambling adventure, and contains a good deal of violence that makes it too strong for very young viewers.  I would recommend it for middle-school children, but for adults its chief charm is its unpredictability.What happens in this film is never what you might expect.  Standard Hollywood ideas of story development, in which bad behaviour brings about its own punishment and difficulties are valuable learning experiences, are largely ignored and the film does not end with all problems resolved. Most of the characters are not at all complex, however, and, with a few key exceptions, are relatively standard for contemporary Japanimation (anime.) There is nothing that could really be described as character development, there isn't really much of a plot, and the story just sort of ambles along to a puzzling ending.Other reviewers have encapsulated the story.  Prince Ashitaka is the beautiful, stern young protagonist standard for anime.  He rides a red elk and contradictorily fights with the power of hate, which provides the movie with some wholly unnecessary additional violence.  Princess Mononoke is the pretty teenage heroine likewise standard for anime.  She has been raised by wolves and consequently wears a fur stole (er - wolf fur?) and white jewelry.  The most interesting characters are the rascally monk/imperial agent Jigo, and Lady Eboshi.  Why does the emporer support Lady Eboshi in creating Irontown?  Why is she building up a powerbase?  Does she form a society of lepers and former prostitutes for humanitarian reasons, or for their loyalty?These and many other questions are never resolved, which adds some intrigue to the story.  However even the theme of the film, that humanity is out of touch with nature, is handled in a vague and contradictory way.  Are the humans supposed to embrace nature by putting on warpaint and riding wolves, or just not be in the forest at all?  Just how natural ARE boars that talk and wear warpaint?  Is the willingness of the wolves to let the boars die, or the attitude of the monkeys, meant to cast an ironic light on Princess Mononoke's faith in solidarity with nature?  The film also makes vague gestures in the direction of immanence but again, nothing is very clear.None of this is necessarily BAD, but it's hard to derive an ultimate meaning from all these tantalizing puzzles.  Still, it's a lot more intriguing than anything I've ever seen from Disney.


                
The version I watched was the English dubbed.  All the actors did a fine job.  Only Billy Bob Thornton's voice was distracting because it was recognizable to me.The story's main theme is the familiar nature vs man. Actually there's a twist, nature vs woman and man.  Female characters wield a lot of power in this movie.The strength of the film is the animation.  The land was rendered lush and vibrant.  It made me pine for a planet covered in forest.  I thought the forest sprites were really cute.One oddity, the movie never explicitly states who the Princess is. Logically it must have been San but I couldn't confirm that until I visited IMDB.com.  Maybe it's just me.


                
The animation is spectacular. I especially liked the wolves and the wood sprites. The characters are well developed and no one is wholly evil. I was still on the side of the animals though. The plot is not in any way predictable and I was gripped from the start. The woods were full of all kinds of bizarre creatures and I liked the way they talked. I was a little startled by the violence but that was all part of the fun. A real masterpiece. 10/10


                
