A few years ago I would have tossed this film into a collection of movies I like to call the rubbish pile. Recently, however, I have forced myself, with great difficulty, to open my mind and look at the entire picture. Instead of focusing on one or two aspects of the movie I do not like and formulating a biased opinion based on my hasty and clouded notions, I can now decipher both the good and bad points of a given flick. Upon watching Princess Mononoke, I must say I first thought it would be very difficult to look past the animation style and see it for what it was- a dynamic film directed be the highly acclaimed Hayao Miyazaki. After about ten minutes of dwelling on the follies (and there are, in my opinion, many) of the "anime" style of art, I became enthralled with the quickly unfolding plot and the subsequently dire fate bestowed upon Ashitaka, the protagonist of the film. After Ashitaka leaves his village to search for a treatment to remedy his affliction, I no longer cared that this was an animated feature; I was on the edge of my seat, wondering what would happen next. I no longer disliked that every character had abnormally large eyes (though not over-sized to the point of utter absurdity) or that the English overdubbing was a little choppy. In fact, I even began to enjoy the accomplished yet subtle computer generated effects interspersed throughout. By the last half hour I was hooked to the screen, eagerly awaiting the conclusion I wanted so badly to end the bitter conflict of the plot. By the end, I realized that this movie carried a powerful moral with it: man's continuous tampering with nature brings about as much savagery as it does progress, as much suffering as it does good, and that a sound compromise must be struck between nature and civilization. I do not harbor any negative feelings towards those who rated this movie poorly, as I used to be one of those people. All I have to say to them is this: look at a both the visual and symbolic attributes of a movie before rating it harshly. If, after observing all these features and idiosyncrasies, you still wholeheartedly hate the film, then by all means give it a one. After all, what would the world be like if we were all did not criticize or question our surroundings?


                
This magnificent cartoon movie concerns Japanese legends , it begins when Ashikata, a prince warrior is wounded by a cursed giant boar . He attempts to encounter some way to heal incurable curse inflicted . Ashikata saddled in his red deer goes to the east, where finds the Iron Town , ruled by Lady Ebosi confronting Sam , the princess Mononoke, a human girl raised by wolves . Ashikata encounters in the middle of fighting among the forest animals : large wolves, giant boars and humans : emperor Mikado soldiers , Lady Ebosi soldiers and Shogun army . Furthermore, in the forest finds the deer god and spirits called Kodamas .This wonderful film is plenty of fantasy , adventures, drama, spectacular combats and with ecological message . The picture is narrated with sensibility and sense of wonder and quite entertaining, though isn't apt for small kids but contains graphic violence . It's a deep critical about nature exploiting and killing the forests for the encroaching civilization represented by an iron mining town that cause a damage environment . This stunning film, though a bit too long, converted the first of any kind to gross over the box office in Japan and around the world. The motion picture was splendidly realized by Hayao Miyazaki , he personally corrected or redrew more than 80,000 of the film's 144,000 animation cels . Being accompanied by sensitive music score composed by his usual musician , Joe Hisaishi. Miyazaki also directed other excellent cartoon movies as ¨Howl's moving castle¨ , ¨Chihiro¨ , ¨Porco Rosso¨ and ¨My neighbour Tororo¨ . Rating : Sensational and fantastic , it's a masterpiece cartoon movie.


                
This animated Japanese-style film follows a young boy through the forest to rid himself of a curse. The film is about Nature and humans and the gods of all things. The young boy tracks down Princess Mononoke to help him. The film is beautifully animated and enjoyable. It also has some good insights about the culture and showing the important balance (or imbalance) between humans and Nature. It has some good lessons to learn here. This is a film that can be enjoyed and sets itself above many of the other animations coming out these days. It's serious, yet it is refined; it does have a refined sense of humour in a couple of places. I recommend it.


                
"Princess Mononoke" tells the story of a young man's journey to seek a cure for a curse that will eventually transform him into a demon. When he finds what he's been looking for he also finds himself in the middle of a struggle between the forces of nature and industrialization.The story is highly interesting and artfully told in a mature manner. The mythology makes for a highly imaginative story that is nevertheless eminently accessible. I have no idea what kids would make of it but, as an adult, I found it much more satisfying than the usual animated fare from America.I originally watched the movie with the English dubbing done by Disney/Miramax. At the time, my only complaint was that Billy Bob Thornton was badly miscast. Now, having watched the film with the original Japanese dialogue, I can't see myself wanting to go back to the English version. I watched a few clips afterward and the English dialogue just seemed forced and, at the same time, too Americanized.Visually, the film is splendid. The scenery is often quite beautiful and the action is generally well animated. Musically, the film is decent but not especially remarkable.In the end, when you consider the whole package (animation, voice acting, storyline, etc...) I think that "Princess Mononoke" makes a strong case for being Miyazaki's best film, though I admit that I haven't seen all of them (yet). This is definitely a must-see and not just for fans of animation.


                
I was a little startled by Princess Mononoke. Having seen Spirited Away and Howl's Moving Castle and heard their director Miyazaki referred to as Japan's answer to Walt Disney, I wasn't expecting the considerable violence of this movie. It was appropriate for the movie certainly, but it sure startled me.But if you're not looking for a Disney flick, this is one impressive and wildly imaginative movie. Many scenes are absolutely amazing, and the last half hour is truly stunning, even though I watched it all on TV.The attitude of the movie is very interesting. This is basically technology vs. nature, but even though the film's sympathies lie more with living with nature, the technology side is not portrayed as evil but instead for the most part as good people with a different world view. The absence of black and white thinking in films is rare and always appreciated.


                
Having come to this film, knowing nothing about it, I was amazed and delighted to the feel/detail of the film. I just didn't want it to end, it was that good. Also the little white tree dudes were well cool :-) I can not remember this film enough. The time they took to draw, write, edit this is time well spent (it must of taken ages), see IT!


                
A difficult story to follow and decidedly scary animation at times makes this more an adult film than one for younger fans. It's not too hard to follow in the early going but when the hero Ashitaki makes his way East to the land of the Forest Spirit he's faced with choices that put him on questionable sides of relationships already formed. While trying to save his own life endangered by a poisonous encounter with the boar demon Nago, his overriding mission is to 'see with eyes unclouded by hate'. For this he must valiantly strive to understand the motivations and prerogatives of those he meets, including monk Jigo, Lady Eboshi of Irontown and the wolf princess San, a human raised by wolves. In turn, each of these individuals comes to understand that good and evil are not mutually exclusive character traits, but exist in all to varying degrees. The way this all plays out can be confusing and is not made easier by the depiction of characters like Moro, the large threatening white wolf who by design one would consider a male, but in actuality is the mother of San. It's an intricately woven tale and loyal fans of anime will find it spellbinding, though I must admit, for myself it took a concerted effort to follow and understand.
This movie which is one of Miyazaki's longest and most challenging anime film he's ever done. It's his first PG-13 film. While allot of his other films are PG or sometimes G. The animation and story line is very well made and planned out. I didn't see it in theaters when it came out in the US of 1999. I first heard of it at my Jr. high school, got the DVD of it later on when I learned more of Miyazkai's films. It's one of those films were at first it seem OK, but as you keep watching it it gets better every time it's viewed. Not in my personal favorites but it's definitely a fine piece of work by Miyazaki himself. I advice it to keep it away from younger viewers cause it's very violent. So it's suitable for like 13 and up.I give it 7.5/10


                
I never watch anime. But when my friend showed me this movie, I liked it. Well done Studio Ghibli


                
Princess Mononoke is a brilliant movie with a fantastic story,nothing like any movie I've seen before,the animation of the movie is also brilliant and is still today considered one of Hayao Miyazaki's (the Walt Disney of Japan) finest work.I don't know if there is an English version of this movie,but the one I was watching was only subtitled,at first I was considering changing the channel because I didn't think id be interested,but it started off so promising,and I decided the subtitles isn't a very big deal.A hunter is bitten by a demon and is now cursed.He must leave his village and find a cure,and he ends up getting involved in a war between the demons and the gods.


                
Disney has always dominated the animation market here in the States with their popular, streamlined, well-crafted series of films aimed at children with a little extra thrown in to keep the parents interested. But it's a different story in Japan, and one look at "Princess Mononoke" will show you the exact reasons why. Whatever you may think about Japanese animation (or "anime", as it's popularly known), one thing you have to understand is that it's definitely NOT aimed at children, and that the level of animation is far superior to anything the House of Mouse has ever produced. This film, which I consider one of the greatest ever made, is the story of young Prince Ashitaka. While defending his tribe from a rampaging demon, he is infected with its' venomous hate. The infection is lethal, and the only hope for Ashitaka is to leave his ancestral lands, venture into the west, see what caused the entity that attacked his people to turn into a demon, and "to see with eyes unclouded by hate". His journey takes him to Irontown, a village of miners and metalworkers, and their struggle with the Great Forest Spirit. At that point, it becomes a moral fable about how humans coexist (or more often, fail to) with the natural environment and the price that they pay for trying to control the elements of nature. It's a tremendously fast-paced and exciting story, full of strong and well-rounded characters voiced convincingly by the likes of Billy Crudup, Claire Danes, Gillian Anderson, Minnie Driver, Jada Pinkett-Smith and Billy Bob Thornton. The animation can only be described as jaw-droppingly beautiful. If you've never heard of director Miyazaki or have never seen anime, this is the place to start.
I saw Japanese cartoon Spirited Away from Studio Ghibli before this film, directed by Hayao Miyazaki, and I was fascinated to see another original animated story with the same imaginative style, dubbed into English. Basically a possessed boar tries to attack a small village, and as the one who defeated him, the creature infects young Ashitaka (Billy Crudup) with an incurable disease. The only way eh may be able to cure his curse is to travel far east and find either the deer God, who makes all plant life grow, or Princess Mononoke, aka San (Claire Danes), raised by wolf Gods and leading the forest animals in the war. Ashitaka is also trying to intervene with the war between the forest and mining colony Tataraba, as they fight for freedom and resources, with all sorts of weird and wonderful characters, creatures, spirits and Gods getting involved. Also starring Gillian Anderson as Moro, Minnie Driver as Lady Eboshi, Jada Pinkett Smith as Toki, Billy Bob Thornton as Jigo, Keith David as Okkoto and Futurama's John Di Maggio as Gonza. The story is a little strange, but bare in mind it is Japanese, but with good dubbing voices and aspiring animation, you'll enjoy the experience. It was number 21 on The 100 Greatest Cartoons, and it was number 43 on Film 4's 50 Filsm To See Before You Die. Very good!
This movie is the best at showcasing how important are some things in life. We should't do some stupid thing for money or honour. In other words we should consider what iressponsible actions can lead too. Those choices could make us pay a huge price. In case we don't value what we have. Also this movie shows us that anger is not good for trying to solve certain problems of two different groups. Anger can make us become evil demons who want to destroy others by giving up on emotion. Lastly, life is very beautiful thing which we should love and try to improve by living it the best we can.


                
'Princess Mononoke' is a beautifully animated and epic fantasy film by legendary Japanese filmmaker and animator Hayao Miyazaki.
This was the first film I got to view at the Celebrate Studio Ghibli film festival in Melbourne and I thoroughly enjoyed most aspects of this film.
The clear standout for the film is the breathtaking hand-drawn animation by Miyazaki. Everything from the painted forest, the Great Forest Spirit, and even the characters themselves are visually striking and shows that these films were well ahead of their time. There's a very good reason as to why Miyazaki is considered one of the best animators of this century.
The soundtrack by Joe Hisaishi is everything a good soundtrack should be, with epic numbers for the action sequences and then beautiful pieces for the emotional scenes.
The storyline of this film is epic and gripping, from the very first opening scene. What made it unique though, was its underlying themes of environmentalism that were quite powerful. The characters in this film were also very complex; the villains weren't really villains and the heroes weren't really heroes. Each character, even the supporting ones, had a depth in them that is absent in too many movies these days.
However, it's in the pacing where this movie fails to be a masterpiece. There are many scenes that a very drawn-out and difficult to maintain attention. With a running time over two hours, this film definitely has it's moments that seem to drag on. The main issue with these scenes is the fact that they're not particularly part of the main storyline, so there's no real need for them to be as long as they are. Fortunately, Miyazaki redeems himself with a fantastic ending that left me in awe and overall I was very pleased with this movie.


                
i usually hate anime, and anything involved in Japanese culture, but i was fascinated by this movie from the first moment. it has a feminist-naturalist theme that intrigues me and i like the ending (which i will not say here). however, there are a few things i didn't like about the film. first off, i saw it in Japanese, and like i said, i don't like the culture.however, for those of you out there who like Japanese culture, you could find this movie very wonderful. i only give it an 8 out of 10 because it is Japanese, but what i loved was that the film was also good for adults, and it talked about things that most cartoons don't talk about. usually, its anvils and TNT, but this movie moved me to the depths because of the integrity of the characters. they all seem real and even the smallest character adds something very important to the story. in short, watch this movie even if you aren't and anime fan.


                
A visceral story from the brilliant mind of Hayao Miyazaki, Princess Mononoke is a joyous ride through the eyes of Ashitaka, a brave warrior who finds himself caught in the crossfire of relentless humans and vicious creatures of the forest.Speaking of relentless, even at over 2 hours long, this film flies by with brisk pacing and gorgeous animation by Studio Ghibli. For an animation film, the runtime is unusually long, but the epic scope and beautiful storytelling transcend typical animations. One of my first thoughts while watching was how good this story could be in live- action form. Even if it's a television series, the lore calls for this to be adapted into live-action.The mythology is incredibly well-realized and thought out as well. Each of the several sides to this ongoing battle against the forest have reason for fighting. Yes, Ashitaka is the protagonist, but I wasn't necessarily rooting for any particular side to win. That's when you know the characters have plenty of depth. My only real complaint here is that sometimes the dialogue comes out a bit dull and lacks the gravitas that the very scene calls for. Of course, this may only be in the English dubbed version that I watched, or the script. Either way, the story is brilliant, but the dialogue just didn't match it.Above everything else, Princess Mononoke is a special film. It transcends the usual tropes of animated films by being a viscerally graphic war film with plenty of heart and thought provoking ideas. It's no surprise this is praised as one of Miyazaki's very best films.+So different than any animated film+Meaningful violence+Interesting mythology+All characters have depth87/100


                
Hayao Miyazaki, the animation legend who brought to you such awesome films as Howl's Moving Castle, Spirited Away, and Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind, strikes again with this eco-friendly tale about the struggle between man, animal, and god within a deep, dark Japanese forest.Prince Ashitaka (voice of Billy Crudup) of the Emishi, stricken with a curse foisted upon him by a rampaging wild boar that was possessed by a demon, heads west upon his trusty golden elk Yakul to find a cure. He's also out to possibly save his people, as the appearance of the demonic boar portends grave consequences for the village – the gods and demons are reclaiming the forest.Ashitaka attempts to buy some food in a neighboring town with a gold nugget, but the shopkeepers do not quite believe that the nugget is a valid form of currency. Our fair prince is saved from further embarrassment by a monk named Jigo (Billy Bob Thornton), who offers his assistance to Ashitaka. Ashitaka learns from Jigo of a town called (in the English version, anyway) Iron Town, since they mine iron. Jigo also mentions that the forest gods still dwell around Iron Town, a fact that is certainly not lost on Ashitaka. He heads out the next morning.Meanwhile, a long column of men and oxen, carrying rice back to Iron Town to feed the denizens, is attacked by two giant wolves – one of whom bears a masked girl. Leading the men is Lady Eboshi (Minnie Driver), who orders her men to fire their brand-new muskets at the wolves. The wolves are driven off, but their mama, named Moro (Gillian Anderson) soon arrives and lays everyone to waste. Half of Lady Eboshi's men fall off the mountainside.Further down the mountain, Ashitaka hears the battle above and comes across two men in the river. He pulls them out (one unconscious, the other with a broken arm) and carries them both through the ancient forest to Iron Town. On the way to Iron Town, Ashitaka encounters the wolves and the girl by the river side. The girl is San, the Princess Mononoke, i.e., the Angry Princess. Why is she so angry? Because Lady Eboshi has been killing all of the animals, which has been causing the forest to fall into disrepair and has angered the forest gods. She kind of has good reason to be mad.The reception at Iron Town is mixed, as many distrust the newcomer Ashitaka. Ashitaka learns that everyone in the village helps mine the iron, with the women operating the mighty bellows themselves. Lady Eboshi also explains that San really has it in for her (because of the forest damage Eboshi's caused) and that when the Forest Spirit himself is dead, San will become human (although to the viewer she looks perfectly human as it is). San, raised by wolves, is not on board with this eventuality.All of which leads to everyone fighting everyone, with mass destruction guaranteed. Iron Town is under siege by Lord Asano and his samurai, who wish to control the iron ore. The Iron Town citizens are left to defend themselves against Asano while Eboshi and Jigo the monk seek out the Forest Spirit; Jigo has a letter from the Emperor himself that guarantees a large sum of money if Jigo can bring the Forest Spirit's head to the Emperor (who believes it will grant him immortality). Then there are an entire tribe of huge wild boars who want to avenge the death of one of their own – the boar that wound up cursing Ashitaka to kick all of this off – as well taken on the humans for being humans. Oh, and apes who also want to kill the humans, particularly Ashitaka, whom they want to eat so they can gain his strength.There's plenty of action, in other words. In fact, the violence is a bit more explicit than you might expect in an animated film. When Ashitaka is first dealing with his curse, he fires an arrow at a soldier who is attacking him; the arrow cuts the man's arm clean off. Ashitaka doesn't know his own strength, it would seem. There's also a fair amount of blood, and a couple of particularly icky scenes: one in which San removes a bullet from Moro by sucking out the blood and spitting it out and another in which San helps Ashitaka eat by first chewing beef jerky and then passing it to him by mouth (he's very weak, you see). I understand, but eww.Princess Mononoke has plenty of strong-willed characters, and many of them are female: San, Lady Eboshi, and Moro, plus Ashitaka and Jigo. The Forest Spirit is a wonder to behold, too, appearing to be part human, part ape, part deer, and probably parts of lots of other animals as well. And the visuals are about what I expected from the maestro Miyazaki, although I think they weren't quite as well developed as they were in some of his other works, like the earlier Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind. And it's also possible that there are just too many characters and plot lines and conflicts in Princess Mononoke to easily track. But overall, this is an unquestionable triumph of animation.


                
To mister taz1004,After reading your review called Highly-Overrated about the movie called Princess Monoke, I can't stop but say that how wrong you are about this movie. "Princess Monoke" has been one of the best animated movie created by Hayao Miyazaki with a strong message about the relationship between human and our earth. At first I too thought this movie would be like the other Miyazaki movies(Totoro and Ponyo) but these movies were base more on child-viewers unlike Princess Monoke which was base more on adult- viewers as this movie was intended to inform the grown-ups about the environmental issue of our earth through the director's creative way of showing it through the movie's incredible story. And if you check the rating's for this movie itself on IMDb, it has been rated PG-13; contains strong images of violence. So, obviously it seems like it was your own fault for showing this movie to your children without checking the content ratings for this movie and than you blame the movie by giving a bad review of being full with violence.If you really love Miyazaki as you said in the beginning, you must know that his animated movies are not like the Disney or Pixar animations. His movies are more mature and have more depth than a Pixar or Disney movies. I think you maybe confused between the Japanese way of animating and the more popular animations like Disney or Pixar, as they are solely different methods and different objectives. So I would recommend that next time before you show your kids any movies be sure to check the ratings and have more awareness about Hayao Miyazaki's work before stating bold statement against his movie.


                
I've only seen a few of the director's films, but the ones I have (Spirited Away, The Wind Rises, My Neighbor Totoro, and now this) i have enjoyed immensely. They all have a certain sensitive demeanor and tone, a very carefully realized world in each one. As it is, it's always a pleasure to get lost within those worlds no matter the circumstances. Here, I saw this one in an English dubbing but it was pretty great. The voices really lend something to the proceedings that is not that easy to really get at by reading subtitles, even though that is always the preferred method. Overall, this may not be in the level of Spirited Away but it remains an intriguing, fantastical journey of really coming into one's own.


                
Hayao Miyazaki is a legendary name in the genre of anime film- making. What sets his films apart from the rest is the fact that although his films may be animated which is generally considered to be a cinematic medium directed towards kids, but he makes his films profound enough for adults to enjoy too. The kids will find the vibrancy of the visuals enjoyable while the adults will get enough thematic and allegorical depth. Princess Mononoke is no different.Miyazaki deals with the age-old relationship between human beings and nature. The movie I believe is set in Japanese Civil War era. Miyazaki beautifully uses the fantasy-like storyline to promote the messages of tolerance, coexistence and unity and the denouncement of hatred. Man and nature have the right to exist together without any harm coming to either. The script does get a bit too preachy at times, but the visual subtlety and beauty of the film overwhelms the minor issues with the script. The film could have been a little shorter. The film ends beautifully with optimism and with a hope for a new beginning. I had minor reservations with the script, but nevertheless the mastery of Miyazaki's film-making is visible throughout the film and Princess Mononoke is must watch for everyone irrespective of your feelings towards the genre of anime.


                
This is absolutely my 2nd favorite Miyazaki film, the first being Spirited Away. It's definitely one of the more adult animes I've ever seen, and I'm a huge fan of those. I love animes with dark and gritty themes that explore the realms of fantasy, which this film has covered.When a prince from a village is infected with a curse by a demon, he must travel to the West to find a cure, only to find a war being waged between the Gods of the forest/San, the wolf woman of the forest, and the mining town of Irontown, led by Lady Eboshi.Although the themes are centered around the environment, it doesn't include the typical "man is evil" message from every other Dances with Wolves or Pocahontas film. Lady Eboshi is likable and reasonable. San is strong willed and protective of the forest, but she has her own faults as well. It's simply about getting over differences when both sides are at fault. It's more about controlling hate and willing to compromise to keep the peace. Even though some of the dialogue kind of forces it in your face, it's still a natural feeling in the end.The animation is fantastic. The lighting and colors are elegant, and the camera angles on certain scenes is stunning. The animation in Miyazaki's films have stylistically evolved over the course of his career, and it shows.The film has a strong emphasis on fantasy. Although it takes itself very realistically and adult, the forest elements involving spirits are not only beautiful, but very powerfully introduced and used. With that said, the fighting scenes are incredibly realistic and entertaining to no end, mostly because of the amazing animation that goes with it.The story is told very quickly, sidestepping when necessary and getting right down to things, which is what I love about it. It doesn't drag, it's long, but very entertaining. There's no bs in this film whatsoever.It's a must see, there's nothing else to say. I recommend the dubbed version for Billy Bob Thorton's voice, it's irresistible. It's not as good as Spirited Away, but it's right there, one of the best animated films of all time.


                
Princess Mononoke, like most of Studio Ghibli's output, has a Japanese sensibility which is quite alien to a western audience which has grown up on Disney and Looney Tunes. The story hardly matters - the striking visuals rule.The story is perfectly fine, though: its vague ecological message survives the other-wordly weirdness of demons, forest gods, and warring factions kept apart by a pair of unlikely peace brokers.But it looks terrific - character design, backgrounds and animation are all first rate. And its weirdness is part of its appeal. There's no guarantee that you will enjoy it but, if you give it a chance, there is a lot to enjoy here.
I've watched this film recently for the first time and I immediately loved the film. This film aired in 2005 or 2006 on Cartoon Network and one of my sisters recommend I don't watch since it was very violent and gory. It wasn't until this year when I felt ready to see it since I've seen plenty of R-rated films.There are many things I liked about the film such as; the idea of the main protagonist being a male rather than the same old signature female in most of Miyazaki's films, this film appears to be about a war but a war where humans and mystical animals fight each other. The second protagonist is San and I've heard that the character, Nausicaa from "Nausicaa of the Valley of the Wind" was a precursor for this character.San is similar to Nausicca except she was raised by Wolves and she hates humans despite being one herself. My two favorite scenes is when Ashitaka stops a demon-cursed boar form destroying his village, and when Kiya gives Ashitaka her crystal dagger when he is banished from his village.Overall the film has a very good story and a message that people can understand and relate to.
I would never believe any animation would surpass the magic of one of Walt Disney's earlier works. Animations that involved years of hard labour and revolutionised family entertainment. In all honesty, Princess Mononoke could hardly hold a candle to something such as Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs. However, the lone fact that it even comes within a mile of that is justification for that failing.For Princess Mononoke is truly a masterpiece, a masterpiece of story, subtlety, and movement that is only superseded by few other films from the studio. It has a dilemma in a way, for it is not very suitable for children, whilst adults will probably be put off by the slightly surreal tale. However, stereotypes such as that can't explain why it was so popular in the first place. The story that depicts the struggle between humankind and nature masks what is really a love story of prince Ashitaka and the Mononoke-Hime of the wolf tribe. The alternation between these two arcs is superbly pitched, and adds depth to the otherwise fairly simple tale.Of course, despite how well paced and emotional the story is it's the animation people would be most interested in. In a generation where animated characters are typified by stiff, unconvincing movement, princess Mononoke is ultimately refreshing. Due in part to director Miyazaki's insistence on hand-drawn animation, and the obvious work that's been put into bringing every scene to life. It superbly captures the atmosphere of it's several locations, populating screens with noise and movement. The excellent use of animation and sound gives objects weight and realistic movements. The characters are expressive and filled with life. It truly is a sight to behold.In terms of English voice talent, Princess Mononoke is typically short of it. Whilst the majority of the actors' performances are adequate. The worst of all is probably Ashitaka (Billy Caldup's) half-hearted performance. The Japanese voicing is a lot better, and yet the subtitles aren't well translated enough. One thing to try is to watch the movie in Japanese without subtitles, and thus see how much you can discern simply from watching the films alone. Princess Mononoke is a stunning animation in it's own right, and simply one of the best movies I'd ever watched. I'd recommend it, but be wary that it isn't the kind of film to sink well with everyone.8/10 Exceptional


                
Princess Mononoke is another fantastic, magical and profound piece of work of Hayao Miyazaki.It takes you into a mystical world of Forest Spirits, ancient gods and despotic humans. In the land around a mystical forest different tribes of humans combat each other in greed for land and resource. A tyrannic lady doesn't even shy away from destroying the old forest with its ancient gods and forest spirits with fire arms. A young prince tries to interfere and reconcile the tribes. He wishes that animals and humans can live together alongside. But the war has already developed its momentum.Princess Mononoke is about the ancient conflict between humans and nature. Miyazaki embeds this story in a wonderful scenery, with all kinds of weird and mystical creatures. But in contrast to other Miyazaki-films is the style of Princess-Mononoke not that childish, the creatures and battles might be too scary and violent for under-13-year-olds, even though it's still animation.But the maturity of the film does good.Especially in the first halt of the movie, Miyazaki once again delights us with beautiful pictures of a magical scenery and a great soundtrack.First, Miyazaki shows us a beautiful and unspoiled forest and then we witness how human greed tries to destroy it. The presentation of such elementary contrasts works very good.The main advantage of every Miyazaki film is, as it is also in Princess Mononoke, the ravishment of the spectator into a wonderful and visually overwhelming fantasy world, but exactly here lies a flaw of the movie. The coexistence of the ordinary villages and the mystical forest seems a little bit overdone at times. Particularly the role of gods and demons and their transformation into each other comes across a bit too confused and fantastic. Miyazaki concentrates too much on a spectacular as possible finale, so that the film totally looses its magically calm atmosphere in the end.But anyway, Princess Mononoke impresses with beautifully breathtaking pictures an imaginative story and a great soundtrack.


                
