It can hook you immediately, everything seems fitting , the setting , the acting , the direction. Just as it should be. Bringing out the perfect blend of 1980s nostalgia. It gives mixture of taste of big 80's movies.You immediately get hooked with the story , which is amazing because it takes time for me to get invested in a story. I have been a fan of David Harbour Since the Newsroom , and he is just amazing. You're scared , Intrigued , you're completely invested. With perfect setting.I am really looking forward to where this goes from here on in.


                
With its amazing 80s atmosphere and creepy X-files meets E.T feel this show is set to impress. Within its first 8 minutes of run time I could tell I had found something special here in Stranger Things. Its intriguing story gives information at a great pace and I never felt myself getting confused of bored and there were enough twists or turns to keep me interested. This also had some rather great horror sequences and their use of lights flickering while yes a common trope fit so well in to the story I was on the edge of my seat every time the crackle of electricity shot through my speakers and the lights flickered. The characters of the show are the true stars here, I loved every single one of them. They were all great with amazingly interesting flaws and the way they mix and clash with one another was fun to see unfold. They certainly help to carry this show although I would say that the government antagonists of the show felt a little flat and under developed and not nearly as memorable. Production values are also quite good with some beautiful cinematography, editing, lighting and sound. My goodness I loved their music choices. I would say that the CGI does look a little obvious and from time to time I did notice some issues where the scenes didn't look quite up to scratch. I do think however I've been spoiled for visual quality since Game of Thrones so I would take that criticism with a grain of salt because it certainly didn't detract from the overall experience. The setting and style of everything in the locations where also great to see and felt real and interesting. The way everything was shot also captures every moment expertly and really helps to draw out those story moments with greater emotion. Stranger Things is one of those special shows that I stumbled across and after the opening I knew I was hooked. Its exciting dark tale is expertly woven through its 8 episode run time and I know I will be back to re-watch this one. The ending is fairly well rapped up with a few loose story threads left hanging, with a promise for potential follow on seasons but the story is quite satisfyingly rapped up by the end. Memorable, exciting, dark and haunting Netflix knocks Stranger Things out of the park, 10/10.


                
Stranger Things is the newest foray into Netflix's original programming, of which brings us their most impressive- and strange- production to date. When a young boy named Will Byers goes missing, his friends, mother and the town are thrust into a conspiracy involving a mysterious girl named Eleven and something even more sinister hiding in the woods of Hawkins, Indiana.From the get-go, you can tell this is an homage to classic '80s Spielberg, drawing on E.T. and Close Encounters, as well as JJ Abrams' Super 8. But, as the show progresses, it becomes more and more like a twisted Stephen King story set in a Spielberg movie. It becomes a dark and twisted ride into an even darker and more disturbing world where the stakes feel higher than anything before it.I can't go into great detail because spoiling even just a bit of the story takes away from the greater mystery, but I can say, it's one of the most thrilling and intense series to be on TV, without being on TV. If it were to continue, they have to pull the same punches they did with the first season, because they took a great many clichés, and somehow made them fresh and surprising, save for just a couple that they purposefully left cliché.


                
I've been trying to put my reaction to this series into cohesive sentences - even cohesive thoughts - and I just can't seem to do it. "Stranger Things" blended the best parts of some of the great 80's sci-fi films from "E.T." to "Poltergeist" to "The Goonies" to my all time favorite, "Close Encounters of the Third Kind." It was simply brilliant, and brings you back to a time when you were still able to feel a sense of wonder.Though there are plenty of thrilling moments, this film does not rely on heavy CGI or jump-scares. It focuses on relationships between parents and children, best friends, and even a touch of romance. It takes you on a journey from a parent's worst nightmare to the resilience of those who rely on friends and cling to hope.Also - you'll never look at Christmas lights the same way again.


                
ATTENTION TO ALL OF YOU WHO LIVED YOU'RE YOUTH IN YEARS 80, liked movies like Goonies, Portergeist, The Evil Dead, The Thing, Alien(s), Star Wars, ET, Clouse Encounters of the Third Degree, Indiana Jones, It - Stephen King, Lord of the Rings (ok, this is newer, but the books are older and the references are all there) and so many other fantastic and unbeatable classics of that magic decade. I have to say: Watch THIS, STRANGER THINGS! Oh really. Watch it. But watch accordingly: at night, turn off your mobile, whats-app, Facebook, Instagram, blah blah blah, watch as you should watch every movie, with immersion, transport yourself into the adventure, and I assure you, you will remember how it used to be, when going to the movies itself was already an adventure. You will be transported to the 80's. Cool characters, family dramas, pure and sincere friendships among nerd, intelligent, and excluded children, teenage's dramas, music and soundtrack of the 80s, in every detail, from the suspense in songs of each scene, the opening song and title of the series, the soundtrack, the references/homage to the 80's is very strong, very clear. I loved it. For me, it is among the 2 best series I've seen in the last 10 years, with only Game of Thrones at the same level. I cannot think of any other that has given me so much pleasure to watch, which has given me the desire to watch again, and again, and again. No, not even Breaking Bad, Marvel's Daredevil, The Walking Dead, The Expanse (unknown by many, but i liked), NCIS, etc. I'm looking here at the list of series that I follow (around 50), and none is equal to the entertainment provided by this. Congratulations to the Duffer brothers. The series is amazing. Worth every minute.


                
Just watched the first chapter last night. Everything about it is great, the actors, the writing, the fact that it takes place in the FREAKING 80s (YES!) and all the music. The theme music is completely on point...very John Carpenter-ish with heavy synthesizer sounds that are very menacing. Watch this show, tell your friends to watch. It feels very Stephen King/Steven Spielberg..with some X-Files mixed in. I have never seen the kid actors before but they were all so good. Their on screen chemistry reminded me of the group of friends from The Explorers, Stand By Me or The Goonies but it's definitely not lighthearted or a comedy at all. It's always a good sign that a show is going to be good when you are completely sucked in within the first couple minutes. 10 out of 10 so far.<U+FEFF>


                
This is one of the most magical things I have ever had the fortune of viewing. I won't go into details about the narrative, which is build on classic sci-fi and horror concepts and it works. But what really makes this show excel is the little things. The casting is amazing - every single character, regardless of how small the part is, feels like a complete character, and the main cast delivers some powerful stuff all throughout the series. The production is spot on in it's portrayal of a small town in the 80's, and I have to assume that it is in part based on the creators own experiences and childhood, because everything feels real.The only thing that bothered me throughout the entire show was the incompetence of the government entities. I know and understand that this is a popular portrayal of the government in these types of stories and especially in the US is this a common sentiment. But it simply didn't seem believable that they would make some of the choices they did. Doesn't take a genius to see that they are doing a crummy job. But this is all in all a negligible detail, as it keeps the story moving.


                
Netflix does it again! I'll admit, I was excited for this show just based on the genre it was listed as being in and so far it has not disappointed. With the exception of a few of the adults most of the cast was unknown to me which only adds to the level of immersion the show can reach. The two performers I was familiar with, Winona Ryder and David Harbour are both magnificent. A few things about Stranger Things are extraordinary and could only be done by Netflix. One, this show is suspenseful and engaging so waiting for a week to see the next episode would change the entire dynamic and would really be a bummer, Stranger Things must be binged! Second, the creators of this series are, like the young actors, unknown to me. Matt and Ross Duffer. Brothers that through conventional methods may not have had the opportunity to bring this show to life, get that opportunity from Netflix. In the past few years television has changed wildly. If you were a writer or actor five years ago you would much rather be a movie star than a television star, those distinctions have all but vanished. This change was brought on by many factors but I'd like to take this opportunity to applaud Netflix for their role. It is no coincidence that they started doing their own programming right around the same time these changes began. Bravo and please start filming season two of Stranger Things ASAP!


                
REVIEW - STRANGER THINGS Originally I didn't watch the first season as it was marketed as a kids program but I'm sitting here now binge watching the first season and this children's TV program literally outshines all others. A true masterpiece of story telling and the acting is the best I have ever seen. Amazingly gripping on all fronts. If there is one thing you do this Halloween then you must watch Stranger Things Rating 10 out of 10


                
The plot, the characters, the actors, the music... everything in this TV show is amazing. This is one of those series that you know will develop a sort of like cult following because of how well thought out it is and entertaining. I was so involved emotionally with the characters in a way that I have never been.This will be one of Netflix's most precious jewels. Strangers Things can be best described as fusion television at its best. You have intensive consuming drama, nail- biting thrills, terror and just the right touch of action for what decisively makes for a ten-star TV series.The talent of the writers is matched by the actors. Great job all around on the election process for this great team.


                
I have seen a lot of new shows make their debut on network TV, Premium Cable, and of course streaming services like Amazon and Netflix. But this... Phenomenal show, imo best new show of 2016. The whole cast is excellent but Winona Ryder as Joyce Byers deserves Emmy Award consideration next year. Her being a Hollywood actress i expected great but this was masterclass character work. Winona has had some exception performances over two decades but this was one of the best of her career, maybe top 5 in her career. Also the performance from child actress Millie Brown as El aka Eleven is also amazing and is the 2nd best performance behind Ryder. This isn't the first show of this current generation to try and capture a artistic, creepy, and psychological noir style of an 80's film vibe... but unlike the others it nailed it perfectly. The first season is literally flawless in all phases ( only the snarkiest of reviewers and critics will find something to nitpick ). This is a must watch for everyone. Season 1 was only 2nd to Person Of Interest's 5th and final season on my "Best season of any show this year" List.


                
This is some of the best TV I've seen for quite some time. I would say it's more like a Steven King story rather then a Steven Spielberg movie. It's a great mix of the paranormal and sci-fi and as a fan of this kind of genre I had an idea by halfway through the series what was going on. Many of the principal characters are kids but kids stuff it certainly is not. All of the young cast are good but I think Millie Bobby Brown as Eleven really steals the show like Ellie Fanning in Super 8. I'd have to say that the sinister government agency responsible for all distress brought to the Hawkins community were rather sloppy and in reality they would have found the girl (Eleven) a lot sooner. I have a feeling we have not seen the last of her. We know that Sheriff Hooper made some kind of deal with the government agents but it's not clear at this point exactly what it was. It does have a satisfactory ending but with enough loose ends for a further season. Hopefully there is enough interest in this show for a DVD release at some point. Most of the reviews (mine included) have been generally favorable and I do hope that it will have enough of an audience worldwide to give the go ahead for a series two and I also hope that we don't have to wait an entire year for it but more then likely we will.
I like EVERYTHING about this show. Acting is great, character development, story, attention to details, pace. A mix of the best classics from Spielberg, King and Shyamalan. Being a kid of the 80s, I really enjoyed all the details, the score, the fonts, the obvious reference to classic films and music from that era. Creature CGI could have been better, but won't complain because the overall quality of this show is well over average.The only downside is that I've already went through all 8 episodes... It truly felt like an 8 hour movie, but I never got bored.Man I hope they make a second season.


                
E.T., Harry Potter, these are the stories that perfectly capture the essence of being kids on an epic adventure. With Stranger Things, there can now be a third story added to that short but illustrious list. You root for these kids, who are not the rude cookie-cutter kids so prevalent in movies today. They are smart and kind and I was with them every step of the way; and the adult cast was every bit as compelling. The story is suspenseful and even a little scary at times, but it is also laugh-out-loud funny. This charming series runs the gamut of emotions, delivering chills, heartbreaking moments, an incredible buddy story, adventure, terrific humor, and lots of twists and turns. These are eight episodes of perfection, as far as I am concerned, and I can't wait to see where this series goes! My only regret is that I watched them all and can never watch it, for the first time, again.


                
Thank you Netflix! Stranger Things to me is a masterpiece in so many ways. The directing, the acting, the setting, the feeling is spot on. All acting is above par with a roller-coaster of emotions mixed with drama, suspense, comedy and the overall mixture of the characters works well. Bringing the audience back to the 80's is an understatement, they do it perfect and it feels good. The ET/Goonies/X-Files environment this show carries to the audience is a total win. It makes me feel very special to watch a show of this high caliber. Oh yeah.. Excellent soundtrack for sure! 10 out of 10 and it deserves much more!I very much hope more seasons will be released, as I assume there will be. It is going to be very hard patiently waiting for more.


                
I have been a TV show buff for a long time, but i've always been too lazy to write any reviews. As good as some of the stuff i've seen over the years was (e.g. Game of Thrones, Breaking Bad, House of Cards, Firefly, Sopranos, etc.), nothing has ever compelled me to get off my idle butt and actually put into words how i feel about it. Well, at least until now. Because finally there is a something that is so absolutely, mindblowingly good, that it feels like i don't really have a choice but to try and tell the world about it.This show is something special. The storytelling, the cinematography, the acting (including the child actors), the pacing, the music, the 80's nostalgia and pop-culture references, even something as trivial as the opening credits and title screen... everything about this show screams perfection. I'm curious what Netflix will throw at us next. I don't expect they will be able to maintain this level of quality with their future productions, but even coming close to it every now and then would probably put them ahead of the competition, including HBO.In summary, i think Stranger Things is a masterpiece and pretty much the best TV production i've ever seen. If it was a movie, it would rank among my top 5 movies of all time, that's how good it is. If you haven't seen it yet, you owe it to yourself to watch it ASAP. You won't regret it :)


                
If anything, Stranger Things is now on my list of one of my most favorite shows of all time. It has drama, comedy, thrills, and lot's of 80's references. I 100% think this show is absolutely amazing, make sure to watch it as soon as you can.


                
When Netflix showed me the trailer for this series, I immediately knew I was going to like it. I absolutely adored the movie Super 8, and this felt like a nod to that with a few variations.Stranger Things did not disappoint. From the very beginning, we were sucked into it with a tense opening scene that set the stage for what sort of series this was going to be. We're introduced to the characters one by one, in a way that makes us understand that each of them is going to eventually play a role in the outworking of the plot. I initially thought that Hopper was going to be a character that I disliked, but that wasn't the case. He was human and flawed, and I loved how his backstory was revealed little by little, up until the last episode, when we saw the culmination of what made him into the man that he was. I thought Winona Ryder did brilliantly as a strained, anxious, just-a-little-shy-of-emotionally-unstable mother of a lost child. And all of the kids were phenomenal in their roles, but I especially appreciated Millie Bobby Brown's performance as El/Eleven. She didn't have much dialogue, and most of her acting was done with her body language, her eyes, and her facial expressions, and it was absolutely brilliant.There were jump scares, which are to be expected in any movie of the thriller/horror genre, but I felt like they were tastefully done. The series wasn't saturated with them, and there was always a nice, tense buildup to them. The scenes with the monster in them were always delightfully terrifying, even the ones where you couldn't quite see yet what it looked like. I also loved the idea of an "Upside Down", and I thought it was neatly executed.I'm really hoping we get a second season of this, because there are so many questions I have that I'm hoping are answered. In the last scene of the last episode, we see quite a few of these unsolved mysteries: Will still being infected with whatever held him hostage in the Upside Down, the truth of Eleven's whereabouts after she kills the monster (also where that monster came from and whether or not there are other monsters out there), what happens to the Hawkins Laboratory and how will they deal with the open doors to the Upside Down, whether or not Terry will ever find out about her daughter, and most importantly, will Nancy stay with Steve or will she go with Jonathan? :) The one thing I felt could have been done differently was Barbara. I felt she got a raw deal, and I wish they had made her survive her time in the Upside Down, too. Other than that, I thought it was a great series, and I will definitely be watching it again in the near future.
The Duffer Brothers are master chefs. I picture them around a stove arrayed with pots."Let's add a dash of 'The Goonies', sprinkle in some 'Stand By Me', a generous cupful of 'E.T.', a spritz of 'Poltergeist' and garnish with 'Tron'."They expertly captured the essence of 80's movies while at the same time telling a suspenseful and thrilling story. I excitedly watched episode after episode and felt satisfied after each viewing. Nothing went to waste. Each character was fully explored, each plot line fully developed, and in the end I felt more satisfied than when I binged on too much Christmas turkey and lay half comatose under the tree playing Space Invaders on the green shag carpet of my family room floor. Whoever the Duffer Brothers are, I wish to convey my heartfelt appreciation for this AMAZING show. P.S. The casting and acting were spot ON! Eleven, Mike, Dustin, and Lucas stole the show.
Let's set The Twilight Zone, Alfred Hitchcock Presents, Maverick, Quantum Leap, Seinfeld, and Breaking Bad to one side a moment. These were shows that were great not only for their brilliant writing and production value but also for their originality. They either created, defined or redefined a genre. Stranger Things is another thing entirely. Another, completely NEW thing which is, in itself, original.But I doubt this will ignite an entire genre, and this is why I consider it unique and incomparable to traditionally groundbreaking shows. Stranger Things is retro. This is obvious and has been noted by everyone. But I don't know if many people have noticed the ASTONISHING attention to detail. Lots of shows are set in history. And lots of shows do a good job of it. But Stranger Things is perfect. It's perfect, not in that it is a perfect reflection of the 80s. It does a damn good job of that. But it goes several steps further. Stranger Things also captures the cinematic style of the 80s. And it does it with such acute accuracy that it is truly mind blowing for a writer and filmmaker who grew up on 80s cinema and was primarily influenced by it as a child. (Me). I'd like to take a moment to specifically note the props. When I was a boy in the 80s, that was the furniture we actually owned. It is perfect in every detail. The girl's room could have been my sister's room. My sister literally had that exact music box with the ballerina in it. Furthermore, the show draws attention to brands that were popular in the 80s. This adds a touch of authenticity. Sure. But what is so brilliant about this is that it's done in the kind of obvious way that 80s movies did it. I'd also like to address the brilliance of the casting. I realized something about attraction many years ago. There is traditional look, there are unique looks, and there are fashionable looks. In every major era of cinema, there are particular "types" that the industry, for whatever reason, tends to like to cast. The 80s had an extreme version of this. And almost everyone in this cast is straight out of 80s casting. (Winona Ryder is an exception. I actually love Winona Ryder, but I think casting her in this was a mistake). The daughter is a great example of this. She reminds me of the actress from The Great Outdoors Lucy Deakins (I just looked that up) and several other actresses from the era. I honestly don't understand how these filmmakers are getting these performances out of these actors. My guess (and this really is just a guess) is that much of this was casting. I think probably the actors they chose, not only were perfect because they fit the 80s look, but also because they fit the 80s style of acting. Much of acting is exploiting natural quirks in your real character, and my guess is that many of these actors all had a natural tendency to be this way. Tendencies that might not be particularly charming in a typical 2016 project, but that are perfect for this. The filmmakers may also have had them watch 80s performances to try to emulate. Either way, credit needs to be given to the filmmakers for this. But the writing is where it all begins. The foundation of it all. Here's why I'm so impressed with the writing. They didn't just include a lot of good 80s stuff, they included 80s clichés. And not even good clichés. They added clichés that are kind of lame like completely senseless character motivations that we're just supposed to buy because it's movie logic. This show really steeps itself in movie logic and I LOVE IT. I usually hate this but, in this case, it's a beautiful homage to 80s films. And what really works for me is that they do it with a real reverence. Any time they include movie logic, the do it with the same straight face as was done in the 80s. There is no tongue in cheek; it's a perfect mimeograph. There are so many little touches. Kids-on-bikes being a signature of 80s cinema, especially with Spielberg. A lot of this seems to be very Spielbergian, but there are so many 80s films that this project draws from that I wouldn't define the influence so narrowly. As a writer and filmmaker myself, I can't help but watch, jaw open, astonished and mesmerized by this project. It's truly incomparable to other films or television projects. It's something entirely new and different, and I think it will stand apart for a very long time. I've never seen this level of accuracy in the depiction of an era, and I lived through the era. And maybe that's why it's so compelling to me. The first 10 years of my life were 1980-1990 and, in many ways, those are the most important year of one's life. It's one's introduction to the world, to one's self, to sights and sounds and smells, music, food, entertainment, etc. I don't think about the 80s all that much. I didn't love it. But I can tell you, there are things about my childhood that I haven't thought about for years, that this show has drawn back into the forefront of my mind. Wonderful things. And something makes me think that, maybe, our world is a little more synthetic today. Somehow the world was more "real" back then. I don't tend to buy into this idea that everything was better before smartphones, but... maybe some things were better. I don't know. I suppose, love it or hate it, this show has made this viewer think about some things, and that's one of the most important things great art can do.


                
This show was the highest caliber production I've ever seen, the only show that could possibly come close in quality is Game of Thrones. Netfix have played an absolute blinder. It feels like a long Spielberg movie.Stranger things has a phenomenal cast, especially the child actors. Its the best Netflix original by a long way. Eleven and Hopper are the stand out characters for me, both of them are going to go very very far in their careers. Winona Ryder was as always top notch. The bond between the child actors was visible and reading up on it, the Duffer Brothers worked hard on them becoming friends before-hand, which adds to the over all effect. I thoroughly enjoyed every bit of this, its mind-blowingly good and the sound track is 10/10. WELL DONE NETFLIX. LOVE/LOVE/LOVE.


                
I wholeheartedly believe this is one of the best TV shows in recent years - maybe even of the decade. Season 1 felt more like a long, drawn out, excellent movie than an ordinary series, and this can be attributed to many reasons.Visually, "Stranger Things" is stunning. The production value and cinematography are the best, unlike any other I'd ever seen in a TV show. Normally the contrast of visuals between a show and a movie is clearly apparent - usually because of budget and staff - but such is not the case here; one could play an episode marked as part of a movie and no one would be the wiser. There's also of course, the 80s homage feel that is conspicuously displayed in most of the scenes. To many, it serves as an item of nostalgia or a reminiscence of similar classic 80s movies.But even though 'the 80s feeling' seems to be the focus of many people when watching the show, I sense that they forget to look at the other aspects that makes "Stranger Things" great. One of those aspects is the characters. All of them play some part or role in the movie, and they all have profound personalities. As the story progresses each of the sets of characters make their own developments to solving the conflict, and the way they were able to eventually intertwine their efforts was a satisfying inclusion. Even the child actors were able to pull off very convincing and pretty strong characters.This is a show that can easily have you finding yourself suspend disbelief and feel the story come to life, despite the very otherworldly premise. It's funny how greatly it makes you long for a misadventure with your friends as kids. Overall, the way the sequence of events build up, the way the plot unravels to the impending climax, the way the mysteries keep you glued to the screen, the way the magical soundtrack takes you back in time and the way the experience finally comes to a powerful conclusion and wraps up in a fashion that very few TV shows can imitate, makes "Stranger Things" an evoking installment that perhaps only good movies are.


                
Yet another good Netflix production. This is a 10 stars out of 10. After watching the first 30 minutes I was hooked. I ended up watching the first season in one stretch. This series is a mix of Dean Koontz and Stephen King set in the late 70s. If you like to be scared, do like I did and watch it at night in the dark. I jumped out of bed and turned on the lights a few times. Not really suitable for kids unless they are accustomed to watch scary movies. No profanity that I can remember and no nudity. One short love scene that shows less than some TV commercials. The story line and suspense will keep you on the edge of your seat. Looking forward to next season. Perhaps eleven will be back... It is certainly set-up that way. Good job Netflix!
. . .and not just because I miss the 80s. Here's a little town with a big secret - and potentially a big problem. And, of course, the government is involved. A cult is developing for the show at my workplace, and everyone has his/her own descriptors for what it reminds them of. It's like a mashup of Stephen King, John Carpenter,James Patterson, David Lynch, X-Files, and more than a soupcon of Twilight Zone. The acting is amazing, especially the children's, but Winona Ryder and David Harbour are fabulous as the adult leads. The 80s vibe is authentic. I only wish Roddy McDowell was still here and able to be in it. I have my fingers crossed all the way up to the elbows that AMC renews it for another season. If you like sci-fi or paranormal, you have to see this show. You will believe.Wow, IMDb, do you know how hard it is to write 10 lines that contain no spoilers? If I didn't reallllllly want to promote the show, I'd have just eased on down the line.


                
This show is unique and stands on its own. The setting (1983) was extremely well done and made people my age feel like it was their childhood again. It's good to see that out of all the same formula shows being put out there, and disappointing "sci-fi" shows (I'm looking at you Sense8) that something new and refreshing comes. I was hooked from the first episode and watched it for all 7ish hours straight. The kid actors do a fantastic job as do the adults. The ending is both satisfying and leaves plenty of questions (not in a bad way) that will easily lead to a second season. Absolutely terrific show, can't recommend highly enough.


                
