The fantastic thing about this series is the children. Terrific, scene-stealing performances from all four of them. Nailed nerdy boys, abused girl, budding romance, and everything in-between.But the story itself -ugh? Derivative drivel. A federal institution with this level of interest is handled poorly by a small cadre of "scientists." If this kind of operation were to occur, it would be handled in a much more sophisticated manner, even back in the day. The kids out-running the police story device is not believable. Just too many warmed over tropes.Harbour's hard-bitten, sullen demeanor feels dialed in. Winona plays what seems to me a high-pitched parody of Owen Wilson. Neither of their performances moved me positively. Paired together they are almost believable. Even then, that they succeed where better trained personnel fail miserably is just sophomoric.The kids compel - the story is poor and the adults are merely staging.


                
Season 2 could have been 2 episodes long. Introduces characters that have nothing to do with anything for no reason just to kill them off later. Make this character to compensate for bad writing to resolve some seriously contrived problem going on. Half the episodes were spent explaining stuff that we already know because were watching the show. Filler upon filler, pointless character after pointless character introduced with nothing to do with the story. Dialogue is for moving the story forward not explain every damn thing going on that you can clearly see with your eyes. Bad writing and bad acting. Extremely poor execution of a story that could have been other wise good. If I could say one thing good about the show it would have to be that it definitely has that 80's feeling. That 80's feeling where the writing is awful, pointless characters and tons of filler with no real story. Only this time expanded on with close to 10 hours of crap that could have been condensed to an hour and a half. Over all I felt like I was stuck in a nightmare of never ending crap from the 80's.
Pathetic as shit. I don't understand why would any on watch this made up shit and wannabe mystery suspense thriller. In the 50 minutes of each episode we see communication among actors that seemingly building up the suspense and mystery but nothing but dialogues written for wannable and upcoming A list actors. There is no reason to put myself in the actor's shoes and that infuriated me more when we already know we are gonna get nothing from it.This is not even worth watching with family or friends . I felt they lacked enough story content . All the had was some kind of inter dimensional monster that is hardly even scary and take eons to build up the confrontation with protagonists through seemingly suspense building scenes but openly apparent that it is just another commercialization for the filthy rich audience to wow at how amazingly real it is. This is was so very infuriating that it takes excessive time to build up to the main part of the story and also even more infuriating that it happens in a nowhere village set n the 1980's. It was soo boring and people should stop recommending this crap. This has the perfect recipe to waste your time and assist you in your endaveour to become a social climbing gluttonous couch potato. Stranger thongs= boring things.
please stop recommending this people.


                
There's no good reason for this being 9/10, I watched the first Episode attentively... PLEASE don't let your girlfriend talk you into it because of the cute Kids or the nice music. It is horrible guys, very cliched Sephen King - stuff.


                
1. Usual cheap hook of young teens facing bullies (stereotypically always bigger & meaner looking). Script designed for the mostly under 15 audience so main actors fit into that category w/usual mix of behaviors, genders, character types (nerds, athletes), race mix.
2. Lots of filming goofs (e.g. kitchen lights go out, but are on in next scene; 3 kids riding bikes; they all fall off; bikes disappear in next scene) which indicate to me little creative oversight + cheap production.
3. Over reliance on the age old human fears of things different. Always an us vs. them; same vs. not same mentality. Large spidery thingies; parasitic worms w/large mouth & many teeth; dark underground tunnels w/creeping vines to entangle you; lots of darkness.
4. More of the same old corporate/government power ethos of experimenting on people to create super anything.
5. Not creative dumbing down of super psychic abilities such as the overused & tiresome hook of controlling people's minds (don't we wish), and even more so control matter (amusingly w/out stretched hands w/screaming tossed in to represent painful effort). Neither one of which would get a passing grade from any half way intelligent middler schooler.
Conclusion: Too much of a repeat of plot, character done many times before. F for creative writing. Passable grade if under 15 yrs old.


                
I see great reviews and everyone loves it. I got through 5 episodes before giving it up. Honestly gave it 3 more than it needed.I'm glad you like it.


                
I'm sure the horror / gore addicts will fail to understand why I give this show such a low rating. My explanation is simple: garbage in, garbage out. The mind is impressionable, regardless of age. What we take in, influences our thoughts, whether we admit it or not. Stranger Things started out as an interesting mystery with very well-developed (if cliché) characters and a terrific story. Since it starred child actors, even with its PG-13 rating one would believe it was intended as family viewing, to appeal to younger ages. There is where it misleads the audience.While there were various "wince" moments, the first season (and most of the second) was tolerable within its genre. The PG-13 rating let parents know this was not for children and if they had any sense, they kept younger ones away from the screen.This somewhat restrained state continued well into season 2... and then without warning suddenly changed into a gory blood-fest that would gain any movie an R-rating and a televised series a strong TV-MA.No spoilers: the very last of Season 2 was cliché, unnecessary, over-the-top and well beyond the established parameters of the show to that date. Even as an adult one episode especially turned my stomach and caused me to avert my eyes (viewers will know which one I'm discussing) and turned this from a fascinating monster mystery into a gruesomely detailed bloodbath.I recognize this show is fascinating and I realize it has been nominated and won numerous awards. I also recognize when viewers have been duped, lured into a PG-13 show and then presented R-level gore... and I have zero tolerance for such tactics... especially when young viewers may be involved.Some people see no problem with the blood-fest dropped on the ending of season 2... but how would parents have felt if instead of gore the directors had dropped in a hard-R-rated sex scene into the ending of the season? Would that have been tolerated? It seems some writers and directors just don't know where the line is that they should. not. cross.Had I known in advance the direction this show was going to take I'd have never began watching it in the first place. I won't be watching season three. I'm sure some people out there won't "get" what I'm talking about, and that's a shame. People become jaded and don't even realize it.Such things forced upon the viewing audience without warning earns from me a low 3-star rating for a show that otherwise could have been rated much higher.


                
To quote Arnold Rimmer, "I thought it was the worst pile of blubbery school-girl mush I've ever been compelled to endure. I consider it an insult to my backside I was forced to sit here growing carbuncles through such putrid adolescent slush."How this steaming pile made it to 8.9 stars on IMDb seriously eludes me. The writing was cliché and riddled with plot holes, the pacing was agonizingly slow, and with the exceptions of Winona Ryder and Millie Bobby Brown, the acting was beyond cringe-worthy across the board. As we slogged through season 1, my wife and I said repeatedly to ourselves, "This has *got* to start getting good at some point," but it never made it there. It didn't even come close to the hype we'd been fed. By the end, we threw up our hands in despair and bewilderment at its popularity.To be fair, the one redeeming quality was how the production design captured the '80s look and feel, which we have to admit was done exceptionally well. Beyond that, I fail to see why virtually everyone seems to have embraced this series as Netflix's preeminent title, especially in the face of such mastery that House of Cards brings to the table. I'm normally very forgiving about my entertainment, so I rarely say this, but I honestly feel cheated out of the time I spent watching this drivel. So, for those of you all excited about season 2, I can say only this: I sincerely hope you find it as enjoyable as season 1, and may God have mercy upon your benighted souls!


                
This show was dragged out and stretched to beyond breaking point! I binge watched (as you do) the new season and it was puffed out with stuff that is obviously setting up a third and fourth season but I'm past the point of caring now! The first season was great, highly enjoyable, but now it's a rehash with new characters that add nothing to moving forward, apart from Max and the doctor played by Paul Reiser. Max's brother was<U+0085><U+0085><U+0085>.totally pointless!!! I'm still baffled by his inclusion to be honest, as he brought NOTHING to the party apart from being a fantastically ridiculous cliché from the '80s! it was a nice throwback to Paul Reiser and probably the greatest sequel in the history of movies, Aliens, with some scenes and dialogue lifted word for word and move by move from the film, especially the 'Stay frosty' line said by the soldiers in the lair of the beasts. Even the demadogs were totally xenomorph-like in the way they moved and hurled themselves at glass and doors.Apart from that, the 'sister' inclusion with the bunch of old-timers (the mohican man firing the gun at the cops and screaming half-heatedly was awful!!!) and the mum scene in the house were dull<U+0085>.in fact, most of the scenes with Eleven really slowed down the whole show in my opinion, apart from when she met up with the rest of the team. But it was marked just how boring Eleven's scenes were ZZZZzzzzzz<U+0085><U+0085><U+0085><U+0085>Not a patch on the first season, and this was just acting by numbers<U+0085>. very disappointed with this!
Glacially-paced show plays like 30-year-old Spielberg outtakes – without the fun and charm. Cliché characters and scenes right from Close Encounters, E.T., and Goonies. And Poltergeist too. A Jaws poster hanging in a kid's bedroom is a nod to the show's vintage roots – and a scene that follows soon after. (Come on down here and chum some of this sh**!) The premise has got more than a little of Stephen King's It.Every cliché in the book is here: the d**chebag boyfriend and idiot friends, the cute virginal girl who is coming of age and her geeky big-boned friend, the Goonies-like tweens and the bullies that persecute them, the creepy introvert, the slow sheriff who grew up in town, and the a**hole G-Men. It's deja vu all over again – in not a good way.Winona Ryder's shrill, hysterical, nicotine-addicted mom grates on my nerves like nails on a chalkboard.Millie Bobby Brown, who was so cute in Intruders, is going to be a huge star very soon.It's great to see Matthew Modine. When did he turn 90?Add a star if you like 80s hair styles and pop culture.


                
Another drawn out never ending series...Everything about it is predictable.Where have the single episode jolting series gone?Having to invest hours upon hours to find out how a show ends(if ever) is getting very old.I've decided to pull the plug after the 2nd episode instead of losing interest halfway through the season like so many others of the same format.The word "bindge" in front of any word usually implies a negative thing and its no different with "bindge watching"


                
Watching this TV series was like eating a beautiful looking plate of food and then puking your guts out.It started out great. Excellent retro feel and cinematography, promising premise and story line, and a wonderful cast. And then it all went to hell.Things moved along nicely out of the gate and then all of a sudden scenes became contrived and unbelievable. It then hit the wall and was just plain stupid in every way. I was actually screaming at the TV and also very upset for wasting my time in the first place.More specifically, the rapid-fire switching from scene to scene to I guess create more action was amateur hour. The insertion of slow and meaningless scenes to offer contrast to faster moving scenes was obvious, in a very bad way. They then throw in the constant flashbacks interrupting the flow in a most annoying manner. The only way I could get through it was by fast-forwarding through most of the scenes.In the end, the only audience that could possible appreciate this garbage would be kids under the age of 10. Such a waste too given the premise, cinematography and cast. The directors and producers should be ashamed because if this was done by competent people it could have been brilliant.


                
Cheap Netflix is one of those studios that forces you to sit though long trailers of their movie offerings. Anyway, can we say "uncreative ripoff"? I could list at least dozens of reasons why, but will only do a few. 
Series demographics is for the middle school to the barely graduated high school set. 
The following "usual" means storyline hooks been done countless times before - simple cheap formula to sell and make money for producers, et al. 
1. Usual dysfunctional family; single parent raising a mix of kids. Lots of age inappropriate smoking; drinking; fake underage sex; language "don't be a pussy". 
2. Usual local constable w/issues such as addictions (smoking, drinking, being independently 'ornery) to come to single mom's help.
3. Usual gang of middle schoolers bullied by bigger baddies (but payback is on the horizon of course). 
4. Usual cute girl romances for the schoolers. Usual nerdy science teacher. Usual schoolers out to solve the missing peoples puzzle despite initial push back from dull clueless adults. Usual biking on dark roads w/woods of course. 
5. Usual secret quarantine lab in small town w/baddie corporate research w/baddie secret government help. Lab is trying to create super humans (of course), and then there has to be an alien supernatural portal for our usual menace. Usual EEG device as cheap visual for altering/measuring brain.
6. Usual superpower tricks such as telekinesis (levitating, opening/closing things, pushing things about) w/usual bleeding nose. 
7. Cheap special effects such as flashing on/off lights; falling snow/ash; bluish lighting; blobby & webby things on walls; critter hand/face coming through wall (which is just stretchy fabric); shadowy figures; flashing across screen figure; blurry images; same-old-same-old critter w/usual big flappy mouth (I'ld like to be his agent). 
8. Lots & lots of screen time devoted to just scenes of talking heads (people just talking about nothing special or intelligent) - cheap filler. 
9. Acting, dialogue all TV level quality. Left enough unresolved for another season.


                
*** This review may contain spoilers ***I watched the first season, chapter after chapter, waiting for it to get better. I kept feeling like I was watching an old movie, you know, like when you watch an old movie and giggle at the effects and styles used.Saw the lovely reviews it got and kept expecting something exciting to happen. It's very predictable and a bit boring. I ended up playing on my phone waiting for something to happen.If you're looking for some thrills and excitement, look for something else.
So much potential at the start. Romantic 80's well replicated with moody synth reminiscent of b-grade horror sci-fi. A well picked cast downtrodden heartfelt nerdy kids + others. Thing is, the dialogue, story telling and production quality began a rapid downward spiral. The end result was little more than color by numbers entertainment which I began to skip through to find the paranormal bits. Afterwards the series as a whole this left me an absent feeling wondering "why?" Did something happened which sap the passion out of the production. Some kind of derivative art vampire? The cause of the decline in production quality for me holds much more intrigue than the forced mystery this series suggests it is attempting to convey.


                
Let me explain first. I am a big fun of sci-fi pictures - not only from the 80's - but this is not a good one. OK if you like ET, X-files, Cocoon and similar films then you probably like this one. But if you seek for real sci-fi suspense then stay away. So much fuss for nothing. OK I must say that Mrs. Rhyder tries hard and kids act decent but that's all. I prefer go and watch again the Goonies or Philadelphia experiment.. Slow, spiritless, nerveless and without inspiration.


                
For starters, guys who glorify this series shall use the money they've received for it to buy some taste, knowledge and experience. This show is really nothing special. Some Super 8, some Star Wars, some Stephen King, some Goonies ... Nothing original and creative. Lacks humor. Winona Ryder is overacting. Kids are OK but aren't they in any show? David Harbour is OK - seems to me he was the only one to find measure in dosing his efforts. Credits shall also got to Billie Bobby Brown. The show is too slow and basically nothing really happens until the last episode, when again nothing significant happens. Everything seems like: "Guys, write something in a way that it ends or not in the first season, depending on advertisers and money income." Everything in this show is black & white. Good guys are good, bad are bad (as in Government), naive and stupid are naive and stupid and so on. Too many clichés. Childish at best.Not worth watching and certainly not worth another season. Forget this ever happened and I'll try to forgive the Duffer brothers. Do we have a deal?


                
I was not alive in the 80s nor have I been to middle or high school (I'm home-schooled) but this film mixes up the worst things films like E.T. and It have to offer. All the children and teenagers in there are mean, impolite, rebellious, dishonest, cold or above all. It also shows unnecessary partial nudity between teenagers and disrespectful teasing such as pushing each other or teasing verbally. Every time Nancy came onto the screen, I would cringe and wish that her parents would come in and spank her. She is cold to her family and she may not be entirely selfish but when Barb disappeared, all she worried about was her and nothing else. It also has bullying in there. Therefore, all the kids in this series are stereotypical. No one in there is solid, compelling or likeable. They are all weak.It also has too much crying in there, especially from Joyce, I know she's a mother and it makes sense she's worried about her lost child but she is always freaking out and crying and it's too annoying to bear.Shame that this had some good ideas such as plot and Eleven's superpowers but they were executed poorly. It was also too confusing. I heard a lot of people say good things about this series and it looked interesting to watch but I find this overrated. I dropped this after episode 4. I don't recommend this, unless you want to get annoyed by unlikeable, jerkish kids.


                
"9/10!" the reviews state on IMDb and other news publicity sites. I like Science Fiction and lots of people have been talking about Stranger Things on netflix. It's a show that is influenced by 80's sci- fi and action movies. Everything about this is from the 80s. It's basically for nostalgia-philes. Friends recommended me this show because I like the X Files. I checked out the first episode. It seemed to have OK action scenes. The monster, whatever it was, seemed pretty cool, but you rarely see it. Most of the show is Drama. I got really annoyed at the actors very quickly (Except for the reluctant cop Jim Hopper played by David Harbour, whom I thought was quite funny) Winona Ryder (Will's mother) really irritates me. Her over acting is unnecessary. It's filled with cheesy 80s nostalgia and Hollywood B-Grade movie Clichés. I was expecting better, but I don't think i'd stick around for this one.
I watched this after a few recommendations, and I can tell you I won't be passing on the recommendation. The characters lack depth, but I guess its hard to show that over a short series.The story line draws inspiration from many old movies, nothing fresh and exciting.The music is good, but a lot of times it felt like the wrong choice of tone, I often wondered why some scenes had music at all. I feel like giving this a 1, to try and off set the 9.3 rating a bit.. I've rarely ever left a review before, in fact this could be my first one, but after seeing the rating I felt compelled to. This is definitely not the best show of all time.


                
This show could have been terrific except it does exactly what we all laugh about bad horror movies. It has characters that do the stupidest things just so the story can continue. Two examples: The Sheriff decides to break into the CIA/NSA Dep't of Energy facility alone, with no idea where he's going or who he may come up against. AND, of course he finds nothing of value but does allow the CIA to bug his trailer. Then Karen Wheeler, in the woods at night with Jonathan, decides to climb through a wall of goo ALONE, to go inside a mysterious tree. She doesn't first call Jonathan to show him what she found,and maybe go in together or tell someone, like the Sheriff. No, instead she climbs through this goo into a tree trunk ALL BY HERSELF. And she's supposed to be one of the smartest students at school. Give me a break!!! It's garbage like this that ruins a show.


                
If you somehow think "Back to the Future" movies and series represents the height of storytelling and think American horror flics from the eighties are "cool" then this will be entertaining. Maybe you will feel that way if you were born in the eighties like the Duffer brothers.On the other hand, if you put any demands on TV-shows also of this type, then you're wasting your time. I just wasted it for nine episodes in the hope of some nice twists. What utter boring old crap this series is made of. The logical wasteland that is the story and the one-dimensional storytelling and acting will bore you. You could put a supertanker in the plot holes which is exasperating considering the high quality of TV-scripts these days. This kind of thing only could fly in the eighties and while Stranger Things is grounded in the eighties, it's not a very entertaining asoect to adopt also the stupid antics from that era. Stranger Things could have been great, but it's so small minded it's downright painful.The acting overall is barely acceptable. Not the worst I've seen and most actors do what they can with this weak material I guess.Winona makes a somewhat convincing mother and David Harbour has presence most of the time. The boys Finn, Caleb and Gaten, well I guess they're doing OK. The only one that stands out though is Millie Bobby Brown that manages to have charisma and mystique just by being there on screen. She's hardly worth going trough all the episodes for, but her performance should be noted. She can't save the story though. Waste your time on this at your own peril and make sure to check your brain at the door!


                
On the whole the acting's ok (if you ignore Wynona's level 10 the whole way through and Jonny's inability to do anything other than the standard open mouth). It makes no sense, moves at a snails pace and tries to weave in so much that it's banking on us not understanding to give the producers a reason to make 7 series when it could all be done in two. Think Lost.
Smacks of another programme that had a compelling idea and ended up being complete rubbish. It's a 3/10 at best.


                
I think it's a series that works if you did not see any other series in your life, but as we have several top ... I found it boring and predictable. The performances are fine, no big deal. There is no character to stand out or wanting to know more. The plot is incoherent and has absurd moments. There are several events and situations of the series that made me ask, "Really?". Moments where the courage of some characters becomes impossible to believe; moments where science fiction and suspense are distorted by the illogical and unreasonable actions ... I think that a plot can play with unintelligible, enigmatic and irrational but always maintaining a certain internal consistency, with believable characters who were developing their skills and potential throughout history. Here many issues for granted are met, we move from fear to action without any mediation. Scenes that seem serious arise and end up being naive. They try to create an atmosphere of mystery that quickly becomes imbecility. Anyway, it seems a bad series. Maybe would have worked a little better as a movie.
What's with all that hysterical screaming ? I mean seriously, there's no horror movie without that, but here it seems like frenzied shouting is the only way characters are allowed to communicate. Wynona is overacting so badly it seems anything, literally any movement or sound will trigger her and it does. The same applies to majority of others.
There are so many ways to create suspense in a movie (Twin Peaks is a good example) but in Stranger things screaming in terror is the only one.
Oh, and the musical score is really random.


                
