All reviews from the first seasons are pretty accurate. However, it's really a shame how they couldn't manage to recreate a similar atmosphere in season 2. It really tried to be bigger than it is, more nostalgic than it could be and although actors were not bad at all, their characters were no more believable or relatable than olive oil on a sundae.Season 2 was in the money business and that's it.


                
My review here is broken down into two seasons. Firstly, the first season blew me away. Within mere minutes the backing music kicks in warming my anticipation for what I imagine will be a wonderful homage to some of the greatest movies of the 80's. And that's exactly what it does, it takes us on a journey, much like it's theme tune, to places so familiar yet so fresh at the same time. It's as if it was a classic I forgot to watch, oozing influences from King, Spielberg and Carpenter and concepts from varied corners of cult movies, TV shows and video games. Once more to it's deserved merit, we leave season one with the story nicely rounded off but with enough of a door left wedged open to feel satisfied buy not mis-sold to. The performances were superb and felt genuine and hats off to the young cast that knock it out of the park.9/10 - one of the best shows ever...Now season two. Had season one not been so damned near perfect I'd have not been so critical with my perception of it's follow up. That said it still delivers what we showed up for. It carries on from the first filling in on plot elements that you'd perhaps question somewhat. However, what it falls down on is obvious references. Whilst the first touched familiar memories for me the second season seemed too blatant thus no longer did it feel organic. Kind of like when a kid does a funny dance and everyone cracks up then someone says "do it again" but the kid knows he's being funny and people smile and say "oh yeh..." less enthusiastically. I guess it became self aware, like Cyberdyne if we wanted to ironically throw a reference about it's use of references. Sure being such a fan of the 80s movies it referenced it was a guilty pleasure but we now lose how honest the first season felt and almost like the idea being 'reference-hard' was in hope to net viral stories to captivate fans of the cult movies that it 'references hard with a vengeance'. If I were to see Louis CK and he starting doing Bill Hicks routines I'd still laugh because I love Hicks but I turned up to see fresh material from CK. Obviously this is the main issue I had with the second series, each time it happened it broke the 4th wall a little, disengaging me from the plot. The second season starts strong but weakens in it's final few episodes. In parts becoming obvious and corny, the young kids making decisions for some of the adults lessened the integrity of those characters. The kids essentially muscling their way to being the main protagonists. Either way it was still a good watch and I am still in anticipation for a third instalment only this time with slightly lower expectations.6.5/10 – still a treat even though I felt a little tricked


                
Entertaining to say the least and definitely a nice nostalgic trip back into the 80s. However, the show remains full of plot holes and a good part of it feels 'forced' and 'shaky'. While i binge-watched the show, it felt underwhelming and overacted. Season 1 was better, whereas this one let me down in hard to define ways (conclusion, useless scenes and jokes, poor character development, etc). Also, i really felt the need to give it a 7 star rating. IMDb was by go to reference but it seems that every new show nowadays always gets either a 10 or a 1. Too polarized. This show is DEFINITELY not a 9 or 10, and I would place it somewhere between 7 and 7.5, maybe.


                
The series should have ended in the first season. This is one of those stories that don't work well with sequels. Everything felt the same. Every crazy thing was already seen before. Going back to those unanswered questions and getting answers just felt corny and kind of ruined the mystery of past stories told in season one. I understand they don't want to drag the viewer too much but would be better to not even explain them. Don't get me wrong. I enjoyed the second season overall and was still addictive to check out the next episode. But IMDb is showing 4 seasons total which means they're already confirmed. Which means they will be milking this cow until there's nothing left. Hence my rating.


                
I really enjoyed this Netflix series. It did take watching thru the 4th episode to finally stop finding all the comparisons to previous movies and start telling an original story.Examples: Opening episode music/The Knick - Location/Twin Pines - Kids on Bikes/E.T. - Nerdy kids in club/Goonies - Backlight/every Spielberg movie - Main kid's little sister with blonde pigtails (even though the rest of the family has dark hair/E.T. - Finding strange thing that can elevate things/E.T - Strange things haircut/Minority Report - Strange thing put in water to get information/Minority report - Communicating thru lights/Close Encounters - mom who talks to the lights - log lady in Twin Peaks - kid's walking on railroad tracks/Stand By Me - missing kid communicating thru walkie talkie/Dark Skies.I know you can find comparisons in every movie, but this series had so many in the first few episode that turned into a game. That said, once it became an original story I really enjoyed it. The actors are all great. Usually not a Winona Ryder fan, but she really won me over in this role.
When season 1 came out it showed up in my recommendations, so I figured sure why not. By the end of the season finale I was just in awe. One the best shows I have seen in years. I have been waiting for a year for season two to come out. I just got done binge watching it and season two is a huge disappointment. It was like watching the second Matrix movie destroying the franchise. I don't know what they were thinking but I could barely make it through.Season 1: 10/10 Season 2: 4/10


                
Stranger Things is not the worst thing I've seen, But it's far from the best. When it was released, people hyped it too much (and so did I), but re watching ST now, it still a good show, but not that special as I thought it was. Sometimes, it relies too much on nostalgia and 80's references and it bothers me a little bit. The main marketing was the wall thing, but it's barely used, from my head, I remember that they used it about two times in the first season. The series doesn't need a second season, everything was just fine by the end of the first one and things they didn't tell us should be part of our imagination, making us think about it, re watch it, see different things that we haven't seen for the first time, now they are just going to give us the answers. Stranger Things is a good show, but not that much. And doesn't need a second season.
A thoroughly enjoyable romp through every eighties teen horror movie and TV show we've ever seen before. The most derivative and unoriginal series I've seen in a long time, if you've seen The Goonies, Lost Boys, ET, or any other such films then nothing in this show is new - in fact it borderline mashes these three films together and churns it out as original. Having said that is IS fun to watch, just don't expect anything ground- breaking. Probably the most over rated TV show on IMDb - clearly most of the people rating it value style of original content - but definitely fun and short enough (eight episodes) to make you feel like it isn't a waste of time.
First of all I love how this show takes you right back to the 80's when life was far more simple and straightforward. Back when smartphones and other gadgets didn't dominate people's minds.The first season was brilliant. It keeps you hooked from the beginning to the end. The plot and characters were very nicely written and the sci-fi element was very well executed.The second season however was a disappointment compared to the first season owing to some newly added characters such as Max and her brother Billy. The actors that portrayed the two characters respectively were just awful. Both Dacre and Sadie need to improve their acting. Another horrible thing about this season was the episode where Eleven joins a gang and attacks certain groups of people. That episode was completely unnecessary and unwanted. Overall this is a good show but certain characters need to be removed and please no subplots.
Just watch the first season 
Second season is worse
It will make you dislike the show


                
After watching the opening episodes of the German series DARK, it came crashing down upon me how tedious, unengaging and wearily familiar Stranger Things is. I am smack bang in that generation that grew up with John Carpenter, Stephen King, David Cronenberg, Spielberg, Joe Dante and every 1980s pop culture and social reference Stranger Things nods to (or perhaps relies upon) as it crawls along its way. Am I meant to be the target audience, or is it the generation after mine, which had and inkling of these films but instead had the misfortune to grow up in the 1990s and not see them there and then?Or is it aimed at the (pre)teens of today for whom the 1980s are as old as the 1950s were to me? With only a vague sense of what the 80s were, this new audience might only experience a period piece that is quite slow (not slow-burn, but simply, tedious) and a bit old fashioned. It's not really that scary either, especially by today's standards.Consider John Carpenter's The Thing from 1982: an original and (for a monster movie) intelligent reboot of a 1950s 'classic', for want of a better word. Carpenter took the paper thin sets and man-in-a-monster-suit of the original and employed (then) cutting edge effects and (then) shocking imagery to fully entrench the story in the present.Stranger Things, on the other hand, retains everything: the look, the plot, the actors (Paul Reiser, Matthew Modine), the music, the titles, the effects and even the font, which has left a wave nostalgic graphic designers in a swoon. The problem with structuring a series as a complete, faithful recreation of those 1980s sci-fi/horror films, is that most of those films were not that particularly good to begin with. And in the 1980s, the essentially b-grade pay-off to any given plot was revealed after a blessed 100 minutes or so. With ST (and most of these overly long series) it takes 8-10 hours.So my issue with ST is that it seems it's only aim is to emulate the feeling and the cliches of the 1980s sci-fi/horror genre without seeming to add anything more. It has no depth. It's all sauce. Every aspect is so familiar and so faithful to the original source, that it feels as though you are actually watching clips of films you have already seen, when you were 10 years old, that weren't that great, but you liked them because you were still a child.The cast is earnest, but as with the everpresent juvenile casts of the 80s (that ST faithfully emulates), the limits to the acting abilities of an ensemble of pre-teens are often apparent. And any scene with Winona Ryder is simply painful.If you haven't yet begun to watch Stranger Things, I recommend that you not start. Instead, head over to the town of Winden on the other side of Netflix and give DARK a try. It's not Germany's answer to Stranger Things. It's simply better. And they speak German. So it's good.


                
It is one of those series, which starts with "just enough" steam to pique viewers' curiosity, slowly unfolding with details that fit in to explain the bits of the fast beginning.It is a great sci-fi watch for kids, adults alike; with good acting from lead roles (Hopper and Joyce), and a bunch of kids who happen to have a way of their own for solving problems in the adults' world.there's enough sci-fi, teenage crush, kids' silly lingo, monsters that we don't understand, telekinetic booyah moments in this show to keep you hooked through the series.I hope the next season develops more interesting facets to the seemingly already told story.


                
Everyone has got the mix of movies this series combines or rip-offs. Winona Ryder does a great job and is totally believable but she is basically doing a female Richard Dreyfuss in Close Encounters. On the one hand, every role has a parallel in something you've seen before. On the other hand, you can't say that all the actors don't do good jobs or that the show isn't entertaining. Actually very entertaining. I guess the person who steals the show is the young girl who plays "Eleven" Millie Bobby Brown and Winona Ryder comes in second and Natalia Dyer is kind of fun to watch as well but nowhere near Ryder or Millie Bobby Brown. But Steven Spielberg and about 6 other directors and writers should have their names added to the credits. But, heh, it's TV. It's Netflix and it is good.


                
There are three problems which I can not ignore: The character by which everything happens is some one nothing can be given, this is because he has no presence as a character in himself because we always see him interacting with his family or friends through flashbacks, which reinforce the feelings of his family members and friends and how much importance that they has to him, but is never given a scene to know him better.The romance that arises has no basis; love is a feeling that in narrative media MUST be built and put reasons for which it is generated and flourishes. There is nothing that really justifies these feelings between one character and the other and it feels like an excuse to create a more emotional final scene.And speaking of the end of season: It is terrible. After all that happened through the series The bad ones are going to let them go just like that? The police did not ask questions? Journalists? How did everyone react in the village, seeing that everything happened to be a farce? Yes, there is a space to see the beginning of a new problem but everything feels very convenient (and I do not mention the jump time to justify why all the questions are not answered). The series has a lot of potential that, if it manages to squeeze enough, it can be remembered as one of the best Netflix products. Im waiting with attention the Second Season.
I really liked the first episodes. they really gave me chill but the rest of series got really predictable for me. I think if they didn't show a real physical figure for the alien whatsoever until the end it could be more interesting. knowing that we are dealing with! some douche carnivorous plant head aliens that are not really that scary and easily can be knocked down by kids just reduces the excitement of the series.flashbacks were not that amazing still kinda predictable. I could imagine what she had gone through in a classic 80s crazy scientists' experiments myself.Overall it was fun to watch it back to back but not really seeing the potential for this TV series to go any further for having more seasons.
Set in the 80s, Stranger Things begins with the disappearance of a nerdy young kid. One evening, he's playing Dungeons & Dragons with his equally nerdy friends; he leaves to ride on home on his bike; and, halfway home, he just ... disappears. What follows isn't a crime drama, though. As the name implies, there are 'stranger things' going on, and its part conspiracy theory, part supernatural, and 100% odd.Depending on your threshold, this is jumpy, fun, old-school scare TV. It's very tense viewing, right from the opening scene, but it's really well done and tantalising, and would be very easy to binge-watch the whole thing. It's not particularly terrifying - it rides a fine line between horror and thriller - but, again, it depends on your threshold.Winona Ryder, as the missing boy's mother, is especially good. I mean, she's electric whenever she's on the screen. She plays this perfectly, and I'd say this is the best I've seen her. Her character, slowly falling apart while holding it together, is compelling and believable and the best thing in it.That isn't to say it's perfect - it's not. Some of the characters are hard to like or not want to punch. The story line IS fantastical, and you'll need to either suspend disbelief or stick to something saner. And it's not hard to second-guess some of what happens from a mile off. Even with those flaws, it's well worth a look. UPDATED: I wanted to add an update after having just finished the series: it was a blast! There's been a slew of criticism of this title, and its reviews, here on IMDb, and I don't quite get that. Yes, it's currently averaging in the high 8s and, no, it's not on a par with, say, The Shawshank Redemption. I'm a self-confessed snob - I usually watch things with subtitles. Stranger Things appeals on a purely emotional level; it's fun, it's jumpy, and it reeks of the 80s. It's pure homage to Stephen King, Spielberg and Sci Fi. There's also something nostalgic and innocent about it (despite the gore towards the end). There are a whole heap of loose ends in the final episode which, while a set- up up for a possible sequel, I find a bit of a let down - hence a dropped star. But it's still well made, enjoyable and touching in all the right places.


                
Why does everyone get so hyper about this? To me it's an alright show, but nothing special


                
The movie is really a mixture of clichés and "borrowings" from other series and movies, but somehow it's still enjoyable. I think, mostly due to the great cast and solid acting from the young actors. Visually, the shadows world is a blatant copy of the shadows world from Russian "Night Watch" movies. Some scenes have definite Spielberg movies inspiration. Throughout the series you will be like "oh, I 've seen this already" but you will, probably, continue to watch because who doesn't love well made old good sci-fi and, also, when the "plump" kid Dustin steals the show while on screen, your heart melts. All kids did great really. Winona's role was just too whiny and poorly developed for my liking. In "youth" category I really liked Joe Kerry. Though the main villain in the movie is the "government agency", I still think Dr Martin character was too sketchy and I did not quite catch what exactly those experiments were about.
Allow me to explain myself when it comes to my standards: I want something that amazes me. I want something with outstanding writing, appearance, acting, characters, and I judge my entries with those categories in mind.Writing Stranger Things, I believe, excelled in this area most of the time. The plot moved forward at a reasonable pace. Nothing felt too rushed or too dragged out. However, several things that occur felt too forced in without consulting common logic first. I'm mostly talking about Hawkins' decision to let the chief go free. Let's review: he broke into a government facility, saw some top-secret classified stuff, and his only punishment is a wiretap in (only) his house? This honestly feels like the writers were pushed into a corner with no logical way out. Another point to consider is the fact that nothing is either explained or implied; we, the audience, are just supposed to accept that happens with nothing built on top. What is this Upside-Down? Is it the work of supernatural forces? Aliens? Science gone wrong? What about the Hawkins' laboratory? Are there other kids part of the experiments? How did 11 manage to escape in the first place? How did the chief get to the bottom floor of a top-secret government facility without so much as a gun shot at him? Aside from this nit-picking, the writing is solid throughout, but lacks logic when need be. Score: 7/10Appearances: This is where Stranger Things truly shines. The directing does a beautiful job of bringing out those intense scenes. The visuals are nothing short of stunning. If I had to give a complaint, it would be "Does the Upside-Down have to be completely gray?". The music only further emphasizes the emotion and impact of every scene. It's actually a memorable score, the title card theme being the shining example of that. Score: 10/10Acting: A shining, but less impactful element in Stranger Things. The emotions that the characters bring are truly something to gawk at. The main problem with having a primary cast of children is usually the acting, and this is no exception. A lot of the acting done by the kids feels over-dramatized to the point of being hilarious. Winona Ryder I think carried the series with her amazing portrayal of a mother on the verge of insanity. Every time she was on screen I was prepared to see some crazy stuff happen. Score: 8/10Characters: Something Stranger Things fails at is having believable characters. While the plot chugs away doing its thing, it leaves no room for character familiarity or development. The main character, Mike, is a typical middle schooler that plays D&D with his friends: Dustin, the typical gluttonous kid, Lucas, whose only character trait is being jealous of Mike and having a dad that fought in Vietnam, and Will, who gets around 15 minutes of total screen time. Got to include not one, but two sets of two-dimensional bullies! I wish Steve got more screen time, as the series ended just as he was becoming interesting. Nancy has no personality at all. She can shoot a gun, and that's the only character trait she has. Jonathan also suffers from having pretty much no personality. He's shown as being a loner in school and a member of the photography club, but that's all there is to his character. The rest of the characters have even less personality; they're just stuck in as filler characters so the scenes would be less lonely. At least Hopper and Joyce were interesting, albeit also a bit lacking. Score: 2/10Stranger Things has a few things going for it, but not enough to be too excited over. The writing was solidly done, but lacking in logic at times. The appearances are nothing short of breathtaking, each moment being encapsulated with a score and visuals to remember. The acting was all-around solidly done. The kids, however, ruin the immersion of having believable people be part of the story. The characters fell completely flat, as every single one has a few bullet points attached to their name. None of them come off as believable people, just as plot points in a story.Final Score: 7/10More Personal Thoughts: Here's how you check to see if your characters come off as people. If you remember their name hours after you finished watching, then you've at least partially succeeded. I had to keep referencing the cast list because I forgot almost all of the characters' names.
I agree that viewers can fill in some details, but there are so many logical flaws in this show which contradicts with itself. Don't get me wrong, I'm not saying the show is bad. Actually I pretty enjoy the show, the costumes and scenes are pretty real. The actors are acting well, especially for those kids. However one of joys I have during the time watching the show is to see how many logical flaws it has. Here is some I can remember now: 1. Why did they (lab guys) kill the big cook but not sheriff? The big cook (at beginning) just met a lost girl and report to government. They can simply pretend as government employee (they do have the power to do it) who are supposed to take care of lost kids and pick the girl up. It's definitely not necessary to kill a guy. OK, we can just accept this as an assumption in the show: they are evil guys. Their working style is killing people to cover up the truth to make 100% sure for their secrets. Then why they didn't kill the sheriff? He definitely knows much more secret since he has already got into the lab and seen a lot of secrets. Is it just because he is one of the main characters? 2. Why did the lab guys want to make a fake body of lost kid? First of all, why did they think the lost boy had any relations with their lab or secret. The boy was caught by the monster, the lab guys should not even know it. During that time, they didn't even know much about the monster or if it has offensive action. (They sent a single guy without power weapon or good supports later and didn't expect the death of that man.) OK, we can accept that they are too nervous and believe the lost boy is caused by their secret project. Then if they really want to cover up their secret, they need to let as less people involved as possible and treat that accident as a normal lost kid case (Sending some Amber Alert on highway or similar...). Then after several months, no one except the parents would care about it. However what they did was calling up tens of cops and several ambulance to perform a big show (for whom?), making a big news to let everyone in the world knows the accident, and then they made a fake body by some kind of silicon skin with cotton stuffing... Are you serious? 3. How did Will contact with his mother? It seems that several assumptions had made for this: (a) The upside down world has exact same objects as the real world (street, house...); (b) People in the upside down world can hear the sound from real world, but cannot see anything in the real world (people, fire...) (c) When people in the upside down world getting close to light bubble, the bubble in real world will on. However how did Will figure that he can light on the bubbles in the real world? He cannot see anything happened in the real world. Then how could he know to light the bubble on by going close to it? Alright, we can assumption Will is a really really smart and brave boy and he was staying home all the time and listening to his mother's response to the light and eventually figured out this mechanism. Then how did he send words to his mother? I mean when his mother paints the characters on the wall, can Will see the same character at the same position in the upside down world? Can Will see the same light bubble there too? (I didn't see them at the upside down scene.) If yes, did he see some bubbles flying in the air when his mother setting these bubbles? Did he see the door opening and closing by itself when his brother getting in and out the house at real world? Why they cannot see something like fire, bat or all these stuffs when sheriff and Will's mother came to his house? What will it response in the real world if they damage something in the upside down world? All these basic assumptions about environmental correlation between two worlds are full of flaws. It seems they made assumption at first and then twisted it whenever the story needs. There are still a lot flaws I didn't mention. Such as: 4. How did the monster travel between two worlds (Need the gate or not)? 5. How could sheriff get into the big lab building for the first time without any preparation or guide then directly get to the most inner and secret room? (The building was full of camera and guards). 6. If three teenagers with only a small gun, a trap, gas fire can stop and beat the monster away, why not tens of trained guys with machine guns cannot do the same thing? What's more ironically, even 3 kids with a small slingshot can slow down the monster. 7. If the monster is sensitive to blood, the first thing it would get probably is the fresh meet in kitchen, right? (Now I'm kidding :) )
Ok, so I just got done with watching stranger things season 1 after all the hype around it and was feeling left out as everyone around me had already seen it. I'm just gonna say that the show is highly overrated and the 8.9 rating given to this show does not do justice to the other good shows with lower ratings. The show was suspenseful in the beginning but ended up being too childish and not the thriller that I was expecting. The concept of the mystery was a good one but the writers could have just made the show a bit serious by taking off the kids as main characters and adding a more adult vibe to the show. People keep comparing this show to another Netflix series "Dark", and I can only say that the Dark is a way more complex and interesting tv series than stranger things and there is no comparison. The background score of that show is absolutely insane. I highly recommend PLEASE watch that show if you haven't.


                
To be honest it's worth watching especially for younger viewers but OK for adults too. The effects are good but go over the top sometimes and the acting is alright for a mostly young cast, But the thing that lets it down is lack of suspense it hasn't got that can't wait for the next episode factor to it. Give it a go you might enjoy it .
P:S 
The girl who plays 11 will be a big star one day.


                
Season 1 was pretty damn great, unpredictable, interesting, great characters, awesome music. It was for the most part greatly written, acted and directed. Season 2 however, isn't as good. It was predictable, strangely boring at times and didn't innovate enough from the first season.It's like they got surprised by the success of the first season and suddenly was in a hurry to make season 2. That is what it feels like. And that's too bad, because this show was the biggest surprise in a long time. And it needs to deliver this sort of storytelling and originality in it's third season or it will be one of those TV shows that had a great first season, and then everything went downhill from there. Like "Lost" and "Prison Break" to just mention two out of maaaaany.Anyways, season 2 wasn't bad, but not really good either, it had it's moments for sure, but not as good as season 1. Season 2 starts off very well, but it's after episode 4 that it all falls apart and becomes incredibly predictable, sentimental and boring.I will change my score of this show for every season, as everyone should. As we are not voting on the pilot episode here, but the series as a whole, and that impression changes as episodes are releases.First season was a 9/10 for me. With season 2 the series currently stands at a 7/10. And i am only hoping for it to rise again, i want another great season like the first, i don't want a new prison break.


                
The show was awesome to watch. Intriguing plot, good acting, and everything moved along at a good pace. My only gripe is the last two episodes: everything seemed rushed, gory, and more like typical 21st century Hollywood. One thing I really liked about this show was how it focused on story and didn't rush into action or extreme plot development. In my opinion, this all changed in the end for the worse. Really wished it would have eased into the ending or cut the season off and continued the plot into season 3 more eloquently.


                
I admit that When you watch the first episode, it makes want to watch them all. At the end, you wont waste your time, but you want get some masterpiece of a show that you may be searching for. The casting is very good. I also liked the whole 80s atmosphere that creators want to get. It has perfect soundtrack, something that makes the show more likable. But nevertheless, at the end of it all you get the feeling like it is "Steven King wanna be" movie or "Twin Peaks for kids" or "Darker version of E.T". While you watch it, it brings nostalgia for all that 80s movies. And the creators get that feeling very good. You kinda think that it was really shoot at the 80s. Not the best show on earth, but worth watching. Seven from ten from me.


                
