I guess plenty of people have said a lot of things about all the movie and TV references this series has and how it recreates the eighties in all their faults and splendor. I will not add to that. With the release of the second season I'd simply like to advise that both seasons are very different animals. Think of it as the difference between the original Alien movie and the Aliens sequel: Whereas the first season was more about an unknown and unseen horror and the mystery behind the backstory, the second has more in-your-face action and horror laced with character development arcs which feel nice but sometimes sidetrack the series a bit. Consequently, a fan of the show should probably watch the second season as a separate work of fiction rather than a true continuation of the first season in tone and spirit. The writers move the story forward and we get a very good piece of entertainment but the new season has to be judged on its own merits.


                
First off, I'm going to say that I did enjoy the show. The acting was good, the music was top notch, and the cinematography was great! So why did I give it a 7/10? Quite simply it's plot is simplistic, it isn't that scary or suspenseful when it claims to be and I found the majority of the characters bland. I only really cared about the cop, Jim Hopper and the kid, Dustin. Everyone else wasn't really given a second thought until they reappeared on screen. At some points I forgot the plot was about the main group of kids trying to find out what happened to their friend as it ping-ponged around between the characters so much, I actually got a headache, and this is coming from someone who understood the ending to BioShock: Infinite.When you break it down, the story is mainly driven by nostalgia, a lot of it will go over people's heads who weren't born in the 70s/early 80s. And when there were subplots, I felt like they were somewhat unnecessary and/or executed poorly. For example, Nancy's motivation. After her friend Barbara disappears, she starts her own investigation along with Jonathan Byers. This (predictably) ends with a form of romantic tension which actually doesn't lead anywhere as Nancy stays with her actual boyfriend Steve (Who's for lack of a better term: A nob) who (Also predictably) does a somewhat lackluster heroic twist during a final confrontation by assisting Nancy and Jonathan against the... monsterThis is another down-point for me, not only do they make the mistake (Mistake in my eyes, it can be done well) of revealing the monster in it's fullest. It's also a generic black Wendigo-ish design with a head that opens like a dog from Resident Evil. Set in a story where they try and make everything suspenseful, they just go ahead and show you the beast. The best form of horror is when the audience fabricates the monster themselves, let us hear it, see a sudden silhouette move in the background, let us see their destruction, but don't let us see THEM. All in all, you should give this a watch, it's a good summer binge. Easily done in one sitting. It's enjoyable, in some instances, fun. But it's simply over-hyped and overrated when it comes to it's praise. Like I said, it's main drive is nostalgia which doesn't sit well with me.This reason this review covered mainly negative aspects of the show is because, as it's a *Spoiler Review* I'm assuming you've already watched it and are therefore in other peoples opinions on the show. You've probably heard all the praise in the world for it, hence my recommendation of the show, but cover the negatives.
Stranger Things is written & directed by The Duffer Brothers and stars Winona Ryder, David Harbour, Finn Wolfhard, Millie Bobby Brown, Gaten Matarazzo, Caleb McLaughlin, Natalia Dyer, Charlie Heaton, Noah Schnapp and Cara Buono.When a young boy disappears, his mother, a police chief, and his friends must confront terrifying forces in order to get him back.Where to begin? Stranger Things is one of the most enjoyable pieces of television that I've experienced in years. With a satisfying eight episodes in its first season, The Duffer Brothers have delivered a multi- genre masterpiece that has taken the world by storm.The writing throughout is smart and compelling, lending every actor/actress a real chance to delve into their respective characters and they all do so with impeccable skill. It's extremely difficult to pick out the highlighting performances when every single one of them were outstanding. But, I must mention the following names in appreciation of their talent. Millie Bobby Brown is seriously convincing in her portrayal of the mysterious Eleven (or 'Elle'), and although only twelve years old, she gives one of the most incredibly diverse and grown-up performances I've ever seen. Winona Ryder plays a distraught Joyce, mother of Will, who goes through many stages of emotional despair, breaking down and falling apart as she searches for her son, in an impressive and relatable act. Charlie Heaton follows Ryder in this path but takes a slightly different direction as he becomes one of the many powerful leads in the series, within a couple episodes. Heaton has undeniable chemistry with co-star Natalia Dyer (playing Nancy) and they both share some interesting moments together, most notably, in the final three episodes. David Harbour plays police chief, Jim Hopper, and progressively propels into his character as he digs deeper into the strange 'missing boy' case. Last but certainly not least, the Kids (Finn Wolfhard, Gaten Matarazzo & Caleb McLaughlin) are enthralling, fascinating and hugely entertaining as they search for their friend, Will (Noah Schnapp), and ultimately take the screen with surprisingly genuine, adult performances. Highlighting Matarazzo (Dustin) and Wolfhard (Mike) as my consistent favourites during my experience with the show.Kyle Dixon & Michael Stein are in control of the score, taking huge inspiration from the 1980s, using synthesisers to construct an incredible ensemble soundtrack that in some way feels like its own character. Along with the show taking critical acclaim, the soundtrack manages to find an audience, be it fans of the show, composers, directors, producers, it seems everyone wants this sound in their work. Dixon & Stein have crafted and presented a stunning score, from the opening theme to the closing credits.Something the show creators, set decorators, designers and costume departments have worked hard on is featuring many references paying homage to classic 70s/80s movies, and while it's packed with them, the writers strive in staying original in the storytelling. The plot is seemingly simple, yet once you begin watching you notice how complex it really is. Every episode is filled with mystery and tension. Even when you think the story is heading somewhere predictable, it alters drastically and heads off in another direction. I strongly believe that this is greatly due to its short run of eight episodes. There's no 'filler' episode in this show. It's an entirely fast-paced, energetic and powerful running length which will have you binge watching until you've seen it all. Lucky for us, a second season has been confirmed by Netflix, with a further nine episodes coming in 2017.Verdict; There's simply nothing quite like Stranger Things. It's enthralling, engaging, emotional, heartfelt, funny, smart, complex and certainly entertains the viewer. Did I mention it also has a killer soundtrack? You're right, I did. - Stranger Things is now streaming on Netflix.Stranger Things: Season One, 10/10.


                
You can't go wrong with that. Combining actual good Horror with the feeling of Nostalgia was a great idea by Netflix. Nostalgia is the underrated feel-good feeling, this will make any person look back on something and think of mostly the good instead of the bad. Stranger Things utilizes this perfectly, making its atmosphere somehow nostalgic even for people who didn't live during that time it's set in. This is both a good and bad thing for the show.Binging the first season when it came out, I absolutely loved it. The show was scary, and also very interesting. It had great characters that you could really connect with, similar to my favorite shows The Walking Dead, Breaking Bad and Lost. The actors were great as well, and as I said, they really drew you in to the time period. Season 1 overall was a great accomplishment and a fun experience.Season 2 really dipped in quality, but in reality it would've been impossible to match up to season 1. My interest in this series has waned after season 2, and I can't help, but wonder what went wrong. Only thing I can think of is that nostalgia factor starting to wear off. Once that occurs, one can see the show more clearly. This is why I said the nostalgia was both a positive and a negative.Overall, I find Stranger Things to be an overrated series. Not to the degree something like Game of Thrones is, albeit slightly overrated. The first season deserves the love it gets as it was something extremely nostalgic and interesting, similar to Star Wars: The Force Awakens (That too used nostalgia to make the movie better, and it worked, hiding the recycled plot though). Season 2 of Stranger Things doesn't deserve the reaction it got in my opinion. Some people understand this deep down, from the blatantly terrible filler episode towards the end of the season, but others still rave as it being one of the best series' ever. Season 2 is not disimilar to Star Wars: The Last Jedi. In that, now the nostalgia factor has worn off and we can see the story on its own, and it's not too impressive.I don't want to write a review just bashing the show, because I do like and enjoy it, but it becoming a cultural phenomenon is something I cannot understand. Seeing it spread to even younger kids just leaves me feeling cringed about it. Leaving off on a positive note, Stranger Things features good acting, and horror setpieces with that classic Horror feel. It's score is incredible and nostalgic, much like the rest of the series. I definitely recommend it, but as with other shows as big as this, don't buy into the hype and you'll enjoy it. Set your expectations to be entertained by the horror and nostalgia and don't look for anything too compelling or emotional.My Rating: 7.5/10


                
Just finished binge watching the entire first season. Not a bad show and entertaining enough.Chuck Carrie, Poltergeist, Stand by me, The Goonies, E.T. and a touch of Resident Evil into a blender and you end up with something like this show. They done a great job in creating a show that feels like a genuine 80's blockbuster including Synthesiser Score and all.The acting and script are great and you will actually care about the characters.The first 4 episodes are a little slow but never boring. Not much re-watch value but an entertaining show none the less.


                
Firstly, I feel I need to give you a disclaimer and tell you that I'm a big fan of most of Spielberg movies, so I could be biased. JJ Abrams' Super8 didn't blow me away and this definitely has the same DNA, and this is really good. The story, the soundtrack to the amazing child actors, all so good, especially Millie Bobby Brown who is incredible as Eleven. I must be hooked because I watched all the episodes in one go and I've got to go to work early tomorrow. All actors involved put in genre perfect performances, and it was nice seeing Winona Ryder in a major acting role again, although I think of Heathers whenever she's on screen, but that's just me. The only downside, if I had to choose one, is the monster effects aren't blockbuster movie quality, Hopefully, they'll be better in season 2 and it can't come soon enough. All credit to Netflix, they really seem to know what they're doing.


                
Just finished binge watching it. I'm just in love with the setting, the universe they bring back to us. Did you ever wanted that E.T or Goonies went on for 8 hours??? This was it. Just top notch production top to bottom, easter eggs everywhere and many goodies to enjoy a fine piece of work. Characters are lovable an relatable. The story arch was clear and well designed even with twists like the redemption of the douche jock and the "odd couple born from distress" not ending up together, with a just enough open ending that probably will stay like that and that's fine (I won't complain if there's a second season, but these guys will probably end up getting some big franchise to write and direct like the Russo brothers did (What is it about brothers working together... Just Magnific. Even the Washowskis in some points)Obviously this doesn't reinvents the genre, but it was an excellent work from everybody involved in the production. You can feel the 80 's alive in this one and if you have little boys you can show them how it felt to be a kid back then, to be a child watching the world through TV and movies.And to the hipsters that think that this was an average series i tell them to go a write a soul for them. Because if you go and find these mediocre "at best" (as someone said) i feel really sorry for you and probably your family hates spending Christmas with you.I'm 37 years old and for 8 hours i was 7 again. And that's priceless for me.Just watch it. Really...


                
"Stranger Things 2" (2017) is the second season that serves as a sequel for "Stranger Things" (2016). The season continues the story of Eleven, actually named Jane, (Millie Bobby Brown) as she discovers the potential of her powers and her past. The gang is also back with Mike (Finn Wolfhard), Dustin (Gaten Matarazzo), Lucas (Caleb McLaughlin) and Will (Noah Schnapp) trying to assimilate the strange events that took place last season and the arrival of newcomer Max (Sadie Sink). Mike's older sister, Nancy (Natalia Dyer), also struggles to cope with last season's traumatic events alongside Steve (Joe Keery) and Jonathan (Charlie Heaton), Will's older brother. The story that was started last season evolves and grows organically during season 2. The protagonists grow as characters as they are faced with new challenges and old mysteries. With a number of different story arcs, most of the characters' range of emotions, aspirations and personalities are deepened in interesting new ways (Including a love triangle or two). During season 2 some characters enter new relationships and dynamics that were not seen during season 1, allowing for some tense, adorable, and funny memorable moments. Moreover the series' mythology is expanded, building on some aspects from the past, while bringing new demons to haunt Hawkins (Like the Big Bad). However some questions are left unanswered or unaddressed, perhaps to be dealt with during future seasons (Yes, the story allows itself to be built upon by the end). Also some issues that arise during the story are ignored completely (Especially Eleven's disdain for a specific character or the consequences of some of Dustin's decisions). Nevertheless these minor details do not detract from the experience of the story. As with last season, season 2 continues to execute the story with undeniable style and 1980's groove. With a noticeable increase on budget, the results are clearly evident. The visual effects have improved, and allow for a complexity and richness that was not possible for a debuting series. That 1980's atmosphere was visible with a myriad references and easter eggs (From posters on the wall to E.T memorabilia) to electronics, clothing and hairstyles, the setting felt real and helped me immerse into the story. Also noteworthy is the score. Besides the expected popular 1980's music used (A bit of everything from Bon Jovi to Sting and the Police to Metallica) the soundtrack produced by Kyle Dixon and Michael Stein sets a great tone and serves the story well. Overall nostalgia is served and those who appreciated that aesthetic last time around will not be disappointed.Viewers from last season will know that great acting is not a stranger to the series, despite the so far short career of most of the protagonists. Eleven stands out as the character faces a wide range of struggles that demand a different set of emotions (From boredom to outrage to joy) Millie Bobby brown seems to always understand and be in command of her character with an expertise that would appear beyond her years. The character has grown and the actress with her. David Harbour as bad-ass Jim Hopper delivers another great performance as his character evolves into a somewhat different role from last season's (As he becomes close to a certain protagonist) and avoids a few devious traps his performance could have fallen into. In general the ensemble of quirky and nerdy kids delivers another stellar performance and sets the bar for future standards for child acting. "Stranger Things 2" delivers some great enjoyable moments and proves to be a story with spirit and emotion that allows its characters to grow while expanding on the mythology without giving it all away. Unanswered questions and inconsequential characters do not detract from a well executed story and an entertaining and captivating experience. Stranger Things retains its superior place amongst Netflix and Television Royalty.


                
I am one of those people that was put of by the thought that this was a kid's drama, from the advertising you'd swear this was aimed at a 4 o'clock after school transmission time, the reality is far from that. It's quite intense drama, thoroughly absorbing, the kind of show you can't help but binge watch. As someone that grew up in the Eighties, I can appreciate the detail that's gone into the production, it's like they slipped back and filmed it live, it is incredibly well made. I utterly love the music, it is so fitting, takes me back to wonderful eighties shows. Quality in both season one and two, I like the build up and tension that is abundant in the first. It's like the Goonies meets The Quatermass Experiment.


                
As expected, true to his '80s nostalgia nature, the second season of "Stranger Things" takes the sequel path - and it does so in the best possible way: it's definitely in the alley of "Empire Strikes Back" or "Aliens" rather than the trite "more of the same" approach.The story builds on the previous installment as we find the characters where we left them at the end of the last season. The attention to details, the '80s feeling, the references - that were the trademark of season 1 - are all still there while the character driven narrative moves forward.The idea of splitting the main characters is a risk that pays off, giving each character room to breath and to grow on their own. The newbies also work, although a couple of them aren't as focused as they could've been.The story is cohesive and well told, a little darker in places and a little more action-y at times (but not to the point of becoming pointless or annoying) - and it manages to be perfectly self-contained, while still planting enough seeds for future seasons to grow around.The usual amount of references and homages (with several new ones throw in the mix) prevent it from be really innovative or deeply creative, but that's not a bad thing, here, and the material is very well executed.Great cast all around, strong performances - although, someone must've told young Finn Wolfhard that he was one of the best actor from the previous season as he tries to overdo himself, here, sometimes going a bit overboard (and, at times, it feels like he's using his character to audition for a young Kylo Ren in the Star Wars franchise). Nothing major, though, and it doesn't subtract from the enjoyment.All in all, the numerous 10 stars it's getting are definitely over- rating, but it's a solid, well rounded 8/10 experience.


                
Very pleasant surprise. Netflix and Duffer bros pretty much nailed it. An elaborate and hard working homage to John Carpenter, Spielberg, Raimi, Stephen King and other horror-adventure masters of the 70's and 80's that also stands on it's own legs.While Stranger Things does lack sometimes finely timed emotional punch and doesn't go full escalation in some cases, it still blinds with quality. From atmosphere to music, nice story, good characters and damn fine actors, this Netflix show is a great viewing.I'm not going to spoil anything, story is interesting and if show's synopsis here is not enough for you, then you'll just have to check the show for yourself. It does play with some sci-fi/horror standards, sometimes diving in completely, sometimes defying them but almost always is treating it's story and legacy with respect. Yes, it is a bit of nostalgia-bate but it uses that as an advantage and not cheap gimmick, which I find important to make it more distinct from other projects that solely bank on cheap nostalgic tricks.I'm totally recommending it and hoping that we'll get Season 2 or something similar.


                
Right at the beginning - is this a good show? Yes. Is this the best thing since sliced bread? No. I don't think that the show deserves so much praise as it gets. There's almost a pathological sense of nostalgia nowadays and I would ascribe a lot of the series success to it's setting in the 80's. The feeling of the "good old days" is so abundant in the audience that they'll swallow pretty much anything with the retro vibe and continue to ask for more. So, let's put off those nostalgia glasses and be realistic. The series deserves praise for the execution since it's good enough to keep you engaged and make you binge watch the whole season. On the other hand, so many things have already been seen in other movies/series that there's no sense of originality (at least for me). If you are a long term fan of the genre, there's almost nothing new to see here. But if you're a newcomer, this will be a nice initiation into this type of movies/series and hopefully it will encourage you to dig deeper and find all the other works that inspired this one. For the beginning start with the one I've put in the tittle. Happy hunting.


                
I'm a fan of Stranger Things. Its yet another retro series but this one works for a whole variety of reasons where others have failed. First of all its well cast, with characters who have an 80's vibe. There's the stressed out working mother capably played by Winona Ryder complimented by a Goonies style group of kids who really fit their roles, right up to the 80's hairdo's and love of classically nerdy, Dungeons and Dragons. Its good stuff backed up by sound story lines that taps into a myriad of 80's films and television series with a sci fi, horror, conspiracy theory twist. All in all, there's a lot to like here and I hope as this series progresses, the nostalgia train rolls on offering more "strange tales" from the era of Ronald Regan, Thatcher and Pac Man. Eight out of ten from me.


                
Stranger Things is an impressive show with a beautiful homage to the 80's and clever sci-fi and horror themes mixed together. It feels like a Steven King story made by Steven Spielberg.Right from the beginning of Episode 1 you're intrigued and eager to find out what happens next. The story is a little slow, but it has plenty of twists and turns to keep everyone interested.The casting is extremely well done. The kid's acting is very impressive, especially from Millie Bobby Brown.My only problem is that Season 2 wasn't as good as Season 1. Don't get me wrong, it's still quality, it just can't live up to the expectations after such a fantastic first season. The Duffer Brothers said that the second season was going to be 'bigger and darker' and it seemed to get a bit out of hand. The plot is a bit lack-luster, and the stakes don't feel quite as high. It gets off to a slow start and is a bit confusing to follow. The finale was good but I was disappointed in the lack of screen time that the Mind Flayer got.The Eleven story arc is not only confusing but also disappointing, and her solo episode was unenjoyable and boring. This was upsetting because she was outstanding in the first season. Still, the second season is very well done, with each new character fitting in seamlessly. Max especially was a welcome addition to the team, adding a bit more fire. It's still a quality show and overall well worth a watch.


                
Basically this shows is pretty good besides the fact they copy every 80s TV cliché and movie from that time out there.from Alf ..Back to the future two ...lord of the rings to the hobbit cartoons and big props to poltergeist plus a little Freddy Krueger in it LOLnot kidding very addictive show I watched it in two days eight hours of my time that because Netflix is doing a pretty good job these days surprisingly..with the fallout of Neflix stocks recently and the rate increases LOL JK JK


                
Much have been written about this series love for the early 80s. And it's understandable. The whole period of John Carpenter, Steven Spielberg, teenage horror-movies and cold war paranoia has been mixed together to a real tasty love potion. If you're too young and don't love the 80s for sentimental reasons you probably will after a few episodes of Stranger Things.The story is set in a small rural town and revolves around a missing boy. His friends is soon dragged into a mystery and an adventure. Goonies and I.T. with the BMX bikes, nerds turning into heroes and a friendship story worthy a Spielberg movie. But there is so much more. The older sister have her own problems and her adventure makes an equally intriguing and fun story including all the ingredients for a classic high school horror movie. Under age drinking, skinny dipping and stupid boyfriends. And finally there is the confused and distraught mother and the towns sheriff also trying to solve the mystery.What impresses me the most is how the series manages to keep all three parts of the plot relevant and interesting all the way to the climax. The pacing is mostly perfect and so is the acting. The child characters are all well played, specially Millie Bobby Brown as Eleven and the funny character Dustin played by Gaten Matarazzo. Of course Winona Ryder is brilliant as the desperate mother.The 80s atmosphere is well set with great horror sequences with the mandatory light flickering, scare jumps and electronic music that could have been made by John Carpenter. There is a lot of John Carpenter stuff going on here and it's great. Some of the inspirations for the series are even featured in one way or the other. Stephen King, The Thing, Michael Myers, and a few more. The only weaknesses I can find here is the somewhat uninteresting bad guys. And David Harbours sheriff doesn't do it for me. His character don't add up so to speak. There is something missing there. But these minor flaws are very minor.Stranger Things is defiantly some of the best TV I've seen for the last three years or so.


                
Stranger Things is really very good, captures all the magic of the 80s and all the nostalgy, but missing something crucial, the music. The music of the 80s, A-ha, Mr. Mister, Cindy Looper, White Snake or something like that, at a certain time only is heard "Africa" and the series really came alive in the 80s. The series needs more music known of the 80s, just for this is not excellent. Stranger Things is really very good, captures all the magic of the 80s and all the nostalgy, but missing something crucial, the music. The music of the 80s, A-ha, Mr. Mister, Cindy Looper, White Snake or something like that, at a certain time only is heard "Africa" and the series really came alive in the 80s. The series needs more music known of the 80s, just for this is not excellent.


                
This review is of season one. No spoilers. "Stranger Things" doesn't only feel like a Stephen King story, it feels like a collage of them. If you're familiar with King's classic books and stories, you will recognize many things and feel right at home. It's like a homage from people who KNOW what makes those stories and characters tick. The resemblance is uncanny, and that's probably why the man is referenced in the show a couple of times. I want to add that this doesn't feel like watching an average Stephen King adaptation, but more like reading an above-average story of his. That is a plus. While I focus mostly on King in this review, "Stranger Things" is full of references from E.T. to some more modern stuff as well, often to a point where you feel bombarded with it, if you're very familiar with a few decades of pop-culture. It won't bother young people that much, but the older you are the more you see it. The sheer volume and unabashed use of these elements can be distracting at times, and at no point is this series original.That said, "Stranger Things" manages to be quite good. This is a fairly simple show with a lot of effective storytelling to make it more engaging than most supernatural horror shows. Time is not wasted on filler, so if you think you're watching filler, you're likely to be surprised soon after. There's a lot of setup and payoff, lots of simple metaphors, lots of exposition that's written well into the story.The pacing is to be complimented too, because the story never stops and you aren't forced to care about trivial happenings, trivial people or their relationships. The writing/directing is often spot on concerning this. If the story makes you suddenly intrigued about something, that's exactly what you'll get, not endless hours of dancing around it.Many things, including several characters, are very simplistic - almost in a way that many people would call dumb - but I mean this in the best possible way. I loved the simple nature of things: if a character looks like a douche, it's a bad guy. Sometimes your sympathies shift, as if to make characters seem more deep, but it's just simple manipulation. That's it, no forced subtlety. Things are charmingly blunt, and it works to the show's advantage. The actors and characters deserve some praise. Either they're straight up good, and if sometimes they're not, they're still entertaining. David Harbour is charismatic and pleasing to watch whenever on screen, and Winona Ryder's got a somewhat entertaining nerve-wreck of a character to play, even though her performance sometimes annoyed me a little. But none of this could work without Millie Bobby Brown, who does a good job. Child actors usually make me cringe and take me out of whatever I'm watching, but she handled her role very well with a certain sense of powerful restraint. Her character, "Eleven", is the dramatic heart of the series, which makes her performance that much more important. Most of the time I could enjoy the other child actors too, and the trio consisting of Wolfhard-Matarazzo-McLaughlin made me often think of "Stand By Me" or "IT", that certain way how Stephen King writes his child characters and their friendships.Where "Stranger Things" fails is in some of the special effects and the lack of original, beating heart. I know this is a TV show with a budget. That is why I can't fathom why they chose CGI so often instead of practical effects. Because when it's practical, it's quite good, charming and interesting. When it's not, it takes you out of the moment. In the '80s (which is the time period for the series as well), the rule of "not showing too much" wasn't just because of building suspense, but also because what they had to show was often horrible, so they had to be creative with several methods. And this is where it becomes more baffling: there are instances in this show where the effects are very, very good. There is a certain thing they do with lighting, water and a weird contrast where everything is black instead of where the light is. CGI was only used to slightly enhance the effect, it wasn't the effect itself. It looked amazing, and it worked storytelling-wise (although I hear these visuals are ripped off from "Under the Skin"). You could put that into a 200-million dollar X-men movie any day. So more of this, and less of "CGI creature moving into a flat shot".The lack of originality can shine through at times, be it story elements or visual shots imitating someone else's work. Even if the story was pretty good, at times I felt like I was watching well-made fan fiction and it took me out of the experience. You either embrace it, endure it or hate it. My feelings shifted between like and endure, but I can't blame anyone for hating it either. In the end, I liked "Stranger Things" a lot more than I thought I would. It's great escapism and while it's quite simple and blunt in the end, it does what many shows don't: It cuts to the chase, doesn't dance around the subject, doesn't treat its audience like idiots and it boasts a variety of effective methods to tell a story. No artificial prolonging (at least yet), no filler, no nonsense. Recommended not only for fans of throwbacks and Stephen King's classic stories, but for everyone bored of shows that don't know how to handle their material.edit: I've been hearing that season two will be about the same characters, and about continuing the same story. It certainly seems like another case of not knowing when to quit. It's a plague that's killed many stories, series and franchises. "Stranger Things" season one is good, but I'm very cynical about season two.


                
I think that Stranger Things is an awesome show. It keeps you wanting more and its a breath of fresh air to have really talented children as the main characters in a show that is not necessarily aimed at younger viewers but adults as well.I do however think the show has been so hyped up and slightly overrated when there are shows which don't get the recognition they deserve and are just as good, if not better than Stranger Things!


                
1st series
8/10
Superb
80s feel
Just a great series.. acting isn't bad at all.
The chemistry between characters is great.Series 2
Slightly different
I'll give it 5/10
Did seem to fall compared to The first series..
But not unwatchable.


                
Call me crazy, but even with how much I enjoyed the crowd-pleasing first season, I thought this follow-up was even better: It's more focused, there's less need for set-up, while the narrative moves forward at breakneck speed without ever feeling compromised or rushed. The cast is just as strong in this second season, with Winona Ryder finding room for optimism for her perpetually-distraught character and aided greatly by support from the always-welcome Sean Astin, but the standout is clearly Noah Schnapp, whose Will here goes through quite the narrative arc. My only complain would be Dacre Montgomery's Billy: While Montgomery's performance radiates with charisma and star power, the character has little relevance to the overall story and feels more like an unnecessary distraction. Nevertheless, this is one of the strongest follow-ups to a juggernaut original, expanding on what made the first entry so great without becoming a facsimile of it.


                
I was looking through all of these IMDB reviews, and most of them I completely disagree with. So I thought I'd make my own review about my thoughts on this amazing show.First of all I'd like to praise the acting, and it is great. The child acting is not cringy at all. In fact, it's better acting than what most adults could do. The adult acting is also incredible! So I'd say the acting is perfect!Now I'll talk about the story. I've seen some people saying "It all relys on nostalgia!". And as someone whose seen each episode multiple times, I can say that isn't true. Sure, it has lots of nostalgia, but there's also an original story that will keep you hooked from the first episode. Each episode ends with great cliffhangers that make you want to keep watching!And I just want to quickly talk about the dialogue. It's good and believable. There's one line in Season Two that I thought was crap, but everything else is good.I'll briefly talk about some small stuff in this paragraph. First I'll talk about the CGI. It looks pretty good, about the quality of a modern Star Wars movie. Now onto the music, ITS SO GOOOOOD!!So yeah, I love this show and I highly recommend it.


                
Yes it is full of 80's nostalgia, but that is not necessarily a bad thing at all. The cinematography is just amazing, the kids' performances are fantastic, the story is... well, the story is just OK. Considering that i'm writing this review with only first season aired, i believe some of the major flaws will be properly fixed for the next seasons. The show has a great potential, but DO NOT expect an "10" show, nor ever an "9.1". My eight is far generous, could be an 7.5 with honors. I recommend watching the first couple episodes, and if you're not hooked, don't waste any more time. It's a show for people who like an specific kind of sci-fi and are not too exigent.


                
What an amazing new series! I was getting tired of hearing about all these supposedly amazing TV shows, such as Game of Thrones, The Walking Dead and Breaking Bad that people always talk about, so when I heard there was a new entry to that list I said screw it, and jumped in, and boy was it great.At the beginning the show follows 5 different perspectives of the story, Mike and the gang, Joyce, Hopper, Nancy, and Jonathan. Even though there were a lot of characters I didn't struggle to remember any names, as I usually do. This isn't because they said their names a lot, but more because all of the characters felt like real people, they were believable.Later on the 5 perspectives change into 3, Mike and the gang, Nancy and Jonathan, and Hopper and Joyce. Each team are uncovering one piece of the puzzle, making it extremely satisfying when everyone teams up in the end, so that every character knows everything.Every writer nailed it, and every actor/actress did an extremely good job, so it is difficult to find flaws here, and I tried to ignore them, but the same one kept showing up.The biggest "problem" is that the CGI (special effects) -team was either too small for the job or didn't have a big enough budget to keep the quality consistent. I'll try keeping this spoiler free, but there is one scene with a knife and a big jump, where the special effects are just not believable and it really pulls you out of the experience. Hopefully you know what scene I'm talking about if you've seen the show. Now that I come to think of it this next part reminds me a lot of the situation the director of Jaws had when they were filming, which was that the shark didn't look very good, so they had to keep it off- screen for most of the film to not ruin it. It is very much the same with Stranger Things, because in fight scenes with the monster in the last episode the lights keep blinking a lot, not only did this save the CGI team a lot of work, but it also saved the viewers the feeling of this not being real. But there is nothing wrong with that, because they solved the problem, well the thing is that they sort of took it back, since in one of the last scenes with Eleven the monster simply doesn't look realistic enough.I would still be willing to give it a 10/10 if that was it, because everything else is just so well done, but the final small detail that made me go to a 9 was that the last episode had me thinking the episode was ending like 5 times. The final 4-6 scenes were directed in such a way that it always looked like the credits were about to come up, making me actually want the episode to end instead of the opposite.All in all, watch this show. I can actually guarantee you that you'll like it, if it was possible to give a 9.7 I would do that.Watch it.


                
Honestly, I've never been a fan of science fiction, so I didn't think I was going to like it as much as everyone else does. But I'm pleasantly surprised. I mean, it's not the greatest show I've ever seen, but I watched the first season over two days and I can't wait for more. One of the best things about Stranger Things is the acting. I'm always impressed when kids can act because I know when I was a kid I would've been so over the top and dramatic, but for the most part these kids are total naturals, specifically Millie Brown and Gaten Matarazzo. They were better than some of the adults. The kids reminded me of a blend of The Goonies, Stand By Me, and Freaks & Geeks, which I really loved because it was great to see characters like that again and it just felt right for the story. My one complaint however was the swearing, especially in front of parents. I'm not sure why the media always has young kids swearing but that is so unrealistic to me. I never knew any kids that swore when I was that age. I'm not offended by swearing, it's just that it was a bit distracting because it felt like they were trying too hard. The relationship between the actors felt so real; you really believed they had grown up together and were the best of friends. There were only a couple actors that I felt shouldn't have been cast, but for the most part the cast was perfect. I couldn't believe how few roles so many of them have had, and yet they were so believable. From the very first episode you are completely hooked. The intro is so short and simple yet it's perfect. The music and graphics go so well together. It's not an opening credits that you feel like skipping. There was one scene when my jaw dropped and I knew instantly there was going to be so much to uncover. I loved the story lines and the nostalgic feeling I had when watching Stranger Things. A time before Internet and cell phones, when kids used their imagination and went on adventures. I grew up in the nineties and it's rare to find a show these days that doesn't rely heavily on being current. I was glad that there was hardly any sex in this show (I'm sounding like a complete prude, I know) because I think that will give it a chance for teens to watch it with their parents without it being awkward or too mature for younger viewers. This is the type of show we need right now. Just a good, suspenseful, mysterious drama to indulge in. It's the perfect blend of scifi and drama and I can't wait to find out what happens next season.


                
