I saw Toy Story in theaters when it first came out and it was alright but I wasn't impressed. Over the years I've come to dislike it rather than feeling neutral toward it. The concept of the movie wasn't new to me because I had already seen the Jim Henson film The Christmas Toy which was basically the same but instead of Woody the cowboy being the main character it was a tiger plush toy named Rigby and I prefer puppetry over CG anyway. Given that this movie was made in the early days of CG the people look really weird and fake, almost creepy, even the good characters. It seems to mainly focus on the petty squabbles between the jealous cowboy and the delusional spaceman. While the film has a few jokes the kids might not get, my over all impression is that the whole story lacks depth. You could maybe read between the lines and infer things but the movie glosses over most of the more serious stuff to keep the mood light. I didn't find any of the characters particularly likable either.


                
I didn't see this until recently and it might have a lot to do with this show just being older now but the movie didn't look very good, the effects were all pretty out of date. I'm sure they were good at the time but they really don't hold up. The story was just OK and very predictable even for a children's movie. I liked some of the one liners but there wasn't much point for me in watching this, I didn't enjoy it and knew everything that was going to happen. It also probably didn't help that I am not a fan of Tom Hanks or the Tool Time guy (Tim Allen?) who did the voice of Buzz Lightyear. Saw the other Toy Story movies first and didn't like them very much either. Maybe I am just a stick in the mud!


                
I didn't care for most of the characters in this film. They were too mean spirited and I don't like Tom Hanks. The story was sadistic and I have seen better films on this theme. The Christmas Toy by Jim Henson is much warmer. On the good side I enjoyed the minor characters, especially the snake. I also liked the end title duet. The score was good too. I wasn't over impressed by the animation since I consider story & characters to be more important. Since I didn't like those I can't recommend this. But if you do want to see great animation Ice Age & Anastasia are two of the best. Disney are not as cute as they used to be and that is not a good thing. 3/10


                
