I have to say, I understand that James Coburn is supposed to be the token Australian. This is despite the book being written by an Australian, Paul Brickhill. His Australian Accent has to be the worst in History...! That is saying a lot, because I do not know how it is difficult, for American Actors have such difficult with our accent, when it is easy for Aussies to play Americans!


                
This came third in Channel 4's recent 100 GREATEST WAR MOVIES poll a few months ago which did rather surprise me since I've always found it somewhat overrated but it does remain a fairly entertaining American movie Yes THE GREAT ESCAPE is an American movie and I'm glad that the IMDb classes it so . It's directed by an American , is produced and financed by an American studio and most ironic of all the theme tune that is adopted and chanted by English football fans was written by the American composer Elmer Bernstien . It may contain many British actors but notice also the likes of Garner , Bronson and Coburn playing British Commonwealth characters which is down to what's known as " Audience identification " ie if a movie is made with American money the Yanks want their movie to do well in America hence nearly every " British " movie you see has a major character played by an American actor As for the story itself everyone has seen the movie ( We in Britain get to see it almost once a year usually at Xmas ) so I won't linger on it too long except to say it comes in what can only be described as two parts . The first part centres on the build up of the escape with the movie's tongue firmly in its cheek ( Werner the stupid German , man jumps on bunk and it collapses etc ) with the prisoners on the run making up the second part of the story which is more serious in tone . Also watch out for the ironic scene early in the film where a character chastises someone for replying in English to a question in German as the escapees plan their escape with the character later on making the same mistake himself . Who says Americans have irony deficiency ?


                
Fun, optimistic prisoner-of-war movie about a group of Allied POWs put into a German camp exclusively for those who tend to try to escape. Thus, they try to escape, en masse. Care is put into the camaraderie, personality, and general friendliness of most of the characters, while showing in a couple scenes how nevertheless the imprisoned life is slowly demoralizing some of the men.The escape itself is interesting, but the movie really didn't focus a lot on the watchful Goons (Nazis), making it seem at times as if the whole camp is given free reign to just do what they choose--obviously, making escape much more likely. Somehow I kind of expect the whole ordeal that this movie is based off of was a bit more challenging and paranoid, and I would have liked to see that.Where the movie does get really good is post-escape, as the several characters split ways and attempt to get out of the country, to various results. Steve McQueen's bike chase is, of course, a famous scene, made all the more silly by the knowledge that McQueen himself is the one who suggested it, and all the more riveting because his own bike is used and he also doubled for one of the Germans, meaning in this movie Steve McQueen chases himself. One thing few prison or prisoner-of-war escape movies tend to focus on is the problem of getting back into the world after outside the prison walls--those movies tend to assume that once the tunnel is dug, freedom is pretty much a skip and a leap away. It's much more compelling to see the POWs trying to blend in, sneak through, hide, steal, row, ride, and fly their way out of the country.--PolarisDiB
Performance by the characters leaves behind the direction. Steve McQueen is no doubt the star performer with his bike chase and all. The plot is gripping towards the end. The Germans guards in the prison are shown to be incredibly lenient. Imagine which prison (that too German) would give such mild punishments to its inmate for escaping the 17th time! The movie is all about smart ideas to escape from the prison and there the movie scores pretty well. I am not saying it outwits modern day movies but its quite realistic.Its quite exciting to imagine yourself (temporarily!) in place of the prisoners. Despite the leverage the movie deserves for being based on a true story, the movie is a good watch. I give it a 7.


                
Loved this movie was action filled and exciting with the stunt work for the Steve McQueen chase scene was a classic. The movie is about a true escape from a POW camp during WW2. The movie was star studded and well done and I think the characters that I adored the most were the James Garner character and the Donald Pleasance characters as they just brought a humanity to the screen. I liked the fact that the movie was full of character and had a sense of hope in it as the prisoners tunnelled out yet if I did have a problem with the movies it was with the Richard Attenbrough character and his cohorts as the leaders. I found they did nothing in many regards while everyone else was working hard with the tunnel while their characters just did squat. I was not sad to see them shot but was saddened when Donald Pleasance character died and that is because they were unlikeable compared to the rest.
And I should have put 'execution' between two crosses, but it might have given away the film's ending (and problem) despite the spoiler warning. Anyway, I start my review.For some reason, it took me till my 35th year to discover "The Great Escape". That's the catch with classics; they're so iconic you never really "discover" them. From that Simpsons' episode parodying the great escape with Maggie's glorious quest for the hidden pacifier, driven by Elmer Bernstein's score (and a cool nod to the "cooler" scene), I knew "The Great Escape". Of course, I can also mention the parodies of Steve McQueen's climactic motorcycle jump over the barbed wires and the stellar cast so typical of these testosterone-laden action flicks of the 60's, "Guns of Navarone", "The Dirty Dozen" and of course, John Sturges' previous classic "The Magnificent Seven".I thought I knew everything about the film and needless to say that I heightened my expectation so high they really crashed into the realization that I've been misinformed all along. I love a movie that surprises me but I didn't expect that film to end that way. To put it simply: well, no one really escaped and those who did ended up being executed in the most cold-blooded and anti-climactic way. Now that was one downer ending that I didn't see coming, but it makes sense since the film insisted so much that it was based on a true story, only names were changed (the leader Burshell became Bartlett, played by an excellent Richard Attenborough) and some characters were composite of real-life personalities. Also no Americans took part to the escape but the producers wanted to include Steve McQueen and give him a substantial role. This is where the film gets more problematic.As long as I was convinced that it would culminate with the spectacular jump, it was all worth the dated elements. Every member of the organization had a cool-nickname, James Garner the Scrounger, Donald Pleasance the Forger, Charles Bronson the Tunnel King, James Coburn the Manufacturer and McQueen has the coolest of all, The Cooler King, every guy is bad-ass in a way or another, every element of the escape is handled with the kind of meticulous precision the film can only get away with it on its "true story" premise, and there's that upbeat music from Bernstein.There's never a moment where you film the Germans in their usual mercilessness, the life in the camp seems pretty idle and we accept the notion of a POW having to escape as a duty in order to disorient the enemy and create as much confusion as possible. But there's never a moment where you feel that lives are at stakes, on an individual level maybe, but no in a crime-of-war "fashion".As long as I expected a great escape, I enjoyed every bit of the film. But then something happened: Steve McQueen crashed on the barbed-wire fences and surrendered. If McQueen, the Cooler King didn't make it, then there was nothing really great about that escape. But the final nail on the coffin of my disappointment was the execution. I had followed Bartlett and McCallum all through the film and while their finale exchange before they hear the machine gun getting armed is poignant and beautifully done, the film had lost me. The bonus features went on great lengths about the real operation: what a tragic ending, what a waste of lives. I love the unease of the camp officer when announcing that everyone was dead, and when James Donald is told that fifty prisoners were shot while escaping and there was no wounded, it was easy to connect the dots.In a way, this was a story that needed to be told, it is powerful and it does pay a tribute to these tragic heroes, the fifty who underestimated the cruelty of the enemy, but the way the escape is all set-up makes the ending feel like belonging to another movie. All the gags, the funny moments had lost their charm and worse, I felt that Steve McQueen wasn't fit for the film, which is perhaps the worst thing you can say about it. I don't mean I wish he wasn't in the film but it's obvious (and it's proved in the trivia) that McQueen wanted to have a role as big as in "Magnificent Seven" and this time he had no YulBrynner to rival with, no need to touch his hat or enhance his presence, his presence enhanced the film but not for the best. McQueen is as cool as an ice cube on a glass of potato vodka. But this film called for a 'Papillon' performance, when it ends with the same cooler moment, and the theme started playing, I didn't feel any reason to smile or be happy.This aspect is also represented by the Forger's arc, Donald Pleasance plays the man who goes blind and thanks to the Scrounger's help, he manages to slip through the net until Garner decides to fly a plane in a scene that seems like gratuitous action spice and leading to his killing anyway. Of course, the weak, bald, blind guy didn't fit and Garner goes back to the camp without a scratch. McQueen goes back, learns about the deaths and then goes play ball in his cooler. The film is the weirdest cocktail of emotions, being too cinematic for its tragic material.I enjoyed every bit of it at first, it sure has the thrills, the cast, the music, but the ending called for a more serious treatment. I guess I was mislead, but even the story is about people who were mislead by some misconception and ending executed. I still can't give the film a six given how iconic it is, so I give it a 7 but not magnificent one.
The movie dramatizes the true story of a great escape of POW's from the Stalag Luft III camp in Upper Silesia, today Poland, during WW II. The script was written by James Clavell (Shogun, Tai-Pan) based on a novel by Paul Brickhill. The plot of the film is a little bit romanticized but nevertheless truly to the facts, and so it is a homage to the airmen cruelly executed by the Nazis. The movie is largely benefited of the participation of a set of known actors which do a very good job. The director John Sturges sets a light tone, with a lot of humor, smoothing the film, considering the cruel destiny of the fugitives. We can divide the movie in two parts. On the first, we see how the escape is planned and all the details of the preparation of a such a huge escape are presented: how to build the tunnels, the forgery of the documents, the making of the civil clothes, and so on. On the second part, we see how the fugitives try to get to a neutral country and the different approaches tried for each one: robbing a motorcycle and running to the frontier, traveling by train to France, going on foot sneaking through the fields, etc. Finally, I think that the scene of the execution of the 50 fugitives chosen is particularly touching and we feel grateful to the courage of these men, who fought the Nazis till the end.
This isn't the most exciting or suspenseful escape movie. I was actually a bit bored from time to time while sitting through this one. But I do have respect and appreciation for this ensemble piece that is based on a true story. And how it tried to stay true to what really went down. I was surprised though at how it goes in a more civilized and whimsical direction despite it being a P.O.W. film. Even the intro music is whimsical and is very iconic to the point that there has been a lot of parodies done with that music. The main reason I wanted to check this movie out was because it is on the favorite movies list from some of my favorite directors. I can however see how this movie inspired some of the other directors and how they borrowed certain ideas from this movie. Maybe it's because the director decided to take more of a upbeat approach to the story. Since the cinematography and camera-work seems to be done from a distance to get wider shots, which sort of takes away from the tension and excitement. But maybe it was to get all the characters in without leaving anyone out. The running time is actually quite long, almost hitting the three hours mark. So a better editing and tightening of the script would have made this film more effective in my opinion. This is a P.O.W. movie the whole family can sit through without it offending anyone. Although the kids will most definitely will get bored sitting through this one. Overall, this was a fresh take on this genre and I didn't mind sitting through it. It's a movie that gives ideas, but just isn't something I would want to re- watch immediately.7/10
The true story that The Great Escape is based on is indeed a remarkable one. It's certainly one of the key reasons that this war film has attained such a level of affection over the years. Although, it's ultimately hardly a happy story seeing as many of the participants never made it out alive. This is, for me its greatest trump card. As The Great Escape is essentially a tragedy dressed up as an upbeat war-adventure. It's an unusual combination but it works well. What has made the film so popular is no doubt a combination of this tragic true story with the rousing escape scenes, the all-star cast and the famous music. It's a war film that doesn't really have a lot of action; it's more of a character-based drama for the most part, so the people depicted here are fairly well-drawn. Although it does have to be said that the characters are not faultless – James Coburn has truly the worst Australian accent I have ever heard, Charles Bronson's claustrophobia on the escape night is a tiresome addition to his character seeing as he was instrumental in actually building the tunnel, while Steve McQueen's character came across a little too devil-may-care to be entirely believable - the scene where he knocks over a guard with no repercussions at all was just stretching believability too much for me. In fact, overall, the film made the prisoner-of-war camp out to be a very lenient place indeed, where the inmates were seemingly at liberty to show blatant disrespect to the Germans, and were able to run rings round them quite easily. Now it may be that these details are based on reality, I cannot say with any certainty but I do have my doubts and I think that Hollywood has simply sugar-coated this side of the story. Nevertheless, despite these drawbacks The Great Escape remains an engaging film. Most probably, this is mainly due to the incredible cast at its disposal and a few iconic scenes. But also the simple fact that it's a great story.
An all-star cast, long runtime, quality movie.Who doesn't like a well thought well out coordinated escape movie? The setting was a WW2 Germany prisoner camp. This was no ordinary prison camp; this was full of prisoners bent on escaping. Whether they successfully escaped or not was not the only motive. From their collective patriotic goal (even though they were all from different countries) was to at least muck up the aims of the Gestapo.The movie moved much like a chess game and just as long. At nearly three hours it was a culmination of individually moving parts trying to put themselves in place: the prisoners in place to escape and the Third Reich in place to foil such an escape. It was serious affair that took a lighthearted tone at times. It was a fine tribute to those who lost their lives trying to escape the SS clutches.


                
Realizing that I was not supposed to accept `The Great Escape' as High Art, I found it to be an entertaining film.  The story about a group of hard-scrabble soldiers in a German P.O.W. camp who are rounded up and thrown together because they are the prisoners who have attempted escape the most, is not deep in the slightest, and fairly formulaic, (I was able to announce the ending of the film, music, dialogue and all, about ten minutes before the actual end) but enjoyable nonetheless.One thing that I enjoyed knowing while watching the film was that the director, John Sturges, not only is the director of one of those other `manly man classic' films, `The Magnificent Seven', but the director of the god-awful Gene Hackman film, `Marooned' that was so gleefully torn apart on Mystery Science Theater 3000.  I guess for every few good films, you can be allowed a stinker.  That's only one of the many lessons I learned watching `The Great Escape', however.  Among the many things I learned as I enjoyed this film were that James Coburn should never attempt an Australian accent, that Charles Bronson was unbelievably buff in 1963, and Steve McQueen always looked 43 years old.  `The Great Escape' is a good film and deserves its place on the IMDB top 250 list, but it certainly has a core audience, and while I truly enjoyed the film, I'm not really a member of that core audience.  I liked it enough to appreciate it and give it a good review once, but I don't think I'll be sneaking this one into the DVD player in the next five years.  Certainly not because of the film making itself, or the plot, which was good, it's just one of those `watch it one time and leave it at that' films for me personally.--Shelly


                
"The Great Escape" is one of those classics that I can never remember a time when I didn't know about, or couldn't hum its indelible, cheerful score. For some reason I never watched it, perhaps due to reservations about watching older movies of this length.I was right on one count: the movie is, alas, quite a bit overlong. And surprising. You don't go into a movie as famous and as old as this one expecting surprises.The surprises come at the ending. It's not just the title that made me expect the movie would focus entirely on the escape. It's also the fact that those scenes are so engaging - if perhaps a little padded. Of particular note are the parts with Charles Bronson - dodgy Polish accent notwithstanding - and Donald Pleasence both working to escape.But when the action moves outside of the prison, the movie seriously outstays its welcome, and I was not expecting the downbeat ending - even if it does use that cheerful, unforgettable, hummable score.


                
So the whole thing takes place in Poland, they escape, and end up in Switzerland? How on earth did Steve McQueen get there? The only thing I figure is that they wanted a more picturesque backdrop for the motorcycle scene, which works for nice scenery, however what lacks is historical validity and logical scene sequence, both of which are clearly compromised here.If anyone knows why on earth this movie is filmed in Switzerland, I'd like to know.Thanks, Peter


                
The film shows us nothing from the brutal II world war but a true story well packed with adventure touch.  The plan for the great escape was very clever. MGM created a very good picture but the story was too long. I think it became a classic because this true story has been played very convincing by legendary stars like Steve McQueen, Charles Bronson, James Garner, Gordon Jackson, Donald Pleasence etc. In the first part of the movie it happens not much but the the second part was full of suspense and action. If you like war/adventure movies i recommend you to watch this one. The vote is too overrated. I give maximum 7/10.


                
The Great Escape is a film that everybody raves about and looks back at with rose tinted glasses . Having seen this for the first time in 20 years i think this is a good film but maybe overrated simply for the fact the ,one , it is way too long at 2 hours and 45 minutes and secondly there are so many silly moments they could never have happened for real. ***** SPOILER ALERT******** It looked like a holiday camp to me with all the prisoners mixing with each other at any times they wanted. They could treat the guards with distane and could get hold of anything they wanted.Why get shot escaping, just stay there and enjoy it until the war is over. Why put all the top RAF escape's in one camp? Surely you would split them up.The Comandant and guards looked like the most inept German soldiers i have ever seen in a war film. Why call the film the Great Escape ? It was hardly great. only 25 escaped and 50 were shot dead! James Coburn's accent was laughable too. Having said all that the film is still ok but mainly down to the musical score by Elmer Bernstien. The music makes the hair on the back of your neck stand up because it is so rousing. Only one other musical score is better than the Great Escape and that is the one for The Magnificent Seven and that is Elmer Bernstien's work too. Steve Mqueen has an aura about him too that not many actors have ever possesed and it is such a shame that he died when he did. 7 out of 10.
Factually satisfying but too much of a wink from Broadway to feel like a war movie. This is a prison camp movie, and more specifically, a prison camp rum by the German Air Force, where the pilot code protects beyond its' nationality. I wouldn't have been surprised for the leaders to sit down for a tea. Characters and plots were a bit simpler until the last 40 years, but they were nobler as well. This is such a well known film, that to further pick at tit s=would only show my cin-agenda, much like those for whom the experience rings of old time patriotism. I like my WWII Germans to be obvious villains and my hero top be perceived to be in peril, despite the outcome. The Steve McQueen motorcycle cool seems a bit propped up and our David Attenborough leader a bit too elitist. I was compelled to watch this through a respect for other reviews and recommendations, but I take my tea a bit harder.


                
I won't insult your intelligence by discussing the nature of it's plot. Even of you've lived as a hermit for the past 50 years, you'll hear the words "Great Escape" and know exactly what I'm talking about. Engraving Steve McQueen into the annals of pop culture and giving new meaning to the term "war movie", the masses considered the film to be "THE Great Escape".Personally, I thought it was slightly overrated. It will never touch classics such as Patton, A Bridge Too Far and The Dirty Dozen. Still, don't get me wrong, it is one great war movie, just not the GREATEST. A fun 2 hours and 45 minutes was spent watching it and the events unfolding throughout the story were thrilling to say the least. The Great Escape is an immortal testament to the inspiring determination and shrewdness of an extraordinary bunch of individuals and the bond they shared. The film has the benefit of a staunch script with each scene flowing nicely. Although her we have the problem. The film is a little overlong which therefore allows much of the dialogue to dry out. The movie also becomes tedious when you're seeing the same huts and barbed wire fences. This is why it's first half can be difficult to get through. When lacking in action and suspense, this is understandable. However, the sequences involving the planning and execution of the escape do provoke interest by engaging the mind. The detail of the script and of the actual escape itself will never cease to fascinate me. The second half of the movie is much more exciting and takes full advantage of the Panavision cinematography. With it's sweeping vistas of snow capped peaks and lush green plains, this is one war film that is a lot more easier on the eye. The editing techniques too are praiseworthy. Most of the film's second half is crammed with cutaways of different characters making their bid for freedom. This cranks up the pace and builds excitement towards the end of the film.It's stellar cast is comprised of some fine acting talent. The performances were superb, but none of them really stood out for me. Steve McQueen was pretty cool as Hilts and made for a great ode to teenage rebelliousness. The best performances came from Donald Pleasance and Charles Bronson. Richard Attenborough was good as Bartlett, as was Hannes Messemer as Colonel Von Luger, the camp commandant. The film has very little action and the action sequences come in abrupt, but tense bursts. I found the famed motorcycle chase to be a little anticlimactic but awesome nonetheless. The escape from the camp via the underground tunnel had me perched on the edge of my seat and John Sturges kept the suspense rigidly tight throughout the last half of the film. The suspense is ten times more electrifying than the action itself and puts the "Great" into the title. Elmer Bernstein's score is decent, but we've all heard it before somewhere.To say it's not all it's cracked up to be would be rather harsh, just don't expect too much from it upon your first viewing. However, The Great Escape is an intriguing time passer which will hold your interest. If you're any kind of war movie fan, you must see it at least once. 7.5/10.
This cool little movie is based upon the true story of a large number of World War II Prisoners of War who escaped from a Luftwaffe POW camp in the middle of Germany. The camp was set up to house those prisoners that proved to be a problem because they kept on trying to escape and this camp was supposed to be escape proof. As soon as the prisoners arrived though they began to look for ways to escape and even found some. The focus of the escape though is through one colonel who decides that if he can break 200 men out of the camp then it will be a severe hindrance to the German war effort.The colonel is confronted by the Commandant and he is asked not to escape but the reply is that it is the prisoner's duty to escape. Escaping prisoners tie up soldiers that could be used in the front: not only must they be guarded but more must be sent out to round up prisoners that have escaped. Thus if 200 prisoners escape and all go their own way then the Germans are going to have to implement an enormous amount of manpower to recapture them. Ideally they would simply take no prisoners, but such actions are against the Geneva convention. Even so, for all of their brutality, it is surprising that the Nazi's did actually take prisoners. The conclusion to the conversation is that the commandant wants the prisoners to comply but because the prisoners are the enemy then it is their duty to escape.I liked the movie: it was tense but it was also funny. Steve McQueen's character was the one that added a lot of life to the movie. He was the one that came up with all of the bright ideas to escape, and the one that was always caught and put into the cooler. He actually seemed to spend more time in the cooler than out of it.The movie also portrayed the brutality of the Germans. Even though they did seem to look after the prisoners of War, the ones that continually escaped were simply gunned down by the Gestapo. They had become sick of this escaping POW's so they warned them that if they were caught again then they would be shot. The Gestapo made that promise and they kept it. It still seems very harsh, but this was a war and no matter what the Geneva convention says, there is no rules in war and the allies were just as brutal as the German's were.The movie was tense especially in the scene where they discover the tunnel, and even when they are escaping and people begin to panic. You are wanting them all to get out, but this is not going to happen. One must remember that this is real life and not some ideal Hollywood creation. As such not everybody was going to escape. Even more so, from 76 escapees, 50 were killed and a small number were captured. Only 3 were shown escaping, one of them being an Australian.
During World War II, a group of Allied prisoners notorious for escaping from captivity are sent to a custom-made POW camp in the German countryside. Can they break out while their jailers are watching their every move ?A great international co-production, this classic wartime escape drama is one of the best films of the sixties and one of the most entertaining ensemble casts in any movie. I particularly like the mix of nationalities in both the cast and characters, and everybody is terrific in it, right down to the smallest part. McQueen and Attenborough, as the epitome of American Cool and British Stiff Upper Lip respectively, were both never better, but the real stars for me are Pleasence as Blythe, the genial forger who gradually realises he's going blind, and Bronson as Danny, the Polish tunnel king with a painful secret behind his tough guy persona. Everybody works together brilliantly, often in unlikely pairings, and despite its three-hour length the movie never seems languid or dull. The men are so well observed and the drama unfolds in a way which is both realistic but also consistently amusing and exciting. It's also one of those rare Hollywood blockbusters which doesn't cop out at the end; we want the heroes to escape so badly, yet only misery and death await so many of them. After his phenomenal success with The Magnificent Seven, Sturges turns in another masterful epic adventure film, brimming with suspense, humour and pathos. Elmer Bernstein's sweeping score, with its irresistibly catchy main theme, is simply brilliant - a great brassy fanfare of music and the perfect accompaniment to the action. Equally impressive is the editing by old pro Ferris Webster, which takes what on paper are hours and hours of stodgy dialogue scenes and somehow turns them into nail-biting intrigue. Extremely well written by W.R. Burnett and James Clavell, from a book by Paul Brickhill, based on his real-life experiences in Stammlager Luft POW camp in Silesia/Poland. For a hilarious alternative version of the story, try to see the 1977 Michael Palin/Terry Jones Ripping Yarns episode Escape From Stalag Luft 112B. Trivia - in reality, Donald Pleasence was an RAF pilot in WWII who was shot down and captured, and during the production Bronson met McCallum's wife, Jill Ireland, whom he later married ! Shot on authentic Bavarian locations, this is a brilliant film in every respect, a great little WWII history lesson for boys of all ages, and a much-beloved adventure classic by one of the great old-time directors. 7/10
