I think that New York Times film critic Elvis Mitchell wrote the best one line review of In the Mood for Love when he said that it is "dizzy with a romantic spirit that's been missing from the cinema forever." How true those words are! Truly romantic films are so rare these days, while films that include plenty of sex and nudity (which are often portrayed in a smutty and gratuitous manner) abound. So, given this cinematic climate, Wong Kar-wai's latest film feels like a much needed breath of fresh air. In the Mood for Love is about the doomed romance between two neighbors ("Mr. Chow," played by Tony Leung and "Mrs. Chan," played by Maggie Cheung), whose spouses are having an illicit affair, as they try "not to be like them." But after hanging out with each other on lonely nights (while their spouses are away "on business"/"taking care of a sick mother"), they fall madly in love, and must resist the temptation of going too far.Several factors are responsible for making In the Mood for Love a new classic among "romantic melodramas," in the best sense of that term. First, the specific period of the film (i.e. 1960's Hong Kong) is faithfully recreated to an astonishing degree of detail. The clothes (including Maggie Cheung's lovely dresses), the music (e.g. Nat King Cole), and the overall atmosphere of this film evokes a nostalgia for that specific period. Second, Christopher Doyle's award-winning, breathtakingly beautiful cinematography creates an environment which not only envelopes its two main characters, but seems to ooze with romantic longing in every one of its sumptuous, meticulously composed frame. Make no mistake about it: In the Mood for Love was the most gorgeous film of 2001. (It should also be mentioned that Wong Kar-wai's usual hyper-kinetic visual style is (understandably) toned down for this film, although his pallet remain just as colorful.) Third, there is the haunting score by Michael Galasso, which is accompanied by slow motion sequences of, e.g. Chan walking in her elegant dresses, Chan and Chow "glancing" at each other as they pass one another on the stairs, and other beautiful scenes which etch themselves into one's memory. The main score--which makes its instruments sound as though they're literally crying--is heard eight times throughout various points in the film and it serves to highlight the sadness and the longing which the two main characters feel. Fourth, Tony Leung and Maggie Cheung both deliver wonderful performances (Leung won the prize for best actor at Cannes) and they manage to generate real chemistry on screen.The above elements coalesce and work so nicely together to create a film that feels timeless, "dizzyingly romantic," and, in a word, magical. In the Mood for Love, perhaps more than any other film of 2001, reminded me why it is that I love "going to the movies." And I guess that is about the highest compliment that I can pay to a film.


                
In 60s Hong Kong, a man and woman move in the same day into adjacent apartments with their respective spouses. Soon they suspect their ever absent spouses of having an affair with one-another. A strange bond emerges between the man and woman as they cope with their sadness by taking turns playing each other's spouse, before a more complex bond emerges...No summary can do it justice, for Hong Kong auteur Wong Kar-Wai's "In the Mood for Love" is nothing short of a miracle. A story about sadness that manages to be touching and at times funny. A romance that never feels forced or fake. No doubt the director's method has a lot to do with that.Directed from an inexistent screenplay (though the concept largely flows from a Japanese short story) to favor improvisation, the film is immediately set apart by the freshness of it's performances. All the film revolves around that and the rest is pure enhancement. At the core of the film are two characters that will ease into your heart and stay there long after the end credits roll: Maggie Cheung and Tony Leung are simply amazing and no language barrier undermines a single fragment of immediacy and truth they display. The additional material is also top-notch: the films is magnificent to behold (in part lensed by "Hero"'s Christopher Doyle) and the music is heartbreaking.This is something everybody must see, if only because it is by far the most heartfelt, mature and authentic "love story" out there. Unmissable.


                
I won't bore you with story and plot lines, as they have been presented many times already on this page, so<U+0085> It's been along time coming since I have seen such a film. Beautiful, elegant and restrained, with a narrative pace to match. A film with sensitivity and understated qualities that is rare in these times of clichéd plots. The beautifully subdued photography, saturated in rich luxurious colors, and for lack of better words, each frame is filled with an air of tension. The settings and locations are used repeatedly but the film manages to breath new life into them each time they featured, there always seems to be a key prop, light fixture, or set piece to slightly clue the audience as to where we are in the characters world.The acting reminds me of the "The Bicycle Thief", not the style, but the fact that you forget that you are watching two actors engaged in their craft. There is meaning behind every gesture and almost every movement has assigned significance to explain the inside world of the characters, the relationship, the feelings, and situation of the two lovers. The dialogue is sparse but like the rest of the movie, is imbued with meaning. Speaking of meaning, the soundtrack is infectious. Used here it becomes a story telling device. And although the film is of Chinese origins, even a song sung in Spanish by Nat King Cole imparts the film with subtle meaning. The orchestrated soundtrack is repetitive, but the repetition is what makes it comfortable. It is used in conjunction with the story, and not just a means to put music to action, or to cue the audience to feel a certain way at a certain plot point.I would not recommend this film to anybody, I fear most people would be jaded by the calm flow of the story, but I would recommend it to someone who is looking for an alternative to the romantic schlock that fills the multiplexes on our side of the world. I must say that I was completely taken by this film, and continued to watch it night after night. The story takes time to present itself and bears repeated viewings as very few films in this genre are open to such a broad interpretation. A very beautiful movie.


                
It's easy to see why many people consider In the Mood for Love to be Wong Kar-Wai's best film. The toned down appeal of the film, centering on the studied view of a relationship put through an emotional ringer, is a retread into Happy Together territory but without the hyper-kinetic patchwork of jarring film stocks and hyper-saturated sequences that have become a trademark of Kar-Wai's films since Chungking Express. Like Soderbergh's The Limey, this is a different kind of curio for Kar-Wai; where dialogue and plot are forsaken by mood and composition in order to create a tale of two delicate lives in a seemingly confining emotional stasis.It's a testament to the genius of Kar-Wai that he is capable to making such a simple tale so resonating. Chow Mo-Wan (Tony Leung) and Su Li-zhen (Maggie Cheung) move in next-door to each other within the same apartment building. He's a journalist who dreams of publishing martial-arts novels and she is a secretary at a shipping company. Their eventual coupling is obvious from the beginning but the pleasure here is the way that Kar-Wai ambiguously paints such a journey with his grand masterstrokes.The key to the success of the film is Kar-Wai's use of the interior space, playing with foreground and background planes in ways that are similar to the works of Polanski. During the wooingly sensuous first half of the film, Kar-Wai isolates Leung and Cheung within shots in such a way that the second person in a conversation is never visible. Kar-Wai is concerned with environment and space here, creating a cramped emotional dynamic between his characters. It's also telling that Kar-Wai never chooses to focus on the physicality of Mo-Wan and Li-zhen's spouses. Their faceless partners are noticeably absent from the film, as they are tending to their own love affairs with each other.This is not to suggest that In the Mood for Love is a confining experience because Kar-Wai manages to inundate his film with broad splashes of hypnotic camera movement and sound. There is one shot where Cheung's slow, sensual rise up a metaphorical stairway turns into Leung's descent down the very same stairwell; their movements perfectly compliment each other, bookending the shot and creating a sense of erotic duality between the two figures. Their souls have connected but they have yet to physically unite. The erotic displacement of these scenes is both fascinating and frustrating, as two star-crossed lovers reject physical consummation due to their humble fidelity.Other scenes in the film are punctuated with brief slow-motion shots of Cheung erotically moving through her interior surroundings, set to Mike Galasso's hauntingly beautiful score. Cheung's dresses beautifully compliment her exterior space as she moves slowly through her surroundings. Her movements slowly build up to what seems to be an inevitable fusion between Li-szhen and her dream lover even though the seduction process seems to be entirely sub-conscious.If I make it seem that these two characters are more like two birds unleashing pheromones on each other, it probably isn't that far-fetched of a statement. The tight bond these two characters have with their internal spaces is almost as intense as their relationship to the exteriors. The film rarely moves into an exterior space and when the camera does it is usually to peak through oval windows and symbolic bars that always remind us that these characters are like confined animals. Kar-Wai continues to tease us even when the lovers get close enough to touch, shattering the couple's proximity to each other by shooting them through mirrors or through gaps within articles of clothing located inside of a closet. Mother Nature even seems to respond to their love lust, often unleashing a soft crest of rain over the characters after their bodies have glided near each other.Kar-Wai's hauntingly atmospheric shots of a waterfall allowed Leung's Lai Yu-Fai to experience a cathartic release in Happy Together, even if Leslie Cheung's Ho Po-wing was not there to enjoy it with him. By that film's end, love was so inextricably bound to the act of war that a third man's muted declarations of love signaled Yu-Fai's realization that his dreams of seeing a waterfall would bring him inner peace, even if it would not bring him back his lover. Mo-Wan's journey terminates within the confines of a crumbling temple. His own emotional depletion is paralleled nicely with the political climate of his country, and the absence of Li-szhen is only made tolerable by the fact that Kar-Wai allows Mo-Wan to experience a release of sorts. Mo-Wan caters to an ancient myth and his secretive release into a crack in the temple leaves him capable of living his days with the hope that all his loss and heartache somehow served a higher purpose.


                
I was recommended this film as one of the best love stories ever told. And as I am huge fan of love, I bought the tickets and sat myself in the theatre. After 90 minutes I left the theatre with nothing but disappointment and the theme song as the only positive thing of the film. I was appalled at the story itself, that two people can love each other but be so afraid as to never act it. I just couldn't go passed the language barrier and the cultural barrier. The second time I ran into it... I was in a different mood, no longer had any expectation ... and had more patience, more relaxed mind to "see" the film... and as soon as I opened my eyes, I discovered the love... the beauty of the film. I went beyond the language and the love story and saw the acting (not even for a moment did I ever felt like they were acting!) and the cinematography. The first time I heard a definition of what a film is, I was told that it should be a chain of perfectly balanced photographs (shots) and this is the film to match the description. Almost every shot has an idea behind it, and combined with the music... and the light effects... the result is just a masterpiece! And a masterpiece is just something that you must have in your collection of films.


                
The most attractive factor that lies in this masterpiece of a film is not the beautiful lead actors. It isn't their outstanding acting and sizzling chemistry either.To me, it is the mis-en-scene of the entire movie. The settings, the lighting, the props... all add to the mood for love between the main characters. A whiff of smoke from Chow's cigarette tells us his state of mind, the ever-changing tight-fitting cheongsams of Lizhen reflects the constraints of decision-making, the ruins of Angkor Wat ties in with the deteriorating relationship of the two leads.The excellent use of mis-en-scene gives the film just the right amount of feel needed to flesh out the complicated nature of the characters' relationship. The film leaves the audience fruitlessly yearning for more.


                
Whoa<U+0085> To be honest, I would have never seen this movie if it wasn't for my film class<U+0085>. It would have been my loss. The beginning of the film starts with a two different people moving into an apartment. This is scene that most people get lost in and then can't understand the movie. The theme of the film is about a two people who find out that there spouses are cheating on them with the other spouse. This is where the film took a unique path from the other Hollywood films, it follows the journey of them falling in love. The film is not about cheating, it is about the struggle and the tension created by Chow and So can be felt. The film is not about a sexual affair, but it is about an emotional affair. The story has a perfect ending for this film. The film is not like the rest of the other Love Film genre. The best thing about the film is the way it was filmed. The movie is ALL about tone. The tone is created by the songs and by the color of the scene. The music compliments the scene so perfectly, that the songs could have been a character in the film. The slow motion is overly used in many other films, but it is used perfectly in this film. The color of the scene and dresses is used to show the emotion that the two characters cannot show to each other. This film is an example about how film about romance can be shown without sex. This is a perfect example of why film making is an art work. The film sets a great tone, that the song "Yumeji's Theme" haunts me at night.
it is indeed a poem!i'm aware of the fact that not everyone is going to enjoy this movie.. it's not about "getting it" or not.. it's about a certain sensibility.. you have to be receptive to it.. if you are able and willing to get lost in the movie's atmosphere you'll certainly love it.. i love it..what an incredibly intensive tale.. so deeply sad and poetic.. and the score! particularly the score.. it's a piece of art..just overwhelming


                
Wong Kar-Wai's elegant study of the love between two lonely neighbours is a rare masterpiece of beauty and subtlety that will reward the close attention of any viewer willing to absorb the quietly defining moments of its character's lives and prepared to forsake today's seemingly pre-conditioned requirement for a story to be laid out for them like a menu. It is an intimate story, told with care at a deliberate pace, that captures with exquisite beauty both the depth of emotion shared by the main characters and the social constraints and sense of propriety that apparently precludes them from consummating their love.Chow (Tony Leung) and Chan (Maggie Cheung) move into single rooms in adjacent apartments on the same day in 1962 Hong Kong. Chan's husband spends weeks at a time away from home on business while Chow's wife proves to be equally elusive. Over time, it becomes apparent to both of them that their spouses are engaged in an affair with each other, a realisation that draws them together and signals the beginning of a deep relationship.Wong Kar-Wai has fashioned a story that is as beautiful as it is enigmatic. Almost everything is hinted at here, requiring a high degree of concentration from the viewer if they are to be rewarded with any kind of insight into the both the sexual and sociological elements with which the protagonists struggle and the irretrievable sense of loss that is the reward of those who lack the strength and courage of their emotions. The adulterous spouses are never seen on the screen <U+0096> this isn't their story; they are merely the catalysts for the one we are shown <U+0096> and the manner in which Chow and Chan uncover their infidelity is typical of the subtlety with which Wong Kar-Wai tells his story. We watch the emotions flickering beneath the surface of Chan's carefully composed face as she offers medicine to Chow's wife, knowing, before we do, that she has interrupted her illicit liaison with her own husband. Next shot: Chow's fist knocking on her door, wedding ring prominent <U+0096> their wedding rings, symbols here of love, infidelity, and the guilt that separates them, are often prominent <U+0096> while Chan cries in the shower. A couple of scenes later, the deceit is confirmed when both Chan and Chow realise their spouses have identical possessions that can only be bought overseas.The mood is almost noirish at times, and the film is suffused with lush colours and patterns. Wong Kar-Wai repeatedly obscures our view, whether through dusty windows, or through skilfully composed framings designed to emphasise the sense of confinement within the teeming, over-populated city of Hong Kong. Many times, a wall takes up half (or more) of the screen. Wong also makes effective use of slow-motion to evoke the impression of loneliness and richly-textured memories, such as the moment early in the film when Chow and Chan, before their friendship develops, share a brief glance in the front room of her landlady in which a mahjong game is taking place. Leung and Cheung are perfect together, conveying their sense of guilt and frustration in performances that rely more on nuance than they do on words <U+0096> it's the type of acting that only the most accomplished can pull off, and both Leung and Cheung do so admirably.In the Mood For Love is a film about loneliness in a crowded place, about the bitterness of regret, and its story is told in an intelligent and seductive manner that leaves the viewer astounded by the director's seemingly innate sense of visual imagery and ability to deliver a film of highly-charged emotion in a restrained manner that reflects superbly the internal struggle of its protagonists. Anyone who considers themselves to be a true movie lover should make an effort to see this movie.
A rather lovely and poignant love story, told with a charming and sensitive perspective. We are reminded that it is sometimes what is not told outright that says the most or speaks to us in a path straight to the heart. The interesting use of multiple costumes to denote the passage of time and space show us the versatility of this director and story teller. His choice of cinematography, music, and even weather conditions add to the brilliant portrayal of life and love seemingly unrequited, joined with the interesting premise and location work to paint a portrait of two hearts joined on many levels and yet will they realize the full potential of those deep and genuine feelings? We are never quite sure, and even left to our imaginations as to the answers to these questions of love.


                
Maggie Cheung's Mrs Chan and Tony Leung's Mr Chow are husband and wife, but not to each other. Cheung is dressed gorgeously in no less than 46 Cheongsam dresses, each vivid and ornate, and often descends from the shared apartment in this formal dress and make-up to purchase noodles for a lonely dinner. Leung's hair is always immaculately gelled and styled, and he wears his one wrinkled grey suit with a sense of modesty in his presentation. They are in the mood for love, but they do not consummate it, for fears of becoming just like their cheating spouses. Wong Kar-wai's direction ensures that Mr Chan and Mr Chow are never quite clearly sighted face to face, through precise blocking and composition. In one transition, we see Mrs Chow, her back facing towards us via mirror, making another of her excuses over the phone to a lonely Chow at home. We then cut to the same mirror, with Chow now inquiring at her wife's work, his face full and revealing, flushed with honesty, sincerity, and looming heartbreak. The first of the those evocative slow motion moments, where the tender and mournful strings of Yumeji's Theme and the rhythmic Pizzicato plucks rise, has Mrs Chow then Mrs Chan enter the dining room, both with a sense of elegance and beauty. These recurring musical motifs signal each little moment of weakness, of coincidence, of intimacy through unspoken words and emotions. They brush past each other whilst purchasing meals for one in the alleyway, they work closely (but not too closely) on the martial arts serial, they lament their separation and missed opportunities. One time, her hand flirts away when he tries to hold it. Later, they fully wrap around each other and provide comfort in the bottom lit taxi. They belong to their respective spouses, but in that first scene we are already shown an inkling of what is to come. There's a clever moment where we open with a OTS shot of a man and Su having dinner, where she brings up those fateful accusatory words. The confrontation is allowed to continue and simmer with denial, before we finally cut to reveal that they have been simulating the whole thing. But it's remarkably authentic - they choose to wound themselves with imaginary dialogue, too scared to face reality. Doyle's (and later Ping Bing's) cinematography plays plenty with depth of field, often framing Chow and Su's moments from behind curtains, or blinds, or shutters of a cupboard, which are in the foreground and blurry whereas the pair are crystal clear in their emotional intimacy and lack of physical intimacy. This voyeuristic aesthetic works within the context of socially conservative Hong Kong of the 1960s - the supporting cast do well to create an aura of gossip, judgement and scrutiny of every tiny detail of the pair's lives, even more so in the shared proximity of the apartment. Mrs Suen misreads the recipient of a letter from a spouse abroad, and that little mistake is enough to create a storm of doubt and fear within both Su and Chow. My parents lived through this period of HK, and by all accounts the cramped, claustrophobic set is pitch perfect, right down to the fly screen cupboards that served as makeshift fridges. It's limited in scope and size, encapsulating the lack of space and privacy of urban Hong Kong. But it's not grimy; these families live in relative financial comfort in spite their domestic strife. Lush reds, browns, yellow and greens saturate and seep into the screen and work with the bold multicoloured dresses and the noir elements - in one scene a lonely Chow retreats at night to his office, framed by the single overhead light of his desk, the swirls of cigarette smoke billowing in the light and shade. Doyle cuts off the heads frequently and lingers on the body language and the attire, on the pretense of innocence and naivety. A simple dolly of the camera from wall to wall emphasises each lonely soul, so close and yet so far apart. In a lesser film, the presence of convenient downpours of rain might be criticised for a plot device in bringing together a couple. Here, it becomes tragic, because although they have the opportunity (the whole double spouse cheating plot is pretty much a rom-com script waiting to be written), they can't bear to take it. When Su finally gains the courage, she is too late, and the film slows down to an agonising pace where Chow waits for no one in the corridor, the same place Su later stands still, the red of her dress matching the curtains. A hotel, ripe for infidelity, is the location for innocent activities, unable to bridge the gap. In that final scene, Chow travels to Cambodia, finding a hole into the stone of the Angkor Wat Temple before whispering a heavy secret and covering up any presence of his visit with an earthly mound of soil. We then cut, and the soil is now sprouting blades of grass - he has carried this secret with him beyond time. In the Mood for Love is about two people, wrapped up in intimacy yet so full of guilt and sadness and despair for what they have done, and what they haven't. My heart breaks for them.
Beautiful, emotional, and subtle. I watch this movie at an art center with a smaller screen in a film room with 95% of senior citizens. I wish bigger cinema like Lowes around here would show it.  Great cinematography by Wong and Christopher Doyle. Since I understand cantonese, it's a lot easier for me to understand the movie. As simple as the story goes, many English speaking viewers didn't get the whole story. Three old ladies next to me keep yapping and have no clues about the movie.Spoiler; They were surprise when I mention that Mr. Chow did sleep with Mrs Chen and they have a son. She went to Singapore trying to tell him but didn't.SpoilerThe mandarin translation of the movie title actually means flowery like moment or memory. The phrase usually used to describe beautiful and wonderful memory that was inpermanance and short. The whole movie pretty much fit the title. Not to mention the flowery "Cheung Sam".
My favorite scene was definately the street corner in the alley. It looks so beautiful, the sun shining on the old and faded wall, at night in the dark, in the rain,  truely a poetic moment. I felt a strong sense of intimacy of their relationship seeing them standing against the wall and talk quietly. I felt a terrible heartache when Mr Chow was rehearsing his departing moment, and Mrs Chen cried on his shoulder.... Bravo Wong Kar-Wai!As much as I like this one, Chungking Express still top my favorite. However, I'll give this one a 10 as well. As a point of reference, CTHD only got 7.If you love art, you will love this movie. Don't miss it.
IN THE MOOD FOR LOVE - will make you fall in love with Wong Kar Wai, especially, if this is his first film that you are watching. My thoughts on this sumptuously crafted and subtly woven film can end here for certainly that is the summary of it all. But there is a lot more to talk about the film.(But before that - in a city like Bhubaneswar there aren't any public avenues to watch World Cinema. Certainly the larger demographic is oblivious to what World Cinema is. To most here Hollywood represents World Cinema and what could have been more disturbing than this? One can argue in favor of Netflix and Amazon Prime, but watching a thought provoking film in a big screen along with other curious mind(s) is an experience that no argument can counter. In such a scenario the Film Society of Bhubaneswar is the only savior. They screened Wong Kar Wai's In the Mood for Love along with Days of Being Wild as part of their June screening. I experienced Wai for the first time with "In the Mood for Love".)One would instantly notice the detailing that has been maintained in every scene throughout the film. The slow panning has been interestingly used to bring the subject into frame, rather the frame onto the subject, thereby driving your empathy gradually towards the predicament the subjects are in. The other thing that has also been very uniquely used throughout is the screenplay from behind veils, translucent curtains, through gaps found in the back of chairs and such. It always gave into a mystery and mystic feeling about the characters who are in focus yet out of focus - signifying a lot about the many confusions that cluttered their minds: emotions and the natural urge versus the high moral standards they want to uphold to.The film's main narrative is nothing different if one would say it in plain text. But like an auteur's film, IN THE MOOD FOR LOVE wins you through its screenplay, usage of light, cinematography, acting and music which takes the entire context of adultery and morality deeper with a higher philosophical undertone. Set in Hongkong of sixties, the film is about two characters - Chow Mo-wan (played by Tony Leung), a journalist and Su Li-zhen (played by Maggie Cheung), a secretary from a shipping company, both of whom rent a room in an apartment of a building on the same day. Their encounters on the streets or in the stairs were limited to exchange of pleasantries but both of them shared together a lot of loneliness and pain separately in each of their apartment rooms. Chow's wife and Su's husband are most of the time out of the town on their work assignments thereby leaving their better halves to lead a monotonous life in an otherwise crowded city.There are beautifully shot motifs with lovely background scores showing both these characters carrying forward with their mundane jobs with a smile in their face and hollowness in their heart. During the course of time both gather that their spouses are almost always out (of town) during the same time eventually realizing that they were having extra marital affairs. Chow and Su feel devastated to acknowledge this in front of each other, initially thinking, that only one of them knew about it. [Generally, had the film been made in Bollywood/Hollywood there would have been some very obvious direction that the narrative would have moved. Wong Kar Wai's mastery lies in exploring beyond the obvious even in such a straightforward plot.] Both Mr. Chow and Ms. Su become curious to know why their spouse's cheated on them or how it would have begun. Their conversations used to be "What would they be doing now?" followed up by some role play to understand their respective partner's psyche. While it was a futile exercise to do, they made a point - "We would not be like them" and they agreed, rather promised, to each other.Mr. Chow nurtured few other aspirations, one of them was to write his own comic books series but never found inspiration. Ms. Su wished to have somebody to talk and share with but never had a soulmate beside her. For each other they filled these empty slots and they felt happy about it. But were careful about the fact that both had agreed "not to be like them". With passage of time, however, conversations became - "Why did you call me today?", "I wanted to hear your voice". They come close to each other literally, when Ms. Su in a reflex leans on Mr. Chow's shoulder and cries about her failed marriage, yet a dignified respect keeps them apart. The film actually goes on a high from here speaking a lot about the unspoken. You feel you have entered into a terrific drama (minus the melo) where both secretly craved, loved and desired for each other but wanted to uphold the other person's moral character. It's so suffocating at one level - where as an audience you also feel for their situation and want them to express their love for each other yet the film and filmmaker has a different plan. There could not have been a better emotional beating than this.There are coincidences and narrow misses - which both understand and acknowledge - like the burnt cigarette with the lipstick mark in Mr. Chow's apartment in Singapore (where he had moved to so that Ms Su doesn't have to suffer since he has now developed feelings for her) informed him that even after a year's gap Ms. Su has not forgotten him. She had come all the way to Singapore just to see him, waited for him (to return) yet left without meeting him. And then many years later both turn up into the same apartment where once they lived, to look for the other, yet they could not meet.Wai also touches upon the political issues of Hongkong in those days and how the society was conservative enough to dismiss a lonely married woman's late night outs or friendliness between two separately married man and woman. This would have also offered psychological resistance to Chow and Su from succumbing to their urges.The film is filled with nuances and it ends on that note. The narrative becomes subtle and deep just because it never attempted to show any of the "obvious" action, throughout, yet you end up feeling obviously that's how it should have been. Though you cringe for their love to blossom, you know the beauty of their relationship lies in their mood to love each other without the obvious physical expression of it.A must watch!


                
In "In the Mood for Love", the director Wong Kar wai uses the only kind of lens movement pattern: shift shot. Compare his and other director camera movement, for example in film "Swallowtail Butterfly" -- the classic period of South Sea Girl shift shot . Wong Kar-wai's approach more simple and standard multi - there are pieces from their drop rate, middle-shift process is very stable, but is not fancy. The foundation of shift lens is field. That means between two scenes 's shift , or a new scene from the black scenes. This shift lens combined with Maggie Zhang beautiful dress, that may illustrate different places and time. Meanwhile, the shift lens also gives us a steady rhythm: time is goes to our peaceful life.Another foundation of lens shift is rendering the plot. At the first time, Maggie Zhang and Tony Liang date in a restaurant . They are talking about her husbands 's tie and his wife 's bag. The director uses shift lens but faster than before. This sudden change in rhythm give the audience visual impact. We can understand about most of events happen in our daily life, we feel surprised and sad, but those unpleasant feeling cannot destroy our whole life. That is because of the back grand and their personality. We can see that Mr. Zhou smoking unless in order to control his complicated emotion .   Wong Kar-wai loves fixed shot, no push shot , no pull shot, and no pan shot. This is the whole style of Mr. Wong 's film. Mr. Wong loves to express emotion use depth of filed. For example, Mr Zhou walks into the hotel room. At the beginning of that scenes, the audience can see the end of hotel corridor. All curtain are red, and Wong uses oblique angle to present this shot. Then director turn to use Zhou 's foot close-up shot . I think most common shot is the camera follow that main characters and then the main characters stop.All of those will be by full shot or medium shot. However, Wong Kar-wai uses different way to present the salve with depth of filed. In other word , he try to give the audience choice a deep space, and then let your vision will remain at the end of the space. Wong was so careful, and he seems afraid you'll bother to go into the old stories of the characters. He loves close-up shot with depth of field in this film . When he wants you to see a person's face and eyes, you can not miss. because you never see them before. However, the tone of the whole movie is always free, just little talking , and also the director always remind you that this is yesterday's story, not your story. Be careful them , don't touch them . Just stand far away from them to see them.


                
I want to comment on the metaphors I found (maybe reading too much into the film itself) in Kar Wai Wong's film. The cinematography in this film is astounding in my opinion. The fact that most shots of the protagonists are through the reflection of a mirror is reminiscent of the fragmentary reality we live in, in which each perception and definition of the situation shapes the reality of the otherwise objective event; mirrors that can be metaphorically interpreted as the windows to our memories by the fact that they (as memories themselves) are blurred, cracked, and even stained symbolizing the gaps and even "black holes" that the unimportant events create in our conscious mind when we remember. They symbolize an opaque reality that is distorted not only by the passing of time, nor by the perception of each one of those involved, but by the needs and desires of the protagonists. A story that delves with the existential dilemmas of our era; the resolution of solitude, the acceptance and defiance of loneliness, the need for company and therefore love are echoed in Mrs Chan and Mr Chow's journey to one another. It is this common element and dilemma what drew them together in the first place and continued ruling the rest of their existences. Another incredible moment of the film, at least to me; is the final scene in the temple. It was very interesting to see how from the whole in which Chow "whispered" his secrets, a plant grew (from the mud we assume he puts after wards to seal the secret in) as if life and redemption would come out of any misfortune, or as a metaphor for the resilient condition of humanity and the capacity to be reborn in the presence of a painful situation. In this particular case; a metaphor o the love that grew from the hatred, sadness, and deep solitude felt before between the protagonists. Lastly but not least, what caught my attention was the depiction of a plate of apples set as a decoration in the beginning of the film, that were set in juxtaposition with a painting of still life (apples in fact) on the wall. I found it very interesting because again it is reminiscent on how each ones perceptions and definitions of a situation can determine the objectivity of a memoir, and affect the reality; and because it evoked, again, to the idea of the present and the past (in the end, it seems as if that painting made previously was created revolving around the apples seen in the present).
In the Mood for Love, a film shot in an improvisational style with the actors and, frankly, the most mature and least feverish lensed and edited work of Wong Kar Wai's career, is about two people who know exactly what is right and what is wrong, but have the feeling, the emotion, to possibly cross the line. Why shouldn't they, after all, when they both suspect that their respective spouses are having an affair? But this, for Wong Kar Wai, is far too easy for the audience to expect. We want these two characters, Chow (Tony Leung) and Chan (Maggie Cheung) to be together not simply as friends, or even playing their 'game' of acting out like they're married, but fully invested in each other's ever growing affection and companionship. That they want to, desire to be together, and cannot- or, in fact, will not- is part of the challenge. And it's quietly, subtly thrilling.It's always something special to see a filmmaker challenge the expectations of an audience saturated with the usual, and In the Mood for Love is certainly unusual in the respect of how it treats its characters which is with a frankness, naturalism that seems at first to be not out of any old 50s or 60s melodrama. It's because these two people, who live so close to one another and grow a bond as they do, that one thinks that they are bound to be made for each other. Whether they are or are not isn't the point, however, but how little by little the same things that go on for them, the routine of day to day life, gets splintered. The perception of their realities are broken down until all they have left is each other, and out of fear, apprehension, all the common fears of adultery, they don't go where they know their respective spouses have. It's almost more appealing to see their restraint, the passion buried right under the surface.But the director doesn't make this a detached experience. On the contrary, despite his ditching of the constant hand-held and strange lighting of the 90s, things move at a pace that is, simply, meditative on romance, the little details that can come up with repetition, the slow-motion, the violin music. Just a simple pan done across a dinner between Chow and Chan is extraordinary for what precisely is shown. Objects seem elegant, like Chan's dresses, which she wears just to go out for an errand, or even some things that at this point should be a cliché in movies: the look of cigarette smoke, and scenes with rain. He and Christopher Doyle bring one into, as it goes, another feeling within scenes that add drama, sorrow, and, of course, love, where otherwise it would be just mundane and kind of strange. Towards the end (i.e. Cambodia) it gets strange anyway, but for a while it's sublime.And lest not forget stars Leung and Cheung, both regulars of WKW's films, who inhabit these characters as opposed to playing specific parts; they're people sort of stuck where they are in life, one at a printing press the other a secretary, and they both have possible dreams for themselves (mostlty for Chow as a serial novelist). Together, they start acting out the roles of each others spouses, sort of filling in the spaces left behind, and the actors convey the sense of slight hope within this hopeless relationship that few I could imagine ever pulling off period, much less in this setting.It's all a combination of factors, between the subtle experimentation with the direction, the realistic edge of the actors, the music, the clothes, the direct lighting, all of it comes together better than in any other film I've seen from this HK romantic wildman. This might not mean it's for everyone, however; it's the kind of film one gets tuned into, like some far-off radio station that's clear as day, but uncommon in a lot of ways, too. A+


                
If you carefully, seriously watch this movie, it is hard to deny that this movie is definitely a master piece, and classic. This movie can be considered as a retro classic, based on the plot, it was ordinary enough, nothing special, nothing more than a story about the affair and marriage. For the plot, it was neither tortuous nor cliffhang, we can metaphor it as the taste of a glass of water. But this is the one glass of water with no taste that you can not easily forget after you drink it.This first element that Wang Kar-wai use to make this movie special was the metaphorical expression. By this technique, we can know that the dim streetlight can be seen as the metaphor for Mrs. Chen's lonely emotion, and the scene of the blue sky and tree can be seen as the metaphor for Mr. Chow left Hong Kong, the time was from 1962 changed to 1963, and it also means that the love between them was falling apart. The use of this technique make audiences virtually feel that two people who married can not falling in love freely in the 1960's Hong Kong.The second element that he used was the hint of bright and dim colors. Most of scenes in this movie were in dim color that make audiences feel retro, sad emotion, and also bring audiences into the regretful emotion for their love. However, the most special color expression would be the cheongsams Mrs. Chen wore in the movie. In this movie, there were 22 cheongsams that Mrs. Chen wore, and each of them represent her mood. The most classic would be the one she wore to room 2046, where Mr. Chow Wrote his novel. It was a plain cheongsam with a red windbreaker coat, it actually metaphor their sadness ending somehow. The red cos represented how Mrs. Chen felt for Mr. Chow, but she is a traditional woman, she was afraid and also not able to break the cage for love. So just like that plain cheongsam she wore inside of the red coat, and the end, all they can do is keep this love deep inside their heart and mind.
"In the old days if someone had a secret they didn't want to share, they went up a mountain, found a tree, carved a hole in it and whispered the secret into the hole. Then they covered it with mud and left the secret there forever." This film is the hole in the tree, as illustrated in the last scene of the film. The film that, for Mrs Chan and Mr Chow, was originally about finding out the secrets held from them, which then becomes their secret, our secret. This is beautifully referred to in the opening shot of the "sequel", "2046" (2004), where we in fact emerge from the tree hole.I've become more and more inclined to see this not only with the aforementioned masterwork "2046" but also Vigo's "L'Atalante" (1934), since somehow the free-flowing visual mood of that film, especially the use of interior space, and the way it visualizes love, fit so well into place next to this. It's amazing how the film flows the way it does, considering how all of it was based on improvisation and constant experimentation, meaning that it must've been an arduous experience full of moments where one simply doesn't know where to go. The film, however, is a masterful showpiece of rhythm: both in the movements of the camera, how it moves carelessly, and in the editing and how it structures the sequences. 'Effortless' is an appropriate adjective.I've already referred to the deeply self-referential narrative structure in the film's fabric. The film is basically about a created fiction based on a lie and a hidden truth that in the end becomes a lost reality, a kind of "could have been" that's the very stuff love and longing are often made of.Summa summarum, this ranks among my absolute favourites: it's perfect in every way, so nuanced, profound, inviting repeated viewings. It's a bottomless well of inspiration, a designation I would be bold enough to give to only a few films I've seen. This is one of them.
Auteur filmmaker Wong Kar-wai directs this moody period drama about unrequited love that, like his earlier work, swoons with romantic melancholy in this movie entitled,In The Mood For Love.It features Maggie Cheung and Tony Leung together with Siu Ping Lam,Rebecca Pan,Lai Chen,Joe Cheung and Chan Man-Lei.Set in a Shanghaiese enclave in Hong Kong in 1962, it centers on two young couples who rent adjacent rooms in a cramped and crowded tenement. Li-zhen works as a secretary in an export company while her husband's job at a Japanese multinational keeps him away on extended business trips. Across the hall, Chow works as a newspaper editor and is married to a woman who is also frequently out of town. Neither respective spouse is ever shown in full, instead they are shot from the back or obscured by walls and furniture. Li-zhen and Chow soon strike up a cordial friendship. Chow begins to suspect that his wife's long absences are not entirely business related when he stops in unannounced at her office to discover that she is not there. Later, a colleague tells him that he saw his wife with another man. The icing on the cake comes when Chow notices that Li-zhen's handbag is identical to his wife's while Li-zhen discovers that Chow is wearing a tie that she gave her husband; it doesn't take long for them to realize that their spouses are sleeping together. Drawn together by shame and anger, Chow and Li-zhen reveal nothing of their discoveries to their partners. While working through their guilt by imagining how their adulterous spouses first hooked up and rehearsing interrogations, the pair slowly fall in love in spite of their determination to uphold their end of their marital vows. With a stealthy, eavesdropping camera style and a screenplay created through spontaneous on-set inspiration, Wong Kar-wai crafts an intricate, finely tuned platonic romance, enhancing its ambiance with a kaleidoscope of color and careful attention to character detail.Added to that,it is a mixture of bold devices with delicate understatement that leave a remarkable aftereffect.Truly,an elegant film that should not be missed.
A beautiful movie that captures your attention from the moment you see the first scene. The film revolves around two characters Chow Mo-wan and Su Li-zhen that are in a sense abandoned by their significant others. Living in the same apartment building they create a bond. One that becomes an escape for their loneliness they feel. Each of them believe their spouses are having affairs. Their relationships through out the film could be seen as an emotional affair than a physical. They wanted the urge of being wanted and loved. They use each other to relieve their despair. Both of them knew this isn't right way to deal with their problems but they just cant stop until Chow Mo-wan moves to Cambodia. The director used the soundtrack superbly. Its integration into specific scenes was perfect for me. This films brings attention to the simple human need of love. And it does a great job. Any real film lover would know this after they watch this movie. I have to recommend this movie to all my family and friends.
This Chinese film will leave you hungry. Hungry for noodles and more incredible films from Kar Wai Wong. A tale of two people, man and woman, who move into a dilapidated and noisy apartment. The two come to discover that either of their respective spouses is having an affair with the other. This bond over misery gives them both something in common, and a warm relationship develops between the two of them. The reoccurring theme of delicious looking Chinese food serves as common ground for the two protagonists. Many of their time together is spent over food, or the act of getting or making food. The meals are always hot, temperature wise, as well as spicy - just like the new-found couples relationship.This film really highlights the beautiful simplicity of this specific Chinese culture in the 60's. Their lives revolve around work, food, and not much else. You can feel the importance of a significant other, and how even the slightest interaction with someone who shows compassion for you is greatly underrated. Terrific film, wonderful actors, incredible imagery and music.Be prepared to laugh, cry, and be confused all at the time time. This film is something you will not forget.


                
This romantic film is more like a tragedy in the eyes of any hopeless romantic. The solitude of both Mr. Chow and Mrs. Chan makes it inevitable for them to spend time with each other. Through their spouses affair, their solitude, their lust for each other, and their proximity all lead to them falling in love with each other. Not wanting to stoop down to the level of their spouses, they never consummate their love. They both feel trapped and daunted by the secrets they hold about each other, however, neither of them confront their spouse. What is it they fear? The recurring motif throughout the film is Mrs. Chan's qipao dresses. Every dress symbolized all the times that her and Mr. Chow ran into each other. They themselves had their own little illegitimate affair filled with innocence and sadness. Wong Kar-Wai, the director of this film chose for there not to be a happy ending in which they live together forever in happiness. Instead, the ending is a little ambiguous when Mr. Chow whispers his secret (their secret) in the Angkor Wat in Cambodia. In the end when he goes to visit her, he is told that a lady and her son live there now and this is the first time that they do not cross paths.
There is a very strong belief why the international audiences especially viewers in Europe and America have declared themselves to be the biggest of the besotted admirers of the Hong Kong film "In the mood for love" directed by Wong Kar Wai.According to many critical texts written about modern cinema, American and European cinema have completely lost the notion of feminine beauty. In contemporary times, it is in Asian cinema that this element has been found. If one looks closely at this film, it is not only the Hong Kong director Wong Kar Wai but also the Australian cinematographer Christopher Doyle who have virtually cashed on this aspect by making the leading actress Maggie Chaung appear as highly sensual,seductive and alluring."In the mood for love" also gives allusions about unrequited love made coherent through maximum use of closed spaces. It also looks as if the filmmaker is trying to convey that closed spaces are fruitful in bringing human beings closer to one another.As far as mystery element is concerned it has been depicted by not showing the respective spouses of the couple in love. These are some of the basis reasons for watching this film. Watch it more than once with your neighbor. You are surely gonna enjoy this film.


                
This is perhaps the most elegant statement about creation I have ever seen. About the essence of artistic creation itself. And for a film to aim that high and to be an extremely artistic creation itself warrants a rare 10.First of all, it is a story about a creator, and his relationships with three creators: his co-creator (Su Li-zhen), his literary creator (Wong) and his Creator (God).At the lowest level we have him writing a martial arts serial, with the assistance of Su, which also manifests their creating fictional spouses at the next level (their lives). Third level, we see that our main character is really Wong, or rather a conception from his own creative mind. It concerns him, as a writer himself. Finally, there is God, who created for him the opportunity to create in the first place.There is also the matter of how this thing is presented visually. Every shot is extremely confining. There is barely enough space in the room for the camera (and in some cases there is no room at all and we are left peering into rooms through tiny windows or out from under tables). The locations include tiny rooms in apartments (shared of course), narrow hallways and staircases, small offices and restaurants, and that wonderful little canopy, which is often the only hiding place from the rain. Suffocatingly tight quarters throughout. That is until his creations are complete and presented to God.So we have all matters of creation taking place, forming in extremely cramped environments, until at last Chow is able to whisper them into the hole (where only God can hear), at which point the world is flooded with beautifully lush open space as the camera floats away, finally free.


                
This film is full of Chinese aesthetics. Maggie Cheung replaced 27 different cheongsams. Liang Chaowei and Maggie Cheung repeatedly walked up and down the stairs. The story is simple, but their exquisite expressions and movements and Zhang Shuping's praiseable clips make every shot of the film worthy of repeated play.
The soundtrack is also very good, mainly composed of jazz, but also in a different style, some traditional Chinese music and Barsano of Ono Lisa.
Although the storyline is weak, it not only embodies the delicate and intense emotions of the film, but also reflects the characteristics of the director Wang Jiawei's works. This work is his sixth work. He completed the transition from a description of the love prodigal to a description of the person obsessed with a particular love. In his early works, emotions are like being dispersed in the air, released from one person, but always ignored by the object. In such works, there is often no fixed comedy or tragic ending, because the focus is placed on the emotions floating in the air. His work after "In the Mood for Love" will put the emotional focus on a fixed relationship. These works began to show some common romantic elements in popular love movies, beginning to appear and specific storylines.
"If I have a ticket, will you follow me?" The timeline of the previous work of the film was emotionally driven, and the timeline of subsequent works was driven by the plot. This work is obviously a combination. It embodies a very integrated promotion, where the emotions of the male and female owners meet here. Eastern love is more like a game, and active people tend to be more passive. Guessing the other's mind is often the only way to win in a subtle emotional game. Here, we need to pay tribute to Wang Jiawei, because as Zhang Manyu said when she received the award, she realized what she was doing when she saw the film. The actors and the director made the movie overwhelmingly marvelous!


                
