I seem to be one of the few people on this forum who think that this film is not some kind of 8th world wonder. Let's face it guys, it's nothing stunning... The film drags on endlessly, the film theme with strings is tedious and repetitive, there's no real plot, the film is edited together with bits and pieces. I agree, it is beautifully filmed and the cinematography is done very well. But if you compare it with 'Il Postino', another 'slow' movie with more or less the same main theme, then 'Il Postino' definitely is the most intriguing film. Close but no sigar.


                
i've seen 'in the mood for love' only once 6 years ago, on opening night, since based on the previews this movie looked like it had a lot to offer. i love wong kar wei's movies and maggie cheung and tony leung are -of course- two of my favorite Asian actors. for all these reasons, i was even more disappointed after having seen the movie.all i remember of the movie was a slow, yawn-causing pace, filled with still photographs and acting that was beautiful in itself but became ugly after having seen the exact same scene with the exact same soundtrack for the 6th time, much like a beautiful song being played on the radio too repeatedly becomes an ugly song in the end. the same thing happened with the soundtrack. the story in itself, two lovers longing for each other but being bound by fidelity and honour, was interesting but way too obvious. i mean: in how many ways can you visually show longing? they longed for each other, they couldn't have each other, I GOT IT!! and all the symbolics and '60 decorations and confinement couldn't keep me motivated enough not to fall asleep.this being said, of course i'm not a professional critic and obviously there's much i missed of the deeper layers in the movie since most of the world seems to agree that this is a work of art. maybe i'm just not a romantic, or just too stupid to get all the underlying layers. its frustrating, and i really hope i'm not the only one being disappointed by this movie.
This seems to be a love it or hate it film. I'm in the latter camp, but then I hate romance films in general so I was predisposed to dislike this before I even started. I watched it because I like the actors and I love Chinese films in general, but I guess I should stick to the thrillers and such.The problem with this story is that it's so subtle that it wasn't even worth making a film about it. I'm not sure why people seem to love it, because this is a film where nothing happens. Even the romance is so understated as to be virtually non-existent, and the posturing of the central characters becomes more than annoying before long.I like Tony Leung and Maggie Cheung, but their acting feels artificial here, their characters hollow. The main thing in a film is to empathise with the central characters so that you become emotionally caught up in the story, but that's impossible here. Leung seems slick and smarmy and Cheung aloof and distant. The interlude in Cambodia felt random. I understand that Wong Kar Wai shot this film without a script, which explains everything.


                
Incredibly overrated film. A man and a woman find out that his wife and her husband are having an affair. This stimulates the man, well, to smoke a lot and the woman to look a bit odd. We see cigarettes falling on the floor in slow motion, we see the wind blowing through red curtains. These scenes have to convey the message that we are dealing with 'art'. The main characters hardly say anything, their silence is supposed to be telling. It told me that these people are mentally and socially inept to express themselves. So our hero just lights up another one while the heroine keeps on looking rather uncomfortable, as if she hadn't visited the toilet for a long time. The endless silence, the endless smoking. Say something! Do something!, I heard myself shouting to the screen. Sleep with each other, have your lungs checked, deliver us from this endless boredom.
Despite the rave reviews it has gotten, I found the movie slow and boring, the soundtrack pretentious, and the location shooting meaningless. Even the excellent cinematography couldn't save this slow boat to China.


                
I knew before seeing this film that some reviewers had raved about this film, others had panned it.  I sit on the side of panning it.  For two people so passionately in love i noticed a lack of one thing... passion! Hence I could not get into this film.  Interesting technique used in regards to "the other halves".  They are heard but not seen, giving the audience an emotion detachment to those characters while we focus on the two leads.


                
This is a snore-fest from start to finish. Anyone who claims this is good must be the kind of person that stares at a blank white painting and claims it inspires them. I gave it 3/10 because 1/10 and 2/10 is reserved for truly terrible movies, and at least the acting was good in this.


                
I approached "In the Mood for Love" with great anticipation; after all, the film had received glowing reviews in the major print media and garnered some notable awards. Much to my surprise, I found the film to be extraordinarily self-referential, with tricky camera angles and shots, time-lapsed and out-of-phase location jumps and irritating tics, not the least of which was Maggie Cheung's unending stream of the single dress in multiple fabrics contrasted to Tony Leung's wardrobe of blue silk suits. This monotonal, if not monochromatic approach was reflected in the non-romantic romance, most frequently depicted by two actors staring meaningfully(?), longingly(?), achingly(?), lustfully(?) into the middle distance. And the overweening pretension was sublimely manifest in the scenes at Angkor Wat -- of no relevance whatever to the confines of the bleak and grimy Hong Kong depicted in 2/3's of the film. What a bore!


                
I thought "IN THE MOOD FOR LOVE" was extremely boring compared to Wong Kar Wai's "CHUNG KING EXPRESS". I however did like the cinematography as I did in the in "Express" but it was a very different visual style. The colors were very vibrant and vivid. I thought it was well acted and the direction was great, but I need a movie to grab my attention from the get go and this movie was just to slow in my opinion. Being as in I don't like foreign films I have trouble watching movies with sub titles, So if the story doesn't grab me I have trouble following along. I'd have to give this movie 3/10. My next review will be of Wong Kar Wai's "2046"


                
