I do not know and cannot understand why so many people comment this film as so beautiful and super. However I do not like this film at all. I believe Mr. Wong is a professional director who has been studied a lot and well trained in the film sector, and that is why most the time people find his films with good cinematography. I am not professional, but I simply do not enjoy the colour, the light, the slow move of this film at all. I have tried my best to stay objective and keep on watching this movie, but after 15 minutes I cannot stand it further at all.You call it beautiful, but in what way it is beautiful? Just because of the professional work of a famous director? You call it romantic, but which part of the story is specially romantic? Such a story is so common that you can find in a lot of films. Actually I find the story itself is quite all right, but the artificial "slow moving" of the directing really spoil the story. Good acting? Well, do you really know how to speak Cantonese? If you know Cantonese, you probably will agree that the acting and the dialogue are rather artificial and pony. Believe me or not, if you have watched more films of the two leading actor/actress, you will notice their way of acting and the way of performing dialogue are always the same, especially Tony Leung.This year I have the chance to watch 2046 in the Dutch TV channel, as a film fan I remain being objective and looking forward to enjoy the film. However just the same ,after 15 minutes I did not want to waste my time. I have watched good films and bad films, but it seems that the way of Wong Kar Wai making film is simply not my type! However, for the hard work of the whole team, I still give it 4 points out of 10, that is grade E.


                
Hero's wife and heroine's husband have an affair. Hero and heroine commiserate. Hero and heroine may (or may not) have had an affair themselves. This takes 2 hours? Only because the story is told s-o-o-o slowly, with many opportunities for the leads to look soulful. Best part of the movie: the soundtrack.


                
After watching in the mood for love i was in the mood for a very long nap. I thought this movie was extremely dull and pointless. I went in with the highest hopes after liking Chung King Express and was quickly disappointed. As for some of the production, there where several scenes in which the lighting was very well done, many darkly lit almost film noir like scenes throughout the movie. There were also several great camera angles used throughout the entire movie. On a scale of 1-10 i would give this about a 4. On a positive note i did like the performance by Tony Leung and can only hope that 2046 is a little better sense he stars in both of these films. Was it just me or was it always raining??


                
It has always been a challenge for a creative artist to depict boredom in one's subject, without the work inducing a like response.  Skillful craftsmen like Chayefsky and O'Neill rose to the occasion in an exemplary fashion.Unfortunately, Mr. Wong, with his "In the Mood for Love," does not.


                
Hmmph. I was looking forward to seeing this - being the type that prefers low key, left field, arty foreign films to the typically over-hyped and over-dramatised hollywood offerings. But this simply didn't do it for me.I was looking for the mystery and intrigue and trying to work out the sub plot - were the two lead characters actually married; or married to each other, or inventing fictional spouses? As it turns out there was no mystery or sub text to solve, I found you can simply take the entire film on face value. As a result, it has disappointingly little to offer.Some nice cinematography on occasion, yes, and a sweet enough story, but played out so slowly and repetitively that I fail to see the magic that others see in it. Nothing in it moved me at all. I want to like it, but I don't. If I had to find a single word, it would be 'dull'. Sorry!


                
My American perspective allowed me to peek into the, apparently clandestine, lives of these seemingly model Hong Kong citizens. I thought Wong's portrayal of this tale of exaggerated infidelity was a prime example of Asian morale. As, (I'm sure) the world knows, 1 out of 2 marriages in this land of the free and the home of the Whopper ends in divorce. So, as of the start of this movie, my self-diagnosed Restless Leg Syndrome as well as it's associative yawns and a case of anxiety that could write it's own prescription, kicked in. And then...the dreaded slow-motion (what seemed like) ten minute scenes kicked in. I've only lived 18 years in this world, but I can honestly say that Wong must be the ONLY director that has a continuous slow-motion shot that extends beyond one scene. And is it just me or was the Spanish Tengo music in the background of an Asian movie comical to anyone else? (I did appreciate that sexy, yet sinister walk Mrs. Chan demonstrates ;D) And do i even have to mention the repetitiveness of the slow motion?! Please Mr. Wong, if you're going to repeat a style of shot, PLEASE use a different song! Maybe it's just my America-induced A.D.D., but i thought this film was overall petty and irritating. I'd also like to take this opportunity to tell Mrs. Chan to take heed the words of the all sagacious Blondie, "once i had a love, and it was a gas."p.s. sorry Mr Wong, I know; EVERYONE'S a critic


                
