What Wong Kar-Wai is basically dealing with here is reality and artificiality. The two neighbours in this film begin their romance by imitating their idea of the romance between their spouses -- but the line between imitation and reality is always in question. As filmgoers, we believe in the fake romance and unconsummated adultery more than the real thing, as both spouses don't appear in the film. But there's also a dreamlike tone to the film and its cinematography that quashes any idea of reality.With that said, I think it's this slippery idea of reality that made it so hard for me to engage with the film. There's not much traditional narrative to grab onto here -- the characters are ciphers and the story is slow and frequently interrupted by musical sequences. Kar-Wai is most obviously drawing on Sirkean melodrama and Ozu-esque slow family drama as influences, and I'm not a huge fan of either. It's a beautiful film, especially visually, lingering over the colours of 1960s China and often getting unorthodox, such as the long takes of just one side of a conversation. And it's given me a lot to think about, but the actual experience of watching the movie was kind of a drag. Maybe I'm just not a mature enough cinemaphile. Beautiful, but it's an estranged, sterile type of beauty.
This is an excellent film--with beautiful and haunting music and an interesting story. I like how the two people knew their partners were cheating on them but they were just too decent to return the favor. Their unresolved love was very well developed and really had me pulling for the characters. However, although I have a pretty high tolerance for slow-moving films, this one just seemed to drag and went at too subdued a pace. I actually liked the pacing, but kept expecting it to pick up a little more. But, it never really did, and this reduced my overall score for the film. I didn't need some sort of Hollywood happy ending, but the slowness just got to me after a while.
I really enjoyed the aesthetics done in this film, but the content was a little hard to follow. The beginning is all over the place and it was hard to distinguish who was who. However, I really liked the director's style. It was very clear throughout the movie. I liked how he wouldn't show the wife or husbands face and his interesting camera angles to hide their appearance. I also enjoyed the music used and how it was repeated during certain sequences. I don't think I enjoyed the outcome in the end. I think everyone wanted them to just be together. Overall, I found the movie to be appealing to the eye but the story line left me confused and unsatisfied.


                
What I love about this movie is the beautiful way it is filmed, the even more beautiful soundtrack and the way Tony Leung makes me wanna start wearing a suit. What I like less is that I as a non-Asian got confused a couple times because the actors looked all the same to me. But hey, can't really blame the movie for that! I'm definitely going to see the movie again just to understand every detail and get even more out of it. Something I really liked was the way many conversations were filmed, so that you could see only one of the persons, if any of them. (Even though it contributed to making the film a bit confusing from time to time.)
Set in Hong Kong, 1962, In the Mood for Love depicts a pair of quiet, introverted neighbors who discover that their spouses have been carrying on an extramarital affair. As a means of coping with this mutual heartbreak, they begin spending time together - bonding over martial arts serials and a mutual curiosity about their significant others' double lives - and are shocked to uncover the flicker of a budding romance themselves. Their sense of honor, propriety and, perhaps, a jolt of fear stands in the way, though, and the pair treads cautiously lest they commit the same sins that first brought them together. That central conundrum proves impossible, ultimately, and it's an issue the film never completely resolves despite toying with the subject for quite a while. Which, in a way, is the most relatably authentic path it could've chosen. Sometimes life is defined by what happens between those narrowly-missed connections, those epic romances that could've been but weren't. Actually reaching that conclusion is somewhat laborious, as director Wong Kar-Wai dallies about with only faint plot developments for most of the duration, but I didn't mind that so much. The marvelous cinematography, rich supporting cast and lush, detail-laden scenery provides interest where the story itself might otherwise fall short.


                
The slow-moving, slow building, simply-lit and simply set, but beautiful shots are absolutely amazing to behold in this romantic film. It's a love story, that is just as much in love with itself, as the characters are with each other. It captures forbidden love, and betrayal of love, in it's most visual essence. Also, If you ever wondered where the idea for the whisper at the end of Lost in Translation comes from, it's this film. The end of this film is however, arguably more magnificent.


                
If you want to make a film about passion you can't do better than make a film about passion unconsummated (and the couple in this film barely get further than holding hands), and if you want to make a super-stylish movie about beautiful people you can do far worse than return to the buttoned-down early sixties. William Chang's award-winning make-up and costumes vividly evoke late Sirk, Hitchcock & Ozu and early Resnais, and probably helped inspire 'Mad Men'.One wonders where Maggie Cheung finds the room in her tiny flat to store the breath-taking succession of figure-hugging qipaos she models (doesn't she ever wear slacks?); and putting an action heroine in such constricting clothes heightens the controlled passion of her performance to a pitch that matches the saturated colour images created by Christopher Doyle & Mark Lee Ping Lee. One finds oneself speculating, however, as to what she looks like first thing in the morning in a dressing gown with dishevelled hair; unless Ms Cheung somehow emerges fully formed every day looking like the cover girl of a 1962 Hong Kong edition of 'Vogue'.


                
It was really full of visual feast but not perfect. In fact if you want to see best scene art, you should see 'Kis Uykusu' from Nuri Bilge Ceylan. It has also Cannes Golden Palm award. Come and see that amazing movie.Anyway, back to the 'In the mood for love'. when i watch this film, sometimes i was bored, sometimes i found it really charming. I think there is a problem about fast moving. Actually i am not an action films fan but i can not stay full attention some slow movies. So this movie was one of them. By the way i can not pass the point that the sexiest women i have ever seen: Maggie Cheung. On the other hand, i must say that clearly: there is a cultural differences between mine and far east countries. Maybe that's why i can not get the some points.


                
It's kind of like someone decided to get Peter Greenaway to direct Brief Encounter in Korean - what's not to love there?! The film is ever so wistful and longing, acted superbly with a whole range of believable characters just being alive and living their daily lives oblivious to the building relationship of two people right in their midst. The two main characters especially are beautifully played; Maggie Cheung the very beautiful, slightly daydreamy wife, across from Tony Chiu Wai Leung, the hopeful, lovely husband... and then there's their respective spouses(!) I'd recommend this film as a thoughtful, sweet experience. It's no extreme thrill ride of excitement, just a lovely film; it feels real.


                
Wong Kar-Wai whispers his secret of sensual sensitivity through In The Mood For Love. It leads us into a world of delicacy and impossible desires. It tells a love story with short scenes, focusing on details, playing with the feelings. The use of music is exquisite, accompanying the movements and feelings of the characters at all times. Visually prodigious. And the actors, magnificent, with special mention of Tony Leung and the look that contains the deepest feelings. I can not find the exact words to describe the beauty of this film, it is an absolute preciousness. One of the advantage of this film lies in its visual, In the mood for Love will attract you from the beginning with its rich color, small details, the repressive feelings, the romance between the two loners and many more. It is poetry in cinema. The cinema photography, with a twist of "vintage", by Christopher Doyle and Ping-Bing Lee is just lovely. What was visualized as the world's saddest love story ended up the most exciting film for me.


                
it was OK...i didn't really like the storyline, it was annoying how Mrs. Chan and Mr. Chow were like "oh there's nothing going on here..." because there was, they were totally into each other! and i didn't like how Kar Wai Wong changed scenes...like how you could only really tell it was new day because Mrs. Chan was wearing a different dress, that sorta bothered me. but i did enjoy the acting and the cinematography and what not, it was very nice :) i also liked and didn't like the fact that we never say Mrs. Chan's husband or Mr. Chows wife...and i don't think i really understand why Kar Wai Wong chose to shoot it that way. overall it was an OK movie :)
"In the Mood for Love" is a work of art, and appealed beautifully to my eyes and ears upon viewing the film. This movie, like many distinguishable works of art, may however require a deal of patience to fully appreciate. This movie is double sided in that it can be viewed as both a love story, or a lesson in restraining oneself from loving. As such, director Wong Kar-Wai puts the viewers of his film (in many cases, classical cinema viewers who yearn for happy endings and indisputable closure) through much of the pain that his protagonists experience. Much of the movie consists of a seemingly never-ending amount of very close, tender moments that end with the characters no closer to a goal than before. Many scenes are left emotionally unfinished, and it is up to the viewer to fill in the blanks, which can easily lead to many different justifiable situations. The plot can be considered anticlimactic, but it is because the lives of the characters are portrayed in such a realistic way that one would finish the film with maximal empathy and understanding.


                
The film "In the Mood for Love", directed by Wong Kar-Wai is not your average romantic love story. Through his genuinely creative directional talent, Kar-Wai brings a whole new meaning to the essence of relationships. Keeping in mind that Kar-Wai is trying to portray the manipulative role the brain plays in the process of creating memories, it is no surprise that at times, the viewer will find his or herself in a state of déjà-vu. To the inattentive eye, the film may seem repetitive due to the lack in change of setting, but more importantly, it is the change in time that keeps the movie flowing forward. I found it very interesting and unique how Kar-Wai utilized wardrobe and production design in order to convey the passing of time. The acting in this movie was absolutely on point, and the protagonists demand your eye's attention in every frame. Without Kar-Wai's choice to use smooth and slow camera movements, the audience would certainly find it difficult to appreciate his very cool and mysterious approach to lighting and mise-en-scene. Though Kar-Wai's film is heavily influenced by a formalist approach to cinematography and elliptical editing, the acting and subject matter are highly realistic, resulting in a wonderful balance between raw personal experience and a more whimsical dream-like state. If you're searching for a unique film that dives into the immeasurable and murky waters of memory and emotion, you must see Wong Kar-Wai's "In the Mood for Love".
I thought this movie to be a little slow. The cinematography is good, and I've grown quite fond of the main actor, but I thought the story dragged. There wasn't enough going on in the movie for my liking. However the very different style of movie was enough to keep me hooked, I especially like the single light source scenes and the repetition of the songs in the movie, both very anti-Hollywood. All the scenes and the music is well thought out, and the characters are rather enjoyable. I found myself hoping throughout the movie that they would end up together in the end; probably exactly what the director wanted, so I suppose it was pretty immersive. I'd highly recommend this movie just so you can understand what's going on in 2046.
Sensitive, extremely quiet paced love story between a married journalist and his young and atractive neighbor, she too also married. They lived their love for a time but the obstacles and the fear of hurting their families and children invites to a separation. A reflexive look on delicate question like love, friendship, honor and loneliness, always present in human lives, whether you are an American or a Chinese. I give this a 7 (seven)


                
It's 1962 Hong Kong. Chow Mo-Wan (Tony Chiu Wai Leung) is a married newspaper editor who moves into an apartment. Su Li-zhen (Maggie Cheung) moves in on the same day. Her executive husband is often away on business. With his wife away with her sick mother, Mr Chow befriends his beautiful neighbor.There is a lot of midrange shooting style. In that I mean the camera is a little further away. It doesn't always directly shoots the subject. There are stuff in the foreground a lot of the time. At first, I didn't really get it and put me off. I thought it was an amateurish mistake. After 15 minutes, it's pretty obvious that's the camera style that writer/director Kar Wai Wong is using here. It's somewhat voyeuristic and beautiful visual poetic.The mood is more reserved. The first 30 minutes is too perfunctory. Then it gets interesting as the lead characters start getting together. It's hesitant and awkward. It's different than the usual hot and bothered romance. It's a slow burn. It has mature feel about it. However it does walk the edge to being too slow and sometimes it falls right over.


                
A charming movie about a secret love affair. I really think the actors did a good job in convincing the audience that their love for each other was true, but impossible. Good movie for a Sunday evening, when the purpose of the evening is to lean back, relax and watch something entertaining but not too much drama to it. Overall a pretty slow movie, but that's exactly what you need on a relaxed night in. It could have contained more drama, but then it would have been like any other Hollywood movie, which is clear that its not the purpose of this movie. It is a movie to remember of life as is, on true events which goes on all around the world at all times.


                
The film is very meaningful and highly educational
This is a love story very different from what we use to see in movies. No romantic excesses and no sex at all, not even a kiss. A married man and a married woman who feel somewhat abandoned by their consorts who are away for long periods, become neighbours and start a friendship relation. But friendship between man and woman although possible has often a narrow and fragile border with love and in this case it changes into love although keeping always a platonic, restrained and chaste way revealed only by shy dialogues. The story develops itself through quiet and smooth images and words which are sufficient to let us know the dramatic spiritual inside of them both. They end up by realizing that their love is impossible and turn away from each other. The movie ends with a poetic image of the Angkor Vat Temple in Cambodia which stresses its spiritual climax already shown before in the facial and corporal expressions of both protagonists. The quiet atmosphere of the movie seduces and captivates us.
Two neighbors, a woman and a man, form a strong bond after both suspect extramarital activities of their spouses. However, they agree to keep their bond platonic so as not to commit similar wrongs.Regardless of what other qualities this film has, what stands out most is how there is such rich color. Yes, this is supposed to be the 1960s, but did the 1960s ever look this good? Brilliant tones, great flow.Beyond that, it is an interesting story about love, both romantic and platonic, and the loyalty of our significant others. And when the platonic friendship is between a man and a woman, where do these lines blur? Sometimes they never do, but other times it gets complicated.


                
At first when watching this film, I thought it was a little slow pace. However, after a while as the story develops it becomes good. In Hong Kong, a man and woman move in the same day into adjacent apartments with their spouses. Soon they suspect that their spouses that are never around, are having an affair with each other. The man and women console each other by role playing what to say to there spouses. After a while they start to form a complicated bond with each other. I mostly took away from this movie the idea that life can always surprise you and that you can form bonds with anyone, and at anytime, when there's a connection.
Lovely movie, not one of the best foreign movies I have seen, but it still have some wonderful moments in it. However, what I liked about it, is the way the director Kar Wai Wong shows some montage that makes the movie stronger, more beautiful, and more interesting. He shows these small montages throughout the movie and every time you see them, you will get a new sense or feel of what is going to happen next. I loved all the dresses that the female actor is wearing, many beautiful colors that gives the movie a stronger feeling to. What I miss in the movie is actually some real feeling that something could have happen, Something major, something more exciting.


                
The fact that this film is such a classy romance with out the common vulgarities of the typical romance on the screens today, makes "In the Mood for Love," a beautiful melodrama. The obviously growing romance out of the comforting friendship Mr. Chow and Mrs. Chan share while experiencing a similar distance from their spouses, is innocent and captivates the audience. The incredible shadow work in the shots along with the tight closeness in each shot, increases the temptation for the audience to want Chow and Chan to give in to their longing of each other. The beautiful scenery and dress of Mrs. Chan add on to the classy appeal of the film overall.
This movie was intriguing for the simple fact that adultery was the emphasis although it was never carried out. I love the fact the director Wong Kar-Wai used slow motion shots with music to put different feel to the movie. I felt this movie in all was lacking a little action or sizzle. At times scenes seemed to be moving rather slow, and seemed to have no end. the main characters seemed to be into each other, but over all this movie showed many ups and downs. I really disliked the ending where it kept jumping from different place to different place. For people speaking English only and having to keep up with the subtitles, it became difficult to follow towards the end. Overall this movie had its moments, but just didn't keep my attention.


                
Wong Kar-wai's In the Mood for Love is hauntingly beautiful, but hallow, like a beautiful woman without substance. The film's ending leaves you feeling empty and a little sad, not to mention left longing for something that you can't quite understand. In the Mood for Love is all foreplay and no climax. I say this with no judgment, with no negative connotations involved. It's not good or bad, right or wrong, black or white; it simply is.In the Mood for Love is stylistically stunning. There are moments where the screen is bursting with such palpable emotion and such immense beauty. It's an unbelievable accomplishment and a testament to the power of the film language and the potential of a great director. The images of Maggie Cheung framed in shadows, slowly moving down the stairs, with Michael Galasso's moody yet impossibly romantic tracks suffusing the moment, are unforgettable.The Chinese title of In the Mood for Love is Fa yeung nin wa which is translated into "the age of blossoms" or "the flowery years." The expression is a Chinese metaphor for the fleeting period of youth, beauty and love. And that is exactly what the director manages to convey. The film leaves you feeling wistful and yearning for another era, a more elegant, more graceful time.As stirring and moving as the film is and as much as I like desire and foreplay, I can't help but admit that I personally prefer to end with a good climax.
