When I fist watched the movie, I said to myself, "so a film can be made like this." Wong Kar Wai's gorgeous poetic love story captured me throughout and even after the film. I must admit this is one of the best love movies, maybe the best of all, I have ever watched. The content and the form overlaps perfectly. As watching the secret love we see the characters in bounded frames that limits their movements as well as their feelings. Beautiful camera angles and the lighting makes the feelings and the blues even touchable. I want to congratulate Christopher Doyle and Pin Bing Lee for their fantastic cinematography which creates the mood for love. Also the music defines the sadness of the love which plays along the beautiful slow motion frames and shows the characters in despairing moods. And of course the performances of the actors which makes the love so real. Eventually, all the elements in the film combined in a perfect way under the direction of WKW and give the audience the feeling called love.


                
WARNING: SPOILER,SPOILER,SPOILER!!!!This is written for filmgoers who may have walked away from "Mood for Love" perplexed and confused about paths the main characters choose in life. From reading other comments and reviews it seems that many viewers and critics missed some very important details which may have prevented them from enjoying this delightful tease of a movie.We are so use to seeing blatant SEX in narrations that we forget that there was a time when filmakers would suggest the "dirty deed" by simply showing the slack-mouthed couples ride off in a sleigh or haywagon only to return into the next scene with a bulging gut or a fat toddler stuck to the hip..."Meet your child".The director chose the same nostalgic approach in telling the story of Mr Chow and Mrs Chan.  Last warning...SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER
Mr Chow fools Mrs Chan into showing her real emotions when they rehearse his departure forever. Next scene: Mrs Chan leans her head on Mr Chow in the taxi and says "I do not want to go home tonight". Translation: "Let's Do It"Why then did the couple just not do the modern thing of dumping their cheating spouses,get a divorce,raise their love child and live happily ever after? The answer is that this whole story takes place in Hong Kong during the Sixties. A bastard would live in a bleak life of shame if he were the child of an adulteress;whereas,a "legitimate" child could live a tragic but noble/honest life if his mother chose to raise him away from his cheating "father"-the invisible Mr Chan. In short,Mr Chow and Mrs Chan sacrifices their relationship for the future of their child.That is why Mr Chow,upon learning that Mrs Chan lives alone with a little boy gives a knowing smile and ends his dreams of making Mrs Chan his Mrs Chow. He then,also realizes why Mrs Chan went to all the way to Singapore to be with him,only to reconsiders at the last momment and leave..,choosing to never see him again.(But not before taking some unnamed keepsake) Mr Chow lives with this wonderful secret with no one to tell. No one,except for a crumbling temple wall and of course we the viewer,...but only if we listen carefuly.
Two people living in the same flat complex find their partners are having an affair with each other. As they try and piece together how it happened, they also embark on an emotional journey that aches for a resolution<U+0085>Building on his previous success with Happy Together and Chungking Express, Wong Kar Wai gives us this rather old fashioned and marvellous story of reawakened passions, yearning and unrequited love. Possibly, In the Mood for Love is not to everyone's taste. It wanders in rather lazily at 98mins: not particularly long for a film, but it appears longer because not a lot really happens. But this lazy feel conceals a quite tightly constructed film. Most of the story is cunningly woven around a series of set piece role plays, where the characters act out presumed scenarios between their respective spouses, trying to work out how the affair started. I say cunning because, of course, this makes it difficult for the audience (and the characters) to tell what is "in-role" and what is genuine. If all this sounds rather arty and self-conscience, that's because it is. Unashamedly so. And it is played to perfection by two of Hong Kong's finest, Maggie Cheung and Leung Chui Wai, with some excellent support from Ping Lam Siu and Rebecca Pan.It is also a virtuoso performance by Wong Kar Wai, who treats the audience to a sensory, and sensual, overload. Bringing together Christopher Doyle (who later deployed his lush, over-ripe style on Hero) and Pin Bing Lee (whose beautifully understated style can be seen on Springtime in a Small Town) was cinematographic genius. It has all the bold beauty of Doyle, without, frankly, the Athena-poster cheesiness of his work on Hero. The music, as always with Wong, is prominent. From Nat King Cole singing in Spanish, to the haunting strings of the main theme, it perfectly matches the eclectic beauty of the images. All in all a top film, whether judged on plot, acting, cinematography or soundtrack. Similar to, but more accessible than, Wim Wenders' Wings of Desire, this is a beautiful, old fashioned story about love lost and regained. And watch out for Tony Leung's hotel room 2046, which presaged Wong's recent film of the same name.


                
Spoilers herein.Start with your typical Hong Kong Kung Fu movie. A normal director will simply film that. But not this guy.What drives kung fu movies is not the bozos doing the fighting, but the masters behind them who use them as surrogates. But then, what drives the kung fu masters? The fellow writing the story, that's who.That's where this kung fu movie starts. The central figure is the writer of a successful martial arts series. But it is even more abstract: the film is about what creates him.It is half about his space. every shot starts or finishes on the surrounding space, very close, confining. That space includes his neighbor, who is thrust into his life by proximity and indirect relationship.
I choose to think that the relationship between the spouses is imagined, part of an extended role playing activity which forms the core of the film. That's what we see: a story about the creation of a story (the relationship) which results in the story (the martial arts series). All the mechanics are meditative, repetitive. We see countless small acts, the movements of people interacting with their environments. Lot's of close space, smoke, crimped walking, unsaid comments. The music recurrs. Everything repeats. All the major acts are relived or anticipated in practice.Finally, the environment, hence the story unravels as the space changes, first as he gets a space in which to write, then moves to Singapore. Finally, he whispers the story into a hole in a ruin in Cambodia. Along the way we are transported to an abstract world of human causality.This is great. In my rating system, for every high mark I give, I have to balance it with a low mark. Now I can watch a 2.
For those who like their films full of exploding planets and extreme violence, this is definitely not one to see. In fact, there is very little plot at all (or, at least, very little that could not be summarised in a few seconds: A meets B. Mr A falls for Mrs B and has an affair with her. A and B then fall in love and wonder (at great length) whether to have an affair themselves).This is Cantonese Visconti. Story there is none, but what you DO get is a succession of wonderful images and poignantly trivial music which convey the slow passage of the central characters' emotions. There is also the chance to see one of the world's most beautiful women in a succession of stunningly elegant outfits. For my money, it's worth seeing for that alone. How could this woman ever have been an action heroine? She looks as though she has stepped straight out of the pages of Vogue.


                
"In the Mood for Love" is a bittersweet, delicate film that shows that the simplest glance or touch of hands can be the most romantic thing imaginable.Mr. Chow is a married man who has just moved in to an apartment next to Mrs. Chan, a married woman. Despite being married, they both are very lonely people due to their spouses having jobs which demand them to work late or abroad, although they may each be cheating as well. We never see the faces of their spouses in the film, and that's to demonstrate how absent they are in the characters' lives and minds. The characters catch glances at each other once or twice (or come close to) early in the film, and these moments are shown to be important to them through the use of slow motion, which is used in the film to show the moments that they don't want to end. The characters begin meeting with each other which seems at first to fill the void left by their absent spouses, but they begin to realize it's something much more than that.The use of frames within frames and blocking in this film is used to suggest the loneliness of the main characters and how close they are to being together, yet the ever present wall between them that forbids them to. For instance, whenever they meet outside at their usual location, the camera is situated behind a fence, and they seem to be separated by a thin bar despite how close they are.As the film progresses, the characters each feel the feeling of love has suddenly snuck up on them, and they can't get rid of it. They start thinking of each other more and more, despite their promise to remain platonic. When they suspect that Mrs. Chan's wife is cheating, they begin to have a "rehearsals" for how she should react to it. She does it once and Mr. Chow says if he outright confesses that she has to be more mad. They do it again, but when Mr. Chow (acting as Mrs. Chan's husband) confesses to cheating on her, she simply can't react. It is this moment that she realizes that she lives Mr. Chow, and, although she never truly cheats on her husband, she now understands it if her husband were to cheat on her. They both now understand how they first fell in love with their spouses, who they now don't feel much for. Love crept up on them without them even realizing, and even though the feeling isn't going away, they are forbidden to be together. Soon enough they are "rehearsing" for when Mr. Chow has to leave, and after he does, the feeling still lingers, but the timing is never right for them, and eventually those moments, those feelings, are lost forever.
In the Mood for Love (2000) Kar-Wai Wong has indeed created a masterpiece here. Not only created it but orchestrated it. I cannot think of a more accurate word to describe what he did here. "In the Mood for Love" should be included in the definition for mise-en-scène. I suspect that everything was deliberate. Every angle, every camera movement, every color choice, every glance, every song, every word. It was a slow film, yes. But for once, it does not feel that way. It feels that it had to be exactly the pace it was. Prepare to be charmed, intoxicated, mesmerized, transported. I have to be honest, I have not seen this for the longest time because I was convinced that it was another art film that was completely overrated. This time, it was warranted. The camera work. The movement. We peek around edges, we peer through holes, we pan across hallways, we zoom into apartments. We are able to see into the neighboring apartments, as each of them sits, lonely. As we pan back and forth, a wall reminds us. Almost the entire time, the photographer in me was admiring what great angles these were and imagining myself taking them; making a move to take a still every few minutes. The music. The only other film I remember that uses one song so stylistically is Garci's "Volver a empezar" from 1982- which in my opinion was overused and became annoying at some point in the film. Here, it is Yumeji's Theme. In contrast, Wong mixes it up on the score and we do not tire of the theme. Instead, it signals yet another emotionally intense scene filled with longing, waiting, loving, wishing. This is the power this film has. To elicit so many emotions with a few minutes, a handful of glances, one song. The costumes. Most notably, Mrs. Chan's dresses. Ever changing, ever gorgeous. The set design. Oh, the lush and saturated colors. If one can call colors yummy, now is the time. We are almost exclusively indoors. It seems that every time we are outside, it is raining. The lovers run to get out of the rain, they wait for the rain to pause, they talk in the rain. Alas, no kissing in the rain. My complaints? I wish the film was in Mandarin, not Cantonese. For two reasons. One is selfish, because I would be able to understand it without subtitles trying to accurately translate. Two, Mandarin is a less harsh, more fluid language. As far as beauty goes, it would have matched the film's tone better. I also feel as if the film was lacking character depth. That I still felt so much for them, therefore, is even more a testament to Wong's skill. I felt like I did not really know them; that I knew little more than the them strangers saw. Although this may have been a stylistic choice, that does not change the fact that I was left feeling like something was missing. "In the Mood for Love" is as much about what we do not see and what is not said. Silences mean everything. One glance tells us more than words ever could. A minute shift in tone makes all the difference. For example, we never see the adulterers, Mr. Chan & Mrs. Chow. They remain off screen as other characters talk to them. We spend full moments focused on a character's face, watching them as they begin to cry or as they struggle internally. Missed opportunities. Missed moments. Misunderstandings. Misconceptions. Wrong place, wrong time. A theme Wong uses in much of his work, such as "Chungking Express" (which I did feel was completely overrated). Wong was in the mood for love. The audience is in the mood for love. Mrs. Chan and Mr. Chow are in the mood for love. She might not admit it, but Mrs. Chan is in the mood for love. Mr. Chow is in the mood for love. Alas, still no love. He calls her. "It's me. If there's an extra ticket... would you go with me?" No answer. Later in the film, their roles are reversed. She wants to know, "It's me. If there's an extra ticket... would you go with me?" Ironically, it is this film about a love that could be but never was that is named as the most romantic by many. This is one of the reasons I appreciated the film. Had this been filmed in this country, I can almost guarantee you the two of them would have ended up together. Wong did not take the easy way out. Not throughout the film- where he focused on the two being cheated on rather than the ones doing the cheating- and not in the ending, where they continued missing each other, over the years. He garners my respect for this decision. Because this is closer to reality. Often times, love is not enough. Life gets in the way. Circumstances, miscommunications. Excuses, maybe. But that is life. Unfortunately. Some gems of relationship truth: "I didn't know married life would be so complicated! When you're single, you are only responsible to yourself. Once you're married, doing well on your own is not enough." Mrs. Chan asks, "Why didn't you call me today?" 
"I was afraid you won't like it," Mr. Chow replies. 
Her response? "Then don't call me ever again." "In the old days, if someone had a secret they didn't want to share, they went up a mountain, found a tree, carved a hole in it, and whispered the secret into the hole. Then they covered it with mud. And leave the secret there forever." This is something Mr. Chow says to his friend Ah Ping. In the exquisite final scene, filmed in Thailand with "Angkor Wat Theme" playing, we see him peering into a hole; we then see it covered as he walks away. From right after the title cards: "It is a restless moment. She has kept her head lowered to give him a chance to come closer. But he could not, for lack of courage. She turns and walks away." From right before the end card: "He remembers those vanished years. As though looking through a dusty window pane, the past is something he could see, but not touch. And everything he sees is blurred and indistinct." Mrs. Chan says, "You notice things if you pay attention." Indeed. The perfect tip to truly appreciate "In the Mood for Love".
Wong Kar-Wai's "In the Mood for Love" is a love story unlike any other I have seen, and I am very grateful for that. In this well-executed film, Kar-Wai portrays loneliness, despair, and heartbreak in a uniquely profound and beautiful way. The plot revolves around two neighbors, Mrs. Chan and Mr. Chow, who begin a platonic, supportive friendship after realizing that their spouses are having an affair with one another. These friends begin by finding solace in each other from their loneliness, however, their emotional intimacy and vulnerability inevitably cause them to develop romantic feelings and they ultimately fall in love.The romance between Mrs. Chan and Mr. Chow is, unfortunately, plagued by the sociocultural realities of life in 1960's Hong Kong. Even prior to their romance, when they truly are "just friends," they have to exercise much caution and secrecy so as not to face social scrutiny, as respectable married women and men are not supposed to socialize alone together. This points to the most devastating hypocrisy of the film, as two people genuinely in love are unable to act freely, whereas, as a viewer, I got the feeling that their spouses' affair is, perversely, more acceptable. Kar-Wai masterfully handled the film's ending, which I found to be a poignant demonstration of the unfortunate, inescapable plight of Mrs. Chan and Mr. Chow. All in all, "In the Mood for Love" is a beautiful, even lovely, film that manages to depict star-crossed lovers in an innovative fashion, steering clear of clichés. It is a complex, multifaceted love story that stays with you, since it is much more realistic than the common triteness that I would usually associate with the subject matter.
This story also shows a different take on a love story. If you watch the film, there are unexpected turns of events that happens from beginning to the end. Kar Wai Wong directed "Fa yeung nin wa" (In the Mood for Love), which stars as Maggie Cheung (who plays Mrs. Chan) and Tony Chiu Wai Leung (who plays Mr. Chow). Cheung and Chiu has a lovely chemistry on screen as they portray a woman and a man suspicious of their significant others' love affair. Wong keeps a fluidity to his camera movement, using the changing of wardrobe to represent a passing of time, which was a clever editing trick. What would you really do in a situation? Would you be able to speak out? Would you be able to abhor all the details in your life as ammunition? And what would happen if you happen to run into someone you start to care about, but unsure if you would really leave the life you are living? Wong does provoke questions to us in a realistic manner. I thought the film was beautiful. The only concern I would have (being a film buff) is the static audio that transitions from Mr. Chang (who is never seen). For some reason, he's voice has a different frequency that it made me think of a error glitch that happened in the sound engineering section. Other than that, this was an enjoyable film.
I have seen 2046 and My blueberry nights - I can single handedly say that this is Wong Kar-Wai's masterpiece among them. Already from the beginning we get a notion that something is wrong in Maggie Cheung and Leung's relationships. Both have husbands and wife's that are gone away, and they are left alone to suffer from loneliness. Soon, Maggie and Leung start to meet, and ultimately develop feelings for each other. It is not an easy road though. Leung must defeat her fear of confronting her husband and abandon her feelings, while Leung seems to have an easier time of doing so. They do get closer, but Leung realizes that a relationship will not be possible, in terms of how Maggie is treating her feelings for her husband; she is simply not ready to let go. Leung takes of to Singapore for an environment change; away from all the gossip between them two. Maggie tries to contact Leung, but can't find the courage to talk to him on the phone and hangs up. The film ends in a very memorable way. In fact, I shiver every time I think about the ending. It is an ending which should be seen, and not revealed.The movie affected me strongly and also reminded me of the movie "bicycle thieves". It is a love story anyone can relate to, who has been unluckily married. You feel you are inside a trap, and can not enjoy life the way it is supposed to be. The movie also touches on the subject trust. Do we know what Maggie's husband is doing abroad? How can we trust people.Acting is spectacular and very memorable (which can not be said about the other two movies I mentioned in the beginning...Starring Judy Law...well that explains it.) Leung does an incredible job of conveying his feelings for Maggie. He is perceived as a "Smokey" character. With that I mean, it is something you have to see to understand. It really does set the mood of how the film plays out.Camera work is again, excellent. I absolutely loved how the film makers were able to go around every corner and sneaky angles and film their acting. It just made the movie so much more interesting and somehow believable.
SPOILER ALERT!!!You can listen to Wong Kar-wai's movies like a radio play: Invisible vibrations between the characters, the rooms where they stay in, the rhythm that presses them ahead, attraction and dislike - the whole spectrum of the atmosphere is played back by the sound track. The dialogue is mostly completely unimportant.The narration is similar to a childish amorous look at a beautiful woman and a sad man whose sorrows are noticeable, but helpless. "In The Mood For Love" is told from a child perspective, but the child never appears as a narrator. The aesthetic of the film is developed by an extreme light and color dramaturgy, harsh cuts, an unattached, almost documentary camera and a complex, unobtrusive sound.The genius use of Nat King Cole's "Perhaps, Perhaps, Perhaps", whose mysterious power grows the more often it is repeated and the melancholic waltz helps in the graceful choreography of the two protagonists. Maggie Cheung in her beautiful dresses is brilliant, the perfect vis-à-vis to the handsome, stylish Tony Leung. The audience assumes a romance between them, but Wong just sees sad resignation. The two potential lovers are revolving around each other like satellites, knowing that they never will share the same orbit. You wish that they will find each other. They won't and the emotional power of their non-love-sex-relationship makes the movie immensely fascinating.It is about broken luck and unspoken love. In all of Wong's films these are the leitmotives. Love, whether it comes too early or it comes too late to take the one and not the other person. The yearning of the characters that is never satisfied, their loneliness, the mourning, and the luck that they experience when it is too late.


                
"In The Mood For Love (Fa yeung nin wa)" shows that there's still something new filmmakers can bring to a very old subject, the impact of adultery. Here we only see the cuckolded spouses.Situated in the specifics of crowded Hong Kong in the early 1960's to intensify the proximities, the spouses become next door neighbors, v-e-r-y gradually (yeah, there was some snoring in the theater) realize their connection, then try and understand the emotions and the morality of their unseen cheating mates by reenacting critical decision points they assume must have occurred.The fantasy vs. the reality gets a bit confusing to us and overwhelms the characters with guilt just by the power of their feelings. The camera's intensity in communicating longing is a double-edged sword for Western audiences of playing on some visual "Oriental" stereotypes.For a woman living in a one-room apartment, the wife has more "Suzi Wong" type, very tight dresses than a department store, with a different one on in every blink of the lens, and wow does she look fabulous in them as the camera lingers on her fully-clothed body parts (the audience commented afterwards that even the PG rating seemed too restrictive). The man gets only a couple of visual leers.The finale in Angor Watt seems a bit unnecessary with its heavy symbolism. It's frustrating that the songs on the soundtrack are clearly commenting on the emotions but they are mostly Nat King Cole singing in Italian or Spanish, with one Chinese pop number thrown in, so that nuance is lost to English-speakers.(originally written 2/17/2001)


                
'In the Mood for Love' is a quiet movie about a man (Tony Leung) and a woman (Maggie Cheung) who both have cheating spouses. His wife and her husband are cheating on them, and they know it. They talk about it, even try to figure out how that has happened with a role play. The man and the woman probably love each other, want each other, but to give in to that would make them as low as their spouses, so they say.Since this is not a Hollywood movie things happen as they should happen. The movie is quiet, and the songs by Nat King Cole add a lot to this atmosphere. There is a theme, Yumeji's theme, that plays when the man and the woman realize what is going on, when they pass each other in the hall. It is one of those themes of some kind of rare beauty, perfect for the tone of the movie, sad but beautiful. An intelligent and moving story is what 'In the Mood for Love' tells.


                
I loved the score and the casting choices. Everything thing felt perfect for what this movie represented. You might be a little sad at the ending but it does not take away from the greatness of this film.


                
Maybe the reason for all this is the retention of music "in the mood of love" in its unique harmony in images.Not only in terms of rhythm, but also images perfectly aligned with music rhythm, but also in terms of coloring the music with images.Warm colors require a warm-blooded music video that does not spoil the two main characters and make the vocalist more.


                
"IN THE MOOD FOR LOVE" - this is half-glance, barely perceptible and understandable only for lovers half-smile, silent walks suddenly filling the whole life of this characters.The picture has its own mood, atmosphere, color, speed and charm. The film can be compared with the painting of the Impressionists.Two humans, a man and a woman - the story is old, like the world. But like a real poet, the director manages to tell this story to the viewerSlow, stiff, melancholy frames from his films are framed in beautiful music that complements the characters' feelings and moods.In the mood for love that Karwai creates in his painting seems like an eternal mood. The dim light that breaks through the drizzling rain, the conversations in the kitchen, the sounds of the radio, the idle neighbor's gossip - all this is hidden from the attention of lovers. They live in their own dimension.The music in his picture is the bearer of emotional experiences against the background of the eastern restraint. It does not need extra words, it's enough to hear the first notes to feel the filmEXTRA:Initially, the film was titled "Beijing in the summer" (Beijing zhi xia) and was due to appear in the CPR (Chinese People's Republic). But, according to existing rules, it was required to provide the script for approval to censors, who, in the end, banned the shooting. After that, the main scene of the film and work on it were transferred to Hong Kong, and the script itself was significantly redesigned under the changed conditions.


                
This movie is amazing, great direction, great photography, great costumes, great art direction, great performances.


                
This film definitely did not have the best plot I have ever known. But the director did such a great job, that it did not matter if we had heard this story a thousand times.The music was simply awesome. I had heard it before but never knew it was a movie score. The director overused the music, but honestly, that was such a deliberate choice that it only enhanced the cinematic style. A couple more things he overused in such a way were slow motion shots and frames within the the main frame. The frames gave this film a real Ozu feel... And the music was strange, strange because beside the beautiful soundtrack, Wong Kar Wai also used some Spanish music. And I just kept trying to understand: why? Maybe he wants to make sure we don't think the film is purely meant for Hong Kong, but rather extends to the rest of the world too, as such a love affair could really happen anywhere.There was definitely social context about all of this, maybe even political but I didn't catch that part too well. Socially, both of the people were oppressed by the society such as the neighbors who it seemed, had their windows wide open to see and comment on all the characters were doing. Hence maybe frame within a frame? This makes lots of sense because a frame not only shows you what the world is, but it shows this world to you from a certain perspective. Like when the girl is sitting alone reading a newspaper, and the man goes behind her, we already associate them together just because of the framing.Wong never showed the faces of their spouses, maybe again, saying that it does not really matter what they look like because they don't really exist in the protagonists' lives, hence they shouldn't in ours either.Overall a greatly made fim. I loved everything about it.


                
One of the finest film made by the director Wong kar wai. this film beautifully tells the story through marvellous cinematography and production design. every frame is like a painting for Wong kar wai as he has delicately planned and shot. Actors performance are based on the improvisation made on real dialogue/script written during the shoot which also comes as natural conversation. Wongkarwai has used his content and knowledge very well along with the detailing in the story such as change in the weather, talking about certain food items etc. Lighting of the film also addressed smartly the mood and emotion of the character and location. High contrast with good color make you really mad with your eyes. Approach of the characters towards the situation is also a key to set the mood correct.


                
The second of an unofficial trilogy by Chinese director Wong-Kar Wai which started with Days of Being Wild (1990) and concluded with 2046 (2004), it would be difficult to describe and appreciate In the Mood for Love without using the words beautiful, sumptuous and erotic. For a film trying to capture the pure eroticism and sweeping romance of the meeting between lost souls, there is precious little dialogue or conventional narrative, with Wong instead choosing to tell this story through gorgeous visuals and, to steal a word from the film's English-language title, an overbearing sense of mood. Continuing with the semi-improvised, free-flowing approach that brought him international success with the likes of Chungking Express (1994) and Happy Together (1997), In the Mood for Love is an achingly romantic experience, and may just be his finest work.Set mostly around a cramped apartment block in 1962 Hong Kong, the central 'love' story is between Mr. Chow (Tony Chiu-Wai Leung) and Mrs. Chan (Maggie Cheung), who, along with their spouses, rent a room in neighbouring flats. They regularly eat alone at night as their other halves call to say they are working overtime, and they both suspect infidelity. eventually coming to the conclusion that Mrs. Chow and Mr. Chan are indeed having an affair. Despite the ever-presence of the pleasant Mrs. Suen (Rebecca Pan) and her mahjong-playing friends, the couple feel isolated and alone, often venturing out to the nearby noodle stand to purchase a meal for one. The two start to bond through imagining and even re-enacting how their spouses met and courted each other, while insisting their own blossoming relationship remains platonic. But feelings are developed and suppressed, with things intensifying when they begin work on a martial arts serial, renting a hotel room to escape the gossiping of neighbours.The era in which the film is set not only gives the opportunity for some exquisite costume design (Mrs. Chan's colourful dresses radiate sensuality), but also offers the chance to reflect on a more conservative, socially-conforming time. While the couple refuse to allow their friendship to boil over into romance, there are still whispers and raised eyebrows. With this kind of secrecy and restraint forced upon them, they are made to pass each other on the street with barely an acknowledgement, and this is where Wong's style becomes the substance. Sexual tension is captured by the brush of a hand, a sideways glance, and even the dipping of meat in hot sauce. In the film's most effective scene, they pass each other on a stairwell, barely daring to offer the other a glance, just as the rain starts to lash down to bring them together under shelter. Where most films will have their characters lay their romantic cards on the table, Wong says so much more with repressing as much as possible, climaxing in a haunting final scene set amongst the ruined temples Angkor Wat in Cambodia.


                
Hong Kong, 1962. Two married couples, the Chans and the Chows, move in next door to each other. Mr Chan is hardly around, regularly disappearing overseas on business. Mrs Chow works odd hours and also tends to go overseas a lot. Mrs Chan and Mr Chow are initially just neighbours but over time a friendship blossoms, and then develops into something more...Not your average romantic drama, thankfully. Original yet simple plot, told in a very elegant, classy manner. Considering the infidelity involved, the movie could have been a cheap, sordid affair but this is nothing like that. The relationship develops slowly, almost accidentally, and the movie highlights their feelings for each other, and their issues and insecurities.It does move slowly at times though and from a point seems headed for a dull, unprofound ending. However, there's a nagging unpredictability about the plot that keeps you glued to the screen. This open- endedness produces a final few scenes that are wonderfully poetic and a conclusion that is incredibly powerful. Poetic in its script, and artistic in its presentation. Wonderful cinematography, especially the use of bright colours. Throw in some fantastic performances by Maggie Cheung and Tony Leung in the lead roles and no aspect of the movie can be faulted.Superb film.


                
Set in early 1960s Hong Kong, Wong Kai-wai's 2000 film IN THE MOOD FOR LOVE chronicles a brief affair, and one that is poignantly ambiguous.As the film opens, we see two married couples move into rented rooms in the house of an elderly matriarch (living space is at a premium in Hong Kong, and the claustrophobic sets reflect the reality). Two of these new neighbours strike up a friendship because they feel similarly neglected by their spouses. The husband of Mrs. Chan (Maggie Cheung), a traveling businessman, is often away for weeks at a time and probably seeing another woman. Meanwhile, newspaper reporter Mr. Chow (Tony Leung) quietly suffers his wife's betrayal as she stays out night after night with some other man.Chan and Chow begin spending time together, wondering if their actions mirror those of their unfaithful spouses: "Is this how it started?" Their exact relationship remains ambiguous, as Chan suggests that any physical intimacy would be stooping to the level of their spouses. Even if their friendship is platonic, they struggle to keep it hidden from the conservative society of the time, adding considerable suspense to the film.Tales of adultery are pretty old hat in art cinema, but the storytelling here is fresh and IN THE MOOD FOR LOVE proved a moving experience for this reviewer and his wife. Cheung and Leung play their parts with such painfully sad faces, as if the betrayal of a husband or wife is a natural disaster that can only be born quietly with dignity, never undone. It's not unbearably oppressive, however, and a little bit of comic relief is provided by Mr. Chow's coworker Ah Ping, played by Ping Lam Siu. Strikingly, Ping Lam Siu wasn't a professional actor at all, but rather a prop man, but he's a real character and I'm glad Wong Kar-Wai brought him in front of the camera.Besides the memorable acting, another strong point of this film is its exploitation of the medium. The colorful sets with 1960s period detail and Ms. Chan's changing succession of cheongsam dresses are absolutely gorgeous. Furthermore, the viewer is dazzled by cinematic slight of hand such as a rapid succession of near-identical shots in the same location, representing in an instant how these characters had been meeting over weeks or months. Shots from under a bed or behind a curtain make the audience feel like a voyeur; we are no longer innocent spectators but almost implicated in the protagonists' affair that they are desperate to keep secret. The husband of Mr. Chan is never directly shown, while the face of Mr. Chow's wife is always turned away from the camera, an effect that strengthens the viewer's identification with these protagonists and leads us to sympathize with their feelings of neglect.Wong Kai-Wai shot something like 30 times the amount of footage that ultimately made it into the finished film, and some of this cut footage can be seen on various home media releases. Knowing how the film was made will definitely elevate film editing in your eyes to the same level as the initial writing of any screenplay -- which Wong Kar-Wai doesn't even do, working intuitively without a script. Wong Kai-Wai filmed a number of directions for the story to go in (like a final meeting between the lovers, scenes of their spouses, etc.), only to cut them out, and the end result is so much stronger for it. The 98 minutes that was finally shown to the world is utterly convincing with not a minute wasted and not a single element extraneous. It is as if the director was a sculptor revealing a masterpiece out of a huge block of marble.


                
There is much to be said for this film, as well as for Wong Kar-wai, a spectacular auteur. What intrigued me over all else was his ability to break so many conventions of production. While Su Li-zhen - Mrs. Chan and Chow Mo-wan are eating dinner for the first time, we see the style of dysfunctional editing, crossing the 180-degree line several times. It most definitely served the narrative. In this case, the cinematography and editing are just as confusing as the tense and uncomfortable situation these two are undergoing eating for the first time. Therefore, we really do feel what they feel.The grandiose, repetitive music that would only play over slow motion sequences appeared to develop into a motif in its own right—or even potentially an allegory for mundane life and repetitiveness—a sort of "life goes on" feel. I also enjoyed the choice to disperse bits of information in a fragmented way, not to mention repeating the same shot twice for emphasis. Certainly, this film was not made in a classical Hollywood style, but, in this case, Wong Kar-wai succeeds in breaking the rules to get his message across.
I cannot begin to describe how refreshing it was to see a slower-paced romantic film. In comparison to the predictable US romance stories, it's easy to find comfort in the soothing and respectable actions of the characters. Kar Wai Wong outdoes himself by taking the slower pace of the film and adding some slow motion footage combined with an original soundtrack. In a world of traditions, limitations, and judgement, these slow-motion moments allow the viewer to hear the unspoken words of the two lovers, whom which don't allow for their relationship to exceed a physically platonic state. Comparing it again to most US films--where the lovers give into their passion, regardless of what the societal norms are--would make anyone feel that it's in films like "In the Mood for Love" that viewers identify content as form (regardless as to how present the director is in his choice of mise-en-scene), allowing for the films synthesis to form inside one's mind without having it served to him on a silver platter.


                
Kar Wai Wong's in the mood for love was a very powerful feature. The bond that Mrs. Chan and Mr. Chow form is amazing. Almost as though the whole thing was destine to be. I felt as though it almost picked up in the middle of the story though. We never see Mrs. Chan's husband or Mr. Chow's wife through out the entire movie. However i did not like the fact that most of the movie seemed as it was all one scene. The only thing letting us know its a new scene is when Mrs. Chan changes her wardrobe or when Mr. Chow is wearing a new suit or tie. One thing this movie did contain was an astonishing, unexpected turn giving the movie full sense. I thought this was a very well played out mysterious love story with a great twist.
