I am beginning to think that Martin Scorsese is the most overrated movie director of all times. Re-watching his oeuvre is a painful experience for me - discovering how pretentious and shallow his movies all are. Take Raging Bull.De Niro won an Academy Award for gaining 60 pounds for a role in the name of method acting - so what? Does it change this utterly futile waste of celluloid?I can't see a point watching this way too long story of a boxer, who - at the beginning of the film - is psychopathic, arrogant, sexist and primitive, turns into an unsuccessful boxer, then turns into a nightclub owner, then turns into a prisoner, and gee-whiz! he is still a psychopathic, arrogant, sexist and primitive man.The moral is? Or is it an allegory? Nope. If anybody says it is, punch them in the face. Is it symbolic? Nope again. Does it reveal anything about anything? Sure, that De Niro is a great actor. And this, my friends, is way to little - we all know that, don't we?I wish the scriptwriters had had anything to tell. Sometimes there are stories which are worth telling with no hidden agenda, or moral, or any of this stuff. This story isn't one of them. This is the biography of a moron who had no life. Why watch it?I'm a BA, and still say go watch Rocky (!) instead. Even that's better.
wow, what a letdown.i had heard friends and critics say that raging bull was a great movie,even a masterpiece.well,i finally decided to watch it.all i can say is...i don't think so.i found the entire movie a complete bore and horribly depressing.the movie may have been based on a true story,and maybe Scorsese was going for reality,but i'm sorry, what a horrible human being Jake Lomatta is.how can anyone remotely sympathize with this wretch.he deserved everything he got.but this is the one time Hollywood should have taken dramatic license and made the character into a semblance of a human being.anyway, the film chronicles the rise and fall of boxer Jake Lomatta played by Robert Deniro.Scorsese filmed the movie in black and white,supposedly for effect,but it was lost on me.a good movie needs a main character you can relate to and/or sympathize with and this movie doesn't have that.there are no redeeming qualities in this movie.i felt like i wanted to kill myself after watching it.simply put this movie is a colossal waste of time.i know many people totally disagree with this view point and i can't for the life of me understand why,but that's life. 0* out of 10
I fail to understand why so many people consider this to be such a good movie.  I was bored stiff with it from the very start.  Martin Scorsese should send me a check to cover the time I wasted watching it (okay, he can deduct about 15 minutes because I fell asleep toward the end, just couldn't stay awake).  A more accurate name for it would be "Raging Bull-S***"I am not really sure what Scorsese was trying to say with this picture, but if he wanted me to feel that Jake La Motta was an interesting or worthwhile human being, he failed dismally.  About all I got was that La Motta was a complete waste of oxygen.  If that was his point, okay, but I think I could have conveyed that in about 15 min and then gone on with my life.The truly sad part about this movie is how much talent (DeNiro, Pesci, and Scorsese himself) was wasted to create it.


                
This definitely ranks as one of the worst films I've ever seen that I "heard for years" was a classic. It was dull, the characters, especially the focus of the movie was boring. The person I cared for least was Lamota, and I didn't think Deniro's portrayal was good either. Hey, maybe it was spot on, but if anything, it just proved Lamota was BORING and stupid, and nobody that should have had a movie based on his life.Don't believe the hype, cause even if Lamota could deliver a knockout, this movie can't.BIG TIME BORE & STINKFEST!


                
I can't understand the huge amount of praise heaped on this film, which isn't even mediocre. It's in black and white, which reduces its impact. At the beginning, he's married - then his wife disappears without explanation and is never mentioned - then he pursues a young girl. The protagonist is a repulsive man whom it's impossible for anyone other than sociopaths to like or admire. The audience is supposed to root for and side with the protagonist in a sports film - you can't do that for this horrible man who beats his wife and family. There are many of Robert De Niro's films which I like a lot - but I hate this one.


                
Scorcese tries desperately hard to mimic the Italian masters he worshiped as a youth. Alas, he settles on Antonionio's L'Aventurra and succeeds in making the most boring movie of the last 30 years.Perhaps if any of the characters in this movie weren't so incredibly despicable and obnoxious it might be possible to work up some feelings towards them, but since they are all people I would never want to meet in real life I had a hard time working up any sympathy for them. I just wish that they had all suffered a lot more than they did.I hope that Scorcese and DeNiro suffer for making this wretched piece of crud.Truly a waste of an evening. A terrible movie on every level.


                
Sophisticated cinema for the middle school set,Raging Bull get's way too much credit for being a good movie. If your reference point is 1980's pro wrestling cartoons, then by comparison this movie is some high brow ish. I'd hold Martin Scorsese in higher regard had he made Mean Streets & Taxi Driver, then died with the script to Gangs of New York in his hands. Now I'm sitting here, and I'm glancing at various reviews for Raging Bull and Fat City too, and I know darn well some of these reviews are not ten lines long. I'll take Fat City and Rocky over Raging Bull any day of the week. Fat City for it's realism and superior cinematography, and Rocky because if you're going to sell me on a cartoonish lie, at least make it a harmless one.


                
As it seems, we live in a society, in which it is important enough to portrait the spiritually rather unimportant live of somebody, whose calling it was to knock down other people in a strange kind of activity, that has less to with sports, but much more with aggression. Since movies always portrait the time and the society in which we live and since the movie, that stands here under discussion, belongs to the 250 best rated movies ever, one must assume, that our society is as primitive as the topic of this movie.Doubtless, the acting capacity of Robert De Niro and, most of all, Joe Pesci, is admirable. But, if I am allowed here to try a kind of meta-comment: Somebody wrote, that this film "will remain in my heart forever: the splendid black & white, the contrast between the slow moving scenes and the frenetic ones, the choice of the music and the sense of loss which entangles the whole movie". At this point, I can only shake my head, because there are thousands of black and white movies, slow and "frenetic" scenes, the choice of music reached its culmination point in Faﬂbinder's movies, but not in Scorsese's, and the sense of loss is a very prominent motive since the silent movie time. So, all this compliments have absolutely nothing to do with this special movie.Complete loss of common sense is reached at the moment, when this somebody writes: "Martin Scorsese is the most poetic director of the last 30 years": What has boxing to do with poetry? Is there nowadays an "aesthetics of boxing", perhaps an "aesthetics of brutality"? And, after all, each movie must have a message, because otherwise, it is neither worth to film a story nor to watch such a movie. The "Raging Bull" is a paradigmatic example of a movie without any recognizable message, hence a "raging nonsense".


                
The story of a middleweight boxer as he rises through ranks to earn his first shot at the middleweight crown. He falls in love with a gorgeous girl from the Bronx. The inability to express his feelings enters into the ring and eventually takes over his life. He eventually is sent into a downward spiral that costs him everything.Robert De Niro won An Academy Award for Best Actor because he gained 50lbs for the role! But so what. Women gain that much and more for having a baby and yet where is their Academy Award?I can not believe that the AFI put this in the top 10. It is an awful movie. I am not a prude I loved "Pulp Fiction" "Cape Fear" "Goodfellas" and "Silence of the Lambs". This film is just overrated! Critics Just always have loved Stanley Kubrick and Martin Scorsese. They both have made crap and critics always find something to praise about their boring films! What I hated most about "Ragging Bull" is that is was boring and I got tired of hearing "The F Word". Another insult was the fact they try to make the protagonist a nice man when in fact he was a child rapist. Many people have claimed this film should of won "Best Picture of the Year". There is much better films that were nominated for BEst Picture but did not win! "Ragging Bull" is not one of them.
Oh my is this film terrible. I really wanted to like this film, honest; in fact, I bought it before actually seeing it. Seriously though, this film is grossly pregnant; there is nothing there; it's fluff; get it? Forgebodit!! Boxing movies are stupid enough as is, next to football flicks of course. However, I thought, "Well it's a Scorsese flick, he'll do something meaningful." Nope!!! Just a bunch of swearing, violent, irrational, testosterone-junkie wops walking around beating their women saying forgebodit. Peachy, let me tell ya; in fact, I want my time back, dig. This film is boring, redundant, annoying, and meaningless. The cinematography is somewhat sharp, but then again, somewhat sharp is just dull. One last thing, just because a film is black/white does not make it art...K?...K.


                
A depressing and unenlighteningpiece of garbage.Scorcese took a good idea and wrecked it just like gangs of new york.There was nothing entertaining about this insecurecharacter and the direction was terrible. Scorcese was in a deepinactive period before making this film and as far as i'm concernedhe should have stayed in it. Robert Deniros acting was not as good as people say Ihated it I wish I never watched it The worst sports movie ever made If you haven't seen it don't waste your time Does anyone agree with me out there


                
First Mean Streets then Taxi Driver then this. Martin Scorsese is defiantly the most overrated director in history and De Niro is just a terrible actor. The Academy awards must have been high on something that year to give De Niro an Oscar for gaining weight. He was supposed to win an Oscar for best 'acting' not for best weight gainer of the year. People who don't see that must need some help. I agree with STAN39520. It should be burned (along with Taxi Driver), and if anybody else directed this or stared in it they would pay no attention to it. So what makes Martin Scorsese great, huh! To me, the only great films hes ever done are 'Cape Fear', 'The Aviator', 'Casino' and the 'The Departed'. I really felt like i was doing a sinful thing watching this piece of crap! One of the greatest films of all time they say, one of the 'worst' films of all time. A boxing film with hardly no boxing in it. I think the only reason why Scorsese made this film is because of Taxi Driver losing to Rocky at 77 academy awards. I bet he said i can do a better boxing film than Rocky. Sorry Marty, Rocky won best picture, this and Taxi Driver didn't. 0/10 Awful


                
Raging Bull puts you into Jake LaMotta's world of hopes, desires, and terrible upsession.  Martin Scorsese makes the movie a enjoyable experience that makes you understand what you need in order to get a title shot, keep it, and deal with everything else.  The powerful, memorable piece was a perfect example of true perfection.  The opening scene when it brings you to when he is a older man who gets ready to talk to a crowd about his experiences and ended right before he was going out saying "I'm the boss, I'm the boss, I'm the boss."  Raging Bull is the most commemorating experience in American Film history.  This was an experience which will make you cry and understand that this movie is truly a perfect picture.


                
well well well, what can i say about this rubbish piece of trash. first of all, the whole film is in black and white. even though it was made when colour had been invented, that to me is a stupid move from a probably inexperienced director. obviously no one will bother watching a movie if its black and white... i did not realise it was black and white until i started watching it, got 20 mins in and turned it off. its completely awful. the films about some boxer or something and he has family problems, i don't know the full details because the film is in black and white which makes it hard to see. Set in the days of the old people this film really lacks any action, the boxing scenes are unrealistic, and the blood is fake because its black and white. nothing really happens in this film to entertain the viewer, you would think that being black and white it would have some action to make it more entertaining. but no, none of that. just a boring mess of a film thats shot in black and white. stay away from this, watch Rocky instead.


                
