Based upon Scorsese movies like Raging Bull, Casino, and Cape Fear, the typical DeNiro/Scorsese movie is A+ acting with F- directing.It's the story/writing that makes or breaks a movie, and sadly the story/writing somewhat broke this movie, mostly because it wasn't Scorsese proof.Although Robert DiNiro and Joe Pesci did an excellent job portraying their characters, the movie overall was very forgettable, lame and impotent. A waste of excellent acting talent. This movie is totally uninspiring, pointless, and largely unwatchable.The fight scenes, from a shameless and unforgiving director, were very impotent. Character development, going nowheres fast. The black and white effect, completely pointless.Whereas King Midas was able to turn everything into gold with a simple touch, Scorsese touched this movie and turned it into fecal matter.Raging Bull at best can only be given a 3 out of 10, and mostly due to excellent acting.
I saw this movie when it came out, and didn't like it. Then when it was named Movie of the Decade in the 1980s, I figure I'd try it again. Thought maybe I was in a grumpy move the first time. No go: I disliked it just as much the second time.Who gives a damn about this awful guy and his awful wife and friends? This is a movie that has little humanity and, IMHO, little purpose.Look, I'm not a Pollyanna. I like movie violence (e.g. David Kronenberg, No Country for Old Men), I appreciate well-told stories about complex and thoroughly rotten people. But there is no complexity to Jake LaMotta. He was a simple boob whose glorification does nothing for me.The "3" is for DeNiro.


                
Scorsese missed the target on a film which could have been GREAT! He filled it with petty, banal,trite palaver betwixt Deniro, Peschi and the wife. This should have been inundated with boxing, boxing,and boxing. Family matters are not necessary in this film except for a minute portion. Scorsese should have seen this flaw in the rushes. To me the film was just a crashing bore. Deniro and all were superb in their roles. The excitement is in the boxing scenes. Jake LaMotta is a living legend and his four fight with Sugar Ray Robinson are historical. They were not given enough attention as were his other bouts.


                
It has been awhile since I reviewed a stone cold classic. As a movie fanatic with over 700 reviews under my belt I have been trying to see some of these classics for the first time. I finally watched Gone With The Wind (see my review) and loved it, saw Casablanca and was touched (see my review) and now I finally sat down to watch Raging Bull which apparently is considered my some to be the great film of all time...what a statement to live up to. I love Robert DeNiro, the man is a master at his craft, and Martin Scorcese for me is very over hyped. He has had a lot of hits and misses for me, I thought Taxi Driver, and The Departed, were brilliant but on the flip side he has directed some of my least favorite movies including Goodfellas (get over it I hated it), Bringing Out The Dead, Gangs of New York, and now this...considered one of his greatest? Now finally I have to say that I think Martin Scorsese is severely over rated and tries far too hard to make obscurity along with gratuitous violence, language, sex and anything else that can get a rise out of the average viewer. I mean if there was some sort of artistic merit for cramming the most obscenities into a movie than hand it over to this man but when did that ever make a good film? Sadly this is considered one of Robert De Niro's finest roles when in fact I think he had one good scene in the entire movie. The rest of the time he was kind of an ass, beating on his women, going into paranoiac freak outs, and making no sense at all. He looks ridiculous as boxer Jake La Motta and the character is boring and I care so little about him, I can't even believe it. Amazingly Joe Pesci is actually pretty good as La Motta's brother Joey. I figured that Pesci would be no more than he was in Goodfellas which was a ridiculous character that does nothing but beat people into bloody messes and swear until your ears bleed but he actually turns in a serious performance this isn't completely ridiculous. Cathy Moriarty practically puts herself to sleep along with everyone watching this movie as the love of La Motta's life. She looks strung out and she is boring in the role period. I'd go on about the rest of the cast but they are hardly in it and they certainly doesn't make the movie any better nor really any worse because the script and entire idea behind the movie does that right away.Anyone who considers Raging Bull a boxing movie or even BEGIN to compare it to Rocky needs their head examined. First of all there is nothing good about Jake La Motta. He is insane, and an abuser both mentally, physically, and a stone cold scum bag through the entire movie that somehow we are supposed to feel sorry for. He disgusts me more than anything and I guess that's an impressive performance. Second of all for the ten minutes of boxing in this movie it's hardly worth it. What do we get to see? A couple of knock downs and DeNiro beating people's heads in, in black and white. The black and white is a nice touch and I mean it does make the film seem older, more classic but it doesn't over shadow the horribly boring story, and the ridiculous hero they try to make out of someone who is a scum bag in every sense of the world. This movie may have garnered Oscar nods and made DeNiro more of a star but I would love to sit down with anyone and explain to me what entertainment or education or anything that comes out of this because to me it was amateur garbage period. 3/10
I generally don't write reviews for the movie, but having watched this movie because of the high rating on the IMDB, I was compelled to write review so that I would be able to save precious 2 hrs of other viewers. To summarize the movie: a great boxer who is unable to control his temper, fights with everyone including his wife and brother and lead a life of misery. Thats it. There is nothing great in this movie.
 Now lets go through the reasons for high rating of this movie. The first reason is this movie has a great actor and a great director. I agree that the actor and director are great, but does that mean that the movie is great? Cant best people in a field create a mediocre product? The second reason is DeNiro has gained and lost weight for this movie. Now come-on how can an actor gaining a weight for a movie can make the movie great. This has been done by so many people before this and after this. Should not the movie have something that captures the attention of audience? The third reasoni is that, the movie is based on real boxer. Now if the life of boxer is an average life, then there is nothing great in the movie. The fourth reason is some boxing scene. There are lot of movies that have such scenes and this is nothing new. However, the few boxing scenes were reason I rated this movie as 3 star. Another reason is the domestic violence and a fight scene in club for a very silly reason. I don't understand how can this be a reason for making a movie great. There are lots of movie which have violence for silly reasons and we rate such movies as B grade movies.
 There a few good scene in the movie, but thats it. Those few scenes hardly span 10 to 15 minutes of the movie. Similar to this movie I consider "boyhood", "shining", "deer Hunter" to be another examples of overrated movies. I hope my writing will save 2 hours of someone's life.
Martin Scorcese's adaptation of a boxer's autobiography also contains content adapted (or, less generously, plagiarized) from previous films. The elements of the story that Scorcese emphasizes are the same that were at the core of "Rocky," and it is therefore fair to draw comparisons between the two: an Italian-American boxer who fights an African-American boxer and loses, an overshadowed wife figure, and a short, pudgy brother figure who doubles as a manager. What Scorcese's film does not have is any of the heart and sweetness that made "Rocky" enjoyable. Perhaps he hoped to replace the sweetness and light with a more realistic, hardcore sentiment, but he got only as far as the blood and gore and cursing, and forgot to add any meaning. There are no stakes to Jake LaMotta (Robert DeNiro)'s fights, as there were for Rocky's: Jake's life winds up the same regardless of their outcome. It's difficult to find a reason to care whether he wins or loses, unless you're content to root for him because he's the main character. "Rocky" knew that wasn't a good enough reason, and fleshed out its characters and world. If there were no elements of LaMotta's book that could have given some originality and depth to the story, Scorcese should have invented some.Instead of filling in the story's sizable gaps with original content, Scorcese rips off "The Godfather" in completely needless, bizarrely particular ways. There are grainy pictures at a wedding party where everyone is wearing the exact clothes from the beginning of Coppola's movie, and one character even reaches over to bring a woman in a red dress and wide-brimmed hat into the shot. Why import this familiar scene, stripping it of the layers of meaning it enjoyed in its original context? It adds nothing to "Raging Bull," not even the reflected luster of the superior film being copied. Later, during one of many interminable and repetitive domestic abuse scenes, a man chases his wife into a bathroom through a narrow, mirrored side-door. The door swings mostly shut, but he throws it open again. Some of the angles are the same as in that famous, far more important and meaningful scene from "The Godfather." Why such meticulous thievery? Again, it adds nothing to "Raging Bull," but it does serve to remind me of a movie I'd rather be watching, and it causes me to marvel again at the delicate plotting and characterizations that made it work in its native setting.Near the end, LaMotta deadpans a scene from "On the Waterfront." The audacity. The conceit. Clearly, we're being asked to marvel at how true the words are of LaMotta's life (well, of course they are, the movie has been written that way), but I'm not sure what we're supposed to feel during this scene. Are we supposed to feel sad for this wretched stereotype we've spent over two hours with? Are we supposed to take pleasure in the pathetic turn his life has taken? Never having been given a reason to care about anyone or anything on screen, I feel nothing either way. It's simply a bore to watch. There is one thing to be sad about, and that's that DeNiro's career has become uncomfortably like LaMotta's: he, too, has lately been reduced to lazily reading scripts for cash.Scorcese fans, and there are many of them who know far more about movies than I do, will say what they will about Sorcese's technical chops as a filmmaker and his fluency in the history and language of cinema. It seems inexplicable to me that so few critics saw the same "Raging Bull" that Pauline Kael saw, about which she wrote, "Scorsese's excesses verge on self-parody. You can feel the director sweating for greatness, but there's nothing under the scenes... De Niro's portrayal of La Motta is a swollen puppet with only bits and pieces of a character inside." That describes the "Raging Bull" I watched. Without a story to put Scorcese's talents in service of, they're wasted. "Raging Bull" is preening and shallow, and every element in it was done better before and since by filmmakers who understand the primacy of narrative.
What's the fuzz? I know about Robert De Niro who trained his lounges out, and so forth and so on, but that just doesn't really make it interesting. It's just not movie-magic, but long and boring and something about some legendary boxer, I don't know squad about. I really don't get it, but if you're up for it Mr. Scorsese-fan, send a message my way.6.


                
I wrote this review off-the-cuff..'please forgive' the spelling, grammar and English etiquette failings.I've read the reasons Scorsese gave for filming in B&W but it took AWAY from some crucial scenes making the scenes one dimensional IMHO.I also kept reading close to 100 reviews, print and internet, and it was all how this movie was so good they thought GOD himself wrote, directed and starred in all the spots. I was VERY VERY Disappointed.De Nero just came off as a dumb fighter with only one way of fighting (get punched nearly to death in 15 rounds OR knock them out in 10 seconds of round one) They could have done fewer minutes of the pretend sex because it was so drawn out slow and painful. ALSO 'she's 15 years old'?? Who thinks that? I saw her as easily in the mid-late 20s. How many 15 year olds in the 1940s were that Tall and have breast enlargement surgery? Also, pouring a pitcher full of ice water down his pants to get UN-excited about the 25 year old 15 year old.. Was it common in the 1940's-1950's to just have a pitcher of ice water waiting in your bathroom at all times? I would have caught that ERROR in mere seconds, anyone else? I gave this a 3.0 because I think that is just enough to give credit for the time they took to make the scenes, and to make all those copies for the theaters across the country.Pesci you could tell was holding back a lot. No one, brother or not, would have taken the verbal and physical abuse he did without dropping out of the scene far sooner. You could tell on Pesci's face how he was holding back.Also, Scorsese must how given Di Nero one instruction for the entire movie 'Never smile, no matter when or what never smile and never act happy content or even felling okay'...and that made it hard to spend more than 2 hours. I caught myself wanting it to end after 20 minutes.SPOILER SECTION:The XXXX scene of punching a brick wall a few dozen times AND busting his head against same brick wall. I expected to later see, or THEN, numerous excessive bloody shots. Doing that would force your knuckles through your skin after 10 or so punches easily. Hasn't anyone in anger ever punched wood? Notice how easily your knuckle skin breaks open and then the excessive pain? And the head butting? I recall being dumb playing tackle football with friends and our heads hit each other and this was ONE time, the pain was like a migraine for 3 days and the swelling...I was shocked and thought maybe I should visit the ER? I'm sorry but that 2 minute scene was so crazy laughable it hurt me.In defense of De Niro. Robert De Niro in my opinion is by far the greatest film actor, past or present, ever to exist. Brando is a top 5 but De Niro just goes all out for the part, does dozens of retakes and is so convincing 'goodfells for example' I used to wonder how many real mafia men fought for his autograph and buy his diner. It's sad to see this movie but at beast it lowers his score for him that I hold from a 100 down to maybe 99.999, he could do 10 terrible movies and his personal rank wouldn't drop below 95, people I think this man is THE actor and only God knows what worthless job he'd been doing all these years if not for his career.


                
