Certainly a contender for the most overrated film ever made. I like some of Martin Scorsese's work, but I have never understood the near hysterical reactions elicited by critics and his die-hard fans over his contributions to cinema which, much like Steven Spielberg, range from wonderful to embarrassing. To them, every Scorsese film is "brilliant." However, despite the reassurances of various critical associations and hero-worshipping fans all too willing to declare this the greatest film made in the last 30 years, most viewers may well wonder what all of the hoopla is about. The film is a biography of boxer Jake LaMotta and documents his volatile, tempestuous nature both in the boxing ring and in his personal life. There is no doubt that Robert DeNiro hurls himself heart and soul into this role, but much of the accolades heaped onto his work center on the arduous physical labors he endured to get himself into fighting shape for LaMotta at his prime and then make himself fat to depict LaMotta having gone to seed. One must admire his dedication, but it was hardly the first time an actor had gone to such efforts <U+0096> people quickly forget the weight gains of actresses such as Elizabeth Taylor for Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf or Lynn Redgrave in Georgy Girl more than a decade prior to DeNiro in Raging Bull. Ironically, other than the physical, there is nothing to recommend LaMotta as a character around whom a movie should be centered. He greets every obstacle in his life, either person or event, by trying to batter it into bloody submission. There is no range to him and he is most certainly not a charismatic person. I certainly would not wish to spend more than a few moments in his presence much less the duration of this film, which ultimately depicts LaMotta as little more than a not especially intelligent, violent pugilist. The profane dialog is anything but memorable and the people who surround LaMotta are little more than ciphers. The film is brutal and often hard to watch, more so because of its pretense rather than brutality. Scorsese films the whole thing in stark black and white and choreographs some of the boxing footage with mournful classical music. All of these touches seem to indicate a serious subject of near biblical importance <U+0096> but that subject most definitely is not seen on screen in the guise of LaMotta. Joe Pesci pretty much contributes his stock Joe Pesci performance as Jake's brother. The film's biggest attempt at humor comes at the expense of Cathy Moriarty, a whiskey-voiced actress who resembles a 30-year-old vamp but who the film initially tries to pass off as a virginal 15-year-old(!). To her credit, she gets past that initial hurdle and makes Vickie LaMotta the only sympathetic character in the film. Raging Bull is by no stretch a bad film, but it is a criminally overrated one done in by ostentatious pretentiousness and an unsympathetic central character who (no matter how amazing the actor's physical transformation) is nothing more than a one-dimensional thug.


                
Okay, let me explain where I'm coming from.  I'm a movie fan.  I mean a really big movie buff.  My favorite directors are Chaplin, Keaton, Kubrick, Fellini, Tarkovksy, Malick, Wilder, Kurosawa, Welles, Reed, Lean, Bergman, Gilliam, Coen, Vidor, Ford, Benigni, and Cocteau, to name a few.  But I had never gotten around to even seeing a movie by Scorsese, although I'd heard great things about him.  You can imagine how excited I was to see that Raging Bull was number 2 on the Sight and Sound director's poll, and ranked the best movie of the 80s.  I was gung ho.  I was hoping to add Scorsese to my list of favorites.  But then, I actually saw Raging Bull.  I cannot for the life of me understand the glowing praise about this movie.  Is it a bad movie?  No.  It's just nothing special.  Scorsese's technique is, if anything, showy.  De Niro and Pesci are wonderful actors, there's no denying that.  But the movie as a whole just isn't particularly good.  I can find nothing about this movie that would bring it even close to the accolades it has been given.  Believe me, I wanted to like this movie.  I thought it would be great and then some; equal to the Searchers or 2001, from the praise it got; but it was uninteresting.  It was like the type of movie arthouse theaters show that is competently made but lifeless and boring, like Shine.  I'm sorry.  Call me an idiot.  I did not like this movie.


                
It would be wrong to say this film is rubbish, it certainly isn't, but it's important to remember that a films purpose is to entertain, inform or move you in some way.  Unfortunately this film is devoid of all three.Like a number of films it's technically well made, the acting is fine, but the story and the characters are exceedingly uninteresting.  People say that DeNiro's performance is amazing, well, I don't know how you can say that. His character comes across as selfish paranoid psycho, with absolutely no morals and no redeeming qualities.  Yet we know he has married twice, so there must have be something people liked about him.  Unfortunately the film is too heavy on the negative side, no balance is shown to Jake's character, so the believability and ultimately the interest in the film disappears.
In fact this is rather typical of Scorsese, a very overrated Writer/Director.  I liked Taxi Driver and GoodFellas, but most of his films are actually very poor (Casino, Gangs of NY, Cape Fear).Forgettable and uninteresting, yet technically well made film.4/10.


                
I'll sum the whole movie up for you: 75% of the movie is wife beating and screaming. 25% is boxing reenactments. Jake lamotta isn't a hero, but more of a villain. I couldn't really connect with his character, because whenever he got a chance to talk, he screamed at everyone. Boxing didn't seem to be a big part of his life either, there were never any scenes where he was struggling with his career, or boxing was affecting his life in any way. You might as well make a movie documentary on joey buttafuco. This movie wasn't any good in my opinion. And when I hoped that he would come to his senses, he doesn't. I guess it's also hard for me to connect seeing as I didn't know who Jake lamotta was until I watched this movie. If you like wife-beating new yorkers who constantly yell. Watch this movie.


                
Other than the incredible cinematography and the editing, this isn't much of anything that wonderful.People should really stop masturbating and regurgitating the crap they heard in some film class or whatever.The sound/Foley is pretty dumb...you can hear the Foley artist punching turkeys and banging things on the floor. Fairly lame.And the film's ambivalent relationship to the main character doesn't seem fleshed out enough to be intentional. So, are we supposed to care about this guy or is he a monster?Glorifying violence one moment and making it seem monstrous the next.Besides, if anyone has ever watched one DeNiro and/or Joe Pesci performance, they've seen it already.Again, other than the fact that it looks amazing and flows incredibly well....there ain't much here.


                
Here, in a nutshell, is why "Raging Bull" must renounce its claim to being a great movie: Jake's monologue at the end.  It was lifted word for word from "On the Waterfront".  It's not plagiarism: Jake is quoting, and we know he's meant to be quoting, from a movie he's seen, but that's the problem - those quotation marks.  Had they been FAKE quotation marks, had Jake been quoting some non-existent movie, all might have been well.  Had there been NO quotation marks, all might have been well.  (It's not Scorsese's fault if the most fitting words Jake could possibly utter turn out to have already been used back in 1954; if the words fit seamlessly into his movie just as well as into the earlier one, he should simply steal them, and leave the attribution of credit for the fine print at the end.)  The trouble is that when it comes time for a moment of truth "Raging Bull" is unable to speak for itself.  Its reach exceeds its grasp - it's as simple as that.There are things IMPRESSIVE about the film, like the brilliantly edited fight sequences, and De Niro's performance.  The extended scene in which Jake suspects his wife of having sex with his brother is electrifying.  But in context these aren't enough to sustain us.  The fight sequences are interludes: over quickly, the outcome obvious from the first second, they're one-sentence summaries of the true dramatic action, which take place outside the ring.  As they should be; but this means that they can't carry the film on their own however brilliant they may be (and they ARE brilliant).  And DeNiro's performance needs something solid to spark off, which neither the story nor the other characters provides.Another problem: it isn't really a black and white film.  It's TINTED monochrome.  (I can think of only one instance of Technicolor monochrome actually working: the afterlife sequences in "A Matter of Life and Death". There was no tinting.  I think there's a good reason why tinted monochrome vanished off the face of the Earth in the late 1920s, while films were still being ROUTINELY made in black and white in the 1960s.)  The title was in red, and some home movie sequences were in faded colour.  This half-hearted use of colour just looked weak.  Make up your mind: colour, black and white, or (if you're certain you know what you're doing) a combination of both. Not, for God's sake, a BLEND.I was let down when "Raging Bull" turned out to be no more than an above average Scorsese potboiler, with some outstanding elements.  I really wanted it to be the great film so many people say it is.  A cinematic hero of mine, Michael Powell, greatly admired it, and to some degree inspired it.  I wish it were worthy of him.


                
Of course in those days, method acting wasn't as obvious as it is now. Gaining and losing a few pounds nowadays with a personal trainer? Easy! Ask Renee Zelweger. And although I am not trying to compare her to the great De Niro, I was just making a point. This movie to me missed stamina and was extremely dull, to say the least. Not even the combination between De Niro and Scorsese could make this flimsy story into a masterpiece. Filming this movie in black and white does not make it remotely as good as the Elephant man which was shot in the same year. But then, it is only my humble opinion that this movie is grossly overrated...


                
Much respect for Scorsese, De Niro, and Pesci.  Little respect for movie.The acting is amazing.  De Niro and Pesci worked great together and their talent really showed.  I think Scorsese did a great job.  The cinematography was also great.  I liked most of the fight scenes (the final fight with Sugar Ray Robinson was simply perfect).  These are the only positives about the movie.The movie itself was just plain bad.  I think the reason i didn't like it the way some people did was because i wasn't able to connect with the character of Jake La Motta.  I simply didn't care about a cheating, wife-beating, and short-tempered boxer.  How could I?  I couldn't care about his downward spiral of self-destruction.If you think you will be able to connect with a character like Jake La Motta, go see this movie.  You will love it.  As for me, I left the movie disapointed.4/10 only because of Scorsese, De Niro, and Pesci.


                
I not only saw RB, but worked on it as a ringside photographer/extra for weeks. It was actually a long, tedious process, but interesting to watch DeNiro work everyday. I was the guy who photographed Sugar Ray after he pulverized LaMotta (DeNiro) in the ring. Was sitting there, waiting for another scene to set up when Martin Scorsese told me to get up and do what he said.Walk over to DeNiro, size him up in the camera, look down at the camera, then back up at him and hit the flash. It was a "bit" as they say in the business, one which I NEVER got paid one cent more for doing. As far as the movie goes, it was a vehicle for DeNiro and Scorsese. Just another fight movie to me. The real Jake LaMotta was rude, arrogant, kept to himself, and had the biggest head I've ever seen on a guy.David Pack , Knoxville, TN


                
My Rating 4/10I don't think it's that great of a movie aside from a few scenes here and there. De Niro's acting is it's only saving grace. I just didn't like Raging Bull AT ALL. Maybe I will re-watch it another time and come back and change the rating but in the meantime I will stand by my rating of 4/10.


                
I have to say that Deniro is one of my favorite actors, and unlike some people, I don't find any film boring because it is black and white or because it is old. Raging Bull, I realize is not a very old movie. I am a huge Scorcese fan,I know I'm not the only one, but I really did not think it was that great of a film. Great acting, great director, and even a good portrayal of Jake Lamotta, but it was very very disappointing. I'm sorry. I see why people liked it, but it got to be too repetitive and boring. Not that Jake Lamotta's life wasn't made fully understood by this movie. It's just that if a person's life is like that it's not worth making a film out of. There are plenty of other people to make outstanding biographies of. At max i would give it a 7 out of 10.


                
This is an incredibly contrived effort, for sure. The black and white photography is accurate. The plot has no colour. No life. No vibrancy. It's all just very uninteresting for the viewer. Some boxer with a prosthetic nose has a few fights and goes fat. That's the thin excuse for a plot. The boxing scenes are very amateur in execution, none of them have the shocking realism of Rocky IV. The cast stand around begging us to respect the movie instead of acting. In a couple of scenes, De Niro can be seen sniffing the air: He's sniffing out an Oscar(R) but for sure he will fail. Self conscious performances abound. There is not a hint of realism as in Rocky IV. Rocky movies make you sit up and take notice. They move you. Raging Bull moved me, too. Right out of the cinema.Raging BULL, indeed.
Robert De Niro's character, Jake LaMotta, is acted greatly but is so cruel hearted, and impossible to like or support. In my opinion in order to be an enjoyable film, you have to be able to like, and support somebody in the movie. But in this, he is jealous, women beating, cheating, and manipulative. And he's not the only one, litterly every person in this movie are a holes and it is so unpleasant to watch.


                
Winning 2 Oscars and a placing high on several lists of the greatest films of all time or the decade etc this 2 hour epic was as dull as ditchwater. I know a lot of readers will criticise this opinion and cite the style of direction and raw performance of all players as reasons to love the film. However I was not engaged, didn't relate to the characters and despite usually abhorring people who perpetually play with their phone whilst watching movies spent the second hour catching up on my wiki reading.That de Niro gained 60lbs for the film impressed me yet not enough to like the movie


                
It is a little strange that the most unforgettable image of Martin Scorsese's Raging Bull is one of the quietest. Jake LaMotta stands defiantly in the boxing ring with his hands out to his side, bloody and peering from beneath his sweaty, swollen brow. I can think of nothing else but a nature documentary of a close-up of a Tiger ready to attack. There is a fearsomeness to his gaze, a warning not that LaMotta might attack his opponent but that in a matter of moments he will be destroyed. The moment contains no words but it speaks volumes.Raging Bull is a biography only in the clinical sense, it is absent of all the trappings of biopics, there are no clichés, no unnecessary flashbacks to help us understand where his temperament comes from. Yes this is a movie with boxing but it's not a boxing movie, it simply an examination of a man caged by his own demons who uses his profession as a manner of venting violent tendencies and sexual repression. Of course, they leak at home too, especially in the direction of his suffering wife Vickie.In some ways Jake LaMotta reminds me of Travis Bickle, the subject of Scorsese's earlier film Taxi Driver. Both are men who manage to succeed in doing something that makes them a celebrity. Jake demolishes his opponents in the ring while Bickle murders pimps and child molesters in a tenement building. Both are volatile men and both are doing something reprehensible but somehow they managed to become pseudo-heroes in their pursuits.And like Bickle, there is never an effort to make LaMotta sympathetic or heroic, he's a bastard, he knows it, everyone around him knows it and so there you are. It's tempting to label him as one-dimensional but that's not inaccurate. He is a one-dimensional man filled with loathing, rage, sexual insecurity and frustration. He reminds me of the kinds of people who release aggression by cutting themselves, only in his case he found absolution in the ring, beating his opponents to a bloody pulp.Raging Bull continues a theme present in most of Scorsese's films, the hero's inability to relate to women. Just as Travis couldn't relate to the 12 year old prostitute Iris in TDaxi river, Jake can't relate on a realistic level with this wife Vickie. They're relationship (at least from Jake's point of view) takes on a kind of "from my cold dead hands" attachment. What fuels him sexually is his rage at the very thought of another man attracting her. There is a moment when Jake destroys a man in the ring that she has complimented. When the fight ends he look, not at his opponent but at his wife. It is both acknowledgment and a warning.For Jake, violence is sex. Sex itself is a frightening concept to him because he seems to suffer from the Madonna/Whore complex in which his wife stands in place of his absent mother. Violence in the ring is the sexual stimulation that he is missing. Twice in the film Jake breaks into childish crying fits: The first after he throws a fight (thus robbing him of his sexual dominance and the second after he had been jailed for selling an underage girl for sexual favors. In both cases he seems to have been robbed of something that he dominates. Also too, Jake's reputation in the ring is that he has never been knocked down. In the losing decision against Suger Ray Robinson, Jake leaves the ring but reminds his opponent "You didn't get me down, Ray - You didn't get me down".It's appropriate that he chooses a woman with whom most men would want to seek company. He dares them to so much as look at her and she does little to fuel their fantasies. Jakes insecurity and sexual inadequacies keep him distant sexually but he replaces it with the jealous rages. Impure thoughts about Vickie are, to Jake, a sin and the wages of sin is death or at least severe punishment. His brother Joey receives the worst of the violence but so does Vickie That volatile relationship becomes the theme of the film. He can't enjoy sex with Vickie because his sexual release comes in the form of violent jealously. For his inadequacies he married a woman that is, to him, perfect. She's angelic but not a waif, she's friendly but (from what we see) not easy. In a way, Jake would like to see her that way because it allows him a certain amount of contact, even if he is knocking her to the floor.The casting of Cathy Moriarity was, I think, a masterstroke. She is tall and solidly built, she seems to dwarf Lamotta who is strong but a small man. This disadvantage fuels his insecurity. She's not a weakling and she fights back, if she were a waif cowering the corner the relationship wouldn't have the psychological complexity. Consider how Jake sees Vicki. There are point of view shots in which he observes the way she seems to float toward other men. He has won her for his prize now he obsessively convinces himself that she is cheating on him.Watching Robert DeNiro's performance as Jake LaMotta is to play witness to the basest human animal, he is caged inside the form of a man, a lion in the jungle full of rage and hunger and sexual fury and a fearsome sense of territoriality. Freud could have written volumes about this man and, indirectly, he probably did.
"Raging Bull" is about Jake La Motta's life and how he dealt with his anger and aggression inside the ring as well as outside the ring. The violent behavior served him well inside the boxing ring but cost him everything outside the ring. As he won fights he slowly lost the family and friends that were close to him because of his violent behavior and jealousy. This film was made in black and white to set it apart from other boxing films coming out at the same time, such as Rocky II or Rocky III and The Main Event. Jake's power and speed was captured in the slow motion scenes and the sounds.Jake La Motta (Robert DeNiro) is a very violent boxer who along with Joey (Joe Pesci), his brother slash manager climbs the ladder in the boxing world, by destroying his opponents one by one in his own way, until he finally gets a chance to fight Sugar Ray Robinson. His violent behavior mixed with his jealousy and paranoia follows Jake into his personal relationships with his family and friends. The theme surrounds how his violence in the ring, which takes him to the top of the boxing world, will also spill over into his personal life and will bring Jake to the lowest point in his life which will leave him all alone.His brother Joey has connections with the local mob boss named Salvy (Frank Vincent), who helps him get a title fight with Sugar Ray Robinson, on the condition that he lay down one fight first which he does and is disqualified. Jake wins six or seven fights in a row and ends up fighting Sugar Ray Robinson twice. The second fight, Jake actually loses because the judges decided to rule in favor of Robinson because he was enlisting in the army and leaving the boxing world for a period of time. Jake would not let that loss get him down and went on to win one fight after another.Jake along with his brother Joey visit a local swimming pool where he spots a fifteen year old girl named Vickie(Cathy Moriarty) and falls in love with her instantly, despite the argument brought to him by Joey, that he was already married. Jake eventually divorces his first wife and marries Vickie but then becomes dangerously jealous of her, often times accusing her of falling for other men, including his brother. Jake starts a fight with Joey, who decides not to be Jakes manager anymore. Jake ends up in the ring all alone wishing his brother was there.After a few years, Jake announces that he would retire and had bought a nightclub. Vickie tells Jake she wants a divorce and would take the children with her. Jake would then be arrested for allowing underage girls in his nightclub and connecting them to older men. Jake is convicted and ends up serving time in jail where he finds himself all alone again. Jake violently pounds the jail cell and cries and finally realizes that he is all alone. He eventually runs into Joey in a parking lot and gives him a hug, after being released from jail.This film is a lot like "Rocky" but much more violent. The movie "Rocky" was about a boxer, who fought his way to the top of the boxing world, inside the ring but allowed it to affect his personal life in a negative way. He became a champion in the ring but almost cost him his family outside the ring.The camera angles capture the intensity and the violence in Jake's face as well as his opponents faces through close-ups and slow motion scenes throughout most of the fight scenes. The uses of slow motion in the boxing scenes, as well as the sound effects represent or capture the idea of superhuman strength and speed throughout Jake's fights. This represents the violence that Jake carried into the ring but also spilled over into his personal life.
