The routine use of black-and-white film to make movies seems to have ended in the mid-sixties, probably killed off by the advent of colour television. Since then black-and-white has been used very sparingly; even Polanski's `Chinatown', obviously conceived as homage to the films noirs of the 1940s and 1950s, was shot in colour.`Raging Bull'- a biography of the boxer Jake La Motta who for a time held the world middleweight championship- is one of the few exceptions. The use of black-and-white seems to have been inspired by the fact that the film depicts real-life events that occurred in the forties and fifties. Scorsese has tried to capture the look of both the films and the newsreels of that period. This is remarkably effective for the boxing scenes, which have a raw, brutal power and graphically depict the aggressive nature of the sport. The other remarkable thing about the film is the performance of Robert de Niro, for which he won a well-deserved Best Actor Academy Award. De Niro actually learned to box for the film, and did all the boxing scenes himself without using a stunt double, but his portrayal of La Motta's private life is equally effective.Some boxers- Henry Cooper comes to mind- are hard-hitting inside the ring but gentlemanly and restrained outside. La Motta, as portrayed in this film, did not fall into this category. De Niro portrays him as a man with a very short fuse, seething with anger and violence. Unlike his great rival Sugar Ray Robinson, an elegant practitioner of the art of boxing, La Motta tries to overpower his rivals with brute force rather than relying on skill. His aggression is not something confined to the ring, but rather an inherent part of his personality, and comes out in his dealings with others. He treats his beautiful wife Vicki particularly badly, frequently (and irrationally) suspecting her of infidelity and subjecting her to both verbal and physical abuse. Besides De Niro's dominating performance, there are also very good contributions from Cathy Moriarty as Vicki and from Joe Pesci as La Motta's loyal brother Joey, another frequent target of abuse despite his loyalty.For me, this is a very good film, yet one that falls just short of the classic status that some have claimed for it. At times it is enthralling to watch, but at others, particularly in the first half, it seems to lack structure, as La Motta takes on a series of opponents without the significance of these fights ever becoming clear. More could have been made of the gambling-inspired corruption that infested the sport at this period and which may well have contributed to La Motta's sense of frustration- at one time it is made clear to him that his getting a chance to fight for the world title depends upon his taking a dive in a non-title fight. The main weakness, however, is a sense of emptiness at its centre, resulting from the lack of a character who can engage our sympathies. As I said, it is De Niro's performance that dominates the film, but for all his fine acting, even he cannot make us sympathise with a drunken, self-pitying, paranoid, violent wife-beater. As a character study of an unpleasant character it is excellent, but it can go no further than that. I cannot agree that this is the greatest film of the eighties; indeed, for me it was not even the greatest sporting film of the eighties. (I preferred both `Chariots of Fire' and `Eight Men Out'). It is an easy film to admire, but a difficult one to love. 7/10.


                
Here's a gritty, film noir-type story of real-life former boxing champion Jake LaMotta, a film that has features some memorable aspects to it.Perhaps most memorable is the physical transformation of lead actor Robert De Niro, who gained somewhere around 50 pounds to play LaMotta at the end of this film. I hope he enjoyed all the food and drink it must have taken to put on that weight!The story moves well with few, if any, lulls and each fight scene is fairly credible although a little too brief. I'd like to have seen more boxing but it's better than having to sit through the overdone action as we saw in the "Rocky" pictures. The black-and-white photography is excellent in here. I wish more modern-day films were done in black-and-white.Usually the Hollywood actresses are a lot better looking than the real-life people they portray but that's not the case here with LaMotta's wife, Vicki. Cathy Moriarity doesn't hold a candle to the real "Vicki," who was a knockout, a voluptuous woman feature several times in Playboy magazine. Also, early on in the film Moriarity is supposed to be 15 years old but she looks closer to 35!Typical of a Martin Scorcese film, too, is the excessive profanity, which certainly dominates this film. Perhaps LaMotta was this crude in real life but between De Niro and his brother, played by Joe Pesci, it's a very foul-mouthed, loud and abrasive family. If you can stand that constant profane assault on your ears, it's still a very watchable movie until the last 20 minutes where LaMotta is pictured as a pathetic clown, getting tossed in jail, resorting to stupid jokes and just uncomfortably sloppy behavior that is not fun to watch. Despite all the unpleasant parts of this story, I found this to be one of those films that kept getting better with multiple viewings. Hard to figure, but, Scorcese must have done a few things very well for me to keep coming back. The photography alone, is one thing that keeps drawing me back.


                
I may be alone on this but Martin Scorsese's Raging Bull does not deserve the praise it has garnered recently, best illustrated by its lauded praise for the recently released commemorative double DVD box set. I hate to be the one to attack Scorsese who just directed the best film in a long, long time, in The Aviator and it pains me to write this scathing review. It is only I have not seen any critic criticize the film's plot holes, jarring dialogue or disparate scenes that do not gel into a coherent portrait.The film is too redundant, and at times silly, as we watch De Niro's LaMotta transform into a heavy-set monster. It is mainly silly in LaMotta's cell late in the film, in which DeNiro (clearly given the green light by Scorsese to improvise) basically talks in gibberish as a way to pity LaMotta.Take also for instance the strange editing from DeNiro in the ring against Sugar Ray Robinson, which is juxtaposed by making love to Cathy Moriarity's Vikki. I do not get the montage when DeNiro pours ice water on his genitals with shots in the ring. It is very confusing and also, unintentionally funny. It is an authentic film for sure, taking much from 1950s boxing films, most notably Bogart's last film, The Harder They Fall. I have not come across one critic who has put down this film, often cited as the "best film of the decade," and a "masterpiece." Scorsese has directed a lot of films befit for those descriptions, Casino and The Aviator stand out for me.Yet, Raging Bull hardly is a masterpiece, and yet hardly anyone agrees with me. Maybe someone will<U+0085> maybe in another twenty five years.
'Raging Bull (1980)' differs from most 'boxing movies' in a few ways, most of all how it charts a career instead of the build-up to a single, make-or-break bout and places its emphasis on the tumultuous home-life of the man wearing the gloves as opposed to his time in the ring. Indeed, the boxing sequences - which are vivid, vicious and ferociously energetic - make for less than ten minutes of this picture's screen-time. Though much of its focus is on the jealous, controlling and generally abusive side of Jake La Motta, the eponymous raging bull, the flick doesn't actually delve all that deep into his character, even though it does a good job of portraying him for who he was - or who the filmmakers saw him to be, at least. In this way, we get a character study done from afar, almost like we're a fly on the wall and given the backstage access our protagonist was so keen to keep journalists from getting. We aren't told anything about the stone-faced protagonist but rather shown it and allowed to make up our own minds, which is a common thread through Scorsese's work. The piece is sometimes slow, but never boring, and usually entertaining. It is also quite sombre, in the end. It is wonderfully constructed and well-conceived, easily becoming one of the best in its sub-genre, and its boxing sequences (refreshingly shot from inside the ring) are some of the best in cinema. 7/10


                
Is there anything worse than the overrated classic? I think not, and one movie that falls into that category is Raging Bull. Almost universally praised by both audiences and critics alike, it's one of those true "classics". But is it really? To me, it's just another "good movie": one that if it were released today, I wouldn't feel as bad giving it this review that's lower than most others. Alas, I'll get tons of backlash for this review.Jake La Motta (Robert De Niro, in a weight-gaining role only outshadowed by Vincent D'Onofrio in Full Metal Jacket) is a boxer at the top of his game. He's the middleweight world champion, he recently got married to a beautiful woman (Cathy Moriarty). However, he's not very stable emotionally, and throughout the course of his life, starts to break down. Joe Pesci pops in and out randomly as Jake's manager/brother Joey. But in this movie, he's not funny like a clown.I found Raging Bull to be a very interesting movie. It's a biopic about someone I hadn't even heard of before I heard of this movie. It successfully shows the whole life of someone, not just portions of it, like others do. It gets down deep into the characters, especially Jake, and shows what affects each of the three main characters and why they do what they do. Most movies could learn from this one.However, I didn't really "feel" anything while watching it. Jake was an interesting chracter, but I didn't feel along with him. When various events occured, I wasn't affected in the way I should have been. I think Martin Scorsese really made a superficial film here. He makes an impressive film to look at, especially in the black and white, and the acting of everyone is great, but underneath the surface, there's nothing really there. But I hope I haven't dissuaded you from seeing Raging Bull. It is a very good movie, and one that you can't go through life without seeing.My rating: 7/10Rated R for violence and language.


                
The usual trajectory in a sports movie involves some underprivileged character discovering he has a talent, being put through a rigorous training by a mentor, riding that talent to national prominence, being undone by personal demons, and finally rediscovering himself. "Rocky" didn't fit the formula and neither does "Raging Bull." "Rocky," I suspect, broke the mold not so much in the course of a search for originality but in order to leave the way open for a sequel. Or, as it turns out, about five or six sequels. But "Raging Bull" dispenses entirely with the formula and follows Jake LaMotta from early in his career to his ultimate degradation as an unfunny host at a seedy bar in New York. And that's it, except for the possibility of a reconciliation between him and his estranged brother, left unresolved.Scorcese's direction is simply fine. It's identifiably his own, of course, with inserts of home movies, fist fights over girls, an edgy semi-improvisational quality in the delivery of dialog, slow motion punches to the mouth, a musical score that leans heavily on Italian opera and contemporary pop songs. The plot, for whatever reason, doesn't integrate too well its chief themes -- LaMotta's obsession with his wife's fidelity and his career in the ring. You could almost eliminate one of the plot strings and have enough left over for an independent feature. But that's a minor carp in the overall context because the overwhelming presence of Robert DeNiro as Jake LaMotta pretty much manages to pull them together so the seams are not noticeable.So the movie depends on DeNiro's performance -- and does he deliver! In real life DeNiro is a sensitive, thoughtful, and private guy, but he does a superb job of dumbing his character down and making him sympathetic and ugly at the same time. Let's say that his LaMotta doesn't show a great deal of insight, whether running around in a paranoid frenzy or pounding an enemy into pulp in the ring. And he has one scene that equals anything he's put on the screen before. A down-and-outer, arrested for serving minors in his cheap night club, and thrown in jail because he is unable to raise a few thousand dollars for bail, he repeatedly smashes his fists against the wall and pounds his forehead on the cement, all the while ululating like a wounded animal. What a performance.He's well supported by Joe Pesci as the brother who is no more insightful but at least has a hold on common sense. Cathy Moriarty is adequate as LaMotta's abused wife.I'm driven to add something completely irrelevant to an assessment of the film. When it first came out, I was part of a seminar in the Psychiatry Department at the University of Connecticut and we were dealing with delirium, derived from Latin "de liro" -- "I rave." I desperately wanted to somehow sneak into the discussions a play on words involving the title of the film -- "Raving Bull" staring Robert DeLiro. I never found a way of bringing it up without appearing nuts. Now I've got it out of my system, thanks to IMDb.com, after a quarter of a century. Pardon me. (Wiping away tears of relief and gratitude.) I'd like to thank you all for reading this. I owe everything I have to my coach (thanks, Butch) and my Mom and Dad. (Sob.) Much of the credit goes to my cat, Josefina, and to my Mousterian ancestors. (Breaking into a lachrymose cascade.) This is a violent and sometimes bloody movie. Scorcese spares us nothing in the way of physical or emotional brutality. But it really shouldn't be missed. A good job on the part of everyone concerned.
De Niro got heaps of praise for his performance in Raging Bull.  I'll admit it is gutsy.   But so what.   He gained weight, he lost weight.  He acted like a total slimeball.   So what?   The movie fails completely to explain why anyone would care about Jake LaMotta.   Indeed, nothing about DeNiro's character is attractive.   He fails to show any redeeming qualities in LaMotta, which ultimately makes the movie unbelievable.   The supporting performances, especially from Joe Pesci and Cathy Moriarty are far greater. The fight scenes are a marvel, as is the cinematography and editing.  The core, however, is rotten.


                
I guess "Raging Bull" qualifies as a boxing movie, but not like "Rocky". The sport is just a mechanism for Jake LaMotta's snarling and abusive life story; one that begins with talent in the ring and a pretty girl, and ends in ragged solitude. Throw in some brutal fight scenes and a melancholy score and you've got a dark portrait of one mean s.o.b.Again, it's not really a boxing movie, and that's not a criticism. I think the best scenes happen outside of the ring, where Joe Pesci stands as De Niro's equal and the two really electrify the movie. And as wickedly as those title bouts are filmed, the most harrowing scene is just LaMotta in a jail cell. Scorsese just holds that shot interminably, never offering relief with a cut. I just think that's remarkable that, in a movie with so much blood and bone-hitting sound effects, such an unassuming scene packs the biggest punch.7/10


                
first off I liked the movie very much,, I don't think it was Deniro's finest , but he was very good to say the least.. I like Cathy Moriarty in here also,, Joe Pesci is you're basic tough guy you just have to have in a movie like this,, the movie is about a boxing champ Jake laMotta from the 1950's I believe . lot's of good stock boxing footage, but most of the movie revolves around Jake's personal life, and how throughout the movie his life slowly starts to disintegrate around him,, he especially treats his wife like crap, it's really hard to feel any sympathy towards the character after you see just what happens to his wife in several of the scenes.. I also love the entire length of the movie being shot in black and white,, I don't' know why it was done that way but I like it,, another Scorcese DeNiro, success,, it's a sad story,, but very good .


                
An emotionally self-destructive boxer (Robert DeNiro) and his journey through life, as the violence and temper that leads him to the top in the ring, destroys his life outside it.I do not want to be the one to say bad things about this film, because it is not a bad film. But most of it just did not resonate with me. The story is good, the acting is good, I love the use of the black and white cinematography at a time when color was far more dominant. But I cannot say this is one of the greatest movies ever made.IMDb, AFI, Entertainment Weekly, ESPN and everyone else has this ranked so near the top of their list (IMDB actually only puts it in the top 100, which seems more fair). I am lost... it is a great movie, yes, but one of the greatest? No, it just is not true. DeNiro has done better, Pesci has done better, Scorsese has done better...


                
Raging Bull is at the same time a brilliant movie and a disappointment. People are correct when they say that DeNiro's performance as La Motta ranks as one of the greatest of all time, but great acting does not necessarily equate to a great movie, and the weak script ultimately overshadows both DeNiro's performance and Scorsese's directing to result in a movie that falls short of it's potential.Scorsese tries with all his might to hold the movie together with arguably his best directorial performance. It has all the classical aspects of a Scorsese film: beautiful editing, superb camera work, great score, stunning visual sequences. But as mentioned, the real standout is DeNiro's acting. The rage and passion that La Motta shows towards every aspect of his life flow effortlessly from DeNiro, and as a viewer you are unable to separate the actor from his role, which is a sign of a great performance.Unfortunately the subject material was just to vast to fit into a 2-hr movie. Huge parts of La Motta's life fly by in montage sequences; new phases in his life last a few minutes before they are uprooted to further the plot, and what began as a character study ends up in a race to sum up his entire career. In the end the movie seems to be a collection of snapshots of La Motta's life and career, with a few short scenes thrown in to try to depict La Motta as more than just a paranoid masochist. But these scenes are few and insignificant when compared to the vast majority that illustrate his explosive violence and rage, and the resulting one-dimensional character, coupled with an event oriented plot, leaves the viewer unable to fully relate to or sympathize with La Motta. Even if certain scenes were to invoke emotion, time flies by so fast that the viewer is left little time to fully process where the story is headed.Overall I feel as though these shortcomings are direct results of trying to create a movie around an autobiographical novel. When the director is constrained to tell the truth, there is very little leeway to modify the script as might be necessary to improve the enjoyment of the viewer. I think unfortunately is boils down to the fact that as presented, La Motta's life is just not as magnificent or as entertaining as some of the more recent movies that tackle this similar "rise and demise" plot structure, and so the movie fails to entertain to its fullest capacity. It's neither a straight character study, nor is it an overly compelling story, and so it remains unable to satisfy the viewer in either way. Despite these pitfalls with the plot, Raging Bull still rises above the average film by its gorgeous directing and brilliant acting, and when viewed from this angle, remains a must-watch movie for any fan of the cinema.


                
I actually saw this film because of its reference in an episode of "Celebrity Deathmatch"; I had heard of it before, but, not knowing a thing about real fighting, figured I wouldn't have a clue of what was going on. Though I'm glad I did see the film, my initial thoughts were dead on.Watching this movie, I was never really sure why everything was going on, or sometimes even what was going on.  Granted, I still know very little about the real Jake La Motta, but since this is a film appealing to a broad audience, shouldn't such loose ends should be tied up? I got the basics of the ups and downs in La Motta's life, but the details are what makes the basics so interesting, and I just didn't get a lot of the details.  On a lesser note, the sudden switches to color for the home movie segments are also unnecessary, although it did at least tell me that those parts were in a different time, lest I be even more confused.Whether or not I got all the plot, the acting was simply incredible.  The intensity, focus, and eventual breakdown De Niro shows as La Motta are amazing, and the lengths he went to in weight differences and learning to box for the part show an admirable dedication to acting.  The other La Motta's show equal intensity and anger, and most of the other characters also show above-average acting, although it's not as apparent because De Niro is so magnificent.My father told me that this wasn't so much a movie as it was a showcase for Robert De Niro's acting.  While I have to disagree on it not being much of a movie, I will agree, since I still can't decipher all the plot's fine details, that the main reason to see the film is without a doubt De Niro's acting, which is, again, simply amazing.


                
I have seen Raging Bull a few times, and I must admit, I see what people admire in this movie.  The cinematography, editing (especially of the boxing scenes) and performances were flawless.  Especially De Niro's.  He deserved that Oscar.Despite all that, I did not like this movie.  I have had this trouble with a number of Scorsese movies; I appreciate the skill that Mr. Scorsese has, but simply cannot get myself emotionally involved in his characters.  This movie is supposed to be a tragedy, but how can it be tragic if we do not sympathize with the main character.  De Niro's jail scened, where he hits rock bottom while raining blows on the wall and shouting "No! No! No!" should have been heartbreaking.  But it just wasn't.  Out of all the characters in the movie, LaMotta was the only one I didn't like.Most people say that this movie was robbed of Best Picture by Ordinary People, but I believe that movie is much more emotionally involving, much more real, and much more enlightening.  De Niro deserved his Oscar, but so did Ordinary People.


                
Martin Scorsese's picture Raging Bull is a compelling film blending the raw yet intricate talents of both Scorsese and Robert De Niro. An excellent example of Scorsese's favorite topics, Raging Bull follows championship boxer Jake La Motta on his obsessive mission to be the greatest. This journey is well portrayed in what may be the least glamorous depiction Scorsese has used. In his later films, such as Goodfellas and Wolf of Wall Street, Scorsese has a tendency to somehow romanticize morally reprehensible characters. In this 1980 movie, however, this is notably absent.
La Motta is depicted with an undeniable honesty, with the performance of De Niro to thank for that. This "salt of the Earth" character instead comes across as one who has salted the Earth on a self-destructive tear through life that leaves a sizable wake of destruction. The film opens with an aged La Motta preparing for a stage performance. The rest of the film proceeds through a flashback of sorts through his younger days, as a boxer and as an all-around disagreeable human being.
Between scenes of boxing matches with different outcomes, such as fixed or thrown fights, we see La Motta's questionable-at-best lifestyle on display. From actively pursuing a fifteen-year-old girl, to his paranoia and instability leading to domestic violence and family destruction. In the end, La Motta has not learned to accept responsibility, and continues to blame others for his fate.
The film closes with a quote, "All I know is this: Once I was blind, and now I can see." This can be viewed as a call to forgive and redeem La Motta. However, it also brings to question whether he could be redeemed at all. Raging Bull is notable for its brutal honesty regarding the negative details of Jake La Motta's life. In the end, it appears as though he has learned the minimal amount about himself and his actions to be able to sleep at night. Ultimately, his character behaves inexcusably. All have their reasons, but it is unsavory to only seek redemption at the bottom of life without fully accepting blame.
Furthermore, the question of redemption for the film itself is raised. Stylistically, this movie has many interesting choices. Immediately, the choice of black and white cinematography is striking. It helps immerse the viewer in the 1960s boxing world, as though one were watching footage of the fights themselves. However, as the film goes on, it serves to only amplify the lack of vibrancy in story. The dialogue comes across very natural and unscripted. Again, this begins as an endearing element, however throughout the movie causes interest to wander.
Fans of Scorsese's other work may find it difficult to appreciate Raging Bull. Arguments of morality aside, Scorsese has a way to make abhorrent characters somewhat likeable throughout a movie. The lack of this darkly comedic touch makes this movie less compelling than others by this talented filmmaker. Furthermore, Scorsese's trademark voice-over narration is absent. These voice-overs help engage the audience, giving further insight into the protagonist's thoughts and motives. Without this unifying element, there are points in the movie where the relevance of the scene is simply unclear.
Despite this, it is still an excellent film worth viewing. Using a recognizable cast of actors, Scorsese once again crafts a story of violence, immorality, and crime. The audience is forced to question if and how they relate to these characters, and why. And if not, what is so compelling about watching such destruction? Robert De Niro, Joe Pesci, and Frank Vincent, among others, serve as pillars in Scorsese's projects, and he shows that he knows how to direct these actors for their best performance.
Oh the last scene! The fight from fear! The last dialogue moved my heart!


                
"Raging Bull" clearly ranks as one of the better films of all-time due to it's compelling story of the rise but yet human tragedy downfall at the end. At it's time when done in 1980 the cinematography was fabulous the film's black and white take was a neat and nice concept. Plus the master Martin Scorsese does a fine job with the directing as his theme of character study and development into downfall is perfectly done. Robert DeNiro gives a tough and fired up performance as former real life and ex boxer middleweight Jake LaMotta, the film showcases Jake's life and career from the early 1940's till his washed up downfall as a low rent club owning stand up comedian in the early 1960's. The scenes are memorable not just the boxing ones but, the scenes of rage and blow ups from the LaMotta character and the viewer can see just how the impact and scandal of the mob impacted boxing in the early days. Joe Pesci gives a strong performance as LaMotta's brother Joey he always gives encouragement and advice in an aggressive and upbeat manner, really one of the better supporting roles I've seen done in film nice work Mr. Pesci. This film really is a great character study of rage, anger, and obsession just wanting to make your dream happen, but it proves many times that a downfall in the end happens it can be sad and tragic. Overall good work from all involved especially Scorsese and DeNiro with a great supporting turn from Pesci.


                
Raging bull is film that plays from to its strengths, with a strong lead, and very stylistic choices in shots and more obviously, color palate. The film lies heavily on the award-winning performance of Robert De Niro as he portrays boxer Jake LaMotta, in a role fueled by jealousy primarily focused on sexual inadequacies, he sees in all interactions. However, this sometimes makes the film hard to watch as some instances of this within the film are hard to enjoy due to the very uncomfortable emotions they swell up with in its viewers. Other strengths are the framing of certain shots within the film, evident in some of LaMotta's boxing matches, which insures that no matter how many fights the film shows they never get tiring to watch. The film easily follows it decade spanning tale never missing a beat as to why each character's emotional circumstances.All in all, its solid film, with its only failing occurring in my eyes with the uncomfortable nature of the story. And the sometimes hard to watch scenes of our protagonist perpetually making the wrong decisions due to his character's jealous mind. So, in other words the films greatest strength is at times its greatest weakness.


                
Raging Bull is a magical documentary turned into a film. The film highlights the life of the famous boxer Jake La Motta played by the great Robert De Niro. The movie goes far beyond La Motta's path of greatness in the ring but also into his own personal bouts.The movie is about a prize fighter Jake La Motta's rise to middleweight boxing title. La Motta's epic battles with Sugar Ray Robinson are only part of this award winning film. The movie also encompasses Jake's personal battles with his own jealousy issues revolving around his wife Vickie La Motta played by Cathy Moriaty. Through out Jake's rise and fall, his brother accompanies him and manager Joey La Motta played by Joe Pesci. The brother's relationship becomes strained when Jake's constant struggles of jealousy cause him to battle his own brother. Jake's goes from the top to rock bottom because his own self-destruction gives him his only knockout.Martin Scorsese creates a beautiful black and white film, which will stand the test of time. The lighting used in the film gives an authentic feel to the entire movie. The actors were Academy Award winning, led by Robert De Niro the cast worked masterfully together. De Niro set the bar as an actor in this movie. It is clear that De Niro truly lived as Jake La Motta during this film, not only can you see his perfection in his lines, you also see him work his craft with his own body. De Niro had to fluctuate his weight several times throughout the film just to give the authentic feel of a boxer's life and behind the scene struggles. This movie is more than a boxing film; it is visually stunning with the simplicity of black and white you feel like your ringside. I believe the movie storyline was good but not great, while I was fascinated with the great acting I still found myself being unconnected to the characters. I was continually let down by Jake's character and felt little to no sympathy when he hit rock bottom. Although an autobiography has to stay true to its storyline, it can and should create characters the viewer can relate to. Scorsese does a great job working with what he had; the contrast between black and white along with home movies in color gave a realistic feel to the movie. Aside from my lack of connection with the characters this movie was still a knockout.


                
The film Raging Bull came out in 1980. This film is based on a once poplar book. The film starred; Robert De Niro as the main character Jake La Motta, Cathy Moriarty as Vickie La Motta and Joe Pesci as Joey ( Jakes older brother). This film shows deep relationships that Jake has with his wife, family and himself. Jake La Motta is a boxer whom never seems happy with his life. Jake La Motta is an extremely jealous and controlling person. He could be considered as border line bipolar. Throughout this movie La Motta proves that he cannot have a trusting relationship even with people he loves the most. In the beginning, Jake is married to a woman that he does not get along with. Later, he meets a young woman named Vickie. Jake and Vickie get married, and eventually have three children. Jake wins almost every fight, yet he is left always wanting more. Jakes brother Joey sets up fight with an up and coming boxer that Jakes wife said was good looking. Although La Motta wins this match his life is falling apart. Jakes is paranoid and his life soon starts to spiral out of control. Ultimately he ends up losing what he loves the most, his brother, wife and children. Even though this movie is about boxing, prior knowledge of boxing and the time period is not required to understand the theme. My understanding of the theme is about a man who is consistently struggling with himself to find happiness. Jake La Motta never truly finds happiness in his life. In one scene Jake is talking to his brother Joey about his hands being too small. Jake thought that if his hands were bigger he could fight the heavy weight champ and really be happy. After Jake meets Vicki his second wife, he still is not happy. He is winning left and right but is still missing something in his life. Jake starts to feel like his wife is having feelings for someone else. Jake being the jealous person he is lets this feeling consume him. He accused his brother of having an affair with his wife Vickie. Jake beats Joey up and they do not speak for many years. I believe this film is about trying to find happiness and completing one's life: something Jake La Motta was unable to do. Another film with the same theme as Raging Bull is The Pursuit of Happiness. Although the plots are completely different, the theme of finding happiness in a compromising situation is the same in both films. Two techniques that help communicate the theme are costume/makeup design and movement within the film. Raging Bull has many scenes where makeup is a needed. This film did a good job in making the injuries look real. Without the use of the special costumes and makeup effects the film would not have a dramatic feel. The theme of this movie can be tie in with many situations. Not only is this movie entertaining, it is able to teach a valuable lesson that many can relate too.


                
Many critics argue that Raging Bull is one of Robert De Niro's and Martin Scorsese's greatest movies of all time. I slightly disagree. While Raging Bull is a good movie, I don't think it is a masterpiece compared to other Robert De Niro/Martin Scorsese calibrations such as Taxi Driver (1976), Goodfellas (1990) and Casino (1995). It can be unpleasant to watch at times, and the film does a good job portraying Jake LaMotta as an unsympathetic character who's self destructive behaviour costs him his boxing career, his marriage to Vickie LaMotta (Cathy Moriarty), and almost his relationship with his brother Joey LaMotta (Joe Pesci) who is also his manager.I won't dispute the fact that Robert De Niro's performance as Jake La Motta is one of his best performances that earned him a well deserved Academy Award for Best Actor. Robert De Niro has always been a powerhouse actor, as shown in such movies as The Godfather Part II (1974), Taxi Driver (1976), Awakenings (1990), Goodfellas (1990), Cape Fear (1991), Casino (1995) and Heat (1995). Hats off to Robert De Niro for giving it his all to prepare for the role of Jake LaMotta. Robert De Niro went through extensive physical training in which he went through 1000 rounds of sparring, and jumped into the ring for three genuine boxing matches, winning two and losing one. The real Jake LaMotta was said to be very impressed with Robert De Niro's preparation for the role. Robert De Niro also gained 60 pounds (30 kg) to play the older Jake LaMotta. Joe Pesci is excellent Joey LaMotta, who is Jake's brother and manager, as well as often the voice of reason for Jake. Cathy Moriarty as Jake's abused and tormented wife Vickie LaMotta who is often on the receiving end of Jake's violent temper.I don't consider Raging Bull to be one of Martin Scorsese's best movies, although I still think that he is a quality director who has directed many excellent movies in his career including Taxi Driver (1976), Goodfellas (1990), Cape Fear (1991), Casino (1995), The Departed (2006), and The Wolf of Wall Street (2013).If anything I considered Raging Bull to be more of a routine but depressing and bleak boxing movie. Raging Bull is a good movie, but I don't consider it to be a masterpiece, it is definitely worth watching to see Robert De Niro's best performance.7/10


                
Raging Bull ranks among the most talked about and most respected films of all time. For the most part this is justified. Call me crazy, but I found some major flaws in this film. First, La Matta's relationship with his first wife is obviously tumultuous, however, we see them argue, and then La Matta and his brother go out together, and of course La Matta meets and falls in love with the blonde Vicki, but after that point we don't see his first wife again. She simply vanishes from the story! The audience is left wondering, what happened to his first wife? Deniro's character shows very little wit early on with the exception of the scene at the club with his wife when he says "Why don't i beat the sh#t of of bout of yous and then you can f##k each other" Aside from that, he is humorless. Obviously a talented boxer, and an emotional wreck, at the end of the story, he jumps into being a Lenny Bruce type stand up at clubs and eventually opens his own club playing host to groups of people and is the life of the party! where did this side of his character materialize out of? How did this happen? Overall, outstanding acting by Pesce and Deniro, but aside from that, major plot holes obscure the integrity of this film. As the old saying goes, just because its shot in black and white, doesn't make it art.
Scorsese is at his best when he's not taking himself too seriously. King of Comedy and Goodfellas are fantastic films because there's an upbeat element of humour in them. But Raging Bull (like Taxi Driver) is the story of a destructive nobody. True, De Niro and Pesci give fantastic performances. But I think the film's reputation has been falsely enhanced by the legend surrounding De Niro's performance. At the end of the film I was left wondering what had persuaded Scorsese to make a movie about LaMotta in the first place. 7/10.


                
Boy, did this guy have a great relationship with women, he could single handily start the feminist movement.  At least this movie is honest. The guy's demons where rage, and jealously.  This movie is better than average, but drags in parts, and a few scenes were of little use to the story.  The acting was not the bad, but Goodfellas is the evolved version of this film. 7/10


                
