It's hard to believe that the same talented director who made the influential cult action classic The Road Warrior had anything to do with this disaster.Road Warrior was raw, gritty, violent and uncompromising, and this movie is the exact opposite. It's like Road Warrior for kids who need constant action in their movies.This is the movie. The good guys get into a fight with the bad guys, outrun them, they break down in their vehicle and fix it. Rinse and repeat. The second half of the movie is the first half again just done faster.The Road Warrior may have been a simple premise but it made you feel something, even with it's opening narration before any action was even shown. And the supporting characters were given just enough time for each of them to be likable or relatable.In this movie there is absolutely nothing and no one to care about. We're supposed to care about the characters because... well we should. George Miller just wants us to, and in one of the most cringe worthy moments Charlize Theron's character breaks down while dramatic music plays to try desperately to make us care.Tom Hardy is pathetic as Max. One of the dullest leading men I've seen in a long time. There's not one single moment throughout the entire movie where he comes anywhere near reaching the same level of charisma Mel Gibson did in the role. Gibson made more of an impression just eating a tin of dog food. I'm still confused as to what accent Hardy was even trying to do.I was amazed that Max has now become a cartoon character as well. Gibson's Max was a semi-realistic tough guy who hurt, bled, and nearly died several times. Now he survives car crashes and tornadoes with ease? In the previous movies, fuel and guns and bullets were rare. Not anymore. It doesn't even seem Post-Apocalyptic. There's no sense of desperation anymore and everything is too glossy looking. And the main villain's super model looking wives with their perfect skin are about as convincing as apocalyptic survivors as Hardy's Australian accent is. They're so boring and one-dimensional, George Miller could have combined them all into one character and you wouldn't miss anyone.Some of the green screen is very obvious and fake looking, and the CGI sandstorm is laughably bad. It wouldn't look out of place in a Pixar movie. In the previous movies, there was occasionally a sped up frame rate that gave a nice homage to the silent era. Now,Miller has gone full Looney Toons and sped up the majority of the action, making many of the real stunts redundant. They're too fast to fully enjoy. There's no tension, no real struggle, or any real dirt and grit that Road Warrior had. Everything George Miller got right with that masterpiece he gets completely wrong here.
First off, this is another movie in which the action sequences last so long that you can go to the bathroom, get a soda, come back and still find the same people fighting the same fights you saw begin 15 minutes earlier. Personally, these type of action movies bore me to tears, because the story has to stop moving every time we watch one of these extended action sequences. In terms of story, the good guys and the bad guys meeting is a plot point. Then they fight, then one of them wins. As an audience member, I'm ready to know who wins as soon as they start fighting. And I really need the lead characters to have some logical reasons for doing what they are doing. Here's my spoiler: They drive away from someplace for half the movie and then decide to turn around and go back. The only thing that happened was that they picked up a gang of old ladies. That's as deep as it gets right there. They're running away, fighting the whole way, they get away and then they decide to go back, so they have to fight the whole way. Nothing makes much sense, no characters are anything but as shallow as they could have possibly been made. If you like Avatar, you'll like this movie. If you liked Mad Max and Road Warrior, you're going to be angry about how that franchise was exploited in name and setting only. This character isn't Mad Max. He doesn't have a dog, he doesn't eat dog food, he doesn't eat anything. Nobody in the film ever eats anything. Nor are people clamoring for gasoline, they all just seem to have it. There's an issue with water, but it makes no sense and the entire weak plot seems to depend on it. The movie ends with giant water valves being opened just like the air valves on Mars get turned on in the end of that Governor Arnold movie, I can't remember the name. The reviews calling this something new and different are absolute hogwash. This is nothing but things blowing up and cars crashing for two hours, which, by the way, is another egregious offense of these silly movies. They take a 90 minute movie with a great story line, and they strip it of plot and somehow extend it by 30 minutes. It's a scary trend, the kind of thing that makes one think Idiocracy was prophetic. The less the story and the more things blow up, the higher the ratings. Ridiculous!
It's troubling that a movie can be singularly focused on loud explosions and violence with no plot, dialogue, or character development, yet receive widespread critical acclaim. This is the first film I've ever seen that actually reminded me of the type the populace in Idiocracy would find enthralling. To be clear, there are no redeeming qualities about this film. None. And I went in with pretty low expectations, figuring this would be some fun, mindless entertainment i.e The Expendables or any Jason Statham movie. The first few minutes weren't too bad: it looked cheesy, but it had potential. But then I realized that this movie is one long (boring) car chase...and that's it. Really. I mean it really was boring -- exactly what an action movie should not be. The car chases are all one and the same. After a few minutes, it just isn't exciting.There is no story. The two leads drive to the middle of nowhere, then turn around. That's it. Two of the characters mention they are "looking for redemption" or some other trite nonsense, but the audience is never told why. Not that they'd care. Is the story about survival? At first you'd think so. Max mentions in the opening credits that he is a man reduced to one trait: survival. Yet at the film's end, when he finally has an opportunity to survive....he chooses not to? What? The movie was bad enough until this. Actually I forgot, there is an incredibly forced romance between two side characters that does nothing to further the story. This is a B movie with a big budget.Likewise, there is essentially no dialogue, save a few grunts from Max and cringe-inducingly awkward lines from the rest. There isn't any character development, but then again, the characters themselves resemble video game characters. There are no characters to develop, just two-dimensional avatars used for an excuse to show explosions. So what is this film's targeted demographic? I'm not sure. I can imagine that if you are a 13-year old boy, really into cars/trucks/slipknot, pretty redneck, and probably a little slow, this movie may seem pretty cool. I mean it does have ridiculous cars/trucks outfitted with lots of weapons, spikes, flame-exhausts, (breast-milk?) and guys playing "cool" guitar riffs for no apparent reason. There's also lots of explosions and fighting. And scantily clad women. And tornadoes. And skulls. On top of all that, there is no need to pay attention to petty plot lines or dialogue in order to enjoy the film. Hell once they reach the desert, the movie repeats itself as the leads drive the truck back through the same place being chased by the same guys for no discernible reason. The special effects aren't even that good. The whole movie looks fake. I know they went to great measures to avoid using CGI, but honestly, I thought I'd at least be impressed by the special effects, since clearly nothing was spent on anything else. And I'm not the kind of person who usually notices when CGI is used or not. Truly awful. I would rate it lower if I could. The only recent movie that may have actually been worse that this was Lucy, which was also mind-numbingly stupid. As the principal in Billy Madison once said, "everyone in this room is now dumber for having (watched) it." AVOID
I can't believe why people like this movie unless you're a fan of no-brainer action-packed movies without a story. 2 hours of non stop rubbish without dialogue. I was a fan of the original Mad Max and at first Tom Hardy seemed like a great actor for the role, but this movie didn't do him justice. He did well as Bane but he wasn't the star in this movie, almost like a support character. I almost fell asleep and left the theater because I can find better ways to waste my time. The only positive thing I can say is that the world looks great as well as the props. Good job on that George Miller. At least there's something good about it. The trailer was promising and since many people praised this movie, I gave it a shot. How can you watch this for a second time "to indulge in the deep content and story it provides". There was absolutely nothing in there. Yes beautiful woman, owned by a dictator who holds all the water and controls the people. Let's escape, make a diversion, trap him, beat the living hell out of him and return to be happily accepted as the new rulers. Hurray.
I saw the original mad max... it was violent, it had car battles, it had minimal character development. I had very realistic expectations going into the theater to see this new version.Never have I been more disappointed with a movie. The acting on both leads parts was mediocre at best, with the male lead switching from being well spoken to being capable of nothing but grunting.. The story line seems to have been written and edited by remedial English students, the characters are unbelievable and seriously lack any character development, it has horrible motorcycle stunts... and guys bouncing back and forth on poles of all things.and come on.. a flame-throwing guitar and fat women being milked for no explained reason to trade for gasoline to power the flame throwing guitar?... it's full of shitty clichés... badly cut scenes.. and lots of explosions. Save your money see anything else and you will be better off.
This must be one of the worst movies of all time. 2 hours of shootings and blasts. There is a lot of action, but it is the same through the hole movie. People left the theater before the movie ended, There is no story. It's a chase for 2 hours, where the main character (should be) Mad Max has a role as a sidekick. The movie title should have been "Furiousa". Mad Max has only a few lines, and after each sentence, he growls. The movie starts of well, but after 15 min. It is downhill with silly conversation. Normally a good action movie should be entertaining and you Would leave the theater with a smile, but not here. Then in the middle, we have a lot of fire, shootings and blasts and a lot of stunt/animated scenes. But it does not have any power It's just the same over and over again. The end has a brief rise, but again ends poorly and foreseen. The old Mad Max movies starring Mel Gibson had power and lines with humor and bite. Maybe they are going for a new story in this movie.....but there is none to be found. Crap!
first of all , i am not fond of writing reviews pertaining to movies but this movie reluctantly compelled me to write a review for the first time. So lets start,i had been desperately waiting for this movie since long and today i got a chance to watch it and after watching it i was left agape with incredulity that how a movie like this is being applauded by the masses , Seriously it had nothing, except for extraordinary nonsense action. This movie is devoid of a sane story but in fact according to me it neither have a story nor a plot and regretfully i have to say that this is the worst movie i have seen in recent history. Mad max fury road is highly overrated and is mocking other movies which have ratings between 8 and 8.7. Albeit, I am a huge fan of Tom Hardy and Chalize Therone but their acting could not save it from becoming a complete ruin. i am giving it a one point and seriously if there had been an option to rate a movie below one point then i would have given it much lower points. Its also a suggestion to IMDb developers that they should ameliorate the movie rating algorithm and incorporate an option that can rate movies below the current lowest mark so that people should rate according to their aspirations. Finally i am exhorting that do not watch this movie its a detestable and a ridiculous movie.
I will be honest with readers. I only really watched the first 30 minutes of this Hollywood blockbuster. What I did do before I settled down to watch it, was look at the rating on IMDb. 8.6 out of 10!! This must be great, like many other reviewers, I believe my low rating is a reaction to the absolute travesty that many movies are being rated so highly. The original Mad Max movies had a young and charismatic, unknown Australian actor called Mel Gibson in them. They had some plot and believability. This had so much money thrown at it, supposedly around $150 million, that the whole world view of Mad Max was gone. Hundreds of vehicles driving around in the desert. A community of thousands, with clearly no problem with water or food, even though the baddie turns on the water and lets in pour into the sand and then turns it off, and tells his people not to become addicted to water ??? Words are failing me, to describe how badly I feel. Any young people out there reading this, should watch Mad Max 1-2, skip the Hollywood version, thunderdome. Honestly, once again left speechless with the true awfulness of this film.
To be honest I went into watching this film with a negative mind anyway as I had heard that it was just crazy people driving round a desert. They were not wrong. It was terrible. Tom hardy just grunts most of the time and it is called mad max but it is barely about him. He doesn't do much in it. It is just people driving through the desert with unexplained things happening in it. And then when I finally had a feeling of relief because I thought the film had ended it hadn't, they pick up some old ladies and turn back round and go down the same way they just came from to have very similar fights, in the same places, with the same people except the old ladies they pick up die. So it's just pointless but rubbish fighting all the way through with big cars, lots of fire and no good story. This is a typical boys film. I normally love action films with cars and fights but this was just repetitive and boring.it didn't excite me, make me laugh, shock me or make me want to know what was going to happen next. Waste of two hours of my life.
I believe this to be one of the first reviews I ever wrote about a movie on IMDb, but I just cannot understand what all the hype about this movie is about! Seriously! #30 in the Top#250 !? Are you all kidding me?1 This has got to be one of the worst movies I've seen in a very very long time! I love action movies, so this is not coming from a "The Notebook" kind of guy, but seriously, there is nothing nothing good about this movie, it's borderline (if not full-on) ridiculous! A chained guy playing a flame throwing guitar?! Does it look cool? Yes, but in a very joke-like kind of way, they seriously can't expect to be taken seriously, or expect anyone to think that in whatever post-apocalyptic scenario the world turns to, that is ever going to happen, so it is obviously to be taken as a joke, pretty much like 50% of the whole movie! Ohhh and talking about 50% of the whole movie, yeah, where did that go? Cos I could swear that they played the movie half-way through, and then just rewinded it back to the beginning. What a stupid movie! They spend half to movie trying to get somewhere, and when they get there (only to be greeted by the bad ass granny's, again, not ridiculous at all) they come to the conclusion that they have to go back to where they came from, and you get to see THE EXACT same stuff you had just seen 30 minutes before. What a pathetic excuse for a movie, I mean, half a movie. There is not even an attempt of a storyline! ohh and all these pseudo intellectual movie reviewers will try and convince you that it is a master piece because there are no pauses in the action to spoon feed you the information or storyline... what storyline?! Save yourself $10 and here is for you the whole movie, Silent Max (Hardy)(definitely not MAD) appears on screen and tells us about his bad ass life in this post-apocalyptic world. I wonder how he survived this far, since he is captured 5 minutes into the movie and taken to this Badguys Headquarter Mountians where he is to be drained of his blood to feed some even weirder baddies (Hoult). Then, Furiosa (Theron) is supposed to go on this whatever fuel run for this outlaw Ruler, Immortal Joe and flees with his pet girlfriends, so ALL of the bad guys in the WHOLE WORLD, decide to chase them. They spend half the movie running from them, in this busted down truck always dragging with them this HUGE ASS semi-trailer that apparently is filled with breast milk (mothers milk?)! Seriously? They get stuck in mud and all sorts of disasters, but GOD forbid they would ever just, unhook the semi-trailer, for whatever reason that is. They finally get to where they are going, to be greeted by 80 year old Amazon fighters! LOL, that somehow have survived for soo long is this God Forsaken world. They tell Furiosa, that the GreenLands are gone, so they decided to go back to where they came from, since all the baddies were on the road chasing them, and there was no one left holding the fort. So they start making they're way back, through all the baddies again, on her way back to where they were in the beginning of the movie. In the return sector, you see the exact same movie that you have just seen for the first half. The get there, with the dead body of Immortal Joe (yep, he died.) and become the ruler (I guess) of these Mountains that miraculously has tons of water, that no one has any clue where it comes from. Max leaves! The Pathetic End!
There is no way to review this movie without spoiling it.So: spoiler warning has been issued.The scenes are not built up in any way and the characters have no depth in them. This is not the Mad Max we've familiar with.The entire film consists of two scenes: first they drive one way and then they drive back. The end.Lot's of explosions and weird looking vehicles taking part in a road war on a post apocalyptic world. Absolutely boring and unrelated to the earlier Mad Max movies.There is no reasoning behind the actions the characters are making. Everything they do is either purely mindless or just plain stupid.Despite the obvious flaws in the script, Tom Hardy is excellent as Max. He is tormented, strong and intriguing. I really would have hoped for a more meaningful story for him to go with.
2 hrs of wasted time. Nothing but chasing. At least the original at the time was worth watching and at least had a story line. I'm so tired of someone trying to remake a movie just for the money. I guess they forget about the people who have seen the original and try to impress the new comers who don't know what the hell they're watching but a stupid action flick. Wake up directors. I could make a better movie than you. 98%, really? Way to push people to watch a awful movie. Hopefully there will be a better remake of this movie one day. Hollywood needs to stop with the remakes and come out with some original story lines.
It was saddening to watch the movie. No matter how much I try to put it in words, I fail to describe how bad it is.There is a dominant warrior heroine (Charlize Theron) and totally out of place beauties who do not belong to that world. (Ms. Theron is utterly beautiful herself but she was not depicted as such in the movie.) We have no idea about what happened to the world neither about why we have a mix of 40s-80s cars, 18th century to 19th century weapons and tech that we do not know as of yet.CG was outdated, action was bad, and reasons why certain actions have been taken and their consequences were also very disappointing.I would say do not even bother watching this. Originals were OK, this is just a waste of time.
I hated this movie. I never got into the world or the characters. Perhaps it was the Mad Max of old and my nostalgia for that world but this was so different and less real than the world of the original Max. Max was leaden. He seemed almost irrelevant and I couldn't care for him. Furiousa was better and brought some interest to the adventure. Nux was just Nicholas Hoult in bad make-up. I don't generally like movies with endless fight and action scenes and this pushed that genre to the extreme. In the end it was plot free, character free nonsense.But. I can understand the appeal both to the action fan and to wider cinema audiences. The visuals were stunning, the world was unique and the pace and intensity was startling. Immerse yourself in the world and the action and I could understand this could reach 10 out of 10 proportions. I never got there and sadly hated every minute. Just a personal view.


                
There's little point in rehashing what others have said about this "film." To do so would require more effort than the producers expended. It's mindless, careless, utterly disposable drivel. Give me five minutes with any scene, if they can properly be called scenes, and I'll give you vastly superior results. Not because I'm an expert film maker, but simply because I care. I care about great titles from my younger years. I care about the craft of movie making -- good acting and inspired casting, with quotable dialog that involves the audience and makes them feel for the protagonists and despise the villains. I care about smart story with detail that paints a vibrant picture of another world, one that helps us understand our own. I care about dramatic tension and pacing, plot twists and strategies, and fresh ideas that show me something I haven't seen before.None of those elements can be found in Fury Road. It's simply a long action reel with superficial Max Max theming. Video games have better plot. George Miller clearly doesn't care anymore, or has simply lost what talent he had.The only interesting thing here for me is the wild and unprecedented disparity between ratings. One star or ten? Are you kidding me? Sample the writing from praisers and notice the slick marketing language and textbook film school speak. Are these people who can't discern packaging from product, a la unboxing videos? Was a substantial portion of the budget spent on an army of film industry shills? I don't know. But perhaps IMDb's review and rating system has been compromised. Trust me, those of you who think you honestly liked this movie -- it will be forgotten in a year, and you won't be coming back to it in five, fifteen, or thirty years. There's nothing to come back to. Even Thunderdome is a masterpiece compared to this abomination. I'm just glad I didn't actually have to pay to be insulted.
Water is a scarce resource so when it is dispensed and made available to the populace it is by opening a valve of some sort that allows it to cascade from a cliff face and down onto an arid dry dessert floor bed. Some people have cups, mugs and buckets to catch it in, so hey it's not a total waste. We see some water in the film, but no sign of food apart from the two headed mutant lizard Mad Max stamps on and eats, there really isn't any implication of how anyone gets a meal in a dessert with no water and the occasional lizard or bug. Despite this there is a demigod like figure who is worshipped by a populace of thousands. Not really the every man for himself, dog eat dog world of the future one may have been expecting then.And as for where the gasoline is coming from, well what does that matter, even though oil was the principle cause for conflict in all previous films as it was the most valuable commodity it's not even an issue here even though it's the stuff that sustains the film's entire action sequence.The flashbacks imply Mad Max's past, we see them at the beginning when he's being pursued by some sort of dance troupe in make up, or the bad guys. What the dessert lack's in water is compensated by a tremendous amount of white powder and dark eyeliner. But really the film just becomes very monotonous and even giving the film this amount of attention is quite undeserving of the film itself.
First I loved the original Mad Max films, OK Thunderdome was a bit iffy but it was OK. This has to be the worst film I have seen this year and I was so looking forward to it. I have seen others call it a masterpiece or work or genius. I don't know what planet they are living on.. No real story and Tom Hardy who is a great actor only spoke about 25 lines in the whole movie. The actions scenes are great and the whole film is action scenes but we know nothing about the characters. Most of the film seems to be a rehash of the chase at the end of Mad Max 2 But with Mad max 2 there was a character build up.This is one film I will not be adding to my DVD collection If I had paid to see this I would be knocking down the door for a refund!!!


                
Warning: this review is full of spoilers! Here it is, the future consists of a whole bunch of really ugly people, some feeding on breast milk, others on live reptiles and bugs, driving ugly souped- up trucks that spit flames while play drums and guitar and chasing and shooting at each other. Some are looking for a place that does not exist, the others are trying to kill them because they were supposed to deliver gasoline to another bunch really ugly people with nothing else to do than blowing up rocks if they don't get their gasoline. It is between a redneck's dream and plain redneck hell. Could it be both? Yes it certainly could. So what does this movie have a 8.7 rating on IMDb? Well I'm asking you, whoever it is that knows the answer. Something's got to be wrong somewhere.. Ratings are usually pretty accurate but in my opinion it is way off base for this particular movie, Oh I forgot, of course there is no apparent plot, nothing is said about why anything is happening, why the characters are where they are, why they doing whatever they seem to be doing. Not even funny, just plain ugly, violent, senseless, aimless, rolling junk. I want my two hours back.
Way to go America, stuff up another good yarn! Absolute rubbish, there is no story, no acting and it is an altogether pathetic attempt at entertainment...the main actors have submitted an incredibly wooden performance with Tom Hardy doing a merely token bit part that seems to require nothing but stupid looks and constant confusion, and Charlize Theron attempting to unsuccessfully convey some semblance of acting ability.Good grief, who are they aiming this rubbish at...two year olds? P.S. and the half-wits that are waxing lyrical about it should take the time to wipe their collective chin.


                
What a waste of time this crap movie was. If you want to see acrobats on stick driving through a desert with lots of explosions and no reason to do so, this is your movie. If you go to this movie expecting something as good as the original, do not bother, just a boring peace of crap with no back story no character development, nothing. The whole cast could have died on the end and I wouldn't give a rats ass. The acting of Charlize was great, tom hardy did the same as he did in the drop, the dark knight and all his other movies. The movie setting was great and there was something with water and people driving around, getting away from stuff and returning to it. Oh and something with woman and mothers milk. Horrible piece of crap.


                
5 min into this movie and i was fighting the urge to stick a needle in my eye...i forced myself through this steaming pile of dog .... just to make sure i wasn't jumping the conclusions and i wasn't. Mad Max: Fury Road tries so desperately to be madly violent and grotesque, bloody and hardcore, but FAILS miserably - script is just stupid and feels like its written by five year old. Story line and all these so called special effects with obscene scenes made me feel like the director and writer (maybe all crew) was trippin' on LSD. Needless to say, there was no acting whatsoever... Oh and since when the Kamikazes are going to Valhalla after they die???
Reasons to never see this movie: 1) There were so many explosions that, had I walked out of the theater and into a car bombing, I probably would not have noticed. 2) Max was a bumbling idiot that did almost nothing useful or productive in the entire movie. One or two small things, yes, but he spends the entire first 1/4 of the movie as a total spectator, which brings me to... 3) This movie could have been made without ever including Max. It had nothing to do with Max, as mentioned above he did nothing really useful, and he was almost the flattest and most emotionless character in the story. 4) It has little to do with reality or, frankly, physics. At one point there is a dust/thunder/tornado/lightning/darkness storm that has no apparent cause except to make the interminable chase seen different for a couple of minutes. 5) The villain? An overweight dude with no physical presence, dressed in clear plastic armour, and with a serious breathing issue. It's like if Darth Vader had lived to 150 and brutally interrogated a million donuts. He has no personality, and, basically, no lines worth noting. If he had been silent the entire time, it would have been better. 6) It makes no reference to the previous three movies. At all. Was this a reboot? Why even include Max then, since Max didn't have any actual impact? Oh, right. The "franchise". So George Miller made this movie trying to draw on his fan base for success? I don't know, but this is the truth... 7) I am a fan of the first three Mad Max movies. But my support of this franchise ends there. Like Aliens 3 and Terminator 3, there is nothing worth seeing here, unless you want two hours of explosion and nothing, nothing else.


                
After finally renting "Fury Road" online I'm completely baffled by the positive reviews it's gotten. Three elements made the original "Mad Max" movies work: the supercharged car and chase scenes, the shocking stunts often done with practical (real) effects, and Mel Gibson's portrayal of a post-apocalypse anti-hero who is hard and cynical, and the ultimate survivor.The first movie introduced this world, still in a society we knew but in the middle of a collapse into anarchy, and we see Max when he was a cop before he lost his family. The second movie took this world further where there was nothing left but roving gangs, and the infamous battle down the highway, with a few surprisingly deep philosophical questions. The third movie is where it jumped the shark; the car is gone, and instead the vehicles and people are like something out of a comic book. Max is guardian to a group of children and campy humor replaces cynical reality."Fury Road" is essentially "Beyond Thunderdome" remade on a huge budget. The supercharged pursuit interceptor is literally in it for maybe 5-10 seconds, and shows up briefly in a chase scene later.Absolutely nothing works; the action scenes appear to be deliberately sped up by probably 20% over normal film speed and the result is it feels like a hyped up and amateur martial arts movie. The spectacle is huge, but so overblown your mind doesn't think it's real. As an example of how silly it gets in the earlier movies they had nitrous, now someone literally climbs onto the hood and spits fuel into the intake. For some reason the pale albino foot soldiers have a thing for spraying their mouths with silver paint before doing something suicidal.I can remember in the "Road Warrior" when the female love interest is pulled off of the truck and Max literally steps out of the door at speed and dispatches the bad guy with a shotgun blast through the windshield; here so many flying bodies and explosions happen it all runs together.Guns were rare and often unreliable in the earlier movies, this made the idea of marauders doing battle with darts, arrows, and thrown weapons more plausible but also brought the action scenes into close up intensity. Now everyone has a firearm; there isn't a single paved road yet somehow the societies can keep high octane vehicles running.The producers went into overkill on outdoing each idea with a bigger or more bizarre one. One car has tank treads, for some reason the main villain has rows of pregnant women hooked up to milking machines. One bad guy is a portly businessman in a suit with a club foot and a prosthetic nose, yet holes cut in his clothing to expose his nipples. Many of the vehicles have the style of 2-3 car bodes stacked on top of each other. One of the bad guys is a blind guitarist on a rig that is like a giant sound system, the guitar doubling as a flamethrower. Whatever.Much has been made about the feminist aspect of this movie, but it's not really brought into focus, just another random idea tossed into the mix. Furiosa is passable, and seems more like Max than Tom Hardy. The entire gist of the story is the villain Immortan Joe is chasing her to get his prize harem back, which he calls his property. Furiosa has some sort of dark past behind her but it's never explained, and late in the movie she finds "home" which is a pack of motorcycle riding grandmother snipers. That's it, no message or depth beyond that.And finally Tom Hardy as Max---we see over and over hints that he is tormented by the loss of a child and spouse, but it's also never explained. Tom is quite literally just there, with none of the brutal vindictiveness that Gibson's version was capable of.Overall I don't think I've seen such a mess of a movie since "Waterworld."
Pro's: This was not the worst movie I've seen. If it hadn't been called a Mad Max film I'd have given it a 3 or 4. So a -3 points for deception.Con's: This is not a Mad max film. His character is entirely irrelevant. He plays no role in the development of the plot (such as it is). None of the male characters are really relevant except the arch-villain (and his role is VERY limited). The central character is Charlize's "Furiosa". The acting is generally very unconvincing. There is no real story being told here. It is without a doubt the worst of the mad max lineup, if you even count it as being a mad max film (I don't). At no point did I reach the level needed for voluntary suspension of disbelief. This is a very silly movie, and not in a good way like Willy Wonka. There were numerous other issues too. I'll leave off them so as to avoid any spoilers for those who plan to see it.Bottom line I walked away from the film feeling as if I had duped. I went to see a Mad max film and got "Furiosa, girl power". I recommend renting and viewing Mad Max 1 or 2 again and giving this one a pass.


                
Didn't rate this film at all. This was the only film I've ever walked out of in the cinema (and I wasn't the only person to walk out). Yes there is loads of action, but there is no storyline. These two factors combined makes the movie drag. I walked out after 90 minutes, which felt like 2.5 hours. It was basically one big action sequence. If you are not bothered about story lines and love pure action then you would probably like it, if not then I would steer clear. If you have to see it for yourself I would probably rent or download it, and save yourself the price of a cinema ticket. Such a shame as the trailer made it look so good, but if you were to watch the trailer for 2 hours, there's probably no difference from the actual movie.


                
