When I wrote this review 3 years ago I had no idea how many people hate this movie and they are preferring Mad Max 3 over this film. Claming Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome the third film is better film than this, really? Better than this? Listen folks it has no Mel Gibson so what? So what's your point? Gibson dropped out this film and he wasn't interested, it was in development for years, since in 2004 this movie was announced. George Miller did something different with this film and he got hate for it. I hate Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome to death! It is rated PG-13 family film and I wanted an action bloody rated R film not a boring stupid lame fu**** movie! I got an rated R bloody action film that I wanted in Mad Max: Fury Road. I was entertained and I enjoy it. At least it wasn't so sick like was Beyond Thunderdome. Mad Max: Fury Road is my second favorite film in the franchise and this movie did it right and it correct that third film that it failed been an good action film. Like it or hate it, is your problem but in my opinion it is a good action violent movie and I love it to death I am an action junkie myself. Mad Max 2: The Road Warrior is my number 1 favorite film of all time. I think Mad Max: Fury Road is George Miller's masterpiece. Finally, Finally after 30.years of fiasco Mad Max Beyond Thunderdome that completely destroyed the Mad Max Trilogy, George Miller finally come back and fix the mistake he did 30.years ago. Why wouldn't I love this film? This film is the best one in the series along side Mad Max 2: The Road Warrior at least for me it is the best film. It has action, high explosive and Tom Hardy been a real Mad Max unlike Mel Gibson was in Thunderdome. I am happy they made the 4th movie. Tom Hardy was a bad ass Mad Max. I didn't even noticed that we don't have Mel Gibson in here. Tom Hardy breaths life into Max Rockatansky and Charlize Theron is excellent and emotionally perfect as Furiosa. I love high speed and pursuit on a road which I seriously love this. The thing was more similar to Mad Max 2: The Road Warrior but much better, George Miller fix it, the film did not copy The Road Warrior the film has it is own story. All, the stunts and action sequences are SPECTACULAR. Immortan Joe was a fantastic villain in here he was really good. The film shows a real wasteland and the future which I am really happy about it. NOTE: "Don't waste your time if you have seen the original." from a hater review my reply: Yes I will waste my time watching this awesome action flick! Yes I have seen the Original Film Mad Max with Mel Gibson so many times than you ever did! I love this film much more than Mad Max because sometimes the original is very boring and the film has so much Drama in it and less Action than it is in Fury Road. I wanted to have an apocalyptic action film like are Fury Road and The Road Warrior which this film fix it. Finally yes Finally I have seen a good Action Film from 2015 and It is finally the finest blockbuster of 2015! Mad Max: Fury Road is a 2015 post-apocalyptic action film directed and produced by George Miller, and written by Miller, Brendan McCarthy and Nico Lathouris. The fourth installment in the Mad Max franchise, it is an Australian and American venture produced by Kennedy Miller Mitchell, RatPac-Dune Entertainment and Village Roadshow Pictures. The film is set in a future desert wasteland where gasoline and water are scarce commodities.10/10 Awesome film I have seen it twice. I love this film to death I love it! Fury Road would be the second favorite best film in the franchise.


                
George Miller returns to live-action filmmaking with one of the greatest action films ever put to screen. 'Mad Max: Fury Road' is ridiculous in all the right ways.For those who have seen the original films and loved them, you'll fall in love all over again with this film. Tom Hardy takes the reigns this time around as Max - a man of few words who has been hardened by the world in which he lives. Along with him is Charlize Theron as Imperator Furiosa - a woman who seeks redemption by helping five young '"wives" escape from the film's antagonist.Leading up to the film's release, many speculated if this would be just another action film that lacks a solid narrative and motive, but I am happy to say that this is simply not the case. Yes, the film does fill 80% of its run-time with action sequences, but it never gets in the way of the humanity between these characters that Miller has brought to life. There are some emotional moments. Specifically, with Theron's character. Is the story something we haven't seen before? Not at all. But in a film loaded with action, it's nice to see a solid narrative.Now, how about those action sequences? Incredible - exhilarating - jaw-dropping. George Miller has put together some of the greatest, most memorable action set-pieces ever. One thing that sets the action in this film apart from a good majority of mediocre action films today is that every action the character's make have an affect on them. For good and for bad. The action is not pointless. It's motivated. And it's glorious to behold thanks to the use of practical effects, incredible stunt work and stunning cinematography.'Mad Max: Fury Road' has set a new standard for action films. It's arguably the greatest action film of the 21st century. It's that good. George Miller has brought back what we loved about 80's action films while also brining new ideas to the table. It's the best time I've had in a theater in a long time, and I couldn't help but laugh in appreciation of the ridiculousness that was unfolding before my eyes. The film left me feeling giddy, with a big smile on my face.


                
This is my first review on this site and wanted to do it mostly to thank all the people involved in making this great movie! A truly classic masterpiece with over the top action and one of my favorite movies all time!


                
Mad Max: Fury Road, starring Tom Hardy and Charlize Theron, is George Miller's attempt to reignite his long dormant Mad Max franchise...and my god does he ever. For the past decade or so, with exceptions such as John Wick, The Bourne Trilogy, and The Raid, action movies seem to be struggling to capture the excitement and enjoyment the genre once held; a tenacity that classics from the 80's and 90's had in spades. George Miller single handedly delivers our saving grace with Fury Road on the back of a spike covered oil rig with a blind zombie playing a fire breathing electric guitar.Max is a man of few words, but Tom Hardy's talent for portraying strong, silent characters shines through in a gruff but sympathetic performance. He teams up with Charlize Theron's Imperator Furiosa to save the last 5 hot women in the world from the leader of a powerful cult with a terrifying breathing mask inspired by the Cheshire Cat from Alice in Wonderland. From there, the chase is on. Using this simple plot as the setting, we are able to bear witness to one of the most beautifully shot films in years. The world of Mad Max looks absolutely gorgeous, combining awe-inspiring practical effects and landscapes with bold colours brimming from all edges of the frame. These are of course just bonuses in enhancing the primary reason people will love this film, the action itself. I'm happy to report these action sequences are damn near flawless. No shaky cam, barely a hint of CGI, and scenes where we actually feel like our characters are in danger (yes Furious 7 I'm calling you out). Total chaos relentlessly ensues for the majority of the film, but it's chaos you can follow clearly and marvel at. Whether it's one of the explosive car sequences, or one of the smaller emotional moments, Mad Max: Fury Road refuses to let up on tension for one second.There's a reason this movie is sitting at 98% on Rotten Tomatoes. This is an action movie that will set a precedent for years to come, roaring ferociously at all who may challenge it. Hopefully, this is only the beginning of a genre revolution early in the making.FINAL VERDICT: Mad Max: Fury Road is a beautifully chaotic display of masterfully executed action sequences with a strong emotional core, and a raw energy unmatched by nearly all of its action genre competition.


                
Yo punishable by death just letting you know that this movie was shot using 80% practical effects and that's a fact on this web page so you're completely wrong when you say that it's full of cgi. But anyway this movie is a real crazy ride. From the very beginning it takes you straight into the action and never lets go. This movie is so incredibly filmed and the stunts are performed marvelously. Although this movie is said to star Tom hardy and Charlize Theron, the real star here is George miller. This man created a masterpiece and it was so beautifully put together. He managed to show the chaos and urgency without the constant shaky camera crap that we see out of action movies now. This is the best pure action movie that I've ever seen.


                
Mad Max Fury Road is George Miller's return to the franchise he started way back in 1979 with Mad Max. I will start by saying this movie was absolutely batsh** insane. It was filled right to the brim with continuous over the top bloody ridiculous action sequences that keep you on the edge of the seat and just amazed at what Is happening on screen. Now this film doesn't have much of a plot at all but seriously you're not going into this film for an intense plot, this is a film that almost didn't even need one at all. The one thing I was worried about going in was whether I needed to have seen the previous films to understand this one and thankfully you don't, the story is independent of the previous film which was really helpful. The characters were all awesome and it did an amazing job to introduce them all almost instantly and get right into the action. Max (Tom Hardy? and Furiosa (Charlize Theron) were were great and extremely likable characters. Even the villain who I will just call Sweet Tooth was so great, he wasn't anything too special but was a great threat throughout the film. I just absolutely loved this movie, intense action from start to finish and didn't slow down at all, that made it ridiculously fun to watch. The great characters and the performances are awesome on screen and we're always interesting to watch. If there was ever a Twisted Metal movie, this is what it would be. Nothing really let the film down and everything really worked, such a great time and the best cinema experience this year so far. - 10


                
Mad Max: Fury Road is, hands down, one of the best action movies I've ever seen. It doesn't take its own sweet time with exposition, with dialogue or with establishment, it's just raw action from start to finish. It takes viewers on what is literally a non-stop ride through the desert, racing all the way to the end.I haven't watched any other Mad Max movies, but there's no need to watch the other three before watching Fury Road; everything still makes sense. The story follows Max (Tom Hardy) as he finds himself helping a driver of a war rig, Furiosa (Charlize Thereon) and her cargo of five women make their way through the desert. But there's a mob of in upwards of fifty vehicles behind them, hunting them down, led by the sinister Imortan Joe.Action movies are often slowed down by exposition and dialogue, and it's here that Mad Max: Fury Road excels. It doesn't waste it's time on exposition, not one bit. What's Valhalla? Why do the half-childs need blood sacks? Mad Max doesn't waste its time trying to explain every little detail, and it doesn't need to; the viewers just accept the absurdity of what's going on, letting us focus on the action. And that's the thing; the absurdity of everything is just so genius. Why is there a man playing a guitar on a truck? Who cares, just enjoy the movie!And the movie doesn't waste its time on dialogue either. This review is already longer than all the words Max says in the movie combined. It's just plain genius; Max is just this raw action hero, and we don't need his wild backstory, with him talking every second. We get to just watch this movie without the normal incessant dialogue of an action flick.That's where this movie definitely cements itself as one of the best action movies of all time. Never before do I think I've seen a movie that just has such non-stop action from the start to the beginning. The film must have a grand total of three static scenes where the protagonists just talk with one another. Everything else is just raw action, unfolding so quickly. The trucks chasing the war rig down are always in the horizon, and we're reminded of it just enough to remember the imminent threat posed to Max, Furiosa and everyone on the war rig. The actual action itself is so good; there's just so much, and the combat methods of both the attackers and defenders is so unique.The thing with Mad Max: Fury Road, is that it'll probably be the most unique action film you ever see. Right from the get-go the director throws us headfirst into a dystopian world, forcing us to just accept this and let the movie unfolds. And that's fine. Who cares how absurd everything might seem? Just enjoy the action!Mad Max: Fury Road is an amazing action movie. I recommend it to just about anyone, and especially to action die-hards. You won't regret it.


                
George Miller returns with a bang and takes the helm of this crazy 2hr bonkers extravaganza named Mad Max: Fury Road. First of all, the stunts and action sequences are SPECTACULAR. Tom Hardy breaths life into Max Rockatansky and Charlize Theron is excellent and emotionally perfect as Furiosa. The story opens, with Immortan Joe who has young ladies as his wives, but he'll goes down when they escape the sadist's hands. Max, who has a violent past with Joe's cronies, decides to help Imperior Furiosa take the girls somewhere safe. Furiosa can't trust Max, and neither can he. So it all comes down to Joe's cronies fighting against them reaching to their destination. The movie is a bananas car chase for the runtime, as Max and Furiosa work together to fight against the evils. And then, there is Nux, a bonkers "really skin coloured" guy, who works with Joe, played well by Nicholas Hoult. The 3D really pays off, and is worth the extra ticket. The movie puts all other action movies of shame, the effects really pop out. Well, this is a definite masterpiece. One of the best movies of the year, one of the best action movies ever made and the role of Theron's life. Miller is truly a mastermind as stated clearly in the trailer. This exceeded my expectations, and will exceed yours as well. The dark style, dark comedy and the over the top characters make a return in this reboot. Must watch, and worth the extra IMAX 3D ticket.


                
Mad Max: Fury Road sees veteran maestro director George Miller return to the Mad Max franchise after a 30 year hiatus.Fury Road is a hallmark in action films. Miller's post-apocalyptic future provides an impeccable backdrop for the crescendo of mayhem present in this movie. From the first scene to the last, there is plenty of spectacular action, vehicular and human. The cinematography is lush throughout. From the opening shot of the lizard being stomped by Max (Tom Hardy) to all the action scenes raging in the desert, the camera-work remains consistently on point. Many iconic shots are to be found in this movie.75% of the movie consists of action; so much that there isn't an 'action SCENE' present. Any action aficionados will have their expectations transcended while common moviegoers will have their satisfaction met too. What is surprising, however, is the emotional heft of the 25% that remains. Much of it is dedicated to the back story of Furiousa (Charlize Theron) who effortlessly delivers an Oscar worthy performance by mixing brawn with emotion for her internally wounded character.Nicholas Hoult's Nux, who provides one of the best lines of the film: "It's a lovely day!" at the midst of a crazy thunderstorm consisting tornadoes consisting cars consisting mad humans. Nux is an interesting character in this interesting world and provides plenty of the action by his well... actions.Finally, Tom Hardy's delivers a subtle performance as Mad Max. For a character whose name is slapped largely in the film poster, he receives barely a page of dialogue minus a monologue at the start. Considering the fact that he wears a Bane-like (see the parallel) mask throughout much of the film, it is surprising how powerful his performance actually is.One musical masterpiece act in the movie comes in the form of the guy the mask furiously shredding a flame-throwing electric guitar while dangling above a mobile wall of speakers that roars through the desert. Imagine that. When all hell breaks loose only accompanied by that as the background music, epic is truly an understatement as a description.Overall, Mad Max is a gleefully insane symphony of destruction that makes the Avengers seem like misfits and the Fast and Furious crew seem like the Slow and Sweet crew. This action packed masterpiece exhibits no shortage of high voltage, 2,000 horsepower action that also contains of lush cinematography, sufficient character development and a satisfactory plot (that works, cause it's 75% action anyways). Mad Max: Fury Road is definitely one of, if not the finest blockbuster of 2015!


                
Great film, so fast-paced it makes every other film out there look slow and old-fashioned. Wonderful to see George Miller back on the Australian road, where he belongs. Charlize Theron is great, Tom Hardy is not bad, but the stunts are really where the film shines. It's hard to think of a better action road movie. It has all the intensity and perversity of the MAD MAX and THE ROAD WARRIOR, but amped up to new heights of craziness. Miller is the real star of the film -- in some ways technology seems to have finally caught up with his early hyperactive camera style, and he takes full advantage of the ability to move wherever he wants, however he wants.


                
Complicated hero who is easy to latch onto. Fantastic plot that is plausible in this environment. Terrifying nemesis, horrifying and relentless. Non-stop action and brilliant stunt sequences that will make you cringe. This movie will have you feeling parched and gritty. Usually Not a fan of 3d - however, it works perfectly here. This movie has managed to honor the previous films without being clunky about it. if you love mutant vehicles, art cars, burning man, etc. you will be satisfied. A few scenes that were taking place in cobbled together 1000 hp vehicles at 50mph where it was quieter inside than a modern Cadillac - the absence of the din of machinery for the sake of dialogue was the only thing that bothered me.


                
Let me start by saying this. This movie is MAD. The title was not lying. This film was exactly what one wants from a summer blockbuster. George Miller has come out publicly and said that this is neither really a reboot or a sequel. This is simply another story following Max Rockatansky. In this story, we see Max being captured By Immortan Joe and his band of War Boys. Once he escapes he comes upon Imperator Furiosa who is attempting to rescue the "wives" from the oppression of Immortan Joe. Cue action. I love how sometimes simple plots like this can set up an entire world of action. In the action genre, we don't need very convoluted and intricate plots that keep taking unexpected twists and turns. In Mad Max: Fury Road's case, the simpler, the better.Now on to what everyone is wondering about. The action. And yes, the stunts and music when it's all going down is some of the best action ever put to screen. By the time the climactic chase rolls around, the action is even more jaw-dropping and breath taking than before because the stakes continue to be raised. This movie is a two hour chase that never has a dull moment.As for the characters, they were all spectacular. Especially Furiosa, played beautifully by Charlize Theron. Though she is a bad-ass, she never upstages Hardy as Max. Being the emotional core of the film, playing Furiosa was one of the harder tasks to correctly perform and Theron knocked it out of the park. For Tom Hardy as Max, he was just as great as Theron. Having minimal dialog and mainly using grunts to show emotion, Hardy gave Max a surprising amount of depth, though still not nearly as much as Furiosa. This is not a bad thing however, since Max was never a truly deep character, he was an action star who kicked a lot of ass. And of course he does that in this film. The rest of the characters were played great as well especially Nux (played by Nicholas Hoult) who brought even more emotional depth this.Overall, this is a gleefully insane film. The relentless pace never holds back on the audience and it always has them glued to the edges of their seats. If you can, I highly recommend everyone does themselves a favor and witness this master-class action phenomenon that will arguably go down as one of the finest action films ever made.


                
'Mad Max: Fury Road' is the 4th installment in mastermind, George Miller's insane post apocalyptic journey. Starring Charlize Theron (Monster, Hancock) Tom Hardy (The Dark Knight Rises) Nicholas Hoult (About a Boy) and (Hugh Kaeys-Byrn) as the movies villain Immortan Joe.Imperator Furiosa (Charlize Theron) is assigned to a mission. The mission is to drive the war rig and go through to the next town and siphon gasoline. Furiosa ends up double crossing Immortan Joe and stealing his 5 wives to take them back to her homeland where they can be safe. Along side her is Max, a man of action and very few words. Together they must fight trough hordes of enemies in what is basically a 2 hour long, high speed chase.I have been waiting since I heard about the green lighting of this movie back in 2009. I have been waiting for almost 6 years for this thing. My hype was high, I wasn't sure it would live up to my expectations. Well I am here to tell you that it did. It lived up to the hype, AND THEN SOME. This movie is absolutely, 1000% insane. What you saw in the trailers wasn't even close to the level of crazy that goes down in this movie. You know this movie is pretty much just all out, balls to the wall action, so if you think the trailers maybe showed off a little too much. You couldn't be more wrong.The stunt work is choreographed and directed to perfection, it is the most well crafted and stunning movie I've ever seen and will probably ever see, which is kind of the norm and what to expect with a George Miller movie. There's explosions going off everywhere, cars blowing up left, right and center, people being killed and blown to shreds. But none of it is convoluted, it all streams together perfectly, you know what is happening, when it happens. The fact that pretty much 90% of this movie is all practical effects and all stunt work is mind blowing. The cars that explode, that's happening. People bouncing from one side to the other on long poles at 60mph, picking people up and flying then back across, that's going down, too. Too many blockbusters these days are filled with CGI. And even with limitless amounts of stuff you can do with all of that. NONE of it even is even comparable to the action in this movie. The crap that goes down here, other movies couldn't even dream to aspire towards such a spectacle.People complain that there's not much of a story, they wanted more. Well I gotta tell you, the story is just what it needs. For something to be great it doesn't need to be a vibrant cohesive piece of art. The story is very simple, and the simplicity of it is what makes it great. There's enough story to keep you paying attention to it and not just going in for explosions. Not to mention that It's not driven through its narrative or its dialog. It's driven by its characters and its action. To which people also said they were underdeveloped and weren't written very well, from my stand point they absolutely were.The character of Nux (Nicholas Hoult) was developed amazingly well, I didn't really expect to see much from him but he really became his own in this movie. He was developed enough to make you care, he was written to be understandable in his actions and he was by far, for me, one of the best things about the movie. Furiosa was also developed just enough to make you feel something for her character. She's one of the only good left in a world full of bad. What Miller does in this movie is make characters that not only do you are for but are also incredibly likable and super bad ass. Max wasn't developed as much as some of the others but let's face it. If you've watched the older ones (which I recommend you do) There really isn't much to him. He's a man that's had everything taken from him and he has nothing left to lose. All he wants is to be left in peace. That's all he's every been and that's all he wants to carry on being.What I also love about this movie is that the lead character is a woman. Hollywood these days are always depicting women who need a man take care of them. That they can't live without men. That is DEFINITELY not the case with this movie. Furiosa is fierce, she's skilled, she's unpredictable and she's all out bad ass. This is a testosterone filled movie but it's not the testosterone that takes charge.Action movies these days aren't normally as good as one of the reasons being is that the hero is never really in any really danger. If he's never in danger or near death how can you possible expect to have your audience on the edge of their seats. Pondering what if the inevitable happened. Max was in peril SO MANY TIMES in this film. There was at least 10 times where I thought "this is the end, he's going to die" then he miraculously gets out of it. But it's not the cliché type when someone luckily comes along at the last moment and saves him. Believe me there aren't many, if any clichés in this movie. He fights his way out of these death defying situations. Furiosa out other lead is also in life threatening situations throughout this movie. Many times where we wouldn't know if she would make it.If you don't see Mad Max: Fury Road in the theaters then you are missing out. I went in IMAX and I can tell you it was worth every goddamn penny. Papa want a sequel


                
The engines start roaring and without warning, you've fallen into this completely demented and absurd world - over the top and ridiculous - in Fury Road, Madness reigns. The shock is so great that even if you're familiar with the universe, it may take you a while to swallow everything, to get all the visual clues, to try to understand what is happening and how you can believe and embrace such a ludicrous world, but once you do, and you will, Fury Road takes you in an exhilarating ride.With a minimal plot and as little dialog as possible, Mad Max is a triumph on visual storytelling. Supported by the most epically constructed action scenes in years (or ever) and by unmatched imagination (or insanity), this two-hour car chase proves to be a lot more than a loud quest for gasoline. You'll be stunned by the action, but ultimately, left wondering what it all means - and suddenly Fury Road doesn't look that mad anymore.Ultimately, the most surprising thing about Fury Road is that Max is still there, as silent as ever, but its Furiosa, beautifully played by Charlize Theron who owns this brutal and glorious extravaganza.


                
Anyone that gives this a bad review just doesn't enjoy movies. Intense action, interesting characters, and bloody good fun. An all around great summer movie. The people that complain about there being no plot and need to be more informed about the world of fire and blood that is Mad Max are insane and need to watch the first three for a little background. I was impressed with the depth of this movie with vibrant characters and in camera visuals 80% done in camera and very little CGI. Miller adds more depth to his apocalyptic world in a way never before seen. He makes you feel the pain these people are going through. It is one of those movies that are few and far between and should be seen as the amazing goose bump riddled spectacle that it truly is. Nonstop over the top edge of your seat fun. The production is over the top and every scene is filled to the brim with eye candy. Don't listen to these people spouting crappy reviews they are the same people who wouldn't know a great movie if it sat on their face and wiggled around and they loved glitter. Make it your summer goal to go see this film in the theater you will not be left wanting anything but a sequel. Oh what a lovely day! And an even better movie.


                
Imagine the best roller coaster you've ever been on in your life, and now imagine you got to ride it over and over again for two straight hours. That's what watching Mad Max: Fury Road feels like. This film is an absolute blast to watch, a nonstop thrill ride every bit as mad and as furious as the title suggests.Despite being played by Tom Hardy instead of Mel Gibson, this Max Rockatansky is the same character as we saw in the other three films. Here, he is captured in the Wasteland by the War Boys, a group of warriors who follow a tyrannical dictator named Immortan Joe, who is looked at as a religious figure. After Imperator Furiosa, one of Joe's underlings, goes rogue with Joe's five wives (or "breeders"), Joe sends the War Boys after her, with Max being dragged along as well. Max escapes captivity and meets with Furiosa, and reluctantly agrees to help her outrun the War Boys and get the wives to safety in "The Green Place".Director George Miller has truly outdone himself here. Many times directors returning to old franchises years later just can't capture the same success as before (see: the Star Wars prequels, Prometheus, Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, etc), but there are exceptions to every rule and Miller is that exception. Fury Road is classic Mad Max awesomeness on a blockbuster budget, and it was worth every cent. Miller took pride in using practical effects and real stunts for the film, making minimal use of CGI, and the result is action that leaps out of the screen and immerses you in the world of the Wasteland. Every car is a real working vehicle, every explosion really occurred on set. The beautiful Kalahari desert in Africa, where the movie was filmed, creates some of the most gorgeous shots ever put to screen. The framing is impeccable. The music, composed by Junkie XL, is perfect for the movie's tone, and the sound mixing and editing is great too. You hear the engines and guns, and when the electric-guitar flamethrower guy from the trailer shows up, his playing syncs with the score, a nice Birdman-style touch. Fans of the earlier films also get some nice Easter eggs courtesy of costume design, such as Max's one-armed police jacket and his knee brace.Tom Hardy is great as Max, and though no one could truly replace Mel Gibson, Hardy is a worthy successor and does his own thing with the character. He really plays up the "Max is crazy" angle that Gibson didn't always go for. Charlize Theron is great as the absolute badass Furiosa, and makes a for a wonderful action team with Hardy's Max. The best performance in the film is by Nicholas Hoult as Nux, one of the War Boys with a special connection to Max and a difficult choice to make. Hugh Keays-Byrne, a Miller regular who played the villain in the original Mad Max, returns in Fury Road as the evil Immortan Joe (a different character, mind you), and his presence is commanding and intimidating.I cannot recommend this film highly enough. It's classic Mad Max and new age blockbuster at the same time, the perfect next step in one of the greatest franchises in all of cinema. Like films such as Raiders of the Lost Ark, Die Hard, The Terminator, and the earlier Mad Max films before it, Fury Road is an action classic, and in my opinion the current titleholder of greatest action movie ever. Watch it on the biggest screen and with the best surround sound you can find, and prepare to be blown away.


                
Wow. As a fan of the original Mad Max trilogy, this film nearly delivered on all fronts. The tone is dark, but the film never takes itself too seriously, and has an insane sense of self-awareness. Some of the concepts are so insane, outlandish, and stylish you can't help but laugh and enjoy the ride.The visuals are utterly unforgettable, creating some of the most memorable images that I have ever seen in a film. In addition to the beautiful desert landscape, like I previously mentioned, the film takes it's ideas and multiplies them to the nth degree. Some of the smaller scenes, that have barely any significance to the story, I remember because of the smallest visual detail that is presented in them, even if that scene in the long run, really holds no significance and is never mentioned again.Tom Hardy is great in the role of Max, keeping the mysteriousness and the likability of the protagonist in full force. What's fantastic about Max too is that, his past is never revealed in a exposition like scenario, rather it is told cleverly through visuals, a display that director George Miller respects the intelligence of the audience and doesn't want to spell everything out for them. Charlize Theron however, absolutely stole the show. Her acting is excellent- perfectly conveying her character and the emotions that are being dealt with. Some scenes she was in actually had me in near tears, her performance was so good. The exposition of her, unlike Max, is conveyed through dialog, but it doesn't feel forced. We don't get some long monologue from her about her past, rather it feels like a casual mention. It expertly tells us about her while keeping just the right amount of exposition left out, allowing us to connect the dots with other pieces of dialog or other visual details that reveal more about her. Simply put, she might be one of the best leading female protagonists put to the screen in a while.The characters are always given time to develop, even the smallest of characters. The film has the perfect blend of action and character driven moments, allowing the audience to take a breather every now and then and just soak in the characters of this world. I forgot to mention, the action is amazing. Because the film has the perfect plot that pretty much lends itself to action, it never stops moving, and gains so much kinetic energy you wonder if it'll ever stop. And sometimes, that can be a negative. Too much action at once can leave the viewer restless, but thankfully this doesn't become much of an issue until the end. It helps that in the action scenes, you can actually see whats going on, and the film doesn't over utilize shaky cam.I was really surprised by how much substance the narrative and the characters had, dealing much with themes of redemption and attempting to rid of a dark past. This is an action movie that isn't only a popcorn movie, this is likely something that you can analyze and find hidden meanings in. Because of this, people who are more into the artistic side of film (like myself) will enjoy it as well.This is the best film released all year and the best summer movie since the likes of Inception. Actually, in many aspects it might be better than Inception. It very well be the best action film so far this decade, and that is no exaggeration.


                
I loved this! Crazy, action-packed and violent, everything a mad max film should be.Oh also there's some boobs. Lovable characters and the new actor for Mad Max matches up to Mel Gibson in my mind.If you were thinking about seeing this, please do. I would recommend following the age guideline of 15+ though because of blood, gore, violence and......a certain unmasking.....if you see it you will know what i meanSeriously though, best film I've seen this year. Amazing. 10/10. Also one of the best apocalyptic films of all time in my opinion.


                
I've seen a lot of action movies probably seen them all, but nothing quite like this one. Fast-paced, entertaining. Beautiful fit between the desert ambiance, the action scenes and the visual effects. It has got the non stop action and movement of Crank, the speed car chasing of Fast & Furious, Michael Bay type of explosions and dynamic scenes but shot in a Christofer Nolan way. What a perfect opener. It will blow you away from the start to the finish. A guarantied two hours never stopping entertainment. Roaring engines, speed, shootings, fire, rust, dust really a must see. Anything else would be waste of words. Just go and see it!


                
After This, any action movie is nothing ,don't waste your time after now trying to watch any action movie because after this i think no more action ,the best action movie of all time, but its so weird that you will never imagine your self the hero of the movie , this movie makes you feel how beautiful life we are living now ,i think the movie have a hidden massage in it and makes you know that hope is not for living with hope is also for dieing with ,it takes you from the first to the end ,and i think tom hardy is the best choice to be the new "max" after i go home i can't stop thinking of it ,and from now am waiting for the next amazing mad max am sure there will be another part of this ,George Miller this is a MasterPiece


                
Finally hope that high quality action movies are back! This movie takes you on a non-stop action packed ride from start to finish. The stunt work is phenomenal and the cinematography is breathtakingly stunning. Its so relieving to see an action movie that doesn't rely on CGI to tell the story, because this movie barely has ANY and it was hard to notice any at all besides this one scene. Tom Hardy is on the fast track to becoming the big budget acting star Hollywood has longed looked for because HE CAN ACTUALLY ACT! Speaking of which Charlize Theron delivers an amazing performance that should get her several award nods. Do yourself a favor and go see this on the big screen! I highly recommend paying the extra money to see it in 3D as well. The only bad thing I can say is it was a disappointment went it was over! Cant wait to see the next installments in this franchise!


                
George Miller's masterpiece Mad Max:Fury Road will definitely create tension and will leave on on the theater sweating and with no words as how epic this film was. Is shaping up to be as much a unique experience for longtime Max fans as it will be for those who've never before visited Miller's vision of a sun-scorched hellish post- apocalyptic world, populated largely by violent maniacs. So don't worry if you haven't seen the older movies, there is absolutely no need to. 120 minutes of vehicular carnage and craziness, this movie has all aspects it needed to be."Fury Road" is a beautifully realized vision of the post-apocalyptic future, filmed in Namibia but looking like it was another world. And almost no CGI was used, it felt like it was real as of how amazing cinematography was, this is why it will leave many other movies behind. Tom hardy as Max gives a wonderful performance as replacing Mel Gibson, the main character of the older mad Max movies. Also the other heroine Charlize Theron plays Furiosa really good as well. Having to cut her hair and giving her best indicates she is really into the roll of Furiosa, feminine form outside, but masculine form inside. In addition, the movie also had a good but simple plot, but it definitely didn't need a deep plot. Having not much dialog also helps other people from different countries to enjoy it, as they may not have subtitles. The music was phenomenal, only one time watching the movie is enough to enjoy and get it into your head, even some of the action is synchronized with the music. So i greatly recommend you to go and join this crazy ride, specially in 3D as Miller uses chucking arrows, bones, and parts of cars and bodies at you. 'What a lovely day' indeed.I give this movie a 10/10, and Im looking forward to see it again


                
Before I even talk about the plot, or the actors, I Would just like to say that this films visual effects/cinematography were incredible. No, not mind boggling cgi, just flat out great camera work and practical effects. The costume and make up designers need to sweep the awards this year for their work. I walked out of the film and only hours later did I realize how good they were. Reason being, because nothing was wrong with it. The camera work and effects were so smooth I couldn't appreciate how good they were because they actually complemented the plot instead of distracting the viewer from it. That being said, oh my goodness best looking movie of all time imo. 11/10 From the looks of it, only the new Star Wars film even comes close but we will see when the actual movie roles. Okay, that was just my review on the visuals of the film, lets talk aboot that plot eh? PLOT 8/10- It is what is, an action/post apocalyptic film can only have so good of a plot story before it gets too cluttered, this film does the best with what it has, a cool setting, cool characters, and really cool cars. The third part of the movie where they find Charlize's old biker clan is the weakest part of the plot, yet at the same time, it was necessary. That's the main strength of this plot, everything was necessary, no extra back story/flashbacks were handed to us, no unnecessary expostion, we were left to interpret based off of brief dialogue and voices in Max's head as to what has lead to these characters acting the way they did. This, should be the way every action movie models its plot after, nothing too deep, yet just enough to make us understand and care. Similar to the plot of taken in that we don't need information on how the villains came to be, or how our hero came to be so heroic, we are left to think, a wonderful tool in these types of films. ACTING 9/10- Acting wise I was surprised. With the exception of the "breeders", everyone was fit really well in their parts. Never have been a huge Hardy fan, but surprisingly roles where he talks less makes his performances better. Although he only has around 20 lines in the movie, the ones he mumbles out either made me laugh or made me realize he was disturbed. Charlize played a strong female lead who was kickass and is not over the top at the same time. With the exception of the part where she reunites with her old clan, all of her lines were necessary. The villains were awesome for the most part, my only complaint would be that we only really got to spend time with two of them, the third one, the fat one, was more of a side piece. None the less, great acting across the board.PACING 9/10- Start your engines, make sure you have enough gas to last for two hours because this one does not let up. From the opening scene of the movie till the canyon scene towards the end you will be thrown into an atmospheric fast paced film that is both exhilarating, and memorable. Although not every great action film is paced like this, it just works in this one, with every thing being so over the top, from the insane guitar creep, to the unbreakable bones of our hero, I don't know, it just freaking works. Visuals- 10/10GO SEE IT.


                
I don't normally say that about a movie. Even my favorite films have flaws that I recognize and humbly admit to, even still that doesn't mean I love them any less. Mad Max: Fury Road is that rare example of a film that understands what it is so well that it forgoes flaws ...this is a perfect movie.Now I understand that's a bold statement, and I also know it's only my opinion, but it's something I thought long and hard about after walking out of the theater, still recovering from the 2 hour thrill ride I had just been on. There was not a single moment during Fury Road that I a) checked my watch b) thought something was out of place c) got bored with the actionThe characters, the music, the action, the direction - it's all top level stuff. No fluffy words in this review, I am simply stunned at Millers execution of this very simple plot. I love how Miller allows the expressions of the characters to speak for themselves, I love how he doesn't dwell on supposed important character moments because he understands exactly what to show and when to get back to the action. The music may the key ingredients in the mix as Junkie XL delivers a soundtrack full of thundering drums, epic violins and shredding electric guitar, a soundtrack that had my heart racing a million miles an hour and gazing at the screen in disbelief as cars and bodies flew through a sandstorm in slow motion.The fact that CGI was kept to a minimum makes the film feel even more satisfying, like we payed to see high octane action where cars crash into one another and people perform death defying stunts ...and we get what we pay for as close to 90% of what you're seeing is real.I could gush over this film for hours but I'd like to say that if nothing else, Mad Max: Fury Road gave me the feeling of being a kid again and seeing a blockbuster for the first time. In an age of bloated, CGI-filled summer movies, it's nice to see a simple, streamlined, real film in the mix. Welcome back Max, don't keep us waiting to long for the next one.


                
George Miller's Mad Max: Fury Road. I don't even know where to begin. First of all, forget Avengers, forget Furious 7, this is THE movie to see this summer, and perhaps this decade. It is a nitrous injected, chrome plated masterpiece of savage beauty and reckless juggernaut aerobatics that has to be seen to be believed. Miller has taken the core elements of what made his Road Warrior so special and beloved, and kicked them into high gear for a revisionist take on the ages old post apocalyptic punk warrior desert chase film. Tom Hardy is hysterical as Max, a brooding, bruised hearted grump who just wants to be left alone, until he's dragged, literally into a deranged odyssey through the badlands. Charlize Theron is all rock solid tough as Imperator Furiosa, who hijacks the five breeding wives of tyrannical, terrifying warlord Immortan Joe (Hugh Keayes Byrne, Toecutter from the first Max film) and flees into the desert to find a greener place away from the madness. Miller strips away any unnecessary dialogue or clichéd 'getting to know you scenes' and streamlines the film into one sleek, forward surging force of nature, with not a moment wasted, and not a line of dialogue or glare of the eyes that isn't somehow in service of the constant 'go, go, go' mantra of the story. Such pacing is the genius of what makes it such a thrill. Also amazing is the imagination and world building. Miller uses an anthropologists eye to look at what the human mind, and civilization would evolve to in a situation like this, resulting in every character having a realistic, thought through vernacular, and some truly phenomenal, lived in style set pieces that are truly eye popping. Such attention and care is rare in this genre. Miller and team have outdone themselves with this absolutely exhilarating film, technically proficient in every way and filled to the brim with the kind of love for films and telling stories that its predecessors revels in back then.


                
