This movie is an amazing addition of the Mad Max stories, it is definitely a great chase movie, it has all the action and enjoyment to keep the viewer entertained, with the acting and visuals to show the real madness of the wasteland that the movie is set in.


                
Cold-blooded, botanically medieval, crusades-like, and horrifically thrilling—that's Fury Road. As for Max, it looks like he's the same archetypal Bane, only this time, he's more immune to "I'm not afraid, I'm angry." He's silent, and angry, and frustrated. He's Rango-like, reflective of the quest to solve the water-mystery. With everything red, orange, and yellow, it seems like you're viewing 300 blended in Saw, and over-the-top F&F.George Miller revises his ideological construct in the most exhilarating, dreadful, and striking manner this time. For all I know, the audiences spoil themselves with "cinematic orgasms," if that's a thing, throughout the movie. They're not afraid of the porcupine-trucks, maybe a little on the edge of madness, but that goes without saying. Here's a hint as to what it was like: Bane and Miranda beating the beep out of war-painted, anti-Christian, Hulu tribe—only this time, it's some dark, full-raged action with mountain bikes, and trucks, and springy tentacles moving idiotic half-Willy, half-Wonka The Da Vinci Code Bettany's horrendous versions. Miller puts his tribal culture in the crux of action, which reveals an unorthodox, authoritarian, and devout portrayal of enmity. The sport-arena action is complemented by prayers in Citadel, banging of drums, skeleton-wheels, and skeleton-feels. It has a bizarre feeling—you're dredged into the modernity of Prometheus and antediluvian era of the Exodus.More than anything—Max's deafening seriousness, Furiosa's bald-grace, armless-attraction, sense of responsibility, and and absolute congeniality to the role (always imposingly remarkable,) religious affirmation, banging, puffing, booming, clatter, splash, tick-tick, boom—the "fantasized-realism" behind all the get-off-my-property-you-crazy-lunatic is what gives you the honesty-chills. The stunts, the effort, the don't-care-about-ourselves-just-love-the-movie-please pledge, and the extraordinarily enormous—480 hours of footage into 120 minutes of freaking-awesome warfare—blows me off of my seat in the cinema to the pale, scorching blaze of the sun, amidst the crazy-eyes of this action-genre Orange is the New Black. Even the over-editing has that medieval, darkly comical feel to it, just like 300 for example (can't think of another movie with such aberrant effects, but such positive response.) But like any other movie, there are points where you start questioning yourself. Nothing seems to justify Max & Furiosa's relationship, mutual combats, strategies, certainty of plans, and stuff like that. But by then, the movie's not about logic or sense anymore; it's more about seeing what you wouldn't in ages. With such a brilliant ensemble—I mean it was pretty good for a solely madness-based movie—you couldn't care less about the abacus-loving dumb-toads sitting in exactly the middle seats of the theater to get the most balanced view of the screen, and judge the minus-plus of the 120 minute long clip. I feel like reporting their stupidity to the CIA—enough with the pen and paper!Mad Max comes equitably with the characters, their roles, and the titular projections. Each name is qualified by its corresponding characteristic with the character in the movie—Spikers, Rictus Erectus et cetera. This complements the heartfelt glow to the movie itself—everything's done for the movie. They didn't feel any need to impose worldly sense into it, which is the best part, because that miniature world seemed pretty damn believable to me—but why? Maybe it were those religious beats, maybe the dragon-roars of engines, maybe it was just the psychological effect. Whatever it was, it did what it planned to.Mad Max: Fury Road puts forth the idea that there's so much more to combats than mere combats—MMFR incorporates belligerent, spoiling-for-a-fight attitude, oppressed landscape, estranged and barbaric drug-lords, heavy-weight weaponry and wheelers, and poster-paint bombings. The intensified red-blaze of fire, the sandstorm-effect, the preposterous turn of events, the nonsensical touch of things, and the wacky script—everything wrong with the movie is everything good about the movie. Mad Max: Fury Road revises the post-apocalyptic scene—utter dryness of region and minds—and uses the irritating sense of that dryness into a rigorous will to get past it with victory—Fury Road's victory. It's not about the comparative analysis of protagonists and the white-witty-wackos, it's about what's happening throughout. And when it happens, you're only remark is: "What a lovely day."


                
This remake to Road Warrior is the best classic epic Post-Apocalyptic Action Science Fiction film in the Mad Max Franchise . An apocalyptic story set in a harsh desert landscape where humanity is broken, and almost everyone is crazed fighting for the necessities of life , within this world exist two rebels on the run who just might be able to restore order. As a a drifter named Max (Tom Hardy) , and a woman named Imperator Furiosa (Charlize Theron) , both of whom rebel against a tyrannical ruler in search for her homeland with the aid of a group of female prisoners ( Zoë Kravitz ,Rosie Huntington-Whiteley ...) , and a psychotic worshiper called Nux (Nicholas Hoult). With the stark desert sands in front of them and marauders behind, only the maddest will prevail the storm. They fight brutal enemies thirsty for blood and to survive some battles to-the-death with lots of blood and gore, including throating-slit ,beheading, impaling and blow up . Only the mad survive. The future belongs to the mad .This stirring movie in comic-strip style is packed with unbelievable car stunts, thrills , chills and noisy action . Top-notch movie and well set in a post-apocalyptic wasteland with a valient group who will have to fight against cruel cutthroats, a band of depraved crazies ; this thrilling picture packs kinetic action , chills, shocks and abundant violence . Spectacular stunt-work plenty of motorcycle races, cars witth breathtaking leaps and explosions . Excellent Tom Hardy as a revenger angel at one of his main roles, he embarks a groundbreaking escape against vicious murderous, he is a man of action and a man of few words, who seeks peace of mind following the loss of his wife and child in the aftermath of the chaos . And Charlize Theron gives a brave as well as sensitive acting as Furiosa, a woman of action and a warrior who believes her path to survival may be achieved if she can make it across the desert back to her childhood homeland .Rumbling and moving musical score fitting to action by Junkie XL . Special and weird futuristic atmosphere created by cameraman John Seale who reflects splendidly the barren outdoors . According to this cameraman the cinematography would be as colorful as possible in order to differentiate the film from other post-apocalyptic movies, which typically have bleak de-saturated colors . Spectacular and impressive production design, the art direction is as beautiful as posible ; that's why the filmmaker Miller reasoned that people living in the post-apocalypse would try to find whatever scraps of beauty they could in their meager environment . Being shot in several locations such as Namib Desert, Namibia Cape Town Film Studios, Cape Town, South Africa , Sydney, New South Wales, Australia, Penrith, New South Wales, and Potts Hill, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia .The motion picture was stunningly directed by George Miller who subsequently announced he would sign on for ,three more Mad Max films as producer or director . Miller is author of the excellent post-apocalypse ¨Mad Max¨ trilogy along with the writer and producer Byron Kennedy. The first was ¨Mad Max¨ (1979) by George Miller with Gibson ,Joanne Samuel , Hugh Keays-Byrne ,Steve Bisley . A sequel titled ¨Mad Max 2, the Road warrior¨ with Gibson , Bruce Spence, Vernon Welles and Mike Preston . It's followed by ¨Mad Max beyond Thunderdome¨ with Tina Turner, George Ogilvie, Frank Thring and again Bruce Spence as sympathetic helicopter pilot . In addition, numerous imitations as the recent ¨Doomsday¨(2008, Neal Marshall), rip offs, and exploitations ,especially Italians products. Rating : Good, better than average, this is one of the most successful of the present decade . This remarkable action film will appeal to Science Fiction buffs. Rating : 8'5, Above average. Well worth watching.


                
What is there to say that has not already been said in praise of Mad Max FR? Just stepped out of the theater, & I am still blown away... The superb attention to detail, every single action shot was a "moneyshot". The sound was so superb that you could feel the vibrations & the explosions (watched it w/o 3D & it was still amazing). The trailers generally only show parts of the first act, & the surprises just kept coming. By the time it was over I was left standing there still absorbing it, realizing only once I left that it really didn't feel like a 2 hour movie, but one intense ride to the gates of Ragnarok... truly a once in a lifetime experience! Don't listen to the hype, don't listen to the haters or those spouting this movie is "feminist garbage", don't even listen to me, go & see it for yourself.


                
The first Mad Max had a few strong attractions. It was overtly Australian in a few dimensions which hit a niche of the familiar exotic. It was pure science fiction in that it abstracted our world into a future where only the tiniest fragment of what we know was carried over and amplified. That fragment revolved around one of our most peculiar social constructions, the wild motorcycle gang. It is peculiar in being largely a cinematic invention. (Paris being romantic is another.)The notion of a motorcycle gang originated in California after WWII where returning GIs (mostly tattooed navy men who had served in the South Pacific) bought surplus army motorcycles. The notion of lawlessness unique to motorcycles is from Marlon Brando as copied by Sonny Barger. It is a wholly cinematic convention made real, like movie gangster talk as adopted by the Mafia. Mad Max joined this to an equally unique cinematic convention: the chase. Now this. After decades, it is still the most pure of science fiction abstractions. It is still overly Australian, more about that in a moment. It still takes the chase very seriously. But it now employs a reverse irony on the motorcycle gang trope, moving it into Fast and Furious car territory, merged with comic heavy metal and pushed into humor. The trick with these is to exaggerate enough to make us laugh but not so much that we don't engage with it in its terms. Among the Australian notions is a new one: architectural dust. Most of the stunts were practical, but all of the environments were artificial. This is the first time I know that a big film used the same effects shop (Melbourne-based Iloura) for both composites (the deserts and cliffs) and dust. Different technologies are required, but a similar notion of texture was used, and the two are combined in the dust storm near the beginning. The result is an astonishing effect of surface become air. The cinematographer seems to have been aboard in the way he overexposes and undersaturates, especially during the 'night' scenes. I don't know of any other film save Derzu Uzala that attempts this, and all Kurosawa had was snow.I hope other Australian productions adopt this technique, as it seems both very advanced cinematically and wholly Australian. When Michael Jackson advanced the art of using a spatial camera, we did see that become common very quickly, first through Hollywood's use of WETA, and then other shops.And we did see the world quickly copy the motorcycle gang trope.


                
I was a huge fan of the original and saw it when it first hit US theaters and set Mel Gibson on a path to super stardom. The original seemed a little weird and B grade at the time of it's release as it was visionary long before other apocalyptic movies of the genre. This movie seems to pay homage with similarities using a gas tanker and other similar vehicles, desert backdrop, and a music toy used by the feral boy in "Road Warrior. Many differences though in back story and the group Max has allied with to escape from the dregs trying to kill them. Great writing, direction, casting, acting, F/X, locations, and music.CA Luster


                
"Who was more insane? Me, or every other person?" In "Mad Max: Fury Road," Miller has pushed his Gilliam-esque vision of a world gone distraught to its sensible extraordinary. Never again are the general population of Max Rockatansky's reality just scroungers for oil or power; they have been changed into animals of condition, either left with one characterising need or left with no similarity of reason. "Fury Road" is a fierce film, yet the rough demonstrations in this world don't feel like subjective activity beats—they rise up out of an entire absence of different alternatives or a firm feeling of straight-up madness. Mill operator's new vision of Max isn't a warrior. Or maybe, he's a man driven by the recollections of past sins to do minimal more than survive. He strolls with the phantoms of those he couldn't spare, and his voyaging allies have pushed him to the edge of rational soundness. While meandering at this edge, Max is abducted and changed into a strict blood sack for a non domesticated warrior named Nux (Nicholas Hoult), who serves the impulses of his twisted ruler, Immortan Joe (Hugh Keays-Byrne, who additionally played the reprobate Toecutter in the first "Mad Max"). From the begin, Miller gives you no opportunity to "straightforwardness" into this world or the story he needs to tell. The edge rate is quickened, the altering is hyperactive, the awful person talks through a veil that makes a large portion of his exchange garbled (shades of Hardy's Bane from "The Dark Knight Rises"), and the terrible dreams of Miller's turned future come quick and incensed. Immortan Joe is a scarcely alive irregularity of nature, continued breathing by tubes associated with his face and served by correspondingly distorted half-people with complete names like Rictus Erectus (Nathan Jones) and The People Eater (John Howard). One of Joe's most striking warriors is an effective lady known as Imperator Furiosa (Charlize Theron), who, as the film opens, is driving an escort from Immortan Joe's fortification to the oil refinery Gastown when she digresses off kilter. Things being what they are Furiosa has captured Joe's "reproducers," the ladies he keeps detainee with an end goal to make a male beneficiary. She's taking them to "the green place," to well-being. Obviously, Joe sends his men after Furiosa—including Nux, to whom Max is still appended— and whatever is left of "Mad Max: Fury Road" comprises of one since quite a while ago supported pursue over the unforgiving desert. Except for one centrepiece of discourse, the film happens altogether moving, speeding, pursuing, ricocheting, and detonating over Miller's seared scene. As an impression of more edgy circumstances, Miller has redesigned the necessities of his future world from wares like oil to immaculate survival. Max has been rethought as a battling, driving machine, a man who "discovers his own specific manner," pushing ahead trying to surpass his apparitions. Nux is a mentally conditioned goon, a man-animal who trusts that he will pass on and be renewed subsequent to relinquishing himself for an excursion to Valhalla. Max in the long run ventures into the part of the activity legend, at the same time, in one of his most brave moves, Miller gives the heaviness of the story to Furiosa, a lady who clutches the main thing that could give her trust in this vicious world—the people to come. Theron does apparently the best work of her vocation here, cunningly passing on the drive in Furiosa's spirit in a way that powers the whole film. She accomplishes more with a singing gaze or held jaw than most performers could with a page of discourse. Furthermore, one shouldn't underestimate the strengthening message at the heart of this film—Eve Ensler, creator of "The Vagina Monologues" counselled with Miller on the script—which proposes that ladies, as the makers of new life, will, intrinsically, dependably be the sexual orientation that holds hardest onto seek after what's to come. Furiosa takes a gander at the craziness of the male initiative around her and chooses that's the last straw. When one of Furiosa's wards starts giving birth and still safeguards herself and her yet-to-be-conceived youngster (subsequent to being shot no less), it's hard not to see "Fury Road" as a response to the macho jabber that so frequently characterises the activity class. "FURY ROAD" is the most amazing activity stunt you've found in years, you truly require just hold up a couple of minutes to see something better. This is a film where you continue imagining that its achieved its zenith and afterwards, mysteriously, that minute is abandoned in the tidy. Fury Road" was destined to be sufficiently noteworthy as an unadulterated specialised achievement—a film that chuckles despite blockbuster CGI bashes with a portion of the best altering and sound plan the class has ever observed—but then Miller goes after an option that is more prominent than specialised ability. He holds high up the activity layout that he made with "The Road Warrior" and contends that Hollywood shouldn't have been replicating it for as long as three decades, they ought to have been expanding on it. "Fury Road" was a test to an entire era of activity producers, asking them to take after its nervy way into the class' future and, similar to Miller, attempt their hardest to make something new.


                
I have never seen anything like this before.Astounding and jaw-dropping action scenes make this film a must watch for all movie lovers. Complemented by wonderful 3D special effects and top notch production values, Mad Max Fury Road is a marvelous visual spectacle that no one should miss.A particular sequence of scenes towards the end of the first hour is so amazing that it is like no other out there, and makes us realize the reason we love movies. Fast paced and spell binding first hour matched by an equally worthy second. Highly Recommended flick. Go watch it in theaters, thank me later. What a lovely Day!!!!!!!!


                
Wow! Mad Max: Fury Road lived up to the expectations set by its trailer. And I know I need to see it again. In fact, this movie was so intense that there were scenes I actually needed to see again while they were still ongoing. But here's the weird part: As epic and spectacular as Fury Road is, I still think the first two are better films (and Fury Road certainly makes up for the letdown that was Beyond Thunderdome, even though it was a long time coming). Maybe it will become clearer why I think that by the end of the review. Maybe not. I'm just gonna throw out some thoughts about the movie. After watching this I don't have the energy for an in-depth analysis.See it in 3D in the largest, loudest format you can.I like that there is a bit more backstory and humanizing dialog among what would otherwise appear to be minor villains. Even just basic chit-chat like "Hey, where are we going?" is refreshing compared to Wez's screaming.There are a few surprisingly emotional scenes that add a level of complexity to Immortan Joe that is unusual for any Mad Max villain, but these were the exception, and overall he felt somewhat underdeveloped as a character.I didn't expect it, but the weak link here is Tom Hardy. Early on, it seemed that he was trying very hard - and succeeding - to channel the desperation, mistrust, and ultimate survival skills of the Max Rockatansky we first met 36 years ago. But then it sort of falls apart and he settles for a weird hybrid British/Australian/American accent and an overall bland performance. This Max is no Bane. He's barely even the Scarecrow.So, in the end, I blame Mel Gibson that this movie wasn't quite as good as it could have been. If not for the various misbehaviors that put him out of public favor, this could have been a great opportunity for him to reprise the role of Max. On the other hand, Fury Road is not so much about Max as it is about the story (which is super-basic, I can see why some people complain about lack of plot). The action is practically non-stop. What seems like a bit of a lull in the middle is probably no more than 5 minutes long.The score is big and bold, and fits the action in most cases, though it is a bit too orchestral and less frantic or desperate than the themes in Mad Max or Mad Max 2. *Edit* After multiple viewings, I retract the previous statement. The score, particularly during the motorcycle attack, is perfectly majestic and heroic and urgent and stirs exactly the right emotions.In fact, that's another minor complaint. This movie is hyper-polished: Every scene is visually perfect. Every background sound is orchestrated. Not a piece of rust or a jagged spike is out of place. It's a dystopian utopia. Oh yeah, I kind of wished they'd been consistent and used another Mack Truck for the war rig, but oh well, I guess the OshKosh or whatever military truck they used was heavier duty. And I have to say - the vehicles in this movie were insane - crazier than any Hot Wheels car I've ever seen. Sure, there's a fair amount of "Men are bad" in this movie, but let's be real: most of the men in this movie are bad and men in real life are pretty bad a lot of the time too. I think real men ought to be able to handle this plot element without throwing a conniption. Besides, if George Miller was serious about the feminism angle he wouldn't have had one of the Vuvalini riding a Gold Wing in the post-apocalypse. There are lots of really cool touches in the movie in the action sequences. Just to mention a few without spoiling them too much: The cowcatcher on the war rig is quite functional, and never siphon dragster fuel by mouth...The ending works well. Sure, it's kind of a happy ending, but with only one really happy ending out of four movies, you can't complain that George Miller is trying to blow sunshine up your a**.I'm sure I need to see this movie again, probably multiple times, just to absorb more of the stunt sequences. But I'm not necessarily sure I want to see it again as much as I did Mad Max or Mad Max 2. So in the end, Fury Road, with all its greatness, has made me appreciate even more the characterizations, tone, and gritty vision in the first 2 films. Still, Mad Max: Fury Road is definitely a landmark in sequels/reboots/re-imaginings, and it puts George Miller in a rare league that not even George Lucas and Spielberg could enter with their weak reduxes of Star Wars and Indiana Jones.Here's my precise ratings of the series:Mad Max: 8.625/10; Mad Max 2 (The Road Warrior): 9/10; Mad Max: Beyond Thunderdome: 6.8/10; Mad Max: Fury Road 8.5/10
OK so was a little nervous about welcoming max having not grown up watching the other movies however the worries were soon put to rest very quickly after the movie started i really enjoyed it myself full of adventure and fun good action and good humor in some moments really not disappointed that i saw it in the least fantastic sequel god seems to be smiling down on the action fans this year first there was now this i am still in a rush from all the fun glad they had a female hero that doesn't fall in love with the hero for once though it would have just made it better if he or she had fallen for the other but back to the movie was very little swearing as well which i greatly appreciated i highly recommend u see it good for fathers and teen sons or mothers and teen sons 'not really a date movie ' but see it u wont regret it


                
Oh what a day! What a lovely day! I am a Mad Max fan, having seen the three mad Max films at age of eleven. I adored the films in all their weird and action-packed glory and they have only gotten better with age. George Miller was very clever in not doing the "reboot" a remake of Mad Max, revealing how Max Rockantasky became The Road Warrior, George Miller decided that the reboot will take place in the post- apocalyptic Australia, years after the new Max lost his family, because he did not wish to do a remake or retell the story that had already been told and had wanted to update the universe and the wasteland and wanted new movie goers to remember Max as a man with nothing to lose after losing his family. I see Fury Road as a pseudo sequel to Road Warrior and it has the quality of such. Over 80% of the effects seen in the film are real practical effects, stunts, make-up and sets, the action and production design is easily among the top. Using that visual frame of reference, Miller is able to use the action, not just to have cool moments and move the story forward, but also add to the great character work done within the action scenes. The characters are defined, informed and developed by the actions that they take without having the need to announce what they learn or spell out how they feel to the audience. It's all in what Miller is able to capture on camera with the help of cinematographer, John Seale, delivering Oscar-calibre work. People is calling the film "Mad Maxine: Femmy Road" (aka feminist utterly trash) That is a load of rubbish. Charlize Theron is perfect as Furiosa. Mad Max always had powerful females: In Mad Max we have an old women holds up an entire gang with a shotgun, in Road Warrior the warrior woman stabbing blocks and killing them all day long and in Beyond Thunderdome Tina Turner took control of an entire town and created the thunder dome. Get familiar with the old movies before freaking out about the new one. I dislike Tom Hardy but his excellent as Max. Hugh Keays-Byrne (Toecutter in Mad Max) as Immortan Joe is perfect. He was brilliant. His voice was extremely menacing, and was portrayed as godlike. What I mean by that is he is worshipped by all as a God. What made him even more menacing is that if he caught up to Max only your imagination could describe what he would of done.


                
After about a decade of will it/won't it production, we've finally been given another Mad Max movie. Is it a sequel or a reboot? Well, kind of both really. It's the same universe but everything feels fresher and updated. There are inconsistencies in the timeline regarding previous films but this isn't really anything new for the franchise. Everyone who had seen it before I did told me that I wouldn't have to see the previous films to 'get' it. But as soon as the revs of V8 engines start roaring when the film starts and Max immediately is thrust into a world of poop, I feel that the movie assumes you know who Max is and are familiar with his mythology. So if you haven't seen the original trilogy and want to watch Fury Road, I suggest you catch up first. If not for the sake of familiarising yourself with the Mad world of Max, then watch them simply for the fact that they are undeniably awesome. Well<U+0085>the first two, at least.Yes, Miller has finally returned after his famous post-apocalypse world, after some oddly-varied projects (such as Babe: Pig in the City and<U+0085>um, two Happy Feet flicks) This time, however, Mel Gibson stays at home. His replacement Tom Hardy is one of my favourite actors of the current generation so I waited eagerly to see how he would fare as Max Rockatansky. After seeing the movie once in the cinema, I can say that he does a satisfactory job. Hardy wasn't great, but he wasn't bad either. At times he looked unsure of himself and didn't seem to nail down a consistent accent, instead bringing along a variation of his Bane and Jack Bondurant. And he often had a blank – sometimes comical – confused look on his face during the quieter scenes in Fury Road. Oh, well – not everyone's as charismatic as Mel. I think the best thing that can happen for Hardy in regards to the franchise is more sequels so we can adjust to him playing the iconic role.It's hard to believe that this action film is directed by a 70 year old. It has a hyper-kinetic energy and thrillingly outlandish pace to it that never lets go until the credits starts rolling. Miller has steamrolled his way into the 21st century and he's put most of the other films within this genre to shame. If there's anyone who thinks that movies like The Dark Knight Rises and Fast and Furious 7 have brilliant action scenes Fury Road is an obligatory watch.Fury Road isn't like made in the same style as the previous films. The colour palate is very vivid which make the action scenes (80% of which were practical, you know) look very bright, in contrast to the bleak look of most post-apocalypse films. It's also the first Mad Max movie to be shot digitally. But that's not as doom and gloom as it sounds – some of the shots in this (like a particularly outstanding one of the camera moves down to the ground from a horizontal position as a speeding car runs over it) would not have been achieved had the movie been made with film cameras.After a quick opening chase (with a V8 Interceptor cameo), Max is captured and taken to the Citadel to become a bloodbag – A delightfully disgusting invention by Miller and co. which involves the 'bloodbag' being caged and strung up upside own, with his blood being squeezed out through a tube and being provided to a 'half- life' war boy called Nux, who is suffering from some sort of cancer inflicted by the harsh environment. The Citadel is run my now- favourite 'baddie' of the Mad Max universe Immortan Joe, a ruthless and hideous masked dictator who holds a tight grip over the natural resources (mainly water) that are available. In doing so he maintains a tight grip over the ill and diseased-ridden population of the Citadel, and has assured those who follow him with enter Valhalla, the Promised Land. During the course of Max's imprisonment, Furiosa (played by Charlize Theorn), a rig-driver-of- Joe's-turned-rogue-for-reasons-not-entirely-explained-but-then- again-not-really-nessecary kidnaps Immortan Joe's "wives", who are implied to be sex slaves. Long story short – they run, he chases, Nux follows (with Max strapped to the front of his car), Max escapes, teams up with Furiosa, and what follows is a glorious feature-length crash bang wallop vehicle chase. And that's the story in Balamory.
Having never laid my eyes on a Mad Max film before, watching Fury Road was something of a new experience for sure. Looking at the trailer, I got the feeling that beautifully choreographed action and car chases were what I should expect...and that's precisely what I got. It's inherently over-the-top and the attempts at serious storytelling come across as afterthoughts, but the action more than makes up for it.We're immediately introduced to Mad Max standing on a cliff overlooking an endless wasteland. Through some wonderfully rapid-fire editing we get that he's constantly confronted with flashbacks from his tragic past, a past in which he failed to protect his family. He tells us he's become a man reduced to a single instinct: survive. He's captured by Immortan Joe's forces, who controls the local water supply and therefore controls the local population. When he's strapped onto a car of a group of Joe's forces preparing to raid a neighboring village for gasoline, Imperator Furiosa is one of the drivers. She has plans of her own, however. She's taken Joe's daughters, who were very much willing to go with her mind you, and stuffed them in her truck. She plans to go to her hometown. Before you know it, she and Max have formed an unlikely pair, each seeking redemption in their own way.Like I said, the story's quite basic and this is something director/writer Miller's fully aware of as well, labeling it simply a 'western on wheels'. Max, having failed to protect his family, now finds an opportunity to protect Furiosa and company and in so doing, find peace of mind. Furiosa seeks peace of mind as well, believing she'll find it in her hometown all the way across the desert. Max and Furiosa's leap from unwilling team to brothers-in-arms is well done, but some of the attempts at drama are a bit overdone. After one plot twist, the music swells as Furiosa drops to her knees and yells at the sky. All that's missing is her defiantly raising her arms aloft à la Platoon and shouting 'Nooo'. I get that complaining about a mad max film being over the top is a bit redundant, but I can't help but admit that these attempts at drama just don't make the impact they're supposed to. However, I did like Max's flashbacks. They were well edited, the imagery coming at you at a hundred miles per hour. They weren't just visually pleasing, but they took little time away from the film's main attraction: action.Needless to say, action is where Fury Road truly shines. Most of it takes place on the open road. Thankfully, much of it looks--and feels--incredibly realistic, even when guys are using long poles to leap from one car to the next...and that's a tame stunt by Fury Road's standards. The film also injects plenty of well-placed humor into the proceedings as well and I'm not talking about any of those ridiculous 'I didn't sign up for this' comments made by passersby and so on. I'm talking a truck that has countless speakers strapped on to them, including a man rocking out on his electric guitar like there's no tomorrow. I'm talking countless cars crashing into each other and having the aforementioned guitar flying towards the camera in slo- mo; the list goes on.Even though fans have had to wait roughly three decades for the fourth entry in the franchise, it definitely seems like the wait was worth it. Some of the drama doesn't resonate at all, but with action this entertaining, who even cares?
I hate to say this but I feel this movie is a bit overrated. The best things Mad Max: Fury Road has to offer are the multitude of intense, epic action sequences and the visually stunning landscapes and images that the film captures. Besides these traits, Mad Max fails to offer much more.While the film overall is still pretty enjoyable, its major flaw is that it fails to develop any real connection with the viewer. None of the characters are developed that well and none of their conflicts and goals are truly explored. The problem with this is that some of the scenes that are meant to be more emotional aren't very impacting. As mentioned, there isn't much else that is great about Mad Max. The acting is fine but nothing impressive, the story isn't all that interesting, the script isn't anything special, and in general, the movie fails to catch the viewer's attention except for when the action sequences occur. In conclusion, Mad Max: Fury Road is still a fun ride but just not with very much to offer.


                
I quite liked this movie but perhaps not as much as I expected. I'm generally pretty cynical when it comes to sequels these days because there are so many (and a lot of them are terrible). I was genuinely expecting this one to be good though. I did enjoy it but it just seemed to be lacking a certain something. I'm not sure exactly what. The action scenes were every bit as good as what we've seen in previous Mad Max films. The look and feel were consistent with previous films so it definitely 'felt' like a Mad Max film (using plenty of Aussie actors like in the originals helped). The story was a bit light but honestly I think the same could be said about the other Mad Max films. I thought the acting was pretty good. Theron was superb as always. Tom Hardy had some very big shoes to fill as Max. I thought he was good but he somehow seemed to lack Mel Gibson's presence in the role and faded quite a bit in comparison to other main characters. The villains I found a bit underwhelming. There was the main villain of course but I think that perhaps there were far too many lesser villains and it got to the point where you almost lose track of who the good guys are actually up against.


                
Im not in the generation that watched the old Mad Max movies but I watched this one. I usually love a good story in the movie but this one didn't have it. It definitely had a red thread and you don't get bored but you keep wondering if there is going to be "something bigger" all the time and it doesn't. Anyway, to the good part, the movie is visually astounding and it is amazingly well done. The few effects, the cars, the gritty dark feeling. It really makes you feel like you are in a post apocalyptic world and the actors professionality just makes it go home perfectly. Perfect for a late night watch if you don't want to waste time on story but rather want to see nice and awesome atmosphere and action


                
In the best possible way.Going into this movie, I feared that all the hype might be too high. An all out action movie receiving a staggering 99% on RT is very rare. However, I can assure you, the hype is met. In fact, this film exceeded most of my expectations.First off, I have to talk about the cinematography. Simply put, its staggeringly beautiful. The camera moves around these wild car chases in such a fluid way, its almost poetic. The colors of the barren desert are eye popping and every grain of sand on the ground is captured in such detail. Now, the action. It is just insane (yes, I had to use that word again). And the best part about the action is the rawness and grit of it. My hat goes off to George Miller, who at his age, has achieved sometime outstanding. The direction of the action is what makes it amazing. Beautiful, wide, long takes mixed with quick pace editing. It is something to be witnessed on the big screen.The soundtrack is also perfectly fitting. Harsh, unforgiving, intense. When a moment of tension arrives, it is enhanced by a subtle yet prominent soundtrack, which gives it that extra edge. In the climax moments of the film, the soundtrack begins to rise in tone and give the car chases and absolutely epic feel. Another great aspect of the film.One of the only tiny, mini, little gripes I had with this film, is the acting. Yes, Charlize Theron and Tom Hardy are excellent as the two leaders of the film. However, the supporting cast, especially 'The Wives' had some moments of awkward and forced dialog; it didn't seem natural. Even Nicholas Hoult had some slight moments that took me out of the movie, and seemed like an actor playing a part. Nevertheless, I absolutely loved this film. This is the reason I love movies. It is the ultimate form of escapism. You go into the theater, sit down and just get lost and have a great time for 2 hours. It is the purest form of entertainment; exactly what this movie was supposed to do. I believe this film is a milestone of action filming, and shall be remembered that way for a long time.


                
This was better than I was expecting, even with all the rave reviews I just didn't think I would like it as I'm such a huge fan of the originals. I figured it would get Hollywood-ized with Charlize Theron looking like a post apocalyptic starlet, all pretty and clean and then CGI'd so that it lost that cool unique atmosphere of the original. Neither of these things were true.Set in a sun parched post apocalyptic future, we again follow loner Max (this time he is Tom Hardy) as he gets caught up in the plight of a group of warrior women as they flee from an evil ruler/dictator across a desert wasteland. Most of this movie is one big car chase, which actually isn't a bad thing, full of high octane stunts its pretty awesome and also keeps the atmosphere and tone of the originals perfectly with lots of weird, crazy characters. Its desolate, futile and Hardy is mostly silent. Theron does a good job, doesn't look pretty.Even though I was surprised that I enjoyed this and that ultimately it is a good movie I'm still not sure it warranted all the accolades it received.


                
I love this movie for the same reasons as Conan the Barbarian (1980). The action is super clear filmed so that we really see what happens there the story is told very linear so that everyone can understand. (Many say the story is so simple but I can not think outside the box because so little is said in this movie). The action is super filmed, almost praised, actors give everything they can only by facial expressions and gesticulating because very little is talked about in this movie the music is cool. Yes, I'm honest, there are only two songs that I think are super blatantly the rest was okay.


                
for someone who doesn't usually enjoy action movies Mad Max from beginning to end was non stop action and i actually really enjoyed it. i am more of a comedy and romantic movies... yes i know its kind of gay but guess what i don't care,say what you will but i prefer ashton kutcher and ryan reynolds then bruce willis and tom cruise, sue me for being sensitive, lol. anyways back to subject mad max fury was the best movie i have seen in 2015 behind fast 7 of course but that a whole other topic of conversation. but for someone who has not seen very many actions movies i have seen and recommended this movie to every one i know you has asked me for my opinion anyways like that made sense.


                
'Mad Max: Fury Road' doesn't - to the best of my recollection - pick up from where the third film ended, which is fine, seeing as 'Beyond Thunderdome' came out the year I was born! I don't recall too many specifics from the original trilogy, other than it was a post-apocalyptic desert (Australian) wasteland and motorcycle and car gangs reigned supreme. 'Fury Road' keeps that tradition alive - at its core, it is a road/chase film, and is relentless throughout with everything it does, from the scenery, soundtrack, stunts, cars, violence and explosions.The over-the-top-ness serves the film well, though - much in the same way '300' was hyper-visualised, this is the same, but instead of heaps of slow-motion, some of it is sped up, keeping the pace of the chase buzzing. It also has the same silly-ness, in that none of it is remotely realistic, but it all works within the universe the film inhabits (except for where all the fuel comes from!). Miller must've dreamt up most of the car/truck hybrids when he was a kid - and kudos to him for making them a reality, especially the pole-swinging guys and the main rig - certainly great to watch.Hardy is satisfactory as Max (there's not many lines for the brooding hero) and Theron is good as the vengeful Furiosa, trying to protect a group of women from the evil Emperor (or whatever his name is - played by Keays-Byrne, with Billy Connolly hair). Not sure why Hardy had to have a Bane-like face covering for some of the film, after 'The Dark Knight Rises' - detracted a bit from the film. Favourite bit - the guitarist on the front of the truck! Loved how the drums and his riffs only came to the fore when the camera panned to them.


                
Action films don't get much better than this.Beautiful, exciting, styllistically original, this is high-calibre action in a dystopian world.There's not much to say about this film as the plot is simple, and the characters straightforward. I often find movies that are 80% action get dull, but this was strong from start to end.


                
George Miller gave up a medical career to direct "Mad Max" in 1979. His directorial debut, the film starred Mel Gibson as Max Rockatansky, an Australian police officer haunted by the death of his family. An excuse for car crashes and chase sequences, the film was heavily influenced by the countless American road movies of the era ("Duel", "Two-Lane Blacktop", "The Driver", "Vanishing Point" etc). Thanks to clever editing, kinetic camera work and a cut re-dubbed by American voice actors, it would become one of the most profitable movies of all time."Mad Max" is said to take place in a "post-apocalyptic world", but a better term might be "pre-apocalyptic". Miller's heroes have normal jobs, normal family lives, civilisation has yet to fully collapse and oil shortages are only now beginning to warp society. Dystopia's on the horizon, but not yet here.By the time we arrive at "The Road Warrior", Miller's 1981 sequel, our world has fully descended into anarchy. Feral gangs abound, nuclear war has killed millions and survivors have sequestered themselves in make-shift fortresses. Meanwhile, the madness that caused this calamity – a global economic network reliant upon incessant oil – has led to an almost religious obsession with petroleum. In "Road Warrior", oil is life. Oil is survival. And everyone's desperate to get their share."Warrior", like George Romero's "Dawn of the Dead", which similarly expanded upon a low-budget debut, made an overnight superstar of Miller. Essentially a giant chase movie, the film delivered audacious stunts and jaw-dropping choreography. But more interesting was the comic-book world Miller created, with its grime smeared denizens, warrior kings, bizarre names (Lord Humungus!) and imaginative decor. We'd seen post-apocalyptic worlds before, but nothing quite like this. "Road Warrior" was edgy, but also camp, homo-erotic, and aware of its silliness. The film mocked the very machismo which fuelled its apocalypse, even as it bathed in testosterone.Next came "Beyond Thunderdome" (1985), the franchise's third instalment. It found mankind having fallen further, society drenched in nuclear radiation and sprouting tumours. The character of Max had himself devolved into an archetypal loner, rarely speaking, always brooding. As it was only co-directed by Miller, "Thunderdome" suffers in comparison to its siblings. It's the most watered-down, most conventionally shot picture in the franchise. And whilst the first two instalments embraced their exploitation/B-movie roots, "Thunderdome" reeked of Hollywood."Thunderdome" was a lousy way to end a franchise. Released in 2015, "Fury Road" resurrects and reinvigorates Miller's franchise like Lazarus on steroids. Directed by Miller himself, now a 70 year old grandpa, the film opens with Max (Tom Hardy) being captured by the War Boys, the henchmen of a warlord known as Immortan Joe. Max is then dragged to The Citadel, a giant fortress in which Joe lords over thousands of inhabitants. Early sequences, brisk but brilliant, sketch the workings of this society, with its class hierarchies, its exploitation of men and women, its milk pumps, its food/water shortages, its battles with cancer and blood poisoning, its militancy, its psychotic obsession with oil, honour and warfare and its quasi-religious devotion to all things Immortan Joe.While Max attempts to escape Joe's prisons, another character plots a similar escape. She's Imperator Furiosa (the immaculately chiselled Charlize Theron), a one-armed woman who attempts to flee The Citadel in the War Rig, an 18-wheeled oil tanker. With Furiosa are sex slaves who are tired of being treated as baby factories. Joe wants his slaves back and so gives chase. What follows is essentially another giant chase movie.In terms of conceptual design, nothing in "Fury Road" has quite been done before. The film's vehicles bristle with gun turrets, armoured plating and hidden compartments. Some resemble hedgehogs, others are outfitted with bungee chords, poles, ramps, harpoons, spikes, and manic, morale-boosting drummers, sub-woofers and guitarists. Most of these vehicles are crewed by the War Boys, brainwashed footsoldiers who foam at the mouth and spew ecstatic war cries. When the Boys aren't using exploding spears to slay cars like wild buffalo, they're worshipping chrome and dreaming of Valhalla."Fury's" first act ends with Furiosa and Max joining forces to evade Joe. Riding The War Rig hard, they head deeper into Australia's churning deserts. Joe gives chase with a mighty convoy of vehicles. Throughout these sequences, Max largely plays second fiddle to Furiosa, a woman hell-bent on survival. Max is just along for her ride. For now."Fury's" final third begins with Max convincing Furiosa that Home exists not out in the desert, but back at The Citadel. One's responsibility, Max implies, is not to run and restart, but to reclaim and repair. Unlike recent eco-thrillers ("Interstellar", "Colony", "Pandorum", "Snowpiercer" etc), "Road Fury" thus espouses revolution, not relocation. And so with plant seeds and suggestively named feminists (The Vuvalinis) in tow, Max and Furiosa head back to The Citadel. Much patriarchy-crushing carnage ensues. Fittingly, it's only now that Max begins to blossom into the protective hero we're familiar with.An instant genre masterpiece, "Fury's" awash with deep reds and cool blues. Sophisticated trash, the film's aesthetic collides 1980s kitsch with 1970s comic-books and grindhouse. Its script - minimalist, yet rich in detail – only occasionally missteps. Miller's third act is far too frenetic, for example, his "revolution" wholly clichéd (see instead "Land of the Dead") and he unwisely rushes through his film's beautiful moments of downtime, like sequences in which Furiosa does running repairs on the War Rig, or gazes wistfully up at night skies. Intelligently shot, composed and choreographed, "Fury Road's" almost too classy for action movie fans, who are likely to miss the film's finer points, or dismiss Miller's formal control and madcap idiosyncrasies. Though a better actor, a miscast Tom Hardy lacks Mel Gibson's mad aura. Charlize Theron and Nicholas Hoult are excellent, at times even soulful.8.5/10 – See "Lorenzo's Oil" and "Judge Roy Bean" (1972).
I'm sort of a fan of the old Mad Max saga. Those movies introduced me to a "road movie" genre of sorts, where films are centered around driving, ranging from Dead End to, even, Waterworld (I thought of that bad-mouthed movie as a sort of Mad Max with water instead of wastelands). I wasn't expecting much of Fury Road, to be honest. As the vast majority of sequels and re-makes nowadays, I thought it was going to be a hyped, clichéd attempt to revive the franchise. Boy, was I wrong.Mad Max Fury Road delivers the whole experience of the old saga, plus more. Let me start by saying that this new movie borrows A LOT from the old ones, from camera angles, to paraphernalia, even a bit of the fast-forward motion used in the old movies!! I checked afterwards and, to my surprise and delight, Fury Road creators are the same as the old Mad Max movies, so that explains a lot. I believe this new movie could easily pass for one of the old ones, minus that little extra CGI, of course. I'm glad they didn't try to add new, more modern stuff to the Mad Max universe.Oh, and this is not a sequel, but some sort of re-make. It is another vision of the same theme. Personally, I think it'd be better to watch the old movies to get a better understanding of the reality presented to us in Fury Road. Those flashback/hallucinations would also make more sense.The first 30 minutes of the movie are PURE NON-STOP ACTION, without cheesy or "cool" dialogue added, something that ruins most films nowadays. In fact, there's very, very, very little talking (throughout the whole movie), something that stays intact from the old days, as well; and that I sincerely appreciate. But, hold on, the action still continues after that marvelous beginning! When the pace slows down a little (just a little), it's only to gather momentum! It's hard to surpass that first part of the movie, OK, although it's still great.The added CGI creates the perfect extra for that post-apocalyptic future, although it's mostly old stunts and little CGI (I think!), which is also a bonus, for me, in this industry overcrowded by cheap and over-expensive computer generated graphics.The cast, although not great for the main characters, is acceptable. I'm not a big fan of Tom "one expression" Hardy or Theron. I'd actually have preferred Max to keep the "mask" longer, it gave him more of a "Mad" air. It reminded me of the sensation I got from seeing the last installment of Judge Dredd, where leaving the helmet on all the time supports the character and makes us focus more in what's going on, at the same time, instead of attracting unwanted attention to poor acting in the form of shallow facial expressions.I found the mythology in this new movie very appealing. I'm glad they stayed away from Christian themes. Allow me to also indicate that I hate movies like fast and the furious or whatever those are called. Please, in case anyone relates Mad Max to that trash, let me tell you that it's nothing of sorts; Mad Max uses the vehicles as a means to deliver a story of survival in a dystopia, contrary to the other movies where the means are the same as the end. This is not a movie about "tuning", saying clichéd "cool" one lines or any of such non-sense. This is a movie about survival. No matter how absurd it might seem, or actually be! You have to center in the action and forget about the rest, while still keeping it in the background as a reminder of what you are watching. Complicated? Well, it's just not about car racing and being cool, and let's leave it at that.I read they are going to make a sequel to Fury Road. I certainly hope they can stay in the same road (no pun intended), no need to mess up an excellent comeback.It's great to find a movie like this in this present reality of bad, over-hyped creations. More creators should go back to their origins and deliver shows like this. The only thing they could have added to make it more like the old movies would be Mel Gibson. I'm afraid that would have made Max too Mad, though.


                
I'm only going to make sense on this if I lay it out short and in bullet points:-The ultimate gladiator arena of car chase movies. -The ultimate circus of post-apocalyptic villainy. -Great story, generally well paced. -Not the big bad feminist plot that was rumoured. -Absolute ridiculous carnage. -Completely insane stunts. -Great little references and concepts e.g. blood bag. -Great characters reminiscent of the originals. -Charlize Theron was made for this franchise. -Tom Hardy is the best Max that couldn't have been Mel. -Max could have had more dialogue, but I get it. -More likely to be a one-watch affair for many, due to the amount of spectacle over substance, but it has both and is breathtaking on the first watch. -I just dropped my block of Comte on the floor. -It now has dust and pubes all over it. -Luckily, I'd eaten most of it before I dropped it. -I'll be seeing the sequel.


                
