The BBC'S Blue Planet is simply jaw-dropping. I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say it contains some of the most beautiful sequences ever captured on film. From familiar creatures on and near the surface of the ocean to some more unrecognisable and just plain bizarre ones in the murky depths, next to nothing is left out. Weighing in at a hefty 8 hours, some people may want to check out the edited highlights brought to you in the form of the film "Deep Blue" but I would heartily recommend you give the series a go. I don't think it will disappoint and if your kids enjoyed the aquatic world brought to them by Pixar's Finding Nemo I'm sure they will love this too. I just wish all television was this entertaining.


                
As a SCUBA diver, I can appreciate the incredible physical strain the cameramen must have endured to get the shots underwater.  This series is MUCH more than that, though.  The narration is perfect, the scenes bordering on implausible and the subject matter enthralling.  The day to day struggle for life taking place out of the view of we terrestrial dwellers is mind boggling.  This DVD set has open my eyes to another planet right here on Earth.  I urge everyone to watch this series.


                
David Attenborough brings his fascination of wild life, this time the creatures under the sea, in this extraordinary 8-episode trip to all the animals under the sea!The cinematography is astounding, bringing to the screen truly breathtaking footage of those whales! But the best thing about it, as well as seeing each episode, is how they made it! Whether it is making models of creatures, or those impressive shots of the whales, they explain to you in about 10 minutes how they did it!2001 had some great tv shows to our screen. But, in contrast to this documentary gem, they  make them pretty lame! But to even boast this documentary series as the best tv series of 2001 just does not sum up the sheer brilliance that this series provides in quality entertainment!Overall, this is the best TV series of 2001, with no competition, and, maybe, the best TV series of 2000s!


                
This series has a lot going for it with beautiful footage of the some of the most impressive underwater environments on this planet. Being a staggering five years in the making, one would be hard-pressed to expect any less. I did get the impression that some scenes from the first episode where repeated in the latter ones, which is naturally only a minor gripe.David Attenborough is great as a narrator and comments are informative, leaving enough room for one's imagination, and well spaced out, so that viewers get plenty of time to reflect upon the breathtaking imagery. If you get the opportunity try not to watch a translated version of this series.A definite must-see for anyone interested in the intricacies of our blue continents and easily the best documentary on this subject I've ever seen.


                
This is without a doubt the most stunning and amazing documentary I have ever seen! The images that are shown are absolutely breathtaking and stunning. On top of that, it is a wonderful learning experience. I'm not one for educational documentaries, but this one grabs hold of you and doesn't let go until the end. You'll be so hooked and entranced by what you are watching that you'll forget your at home watching TV! This series is available to buy on DVD and I HIGHLY recommend picking this one up! With all the evil and death in this world, this documentary series gives us proof that life is beautiful and worth saving and preserving.


                
The Blue Planet series is, without a doubt, one of the greatest documentaries ever made on the ocean. For five years, filmmakers worked tirelessly on the series, getting footage that has never been seen by anyone (i.e. in the title, The Deep.) I highly recommend you watch this series. To see the angler fish outside of the small pictures shown in textbooks is truly a treat, but only a needle in the vast haystack of the sea that Blue Planet covers. From the open ocean to tidal pools, coral seas to the deepest darkest part of the ocean itself, the BBC takes the viewer on an almost magical journey through the ocean. I have to admit, one of my earliest dreams in life was to be a marine biologist, and after seeing this series, the dream was revived. I have studied the oceans of this world for years, and have seen countless documentaries on coral reefs and dolphins, whales and crustaceans. But in all, no one has managed to capture the life beneath the waves quite as well as this group of people.Watch the 'Blue Planet' series in it's entirety, I promise you won't regret it.


                
I admit to being in awe of the Sea and have spent a number of years in the Navy, so I am somewhat biased on this one. I missed this documentary when it first came out but nagged various people to buy me it on DVD this Christmas (2002) and I got it! Some of the film is amazing and I have a lot of respect for those who make these kinds of documentaries, to see 200 ton Blue Whales 'cruising' through the Sea is an incredible sight, they looked like submarines. I like the level of information and facts conveyed through the narration, it is just right, I don't want to know a load of science just some of the basics, to see these things is enough for most people. The BBC has a knack of putting things at the right level for the intended audience.A really great documentary, up there with 'The World at War for' me, the DVD is of excellent quality. If I had a minor criticism it would be some of the obviously added sound effects here and there, I think they detract from some of the scenes. But well done to the BBC and Discovery.


                
Words can hardly describe what Blue Planet brought to life in all of its hours of runtime. Matching up with Walking With Dinosaurs, this documentary stands as one of the best. We can only pray that the BBC and Discovery Channel come up with even more outstanding ideas that could possibly even level with this one.


                
I love nature documentaries and David Attenborough and was blown away by Planet Earth. So I knew I wanted to see The Blue Planet. And I am so glad I did, and wonder to myself how I didn't see it sooner. The subject matter is indeed enthralling, with an intelligently written and ceaselessly informative narration and Attenborough presenting with an evident love for the subject. As well as being empathetically scored, The Blue Planet is visually stunning, right from some of the best photography of any TV series that decade(in my opinion that is) to the gorgeous colours and sceneries. The animals are great to see, old and new, and there are some scenes that either made me emotional or at times with the predators made my stomach churn(but seeing that it's a nature documentary series, they couldn't rose-tint the facts, these things do happen).All in all, a wondrous, beautifully shot and enthralling series. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
The BBC'S Blue Planet is simply jaw-dropping. I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say it contains some of the most beautiful sequences ever captured on film. From familiar creatures on and near the surface of the ocean to some more unrecognisable and just plain bizarre ones in the murky depths, next to nothing is left out. Weighing in at a hefty 8 hours, some people may want to check out the edited highlights brought to you in the form of the film "Deep Blue" but I would heartily recommend you give the series a go. I don't think it will disappoint and if your kids enjoyed the aquatic world brought to them by Pixar's Finding Nemo I'm sure they will love this too. I just wish all television was this entertaining.


                
I think that this short TV series, was absolutely wonderful, and gave both a in-depth and clear explanation of everything that was on the screen at the given time. This was by far David Attenborough at his best. I personally thought this was one of the best documentaries in the past decade. This is definitely worth peoples money!I also found the bit about the abyss and deep water the most fascinating and interesting part. It was incredible to find out that the 'Blue planet' team discovered more than 10 new species of underwater life! In this documentary Attemborough almost certainly lived up to his high reputation. This was a masterpiece and will always be considered to be one of the best modern documentaries Many congratulation's to the 'Blue planet' team.
full of surprises, beautiful, cruel at times. just like life itself. leaves one asking for more. the best parts are of course the action scenes and chases. have to really wonder how much work these guys put into making some scenes (whale chases, polar bear hunts, etc). it is a wonderful experience and not to be missed by anyone who dives, surfs, or goes to the beach once in a while. the music is enticing and the narration is superb and extremely well paced. definitively one of the best documentaries ever made and worth not less than a very respectable 10 (for its kind). some of the footage is very cruel and might not be recommended for people with weak stomachs (every killer whale footage is cruel).


                
I'm seen this documentary in its feature-form, in a movie theatre. And... wouah! The pictures are astonishing, one really wonder how by Jove did they manage to film those waves, those animals, those... is that a plant ? a predator ? a creature from the movie Abbyss ? Anyway, it's remarkable. Sure we've seen a lot of such documentary on TV, with weird animals and so on, but none with such a beauty, a precision, a deep emotion. The only downside is the commentary. In French it's narrated by François Perrin, usually good and familiar with beautiful documentaries, but the text is not good at all. Not enough informative of too much, innapropriatly anthropoid...


                
The entire series, not just The Blue Planet, is nothing short of amazing. The best nature series we have ever seen. The episode on the deep is like traveling to outer space! We have watched this with our 10 and 7 year old boys and all four of us have not been able to pull away. We read a negative comment on this and could not believe it. There is so much new information that we never learned in school. Its also the best view we have seen from any television or movie into the delicate balance of our earth's eco-system. The amount of time and effort put into capturing these shots is very much apparent when you sit down and watch this series.A must see for everyone.


                
Everything I can say, is that it's one of the best documentary movies of the ocean ever seen. It impresses immensely by professional filming, scenery and idea! What I've seen during those 50 minutes cannot be compared to any other visions of the blue planet


                
The BBC has proved time and again that they are of the highest caliber in the world in the creation of nature documentaries, especially when the program is accompanied by the narration of the legendary conservationist David Attenborough. Fantastic series from "The Life of Birds" in the 90's to the more recent "Life" and "Frozen Planet" show their exceptional consistency over time. Of course "Planet Earth" is legendary. But I think my personal favorite is "The Blue Planet" which concerns the life in and around the world's oceans that covers over two-thirds of the Earth's surface.The series has eight parts, and while everyone is bound to have their favorites—mine are "Coral Seas" and "Frozen Seas"—all eight are informative, fascinating, with wonderful cinematography, engaging music, and near perfect commentary. I can give no complaint about the fabulous pacing which never seems to focus on anything for too long or not long enough. From sharks in a wild feeding frenzy, to penguins shooting out of the water onto an iceberg, to majestic whales and dolphins, to some of the strangest creatures you will ever see in the ocean deep, there is something here for everyone regardless if you're a big nature lover or not. Narrator Attenborough is second to none in expelling information with an authentic passion for the life on screen.I've gone through this series beginning-to-end twice, and have seen individual episodes more than that. It may not have the ultra-high definition of later BBC Nature series, but it's every bit as wondrous and impacting as any made before or since that I have seen. It holds up well and is a must see for people who care about ocean ecosystems and for those who just admire the beauty of this blue planet of ours.


                
Blue Planet... Wow... Where do I begin? The years of hard work paid off in what is, without question, one of the best documentaries ever created.The sights and sounds presented in Blue Planet, like most documentaries with the Attenborough stamp, are rare and haven't even experienced by most people. That alone should be enough reason to buy this series, especially if you're the curious type who 'wants to know'.Blue Planet is not a perfect documentary, however. It does get a bit repetitive after the 3rd episode. How many ways can different sea creatures swim, kill, poo, mate, and lay eggs, and do all of these ways really need to be explored? But if you have a deep interest in sea life, this repetition shouldn't become a problem for you at all.


                
The Discovery Channel billed this as a show that would show us things we have never seen before.  By the time the four hours are over, you will see the same things over and over and over but little of it will be new to you.The cinematography in this production was fabulous.  The way the footage was put together was terrible.  The same footage was used many times.  In some cases the narration was practically a word for word repeat of a segment shown an hour or two before.  I lost count how many times we saw feeding frenzies of tuna/dolphins/sharks/diving birds preying on sardines/herring/mackerel.There are so many wondrous things in the oceans.  Unfortunately this show doesn't show many of them.  *At least* half of the four hours was spent on Tuna, dolphins, whales, sharks, sardines, mackerel, polar bears, penguins and the like.  I think most of us have seen them on film before ;-)
The amount of time spent of the unusual things was so disappointing.  I would have liked to have seen more on the phytoplankton and zooplankton. They are so tiny yet are the basis of life in the ocean and they have such beautiful shapes.   More time could have been spent on the deep sea animals (although seeing the same footage two and three times over the course of the four hours was useless).   So many things were left out it was frustrating.Another really big failing was the lack of a logical flow or progression. It was sometimes difficult to keep track of where in the world the action was happening.  The action moved from ocean to ocean and from surface to deep sea and back and forth again and again in a very confusing manner.A sense of the scale of many of the animals was totally lacking.  In many cases you had no idea if the creature was microscopic or several feet long.If they had cut out the repeats and had progressed logically from the ocean surface to the sea floor this could have made a great two hour show.
In short, I loved the cinematography, it was beautifully shot, but whoever put it together and wrote the narration blew it.


                
Amazing shots and facts, David is great narrator, but I found loud cheesy music very annoying at times and distracting me often, and along with too few killing censored, it sometimes felt like show for ADD kids. I think shows like this don't need that much music, if any, and should show more actual gore and violence to make people realize that it really happens in nature, so some ignorant idiots open their minds.
Otherwise amazing.Great document, amazing narration, but IMO too much loud, cheesy music and censor.


                
