... because producers seem to think that just because they portray this stylish era, they can be sloppy about the plot. One of the most frustrating things I found is that many interesting plot threads are started and are never followed up upon later (or just not enough). A lot of scenes could be just easily left out since they don't contribute to the understanding of the characters or the plot (seriously, do we really need to see Don taking a long walk across the office or smoking leisurely at a restaurant with nothing else going on?). Instead, producers could spend more time on good dialogs, because the dialogs in this show are trite for the most part.In my opinion, most people give it good ratings because either they like the era, or because it got so much attention from the media. Or they suspect that there's more to this show than they see, and maybe they just "don't get it". I only watched it because I heard about it on NPR. I watched the whole first season and two episodes from the second season. Each episode left me with a hollow feeling: "And this is it?" I'm not going to waste any more of my time on this over-hyped show.


                
If this is the Best TV can offer, then maybe it's time to trade in your TV for something more productive.In truth, Mad Men is very, very, very far away from the best TV can offer.Mad Men is boring, trite and poorly acted. That its channel has decided to hype it to high heaven and went so far as to mount massive PR campaigns to get it awards it doesn't deserve only shows that bad taste and lack of respect for the audience reign in parts of Hollywood.Speaking of bad quality, Jon Hamm has to be one of the worst actors in his generation. He is as emotive as a piece of cardboard (or perhaps wood) and deadpans most of his scenes in a fashion that kills what little excitement there may have been.Overall, this is yet another example of Hollywood hyping a bad product and they really need to learn that quality will prevail in the end, not hype.


                
When this series first came out I watched it...at least the first four episodes. It looks good, the sets, the wardrobe, the actors general look. I grew up in that era and can remember what is was like. I lost interest when I came to the conclusion that the characters were all clichés, the dialogue consisted of actors making speeches to each other and the stories were boring.I also had a problem with the amount of smoking and drinking that occurred. It soon became a distraction. Even if offices that allowed smoking and drinking, they would have never allowed as much as happens during Mad Men. I would not recommended this series to anyone. It reminds me of a product I used to purchase, Fiddy-Faddle. The box was interesting, but what was inside was only popcorn.


                
This is apparently becoming the norm in TV Executive circles: If your show doesn't appeal to the public, just hype it, hype it and hope the press doesn't notice.What those tactics bring to the networks I really don't know. What I do know is that because of them, we are bombarded with shows that are really not that good and that are sold to us are being, somehow, great.Case in point is Mad Men, a dread, colorless, poorly acted series. It's a show that just does not add up to much and definitely does not hold the attention, as exemplified by its ratings which were dismal.But we are told that it's supposed to be great. Well, Emmy Academy, "supposed to" does not make it great, but it does make the Emmys into a joke.And it leaves us stranded with yet another bad show that will not die.


                
Call me old-fashioned, but I like to root for somebody. Instead, I had the "pleasure" of wasting an hour of my life on an amoral prick with a Beatnik Bimbo in the city and a clueless Marilyn Monroe look-a-like wife stashed in the burbs. His co-workers are even worse: the men are horny a-holes, and the women are bitchy sluts! In one episode, Joan, the head slut, tells Peggy, the a-hole wanna-be, to stop dressing like a schoolgirl if she wants the horny a-holes to take her seriously. So she crashes a "meeting" the horny a-holes are having at a strip club dressed like a slut! That the horny a-holes don't take Joan seriously, either, is completely lost on her!As the show makes a big deal out of how "period" this was, I Googled the Reader's Digest article that had the characters' panties in a collective bunch. "Cancer by the Carton" warned that the new low-tar cigarettes which promised a "healthier smoke" were anything but. It was published in 1952 -- 8 years before the series is set!At least the Big Tobacco Big Shot was right about the (pre-Columbian) Native Americans "giving us" tobacco. In case anyone cares, tobacco as used today was perfected by a Frenchman named Jean Nicot, for whom Nicotine was named.
Why the hell all the characters are so slick and top models? There is no reflection of reality in this show. Visually, everything is perfect and beautiful, there's no fat ordinary people within the screen, they are mostly in their twenties and they act as if they all succeeded their careers. No credibility at all.That's why the Sopranos were so successful: more reality of boring banality of life. There's only 12% of good looking people in population, how can we believe in this full-package-advertised-cliché Hollywoodian show? Nobody recognize himself in this varnished show. Where is the fatso plump secretary with her irritable manners and the bitch in the crowd? These characters are so perfect. They all look successful and over self-confident.That detail is for me very important and tells me right away if this show deserves my time to watch it. Nowadays, the force is in the details. Insignificant becomes significant with the right usage. This show is predictable and we don't learn anything from it. With all the complexity of advertising from the second millennium, why the creator did not focus on the advertising of these days? That would be much more appreciable don't you think?


                
I know that everybody has differing tastes but i am at a complete loss as to how anybody (let alone most people on IMDb) could actually like this show.If you have not seen this programme then allow me to summarise it for you. (at least up to and including episode 9) In every episode you will see too much drinking, too much smoking and too many extra marital affairs. About 2% of every episode involves these 'mad men' having to advertise something and about 1% of each show has a tit bit of information in and around what was actually going on in 1960.By the way are you aware that every married man in 1960 was having an affair and every single woman wanted to be in an affair? no neither was i...Such poor writing in a show that had so much promise as was highlighted in the first episode.


                
Spoilers!!! Okay, I'm just going to say it. Don Draper is awful. He is a scumbag. A lot of people praise Mad Men for the "complexity" of this character, but in all honesty he bas got to be one of the worst characters in television. Not only is he totally okay with betraying his wife several times, no he also has the audacity to act out if someone calls him out on it (the comedian from season 2). Also he is fine with telling an emotional story (about his family which he has no empathy for) just to sell a product (The Kodak Carousel). After the divorce from his wife he continues to be terrible. Remember he is quite passive as his increasingly psychotic wife ruins the life of their children. He must have noticed something (his daughter running away from home to be with him or her being forced to visit a psychiatrist). But to his credit he ain't the only horrid character. Nobody has positive traits. The story stays the same. The only somewhat likable person who develops throughout the story is Peggy and that is unfortunately not enough to hold up seven seasons.
I tuned into this show to see what all the hype was about by renting the first couple of episodes. By the third episode, enough was enough.If you are into listening to people drone on and on all the while puffing on cigarettes, then this is for you. I use to smoke myself, but every single scene has someone lighting up. It would be interesting to know who the target audience is that is giving this show the rating, such as it is here on IMDb. The cigarette companies perhaps? Utter garbage.


                
A NYC advertising agency mixes business with pleasure (over and over and over and over again) while focusing in and out of main character Don Draper's (Jon Hamm) sexual and psychotic escapades.If you grew up in the 1960s, you won't find Mad Men different or original. If you worked for an ad agency during that time period, you'll recall that people did not behave unprofessionally. If they did, they would have received a pink slip. That being said, Mad Men started out mildly promising, but quickly turned into a joke.The problem with Mad Men is: too many writers; writers who don't know how to tell a story; writers who don't want to tell a story; and writers who don't know how to write believable dialogue and action for women and children. In addition, the writers dumb viewers down by teaching them that a series of snippet scenes are acceptable. Well, they're not. Mad Men is like an awkward comedian telling crappy one-liners. Crappy one-liners become monotonous and stale. And that - unfortunately - is exactly what Mad Men becomes after season one. By Season Six, the scenes and dialogue are way too imbecilic to sit through. But don't let that stop you 1960s neophytes from singing its praises.


                
I'm puzzled by the good reviews. I'm also puzzled by the bad reviews that only harp on how unsympathetic the characters are, or how much they drink and smoke. Mad Men is a terrible show, but it isn't because the characters are bad people who drink too much. It's because the writing is awful. I'll attempt to enumerate the ways.With stunning regularity, major characters are suddenly written off of the show. Paul Kinsey, Sal Romano, Max Ginsberg, Bob Benson, Jim Cutler, the list goes on and on. Of course, it's sometimes okay if characters in a show leave, die, or otherwise get written away. But in Mad Men it always feels like it's for no reason. The character hasn't finished their story line or developed in some way, they are just suddenly gone, often without a good bye, and often in the middle of a plot line. Jim Cutler literally just disappears and is never mentioned again. It seems like sometimes the writers didn't know what to do with a character and just decided to bag it.And, sadly, it isn't limited to characters - the same thing happens with entire plot lines. A large quantity of story lines go absolutely nowhere, reach unsatisfying conclusions, or are completely forgotten about. Betty's hands, Peggy's child, Glenn joining the army, the random waitress that Don spends half a season looking for, the list goes on and on. It happens so often that you start to distrust the show. On the rare occasion that a plot line is interesting, you spend most of your time worrying that it will be forgotten about. Perhaps the largest culprit in this regard is the supremely uninteresting story of Don's past. The show wastes HUGE amounts of time on this, and it is just bizarre to me. It has nothing to do with anything, doesn't fit the premise of the show, and doesn't seem to inform Don's actions or personality, except in the handful of episodes where they suddenly decide that it's super important. Need Don to do something out of character or that no normal person would do? Easy, just show a three minute flashback to his past. This would be lazy writing even if they did it correctly, but half of the time even after the flashback you still don't understand Don's motivation or reasoning.Speaking of character development, or lack thereof, after SEVEN seasons most of the characters that have been there from the beginning are still barely developed, and the relationships between many of them are nonexistent. How does Don feel about, say, Ken Cosgrove? I don't know. How do Pete Campbell and Harry Crane get along? I don't know. Near the end of the show, Peggy shares a sentimental moment with Roger Sterling like they've been friends for years, and I caught myself trying to remember if they had ever even had a scene together before. I couldn't think of one. Maybe they did, but it speaks volumes that I can't remember. Part of the problem here is that instead of expanding on the existing characters we know and care about, there is just a constant influx of new ones. Even in the last two episodes we were still introducing new characters and spending more time on them than some of the main ones. It's hard to care about any of these characters because a) they're new, b) there are so many, and c) you know they'll either be forgotten about or remain just as undeveloped as the rest of the existing characters. There are so many characters that in any given episode about half of them don't appear because there wouldn't be enough time to show them all. Even Peggy, who is probably the second most important character, is only in about half of the episodes. It's ridiculous.Another obstacle to any kind of character or story line development is Don's insistence on constantly leaving Manhattan, where the show is set. About once a season, Don packs up and heads off on some completely pointless sojourn, typically to California. We abandon everything else going on and get to be bored to tears by his aimless wandering and endless encounters with random characters we don't know or care about. This might be the most exhausting part of the show. Just why? The whole second half of the last season is comprised of this nonsense, which makes for a very disappointing ending to a very disappointing show.On the topic of setting, the show is set in the 1960's. But the setting is entirely irrelevant other than constantly beating us over the head with hamfisted "remember this product/invention we don't use anymore?" and "check out this retro outfit" and "wasn't it racist/sexist back then?" moments. The latter is particularly annoying because they exaggerate it so much. At times, it seems like every male character is a chain-smoking alcoholic that can't say anything asexual or non-condescending to their female coworkers, all so that the audience can smugly sit back and say, "I sure am glad that we advanced beings of the future don't behave like THAT anymore." Please. The show doesn't tackle the subjects of technological or social advancement in any kind of meaningful or thoughtful way.Finally, there are a number of characters that are annoying and difficult to watch. The primary offender here is Sally, Don's daughter. She is just insufferable. I'm sick of movies and TV shows always writing in the precocious, strong child that is smarter than all of the adults. Kids are stupid and don't know anything. I don't want to watch a 12 year old girl parade around with an attitude while her parents refuse to discipline her. Betty, Don's wife, is almost as infuriating.In the end, I have no idea how or why I slogged through seven seasons of this garbage. The destination was nowhere and the ride wasn't enjoyable. Save yourself the pain.
Bad camera work. I liked where the show was going after listening and briefly watching for just ten minutes in season one. Acting was good. Big fan of 1960's....I really liked the show "Good Girls Revolt" for comparison. The camera shots in "Mad Men" we're intolerable in my opinion. I enjoy screenshots that are more zoomed out. The screenshots in Mad Men are all zoomed in continually bouncing from one screenshot to another. I feel it was hypnotizing. Like I said, seemed like a good show but very poor camera work. I want to watch more, but camera work was intolerable in my opinion. Zoom out on the camera work and I would rate this show much higher. Thanks.


                
