3 stars for great production and period feel. The first show I've ever been tempted to keep watching with the volume off as opposed to not watching it at all.As usual, the white American businessman is a swinish lout, mired in misogyny, antisemitism, racism, unfaithfulness and ensconced in a dull meandering mess masquerading as a plot.So this show is politically incorrect? This show is the most politically correct I've ever seen bar none. The political agenda of the writers pounds through in almost every scene, a dull, throbbing hammer banging the "truth" into our addled heads. It's as if advertising is the avocation of characters whose real vocation is actually "keeping the Jews down." Those looking for an intelligent treatment of the golden era of advertising as I was, please continue your search. This ain't it. The advertising agency here is only a backdrop for a yawn of a soap opera rife with dopey, clichéd leftist subtext. Avoid, just as I will be avoiding the Golden Globes, other award shows, and any other Hollywood treatments of big business going forward.


                
People kept telling me that they loved this show so I ended up getting the DVDs of the first season. I watched the entire series, hoping it would grow on me. I have to say though that I was bored at the beginning and I was bored at the end. I kept hoping for it to get more interesting but really when you base a show on a bland character what do you expect? You get a bland show. The producers seemed unwilling to take the show anywhere daring, relying on the period far too heavily to hold interest and just staying stuck in first gear. It's not what I expected from the creator of The Sopranos. That show was certainly not afraid to go to new places, at least when it first started.


                
Like many who wrote sharp critiques against Avatar the movie, I found much of the same parallels between love of a well art directed movie and a well art directed TV show.There are reviewers here pointing out how Mad Men has been compared to Sopranos, and the acute viewer has pointed out how Tony Soprano is much more nuanced and complicated and more important, human, than Don Draper.It's hard to believe fans of Men Men are getting behind a story of a man who is a complete coward and gets his jollies from bossing around only people with spines made of melted jelly.Tony Soprano, in contrast, continues to fight himself, his wife and kids, his uncle, his domineering past, the ghost of his father, his passive aggressive sister, his nephew (who is in reality his cousin), his subordinates who would kill (literally) to have his job. I think for anyone who has struggled to get anywhere in life, the stories in the Sopranos remind us that no-one is exempt from the struggle of humanity. Not even a high powered mob boss. Through the struggle, we the audience are reminded of what it is to be human. We are challenged to understand ourselves through these very flawed but nuanced rich selfish yet warm yet thoughtful characters.In contrast, Don Draper, an escapist unable to have a conversation about anything worth talking about. He avoids revealing anything of himself and when we finally discover some truth about him, it's supposed to play like some soul searching version of Lost. Instead of me feeling like I care about him, I just shake my head and wish he'd just get fired and divorced and living in a cardboard box somewhere. At least I'd be able to care about that guy, the once great Don Draper, than the smooth-shaven know it all who doesn't really have that much of an insight anyway.And then there are the other characters that seem written out of movie/TV archetypes for beginners:The nerdy girl finding her womanhood and inner strength. The rich kid who lives an empty unfulfilling life of entitlement. The lying S.O.B. love to hate him philandering boss with a secret heart of gold. The gay guy in denial. The slut with a heart of gold. The ingénue who married too young. The Hero who is a coward at heartOf course I realize that clichés are clichés because they are so true. But when they are done in such obvious ways, I just couldn't believe in the characters.Instead of flesh and blood, these characters feel like archetypes than people. It was as if the writer watched a film like Wizard of Oz and said, hey! I'll write the Lion as a creative director guy... yeah! Oh! Oh! Who'll play the Tin Man?!Eventually this 'clever' conceit was spun into an allegory of modern times and advertising and we now have millions of fans who don't really have time to deconstruct the clichés. Instead viewers are lulled into thinking this is witty and charming and smart and amazing.For the minority like myself, I found this show too well dressed and see it for what it is. It is exactly like its main character, shallow and hollow at its core. And if this is true, what does this say about its audience?


                
Mad Men just keeps getting worse and worse. The writing is unbelievably bad, with dialog so lame that you can't imagine anyone in real life saying it. It's always been over-the-top with male characters constantly (and I mean constantly) lighting cigarettes and throwing back straight shots of scotch and bourbon, from morning in the office to evening at, er, whatever ridiculous location they find themselves at. Characters don't "grow" from season to season; they start over at the beginning of every season, as if the past were just a faint memory. What started out as a fresh, intriguing new show has devolved into hackneyed scripts and withered plots. Don't bother.


                
I sincerely tried to watch this series because of the good buzz from the critics, but finally gave up after watching the first 5-6 episodes. It was very painful and took much willpower to make it that far.Unfortunately, I remember the 50s and 60s very well. Far from being a wonderful time, they were, as the series suggests, full of stupid actions and opinions---smoking, racial prejudice, gender prejudice, etc. But I don't need to be reminded of that.Beyond that, the plots, such as they are, are dull, slow-moving and predictable. Which leads one to ask, "If I don't like the characters or the premise, and nothing is happening, why am I watching?" The overall effect of the series is like that of movies where special effects are overused, thinking they will wow watchers to such an extent that they will forget about the lack of plot. Simply having everyone smoke and wear ugly 60s clothing while sitting on ugly 60s furniture and spouting uninformed, narrow viewpoints isn't enough to hold viewer interest. At least not mine.


                
Having grown up in the 1960s, I quickly became a big Mad Men fan as the characters reminded me of my parents and their friends. From an historical aspect, many bittersweet memories were aroused as the Madison Avenue advertising agency dealt with the Nixon vs. Kennedy election, the Cuban Missile Crisis and Dealy Plaza assassination, in addition to the drama and crises in their own personal lives. I was dismayed when the series took a long sabbatical after three seasons. Unfortunately, the extra long wait for what was advertised as the "last season" was hardly worth it.The reviewer who characterized episodes as "gut wrenching"must get apoplectic watching grass grow. While there were a few good scenes among the myriad of plots, subplots and sub- subplots, as a whole, Season 4 was a jumbled mess and rehashing of earlier scripts. As a member of the minuscule fan base of this series, I can only hope that the show's producers allow it to rest in peace, and allow us to remember Don Draper as the most successful heavy smoking, drinking, skirt-chasing, non-working hero that we have ever known.
*This review also contains mild spoilers for an episode of the X- files*I wonder how this show is so popular and has such rave reviews. I watched all 7 seasons of the show to see what the hype was all about and, I must say that the Pilot remains the best episode of the entire series. The Pilot had the right amount of drama, characterization and mystery. The show never got any better from there on.Character development - Where exactly is the character development that everyone talks of? Do any of the characters have any progression at all? In fact, this show should have gone with the adage "People don't change". That works far better as a theme for this show. Let's begin with the main character - Don Draper has the same severely constipated look starting from Season 1 to Season 7 and he remains the same emotionless philandering man he was in the Pilot throughout the series. Also, when a man cheats on his wife with almost every woman he lays his eyes on, it is impossible to care about that man or anyone involved with such a man. Is one supposed to feel disgust for him and sympathy for those around him? Or is it the other way round? Also, there can really be no progression for a character like this because such compulsive need/behavior seems to really have no cure(?) and it stems from deeper issues of abuse faced by him as a child and young adult(?) or lack of resolution for past issues(?). On a superficial level, Draper is a "family man" (as in has a beautiful wife and 2 kids and provides for them - here, I am not discussing his virtue or lack thereof), he is also a very successful and powerful adman (so powerful within the organization that he can go AWOL for weeks and no one cares). But Draper shut himself off emotionally a long time ago. He never heals or tries to heal - maybe because the impressionable age is long gone or maybe because he never wants to open those gates to the world or maybe he is OK with how things are right now. Maybe this show should have explored more themes like this on a meta level. Side note : Draper's compulsive need for sleeping around reminds me of the "The X files" episode "Hungry" where the antagonist has a compulsive need to eat and sucks peoples' brains out to quell his insatiable hunger. Not the same compulsion but then, I did feel like my brains were being sucked out while watching this drab show...Before I go off on another tangent, his wife Betty remains as miserable and childish as ever (this even after she remarries a fairly stable man very different from Don). Her 8-9 year old daughter (Sally) is far more mature when compared to her. In fact, Sally is my favorite character in the entire series, also the only character to have had any progression or development in the entire series. I am sure it felt that way as she was the only one at an impressionable age on the show. However it was awesome seeing her develop from a child to a wonderful, level-headed young woman. Kiernan Shipka was amazing in this role.Peggy is interesting to some extent but ultimately, there is nothing much for her to do. Same with Joan and Pete. Megan had a good arc for a bit. Way too much time is spent on Roger Sterling. Plot development - Ever changing management, office politics, ad campaigns for major players along with important events from the era peppered in - Boring with a capital "B". The show tried to do some socially relevant plots (that are timeless) - feminism, challenges of a working woman, ever-evolving interpretations of love and marriage, pursuit of happiness, loneliness etc. but they were all half-baked plots that never went anywhere. Believe me, I did try and root for Peggy and Joan and even Trudy throughout the series, but their plots never went anywhere beyond the basic. The biggest problem with this show is it tries to juggle with too much - it has a million characters, a million plot points, a million issues, thereby not doing justice to any character or plot or issue. It superficially glosses over everything and therefore, fails to connect.People applaud the costumes, sets etc. and I have no complaints about that. Performances from most of the supporting cast was fine, although I cannot say the same about the lead. How Jon Hamm won an Emmy for this role, I will never understand.
I kept forgetting to look this up. I caught it while at a friends house one night when dropping him off.. and having coffee.. we watched it not having a clue what it was.. and after it finished I was none the wiser. We are both film/TV buffs.. and I thought apart from it looking slightly period, glossy, just didn't fall into it at all!! WHY Mad Men... now I'm thinking.. OK.. Advertising Men.. Mad as in Madison Avenue... now thanks to this site I now have an idea. Strange. I'm usually very good at picking things up. I have patience. My mate doesn't. So its early 60's.. well, that stacked up. Thank you people. This site is very useful for all TV/film info.


                
I don't like the show. The men & women are mean, childish & depressing aka not likable. Everybody cheats on their spouses & they are ruthless. There are two things I do like about this show: The only two characters I have little interest is are Sally & Lane. I like the 60's fashion. It's more of your afternoon soap opera.
