I agree that the series lacks depth. I, myself being in advertising and working on Tobacco products, can easily mesh with the Characters: i.e. client-creative-client service relationships. My favorite scene though was from first season, Let me just say "Carousel" If every show was as good as that presentation- I wouldn't feel like I was wasting my life away... BTW why does Betty always talk so slow, it seems like she is on something.What needs to happen is either focus more on the advertising or more on the 60's, or strengthen both aspects to form a solid story to keep the viewer interested.
The fanatic (note "fan" in fanatic), unthinking embrace by many viewers of this soap opera(Yes, it is a night time sudser in the same sink with All My Children) and its characters is only explicable in terms of a puerile taste for soft porn and titillation, caused, not by pretty females in the cast, but by all the booze consumed, the fags smoked and the obvious sensual bonanza for gays and hetero women when Don Draper takes off his hat. Very sexy, very virile--only one so tedious as Don could be known best for the way he takes off his hat.Sorry, low-taste viewers, this show was barely worth one 13 episode series. It muddles along now in the glory of its "period" setting and ever-worsening plots and character shallowness. This paean to lives defined by cigs, adultery, hard-ass main character who manages to be attractive (think "hat" and the way he doffs it--also loving camera shots of the hat is a thrilling attempt to suggest self-pleasuring as an approved form of sexual behavior. I continue to watch so I can write negative things about each show for my wife's education--she loves the show,but she also is energized by Jersey Shore and Judge Judy.True, the red head, full figured woman is a minor success, but all the rest of the show's mediocrity that oozes from this show drowns her performance and character. Finally, John Hamm can't act, which is good because he fits right in with the other characters who ham up their performances and achieve well...nothing.


                
Hailed as being as good as West Wing and the Sopranos I was drawn in to go and see this show. Alas it's not doing it for me. Apart from Joan Holloway there is no character I like. They're not funny, mysterious, smart or anything else interesting. Big hero Don Draper is not my kind of guy, too shallow and his back story too dull and predictable (I don't like Tony Soprano either but he's interesting too watch, as is the world around him). His wife is even worse. She is a spoiled waste with no other quality then being beautiful. Perhaps badly written as a quite desperation character caught in the times (60s)but she's hopelessly inadequate as a character (what would Cybil Shephard in her prime have done, more wit perhaps or a bit more depth or at least captivating). These people are supposed to be smart but not even in the current season (3) I have seen them do anything smart or say anything intelligent (this is certainly no West Wing level, scripting, it is not even on par with the final WW season). Actually the book by Ogilvie on Advertisement (mentioned in the series) is better written then any of this. Basically I have watched 3 seasons of soap opera with better sets and lightning, but certainly not more intriguing. If this was life at the beginning of the swinging sixties i'm glad my parents turned out all right.


                
Top Five Overblown American Exports: The trailers are slick, the casts are strewn with A Listers and TV staples, the cinematography is of the highest calibre...Doh!-Someone forgot to include a decent storyline...Starting from the top-1 : Dirty Sexy Money 2 : Pushing Daisies 3 : Deadwood 4 : (Season 3) Desperate HousewivesAnd last of all - Mad Men. This is an artful case of style over content for me. Matthew Weiner, at best, seats somewhere between decent dialogue-driven writing, and plain old ponderous navel-gazing punctuated only by uneventful guff. Judging by the damage done with the last season of The Sopranos- its easy to see which side of that fence he's falling. There is something inherently 'pleased with itself' in the style of American drama's these days. In much the same way as actors like Glenn Close try to fill a screen with their presence and hushed approach- 'look at me...I'm acting- I'm commanding your attention...watch me...ACT- observe my talent'. Equally, whenever I watch something like Mad Men, I can almost hear the cogs in the writers brainstorm room clicking and whirring away, sending us the perceptible message - "yes...this is genius....my sociological wit....watch me write...look...Im WRITING...I can say so much in just a few lines of dialogue".For one born with erectile tissue (I'm sorry....), I still cannot romanticise the righteous bragging, swaggering and plain sexist bullshitting that happily contradicted the literature, art and film making of the 60's. One only has to re-inter some of the 'great' taglines in popular magazines for a single month of this decade to realise how unavoidable this sad irony is. What is avoidable, however, is the need for patronising devices and crass quotes like- "It was like watching a DOG playing the piano" (when the female protagonist comes up with a good advertising concept) to clumsily hammer such points home.Ever watched an old episode of The Rockford Files or Ironside, and marvelled at how they can cover all this social commentary and STILL fit an engaging story in there? If not, perhaps it's time you did.


                
Being at home sick and having nothing to do, I started watching it from the beginning. Did not want to watch anything with violence and crime, so Mad men seemed like a good one. It somewhat kept my interest for 3 seasons. I was noticing a lot of decorations, settings, that did not quite agree with early 1960s, the behaviour of people that was not quite normal in that era (like a woman jogging early morning???. ... bunch of grown up men acting as high-school teenagers with a cigarette in one hand and a drink in an other while being in the office???) I literally was getting sick of seeing so much drinking and smoking, as if they all were compulsive addicts. Peggy's character did not go well with me from the beginning,or it was her performance, not sure, but something just felt fake about it. By the 4th season I was sick of smoking, drinking,screwing around and lack of any new development or performance. I simply stop mid- episode feeling nauseated...NO MORE. I wish Netflix was showing "Hung"...


                
It's amazing how well a glossy surface sells. That's all Mad Men is: gloss. Now gloss is the advertising worlds core, so this show may well be authentic, but it sure isn't deep. All those talking about the depth of the characters leave me baffled.To me this is a modernized "The Bold and the Beautiful" with better dialogue and costumes, but the same over dramatization of a world I can't bring myself to care about. TBATB was set in the world of fashion - now it's advertising for Mad Men, which is just as profound a setting.I feel very generous giving it a 4/10 - all the points are for the fine work on the setting. The drama only gets one big snore from the TV couch.


                
Just watched two hours of the new season, UGH! what happened to the great writing? There were as many minutes of commercials as there were of the show. Do I need to see someone drunk and throwing up? What happened to January Jones, having a baby is one thing but what happened to her? Based on that show, if any awards are given they ought to give up. Can January's husband say anything besides " ask your Mother" or "yes dear"? How did Draper get a Zippo from a guy half his age , lost in Korea and found in Nam? I wore pork-pie hats in those days but not on the top of my head ( would have been laughed out of NYC. No one talked to the Boss like they do on this show, if they did they were gone. If my kid slammed the door in my face, it would have been her face that got slammed.What happened to the offices, did they shrink the set.


                
I'm on season 5 now, and ever since the end of S3 it's been downhill. It was good, really good. But now everything now feels redundant and over the top. Core of it all are endless scandals and a garden variety of inequality that is highlighted against the 21st century, and the snowball keeps rolling and same thing happens over and over again. Also a notable stain appears in the form of Glen. Terrible actor, even for a child actor, looks creepy as hell (complements his character persona I suppose), and the character does nothing to enhance the show. Instead it's a nasty stain that I would love to see removed.You can stop after S3, because everything else will just take up your time. I will stop watching after S5.


                
After the cool drive of the first two seasons, Weiner seems to really be winging it in season 3. Only die-hard fetishists of 60's fashion and morays, and slaves to Emmy hype, would find the first three episodes concentration on dreary office politics and Don's stale home life as involving as the intrigue of what came before. Don's run-in with teenage grifters and his involvement with Conrad Hilton in the latest episode suggests Weiner might be coming out of his Emmy complacency, but the series needs to be much more focused to deserve another Emmy next year (then again, maybe now they just hand awards to any show that shows off nice fashions. Too bad).


                
this series seems to concentrate on how almost all the men in that era were nothing but a prick, a typical male chauvinist pig, an adulterer, a self-centered egoist, a selfish moral-less husband, a loveless father, a pompous liar, etc, etc; they flirted, they seduced, they often had a quickie, a short fling, or a long term affair one after another, while some of the women were either very conservatively pathetic or, most of them just 100% sluts, whores with a 9-5 day jobs.i could never understand why those male characters who had faithful, beautiful, loving and caring wives would still want to cheat on their spouses. these male characters treated their female colleagues like cheap commodities without any respect and at the same time, considered themselves a much much smarter, superior species than their opposite gender. but why these male characters always gave us a quite stupid impression?but the most disgusting thing in every scene of this series is the 'chain smoking', no matter where and when; in the office, on the bus, on the train, at home, in bed, in airplane, at dinner table, at breakfast, during the fornication or love-making.....everybody, men and women non-stop smoking. i feel so sorry for those actors who in order to vividly and realistically portray that era, they had to smoke, even they didn't really have to inhale. but the 2nd-handed cigarette smoke must tortured them a lot. guess some of them might get lung cancer after this show. imagine all those spaces and rooms got the aftermath of stinking cigarette smoke that would never go away after the shootings.i really didn't see anything that really showed these guys were indeed very smart in advertising business, most of them looked more like morons. in order to make the male viewers addict to this drama series, they had to ask so many female actors to show their naked flesh, or shall i say, their white meat? were those endless love-making scenes, those adulterous affairs really necessary? if compare this 'mad men' drama series with the more recent 'suits', this series would suddenly become such a pale, shallow,lukewarm, hollow and even a dead-beat.


                
