I Claudius was maybe the best miniseries ever. Now, there's Rome, and it's even better. I agree with another reviewer, that quibbles about historical inaccuracies, such as accents or how old so-and-so should be, are silly pedantry. I've been a Roman history buff ever since my own high school triumvirate of Caesar, Cicero and Virgil, and I say that this historical fiction is both exciting AND quite accurate with the important stuff.So far, every player has been terrific, in particular Ciarán Hinds as Caesar and Max Pirkis as Octavian. Julius Caesar was perhaps the most complex "great" figure in history. Was he a great populist, trying to champion the people against the Optimates, or was he an ambitious demagogue, who was using the Roman mobs to attain the imperium? Hinds depicts this complexity perfectly, while projecting a steely will that is shared by Caesar's emerging protégé, Octavian. Thanks to Max Pirkis's brilliant portrayal, we can already see the no-nonsense pragmatism, ruthlessness and brilliance that will propel this boy into becoming the greatest despot in history. And what about that dissolute Mark Anthony? We can already see Actium in his face. And with Atia, I think Livia (as depicted in I Claudius) and Messalina have met their match.And midst the struggle for mastery of Rome, we see the struggle of more common folk just to make a living. Rome makes the parallel stories of the Optimates and Centurian, now Prefect, Vorenus and Legionnaire Pullo a perfect vehicle for comparing the travails of different classes <U+0097> their love lives, social lives, how they treated the servants, how they practiced their faiths, how they fought. Seen from these different perspectives (which we did not get with I Claudius), we get a three-dimensional view and, for me, the closest to feeling like one is actually there of any historical fiction ever produced.And look at the production values. Is it any wonder, when we see who's behind the camera <U+0097> Michael Apted and John Milius <U+0097> that we have an immaculately crafted work?By their commitment to quality of production and integrity of story, HBO and BBC are demonstrating what television can be. This is a wonderful, wonderful series. Anyone with a love of history, drama and spectacle should be devouring it with delight.


                
Having watched the first three episodes, I am anxiously looking forward to seeing the rest of the episodes. All of the intrigue that was Rome is presented well, considering that no one involved lived during that time that could give accurate details on Roman life. For that matter, all historical presentations that are over a hundred years old are filled in with speculation and assumption and for that no one can discredit the attempts at accuracy.For all of the naysayers, listen well. You complain that the show is full of pointelss dialogue. Rome was one of the first political empires to exist. When you have a Senate, it becomes very political. As for the accuracies to design, as I said, we can only speculate in accordance to available artifacts, as to how the place really looked. The designs do look as I picture in my own mind. Another complaint that I saw was about the sex with one such comment relating Rome to "Skinimax". The fact is this is set prior to Christian corruption, shunning the act of sex. So yes, there was a lot of it.


                
I've become so bored of mainstream television over the last decade that I now make a point of only watching series that are history-related, given my huge love of the subject matter. I missed ROME when it was first shown, but heard so much good about it that I caved in and bought the box set on Blu-ray. I'm so glad I did; believe the hype, ROME is the ultimate in costume drama.The series only lasted for two seasons before cancellation, but every episode is a winner. There are two story strands running through: the big story and the little story. The big story is concerned with the legendary figures of history - in the first season Julius Caesar and his cohorts, and in the second Mark Antony. The little story looks at the minor characters, the soldiers and families involved with the politics of their era.The script crackles with realistic dialogue and the characters are superb. Not just Pullo and Vorenus, but also Atia and her offspring, Brutus and his mother, even the minor players who are awarded little dialogue. Every actor is amazing, with Ciaran Hinds stealing the show in the first series and James Purefoy in the second.I'm pleased that the producers went all-out in making an adult drama, not skimping on the sexual content or the violence. It's hard to pick highlights in a series that never puts a foot wrong, but Pullo's diversion in the gladiator arena is hard to beat in terms of its sheer power. The ending of season two, with Antony descending into madness, is chilling and moving in equal measure.It took a good few years, but I'm pleased to report that TV producers are finally capitalising on ROME's success and beginning to make similar products as they realise a market for adult-focused historical drama. Already we're seeing the likes of SPARTACUS (three series and counting), CAMELOT, GAME OF THRONES, THE BORGIAS and THE TUDORS, each of them indebted to ROME in some way. I'll enjoy watching them, but I doubt any will equal the quality of this.


                
WHY was this series canceled?!!! While waiting for the new season of Game of Thrones to return, my husband and I started watching Rome on demand to stave off our epic genre addiction and we Love it! We were so disappointed to find out that it had been canceled! What a shame and only 2 seasons? Why? Fans FYI: Having never heard of the characters Vorenus and Pullo, I assumed they were probably fictional characters but I did some digging and found that Vorenus and Pullo are only semi-fictional characters and were two of the very few plebeians/soldiers mentioned by Caesar in his writings, whose names appear as 'Titus Pulcio' and 'Lucius Varenus'. The first mention of Varenus and Pulcio comes in Caesar's Commentaries on the Gallic War. Caesar tells us that the camp of the XIII legion was attacked by the Nervii in 54 BC and was about to be overrun. Pulcio jumped the ramparts to fight hand-to-hand with the Nervii. Varenus, not wanting Pulcio to reap all the glory, then jumps the ramparts too, killing many of enemy. As a demonstration of "brotherly love" and comradeship, they each save the other's life at certain points during the fight. Caesar said it was impossible to decide who was braver.HBO, PLEASE bring Rome back!


                
I saw the ROME Series, Both Season 1 & 2, in a weeks time.. And the last four episodes, in one go.. Such was my addiction to this splendid series that, I am still awestruck...Kudos to the production house "HBO", for coming out with an extra - ordinary series worth every bit.. To start with, the cast was spectacular.. It was a sheer magic.. Every artist came up with such a captivating performance and it is bound to leave the mark... The actors, support crew, the newsreader (you would love him and start imitating his way immediately), the ladies... You name it and you have it in this series... I had to wait an eternity to get my hands on this series.. My favorite characters, Lucius Vorenus and Titus Pullo were the best.. The way, their friendship has been portrayed will leave an indelible mark on the audience for long time... You cannot imagine these two characters being donned by anyone else... In my opinion, they were the real heroes.. Ciarán Hinds as Julius Ceaser was amazing.. He carried his role effortlessly and with such a brilliance.. Lyndsey Marshal as Cleopatra was stunning.. Her mere presence ignites the frame to perfection... Boy, I was just carried away.. Such a beauty... James Purefoy as Mark Antony was portrayed brilliantly.. He justified his role more than anyone.. Awesome...Even though, each episode has been directed by different people, they have been construed so well, that, the entire epic series is carried effortlessly... The continuity of thought has been maintained to perfection... Brutus with his audacious voice was terrific... He was Brutus indeed... My verdict: A perfect 10 on 10... Go ahead and watch the enigmatic series ever to be made... And be mesmerized like me... !!!


                
HBO's Rome two seasons (originally shown in the years 2005-2007) covers in twenty two episodes the twenty two year period between the battle of Alesia in 52 BC and the aftermath to the battle of Actium in 30 BC (Julius Caesar's assassination in 44 BC is shown at the end of the first season and the beginning of the second season). While several plot threads runs through the series, basically the first season is about how Caesar rose to hold absolute power (defeating rivals like Pompey) just before being murdered, while the second season tell us how after Caesar's death, a struggle began between Octavian (later emperor Augustus) and Mark Antony to fill the power void generated by Caesar's death.The series is centered round the lives of two friends and comrades from the campaign in Gaul, the hot tempered Vorenus (played by Kevin McKidd, who looks a lot like Daniel Craig) and the more amiable Pullo (played by Ray Stevenson, who looks a bit like Mel Gibson and another bit like Russell Crowe) They both existed historically (two centurions bearing those names are mentioned in Caesar's Commentaries on the War in Gaul), but little else is known about them, so most of what is shown in the TV series is invented. The rest of the cast is mostly British, none of them very famous (most of them come from a BBC high drama/theatrical background) but they mostly acquit themselves fine: James Purefoy particularly excels as the slimy, edgy Mark Antony; David Bamber is a fine Cicero, so is Polly Walker as the scheming matron Attia. The gorgeous Kerry Condon impresses as the young, promiscuous Octavia, while Ciaran Hinds is good in his understated performance as Julius Caesar.With the obvious exception of having the Romans speak in English (there is always something ridiculous about movies where Romans deliver obscenities in a Cockney accent) real care was taken by the filmmakers to make this series as historically accurate as possible.The production values are considerable. Still, since they didn't have an enormous budget, the filmmakers decided not to film huge crowd scenes, concentrating instead on smaller, more intimate scenes. Thus Mark Antony's funeral oration of Caesar is referred to but not shown, and with the exception of the battle of Philippi none of the other battles of the era is recreated. Despite this smaller scope, this miniseries represents a considerable achievement, a triumph both of popular and intelligent entertainment and scholarship.
HBO and BBC's co produced Rome is an outstanding series. As an Ancient History graduate one would expect me to nitpick and well take it all way too seriously but thats simply not the case! As I have studies I really appreciate it more and love the way a favourite subject of mine has been brought to the screen.Rome captures the essence of Rome so well, the colour, the smells (ok we can't smell it but you get the impression) and infuses famous Roman people like Caesar, Brutus, Marc-Anthony and Octavian with life, makes them flesh and blood. They look sweaty, they are not this pure white classical image most people have of Roman history, they loved colour, the more stronger colour a Roman house had, signified how wealthy they were.I love in the series also how within Roman society there was another one of women, who could be just as ruthless as their male counterparts like Atia (Polly Walker), who is an equal to Livia from I, Claudius, she at first appears as a selfish pushy aristocrat but as you go through the series we see she only wants best for her children and she will kill to make it so. James Purefoy should get a Emmy or something for his amazing portrayal of Marc-Anthony, its such a hypnotizing performance and he is incredibly sexy in the role. All in all a beautifully made and powerful series about a world which is as foreign to us as ours would be to them. Their's was a world of no Judeao-Christian morality which has infused our own culture. They did not feel shame about their bodies and lived very much in the public eye and because of this they make perfect materials for films, plays, TV series because they do all these things modern society would find shocking, we can be appalled and equally seduced.Oh I almost forgot, wonderful performance from Ray Stevenson's as Pullo and Kevin McKidd as Vorenus, who are not only ciphers for the major historical events of the dying days of the Republic, but are well rounded characters of their own. Vorenus starts off as a Catoinian, a staunch believer in Republican values and basically a hard man but as the series progresses he becomes corrupted, being drawn into Caesar's rise to power and being one of his to a better word lackeys, who then descends into a hellish underworld as a mob boss and eventually becoming Marc-Anthony'r right hand man. while Pullo who appears gruff is actually more honest, who lives for the moment, he doesn't hide what he is therefore much happuer. The interplay is just fantastic between the two.I love the show so much, that I cannot sing its praise enough, watch it and become enraptured by the sheer brilliance.
Historical dramas,as a rule, are very hit and miss. While they can look stunning most will suffer from a lack of drama. And it will always be a challenge to bring to life the movers and shakers of history accurately. Just look and Troy and Alexander.While both were visually stunning they lacked depth(Alexander) and and historical accuracy(Troy).So needless to say, as a student of Classics, when I heard about Rome for the first time I was unsure what to expect. Is it really possible to do justice accurately to the most colorful and action-packed period of Roman history? In a word YES. Rome is a perfect example of how do it right. It has something for everyone; Action,drama,suspense,humor,weepy bits,sex, romance, murder, violence, beautiful women and handsome men and historical accuracy for the most part anyway.The story begins at a crucial period of Roman history, the conflict between Gnaeus Pompey Magnus ( Pompey the Great) and the most famous Roman of them all, Gaius Julius Caeser. The balance of power is shifting as Caeser, after his hugely successful campaign in Gaul is gaining popularity with the Plebs( ordinary people).The tale is told through the eyes of two ordinary soldiers in Caeser's army, Centurian Lucius Vorenus and Legionnare Titus Pullo of the Thriteenth Legion. These two ordinary are thrust into the center of the conflict as Republic hangs in the balance, while dealing with their own personal issues. They come into contact with some of the biggest names of the day like Marc Antony, Caeser's right hand man and Gaius Octavian who will became Rome's first Emperor Augustus.The series covers the beginnings of the conflict between Caeser and Pompey and continues up to the death of Caeser in the Senate House The performances are top notch. The stellar cast includes the wonderful Ciaran Hinds as Caeser, driven, proud and noble. Kenneth Cranham is on fine form as Pompey, Caeser's put upon former friend. Special mention to James Purefoy as Antony. He brings to life the larger than life character you meet on the pages of Plutarch, rude,vulgar, selfish,brave, passionate, hilarious and it must be said impossibly handsome.The tough ruthless Lucius Vorenus is played by Kevin McKidd in a role built for him. Ray Stevenson amazes as loyal lovable rogue Pullo. Other top performances include young Max Pirkis as Octavian. He clever, watchful and calculating, a shadow of what he is later to become.Kerry Condon as his sister Octavia and Polly Walker as his driven ambitious, often cruel Mother Atia are excellent. On fine form also are Tobias Menzes as Brutus and Lindsay Duncan as Servilla. David Bamber as the famous Orator Cicero delivers one of his best performances yet. There is also a fine support cast including Indira Varmha as Vorenus' wife Niobe and Lee Boardman as the Horse-tamer Timon. The sets are lush and almost fantastical but also realistic from the peace of the countryside to the hustle and bustle of the form and the grandeur of the Patrican homes. The sets are as authentic and historically correct as possible so that one really feels that one is there in Rome at this historical milestone.Most of the larger events such as Caeser's death are as history tells us. Some artistic license has been taken. For example while Pullo and Vorenus are actual people their stories as told here are fictionalized as is the relationship between Antony and Atia. Nevertheless as a whole the piece is a top notch epic and worthy of all the praise it gets.Any fictionalized areas simply add to the story and help it flow.This is how historical dramas should be done ; realistic and interesting with characters true to life and engaging, top notch script and fantastic acting. Gladiator has met it's match.
After the excreable "Empire", which I think might have killed this whole genre for the next 5 years, Rome arrived to save the day.From the eerie whimsical new ageish opening music and the credits with animated little graffiti to the characters, I knew from the 1st I was hoping to really really like this.One of my degrees was in Ancient History and I just love the reality of the times coming to life on the screen. The directors made this reality; real people with real problems with real lives; not some Hollywood kiss kiss, politically correct actors and the requisite black, Hispanic's and gays all over the screen for no use to the story or reality at all. Instead, this story is reality, and it flow and it goes and you're hooked. Insert giant hook into my soft mouth, don't tug, because they've already landed me.


                
This Review includes Rome: the Complete Series Parts 1 & 2. I'll begin by crowning HBO "King of the Mini-Series". Any doubt, just look at Rasputin, Citizen X, John Adams, Band of Brothers, From Earth to the Moon, Grey Gardens and others. Rome the Series has it all, a literate script, a superb cast, fantastic production values, unbelievable special effects, makeup and stunt-work, brilliant directing by ALL directors involved, excellent pacing and a terrific music score throughout. It is pretty much historically accurate in events and history. Even Vorenus and Pullo were actually mentioned in Caesar's writings, the only non-aristocrats who were. The grittiness of Rome and its people stands out. The lascivious, decadent society is portrayed in all its lewdness. The violence of these people is oft times shocking and gross as well it should be. No candy-coating here! The politics and lifestyles of Rome are fascinatingly presented. Standouts in a perfect cast are: Kevin McKidd & Ray Stevenson as Vorenus & Pullo; James Purefoy aptly schizophrenic as Marc Antony; Ciaran Hinds properly regal as Julius Caesar; Polly Walker schemingly wicked as Atia; Max Pirkis & Simon Woods as the younger and older Octavian; Lyndsey Marshal voluptuous and cunning as Cleopatra and Kenneth Cranham wonderfully sympathetic as Pompey Magnus. I wish I could list them all. The only negative with Rome the Series is that it does not continue on thru Octavian (Augustus), Caligula, Claudius and the rest. I really didn't want this series to end.


                
This series almost defies belief with its masterful attention to cultural detail combined with a level of accuracy that is simply astonishing for popular series or movies. One could almost believe that someone laid hands on a time machine and took the whole crew back to 52 BC for filming. Clearly, no expense was spared in the making of this series, which has all the polish and flair of a big-budget movie, combined with an archeologist's critical eye for accuracy and detail. For the look and feel of being there, this film is miles above "Augustus", "Nero", and "Empire", which have a too-clean low budget look to them, and while having the same grittiness as "Gladiator", there are no grossly over-enlarged computer generated buildings. Instead, the real closeness of the cement insulae (multi-story apartments) that real Romans lived in are marvelously depicted, complete with the kinds of graffiti that really existed. There is trash in the streets, there is no "segmentata" armour (incorrect for this period, chain mail only!), cleansing oil is used in the baths (no soap then!) and then scraped off, the jewelry looks like it was stolen right out of a museum, the list goes on and on<U+0085>As for cultural immersion, this series once again raises the bar. The Romans were a different culture and their attitudes to life and death, propriety and impropriety, and their spiritual lives were very different than our own. This series takes on the challenge, and unashamedly depicts life as it must have been in those times. If there was no fig leaf, then there IS no fig leaf. (I should mention that the 18A rating is there for very good reasons). In this show, a dead person looks like a dead person (blue etc.), sex looks like sex, etc., so be prepared for no punches to be pulled.The lives of the rich, the poor, and the slaves, and their relationships to each other and the gods are all shown honestly.The story. Ah, the story. Nicely done. O.K., it's a soap opera, but I'm pretty sure that the Romans invented them (didn't they?)<U+0085> The story is not overly convoluted and it does not have the annoying "point A" to "point B" direct line plot of sooo many Hollywood productions these days. There are two main plot lines. The first concerns two Roman soldiers and their life amongst the plebeians. The second follows the fortunes of Gaius Julius (the man who would be Caesar), along with his family and other such famous personages as Pompey, Cato, Cicero, Mark Antony, Brutus, etc. Of course, you KNOW that these two plot lines will frequently cross<U+0085> The amazing thing is that it makes Caesar's rise to power seem like less than a sure thing. (And if THAT was a spoiler, you need to read a book. Seriously.)All in all, marvelous, simply marvelous. Go BUY it. There absolutely HAS to be more seasons! (If this goes the way of Firefly (i.e. gets cancelled) there's no justice. Sex, violence, accurate historical setting, eye candy<U+0097> what's not to like?


                
Rome wouldn't be Rome without all those sexual encounters, plotting and mindgames, and for the first time in film history this has been adequately shown on screen. I like the thread about the fate of "normal" people like Vorenus, his friend Pullo and their mates, no doubt at that. So let me tell you what annoyed me here.First of all, the character of Cleopatra is severely disappointing, a boney drugaddict with a hairdo like a slum hooker who does not speak lots of sense. Her costume and hairdo also ridiculous, especially that wig looks like made from sailor ropes. Egyptians let alone princesses would never have shown in public without their prescious arty wigs, properly clean garment and makeup, even when in custody of their enemies who had the manner of treating their hostages well. A figure like Julius Caesar of the Julii would never have erotically fallen for such a dirty potato bag unwrapped from a filthy sack. Also their story is simply fading into the back of events, one does not hear of Cleopatra and Cesarion furthermore, neither of their world conquering fantasies, which is actually ruining the thread of events severely.Apart from that, it would be interesting to have the series go on throughout the Roman Emperors, but please follow an adequate timeline.


                
Rome's Empire and history were not created over a couple of years and two seasons are definitely not enough to portray the story, but this is probably the best we're going to have, audio-video, for a very long time. HBO and the producers should be given credit for doing everything in their power to stay as close as artistically possible to the true facts, beginning at the time of Julius Caesar's glorious victory over Gaul against overwhelming odds. The series shows how Caesar establishes himself as one of the greatest conquerors of the Ancient World. Continuing from his victory in Gaul the series follows Julius Caesar as he establishes his place as Dictator for life. And then after his death proclaims Octavian his lawful son, who then progresses to become Augustus Caesar. The point of view and the storytelling shifts between the history makers - Caesar, his family, Octavian, the aristocrats opposing Caesar - and two legionaries who find themselves involved with almost everything historians wrote about those years and are also depicted during their more ordinary moments. However the movie is sometimes inaccurate as it makes it look as though Julius Caesar immediately chased Pompeii when he actually spent ten years in Rome before setting out.Rome is a feast to the eye, at least in the Blu-ray version. The colors are vibrant and the details on ornaments, wall graffiti, costumes, makeup are as accurate as possible. It could be said almost the same about the sounds of Rome but we know so much less about the music of antiquity... Due to obvious budget constraints, camera angles are almost always narrow, focusing on specific buildings or people with the occasional. And no large, expensive battle scenes but that's okay because the overall story is excellently portrayed. There are never more than a few dozen humans on any scene but we should admire the director and the camera crew even more for their ability to maintain our suspension of disbelief with the limited means at their disposal. The Blu-ray edition excels in every aspect, from packaging to the quality of the actual episodes to the Blu-ray specific extras. Each episode is presented in 1080p, 16:9 screen and DTS-HD Master Audio 5.1 Surround sound for English and German as well as DTS Digital Surround 2.0 for Spanish, French, Castilian and Polish (voice over). Subtitles are available in dozens of languages. However the series is rated MA for good reason. 'Rome' attempts to accurately depict the Rome of 2000 years ago where sexual inhibitions were all but absent, most women were viewed as 'property' and slaves were numerous.


                
I never watched rome when it was airing on HBO a few years ago. I just recently watched one episode (happened to catch the very first one) on reruns on Latin HBO at midnight on fridays, and I got hooked. Although the first episode "The stolen eagle" is not the best episode, it was intriguing enough to have me watching the rest of the episode up to episode 6, where I just couldn't wait any longer and had to go and buy the DVD collection and watch them all as fast as I could.I'm a huge fan of history so that's a big reason on why I wanted to watch this show, but it was how the story was told that caught me. Every single actor in this show delivers an amazing acting in ever scene, makes it completely believable, the plot is very intriguing, intelligent, the dialogue is clever and precise in every shot, the music definitely adds an emotion in each scene, everything is so believable you can almost smell how Rome smelled back then.Special mention to Ciaran Hinds (Caesar), Polly Walker (Attia), Lindsay Duncan (Servilia), James Purefoy (Mark Antony) and Kevin McKidd (Vorenus) for an amazing acting, they brought the show alive and with their complicated personalities, I felt sympathy for each one of them.So, if you like history, are not afraid to see a little sex and decapitation every now and then (nobody said the show was pretty anyway), and are up to admire a real piece of art that was on TV and that no show nowadays even compare to this one (ok maybe Game of Thrones), watch it.


                
A series at its best. Story, development, plot, acting, scenery, and characters you will remember for a long time, perhaps you will never forget about them. Too spice for the family, though, as sex and lust are portrait freely. The direction was also superb, reaching the mastering level. If you have seen other movies about Rome and think they are quite all the same, watch this one and you will be surprised. It is magnificent. Once you start to watch you don't want to stop. Sleep will be postponed, you just want to keep watching. It focus and covers the struggle for power, the inner battles, wars and life during the difficult times in Rome. It does not show the good things that the Roman empire brought and spread around all its dominions.


                
This is one of my favorite shows: dramatic, historically accurate as much as a TV show can be, and pretty as much as possible. Somehow it's better than The Tudors<U+0085> also it has more sex and violence but unlike The Tudors it's not like soft porn. It's a freaking Roman Orgy.Rome takes place in Cesar time Rome. Sadly it is only 2 seasons, canceled mainly due to budget reasons. Although BBC picked it up after HBO dropped it, Rome never came back. The casting was perfection, there's not one iota of a person who didn't look from that time line. But don't worry, the time line moves very fast, Cesar conquered and was over within the first half of the season. You learn so much because it's as much accurate as possible<U+0085> and still being entertaining.Of course, this show might not be for everyone. First you need the initial interest in Rome itself. And second you should be partial to dialog that is not so modern as that of Starz's Spartacus, but not so old as Shakespeare. Once you watch this you realize how absolute ridiculous Spartacus is. This show is like the Interview of a Vampire as Spartacus is to Twilight. It's the True Blood to Vampire Diaries.Granted, I'm not denying that people find those other shows entertaining, but all I am saying is that Rome is on a higher caliber of entertainment, it's artful, smart, and historical<U+0085> not only in its subject matter but also in itself as a show.Rome will go down as TV history.
The best historical series ever made. Takes generally fewer liberties with history than comparable costume dramas like "The Tudors" or "Reign" or "Vikings" or "The Last Kingdom". Sticks very closely to the historical timeline, and since it involves many major figures from history, that's difficult to do.We don't know much about the early history of Octavian and what we know may be fake (he ruled the world for a while and censored a lot) but we do know that Brutus' mother did not die in the fashion the series presents...that's the only serious historical contradiction. As for who fathered Cleopatra's child, well who knows, she was desperate to have Caesar and Rome believe he had got her pregnant, making sure she was already pregnant before seducing him is one way to make that occur.Best drama series ever made. And not only for that reason above, but especially for the way the women drive history. Something not seen until recently in historical dramas (like "The White Queen" and "Black Sails" and "Reign").Best "buddy" series ever made. The Pullo/Vorenus relationship is one of the most poignant and best developed ever in any medium. It's better than Kirk and Spock and McCoy, who never really get beyond their innately different personalities to change each other (until the Star Trek movies, where they do).


                
"BREATHTAKING" "SENSATIONAL" A rare and fascinating portrayal of life and the consequences of betrayal, deception and deceit. This is the only T.V. series that i like, Lost's a load of crap. And with all the other t.v. series on like Prison Break and other big ones its hard to try and beat them, but Rome amazingly has, with its ultra cool, laid back tone and contrast and not to mention the best acting iv'e seen in a long time. The close friendship between Pullo and Veronus, in the case that they would do anything for each other. These are the two main and key characters throughout Rome. Season 2, which is on t.v. now, which i'm not watching because i'm waiting for the DVD to come out.At the beginning, Caesar has just conquered Gaul and is on his return to Rome, but when he leaves his friendship with his closest friend Pompey Magnus, who is evacuating outside of Rome, trying to escape Caesar and his forces. When back in Rome, Caesar begins a chase to capture Pompey. While fleeing to Greece, Pompeys army outnumbers Caesar's. Pullo and Veronus and few other hundred of men set sail for Greece in need to find and help Caesar, but both and the other men get shipwrecked. Ending up on a deserted island and feeling empty on food and in desperate need of water, Pullo and Veronus manage to escape the island and going to Rome. Outnumbered badly,Caesar decides to make a final stand against Pompey at the battle of Pharsalus, where Caesar defeats Pompey.After defeat, Pompey flees to Egypt with his few but tired and exhausted men. While being greeted by a Roman veteran, Pompey gets killed. Caesar goes to Egypt in search of the dead and destroyed Pompey, and meets the boy King, Ptolemy X111, who Caesar demands the name of the killer of Pompey. With Veronus and Pullo back. Casar sends for them to go to Egypt and are given a special responsibility to find Cleopatra. When found, Pullo and Veronus take her back to marry and make alliances with Caesar. At the end of the episode making a son.After two long years of fighting in Greece and Egypt, Caesar returns to Rome in all his glory and wealth. Later Caesar prepares for five days of feasting, celebration and games. Pullo is denied to march with the 13th in the Triumph, but wants to start a new life with Eirine, but his dreams only are broken. Veronus and Eirene reject Pullo, and blamed for guilt for the killing of Eirenes fiancé out of a jealous rage leaves Pullo destroyed. Eventually working as an assassin for the gangster Erastes. Pullo kills one of Caesar's popular opponents, leading him for arrest and put in the arena, where he must fight for his life. Veronus decides to join in the arena fight, helping Pullo by killing the last gladiator, and rescuing Pullo from certain death. Veronus, who is now a senator within the Senate, must confront Caesar and pledge for forgiveness. While in the Senate, Caesar is violently stabbed to death by Brutas and other members of the Senate, leaving Caesar stranded and bloodied all over his body and is only left for certain death.This is classy and brilliant acting and violence, drama and love, life and death. This should not be missed. Bloody, brutal and amazing.
From the very first image in the opening credits, you can't take your eyes from the screen -- it's that much 'alive' and immediate. Like the frescoed Gorgon later on in the credits, this place has a disconcerting way of seeming to live beyond its two-dimensional plane of television existence. You get caught up in the moments, beckoned into the time by the costumes, the light, the depth of the directors' vision. This is primo TV -- none of the usual stinting on detail so prevalent on other shows. You also get caught up in the characters, much like other people get caught up in the minutae of soap opera characters, only better, of course. These characters are infuriatingly like ourselves (though I might draw a thick, thick line between Atia's behavior and my own). Week by week, they pull us into their lives and we cannot help but cheer their triumphs, gasp at their misfortunes, grit our teeth in sympathy with their pain, shake our heads at their indomitability. Finally, Rome is entertainment at its most fundamental -- art imitating a life gone by which is known to us primarily by art -- a moebius circle of events well known that is, nevertheless, forever fresh. Kudos to HBO and BBC for underwriting this stupendous production!


                
HBO really should have shelled out the money for ROME to continue. It was one of the best shows i've seen in a long time. I agree with almost everyone that has written on here.... it had EVERYTHING. This is a show for all those people who have watched movies like gladiator a hundred times and are looking for similar experiences, except with 100 times the nudity. This is a typical HBO show. Anything that you THINK could happen.... Definitely could happen. Like a young woman walking into another's house...Followed by a random lesbian scene out of the blue. And right when you think Titus and Lucius are done killing??? Think again. I even know several woman who think the show is excellent and watch the DVD's religiously. The second season is due out on DVD sometime soon, and I can't wait. HBO, please reconsider. I don't see the different between this show and Deadwood... if you see the point in continuing with Deadwood, why not ROME?


                
This is THE best show ever made about the Roman Empire. I am a big fan of historic movies and grown tired of the sanitized image of the old empires. This movie shows it like it was , real people in real situation. The amount of effort put in this movie and excellent acting makes this masterpiece shine in a time when stupidity and profit are the only forces driving the movie making industry. Titus Pullo , Vorenus come to live and we can , for the first time, see Rome as a living city filled with vibrant life not only as a computer generated picture. Caesar finally shown as a human being not a fantasy character, shrewd politician and in the same time a MAN who has to make many difficult decisions. Definatelly a masterpiece which will take a honor place in my DVD collection when available.


                
After seeing the first 5 episodes I can say that I have found my new favorite series this summer, coming again from our friends on HBO. It depicts one of the most interesting times in roman history, the end of the republic and the rise of Caesar, making it come to life by mixing historic figures we all have read about and their actions, with scenes from everyday life in ancient Rome. Through the extensive set and costumes, a good cast and well developed characters, one gets a deep insight into life at that period and it makes that show not only fun to watch and highly entertaining, but also provides an incentive to go back to those history books and figure out the backgrounds to those events. I am cannot wait for the next episodes and then subsequently season II.


                
This Series is the best in its class of historical political dramatic genre. Nothing more to say, If you have a good taste and love for something that's worth watch then this is it.The way the plot is woven around the historical drama is simply spell binding and each and every speech is cleverly written and delivered. The characters are best chosen and suit the character they portray, even in physical parameters as described in history.Nothing in this series is in excess or in sparse, and each and every frame is worth watching. Simply awesome and literally worth applause.!! Must, Must Watch as simple as that to say in one short. !!


                
This is without question one of the best historical dramas I've ever seen. It depicts the majesty, cruelty and squalor (moral and physical) of Rome in a totally convincing manner. While it does make heavy use of creative license, it sticks to the generally accepted history of the period from the rise of Julius Caesar to the triumph of his heir Octavius.The drama focuses primarily on the leading protagonists contending for power, the Caesars, Pompey, Brutus, Mark Antony, Cleopatra, Cicero, et. al. However there are rich and complex characters of whom much less is known historically, including Octavian's mother Atia, Julius' mistress Servilia. A continuing theme throughout this lengthy series is the friendship between two soldiers, Lucius Vorenus and Titus Pullo, played by Kevin McKidd (of Grays Anatomy) and Ray Stevenson.Julius Caesar is played by Ciaran Hinds. He gets Caesar in a way I've never seen before, demonstrating all of the facets of his complex character.I have only one quibble with the series which is the amount of explicit sex. On some occasions this does contribute to the story, but mostly not, in my opinion. There is also a great deal of graphic violence which may be hard for some viewers to stomach, but seems appropriate, given what we know about Roman cruelty.This is a magnificent production. Do yourself a favor and get the Blu-Ray edition and watch it on a good HD screen.


                
This was one of the greatest show on TV! The story is solid! Great pacing! Acting is amazing... Kevin McKidd, Ray Stevenson, Polly Walker, James Purefoy all give great performances. The setting of the series is so perfect. The viewer gets a feel of the Roman life as he is transported to the ancient Rome! I would recommend this show for those who are interested in those times...Pompey, Julius Caesar, Mark Antony, Cleopatra, Brutus... The characters are so real that we are easily able to relate to them, their struggles, their triumphant victories, ambitions. The show has it all. It traces the Roman life through the eyes of Roman commoners and and those who are in power i.e Pompey, Julius Caesar, Mark Antony, Brutus, Cleaopatra...Sadly, not many people have seen this superb show!


                
