I've waited until the complete series of episodes had been shown on BBC before commenting, carefully watching each episode in the hope that it might improve. But no, it was an expensive waste of the filming budget from start to finish.Although only moderately accurate historically, I wasn't too bothered that it was turned into a soap opera about the adventures of the two centurions, grafted onto a background of some of the more well known episodes of Roman history. But the weak acting and poor direction, dreadful lighting and patchy sound recording were inexcusable. Much has been made of the nudity and sex: there was actually very little nudity, certainly by Roman standards, and the sex was mostly coyly concealed by the lousy lighting. I can not imagine any of it being in the least offensive.Some complain the violence was too graphic, but this was the norm then - killing someone with a sword is more bloody and brutal than with a bullet, and the average Hollywood war movie often has more blood. Some of the killing was rather unrealistic, such as the decapitation with the edge of a shield in the final gladiator fight, nor will even the sharpest of swords cut quite so cleanly and easily through an arm or leg as depicted several times.Those who suggest that this series is a modern day equivalent of "I, Claudius" are sadly mistaken. Indeed I have now gone and bought the DVD version of "I, Claudius" just to savour again the superb acting, dialogue and intrigue that series had - but I certainly would not waste my money on a DVD version of "Rome" if one exists (I've not bothered to find out). If you haven't seen "I, Claudius" do track it down - it shows up just how awful the "Rome" series really is.


                
If what you seek is sex, violence, and a storyline which bears no resemblance to Rome, and its history then do see this... If you have good taste then maybe not. Better to see Game of Thrones. Also sex, violence but at least no pretension of drawing scenes under a historical background. These are not small mistakes Rome does, characters are done backwards, under the banner of free interpretation. I wander why, maybe lack of imagination then. First Season is watchable. Second session is like the sewers of old Rome. The only thing that saves the drama is the individual stories of Pullo and Vorenius, two Roman Soldiers of the 13th Legion. If it was not for that, I would rank it a round zero.


                
This show is terribly boring and hard to follow. I had no clue what the hell is going on and why should I care!!! No action, for as expensive as this show cost HBO, they should ask for their money back. It took 7 episode into the first season to figure out who and what the hell was going on, and why should I care about these boring characters. Watching this show after watching years of Game of Thrones... Wow... Removing all the fantasy elements Game of Thrones has, it is clear superior writing of plot and schemes of people trying to secure power. What a waste of time, avoid this boring snooze fest of a show and rewatch Game of Thrones if you want to be taken out of modern times.


                
