I've always thought there's a great beauty and poignancy to the best slapstick comedies, even unsentimental ones like Keaton's "The General" or Laurel and Hardy's "Way Out West." The latter comedy has a scene where L&H perform a soft-shoe dance; it always brings me to tears. Why? Maybe physical comedy has the same kind of effect on me as a dance performance. Both art forms are very expressive; the fact that I'm laughing doesn't dilute the emotional charge.One of many things that made Chaplin a genius was his understanding of how close slapstick is to pathos already. Why not marry the two things? That's what he did in some of his early short films, and that's what he does in this feature comedy. The Little Tramp finds an abandoned baby and raises him into boyhood. But the authorities find out and want to take little Jackie (Jackie Coogan) away. Meanwhile, the mother who abandoned him has since become a wealthy singer and doesn't know if she'll ever find out what became of him.Jackie Coogan (about five in this film), with his charming manners, his talents as a mimic and his adeptness at physical comedy, is one of the all-time great child actors. Want more evidence of Chaplin's genius? Coogan doesn't steal the film from him. This is true even though Chaplin, as producer, star and director, makes every evident attempt to spotlight the boy's talents. Coogan is even better here than he is in his own vehicles, like "My Boy" and "Oliver Twist."Chaplin's storytelling—even with the foolish sub-Dickensian plot twists, such as Jackie suddenly taking ill—deftly draws out the comedy and pathos for maximum effect. The individual scenes themselves are flawlessly constructed. The window-breaking scene, the flophouse scene, the dream sequence, the trying-to-get-rid-of-the-baby scene—they're perfect. Chaplin's celebrated pantomimic skills are examples of storytelling in themselves.Want me to criticize something? How about those thudding attempts to link the mother with Jesus? But you know, I can't even complain about that. It's too sweetly naïve. And the movie as a whole is too good to allow us to sneer at the (very) few flaws.One important note: children love this movie. Show it to them while they're young, and you'll make Chaplin fans of them. And that's better than their becoming fans of almost anything that's being peddled to them.


                
THE KID (First National Pictures, 1921), a comedy-drama written, directed and starring Charlie Chaplin (1889-1977), plays an important part his screen career. Aside from Chaplin cast opposite Marie Dressler in TILLIE'S PUNCTURED ROMANCE (1914), a Mack Sennett production hailed as the first feature length comedy, THE KID starts Chaplin with a whole new cycle of feature comedies, but releases coming once every two to three years. A comic genius who got his start in comedy shorts starting in 1914, eventually under the supervision and direction of himself, Chaplin's methods in movie making improved with each passing film. Like himself, Jackie Coogan, Chaplin's littlest co-star and title character, made such an impression with his initial performance, nearly upstaging his impresario, that he immediately found himself starring in movies on his own, becoming Hollywood's first important child star.THE KID starts off with inter-titles, "A picture with a smile and perhaps a tear," followed by "The woman whose sin was motherhood," titles much to the liking of a D.W. Griffith directorial tearjerker starring Lillian Gish, yet, in fact, might have seemed more logical for a Griffith film than Chaplin's, whose very name personifies comedy. A young girl (Edna Purviance) leaves a charity hospital with a baby in her arms. who turns out to be an unwed mother whose father (Carl Miller), a young artist, never returns to her life. The mother places her baby in the back of a limousine and walks away. Crooks enter the scene, stealing the car, discover the baby and place it in a trash bin in the poor district of town. Noticing the infant wrapped in a blanket, Charlie tries to pass it off to someone else, but after stumbling upon a note which reads, "Please love and care for this orphan child," he decides to raise the child himself. Five years pass. The kid (whose name is believed to be John), now Charlie's adopted son and sidekick, start off each day with brand new adventures in raising money. As for the kid's mother, she's become "a star of great prominence," devoting her spare time with charitable work handing out gifts to the children of poor districts, where lives the kid. The paths of the kid and his mother meet on numerous occasions, unaware of each other's identities. When the kid becomes seriously ill and in need of immediate medical attention, a middle-aged country doctor, having discovered Charlie not the boy's true father, sends for the authorities from the County Orphan Asylum to take the child away.THE KID consists of many ingredients to make this an everlasting product, especially for a silent movie made so long ago. Chaplin, who constructs his gags to perfection, has one difficult scene that comes off naturally, this being where Charlie cuts out diapers from a sheet for the infant as he's lying beside him in a miniature hammock crying out for his milk. The baby immediately stops after Charlie directs the nipple attached to a coffee pot (a substitute for a baby bottle) back into his mouth. Another classic moment, on a serious nature, is when Charlie is being held back by authorities, being forced to watch his crying "son" taken away from him. Charlie breaks away and goes after the truck as he's being chased by a policeman from the slanted roof-tops. The close-up where father and son tearful reunite is as touching as anything ever captured on film.Chaplin and little Jackie (billed Jack Coogan in the opening credits) display their talents as both funny characters and dramatic actors. Little Jackie is especially cute as a miniature sized Chaplin, right down to his baggy pants. Chaplin giving one of his most sensitive performances, is so convincing that it doesn't take away his screen persona as the lovable funny tramp. From this point onward, he would become less characteristic as a slapstick comedian and more agreeable as an serious actor, at the same time, adding more plot, pathos and truly great comedy routines.As much as the present showing of THE KID barely reaches the one hour mark, Chaplin includes enough gags and pathos to make it work. The dream sequence where he finds himself in Heaven surrounded by angels might appear trite and unnecessary for some, but actually makes it essential to the plot which fits into the scene that follows.THE KID, which had been unavailable for public viewing for many years, was resurrected in the 1970s in revival movie houses with a brand new and wonderful orchestral score conducted by Chaplin himself in 1971. It would be nearly another decade for many to fully get to see and appreciate this little masterpiece when distributed to video cassette in 1989 as part of the Charlie Chaplin centennial collection, double billed along with a comedy short, THE IDLE CLASS (1921). In the DVD format, the two disc set includes rare out-takes and deleted scenes. Turner Classic Movies has brought forth THE KID as part of its movie library, where it made its debut December 15, 2003, during its weekly Silent Sunday Nights, hosted by Robert Osborne, and later in March 2004 when Charlie Chaplin was selected as its "Star of the Month."For its age, THE KID holds up extremely well, thanks to the convincing performances of both Chaplin and Coogan. There's no doubt Jackie Coogan (1914-1984) became an overnight star with this one film. He was a natural. While the paths of Chaplin and Coogan would never meet again, on screen anyway, without them, there would never have been such a true classic from the silent screen era as THE KID. (****)


                
It is hard to find such delightful and adorable movies these days as "The Kid". It is a silent movie but so rich, winning and beautiful that you don´t nead words. Chaplin and 6-year old Coogan are possibly the most charming pair I have ever seen in my life. The film succees to be nicely light and full of joy but also overwhelmingly sad and sentimental. I always get my eyes full with tears of saddness and happiness. And I really never cry in movies. And the music...its simply Oscar-level! The movie is sympathetic, full of feeling, touchingly funny moments. It is truly a masterpiece showing how extraordinary talented person Charlie Chaplin was considering this film is respectively over 80 years old! So don´t you miss it because of it´s age, don´t miss it.


                
It's easy to call Charlie Chaplin a genius, but I'll say it once again: the man was a genius, if only at doing a certain particular kind of film. You wouldn't ever see Charlie Chaplin doing a silent horror film, or at least one like out of Germany, or even a big epic that ran Griffith lengths. His artistry was concerned with those who could just about afford the price of a ticket back in the 20s and 30s to see his films and he combined pathos that was incredible and unique in and of its spectrum of humor and compassion. Some may call films like the Kid and even City Lights sentimental, but they may miss the greater picture at work which is that any sentiment is orchestrated and (the usual kicked-around word) manipulated amid the comedic set-ups. Earned sentiment is different than faux sentimentality chucked on to the viewer, and if any case could show this distinction better it would be hard to find a better example then the Kid.As it stands even at 50 minutes, which was trimmed by Chaplin himself 50 years after its original release and including a new musical score, it's just about a perfectly told tale. It is short in either cut form but its so simple a story to tell that anything else would just likely be padding; even that 'Dreamland' sequence towards the end of the film is crucial and allows for Chaplin to let loose on a wonderful light-and-dark examination of all the major characters in the picture- now with angel wings and devil horns! What it's about, in complete basics, is that a woman leaves her baby in the backseat of a car thinking she won't be able to take care of him, and the baby winds up by chance in an alleyway the Tramp is at, and the Tramp decides to take care of him (he even names him, in one amusing aside, John). Then it cuts to 5 years later, and the two are an intrepid duo as they break and fix windows, eat lots of pancake, and the Tramp nearly gets pummeled by an "Older Brother" of a kid John gets in a fight with. Meanwhile, the mother is now a success, not knowing her child is somewhere- right in front of her nose.This may sound like a bit of story, but it's told briskly and without a missed beat in editing, and Chaplin's re-edit tightens it to a point where we're mostly with the Kid and the Tramp. Their scenes are everything that Chaplin wants them to be: playful, absurd, cute, and bittersweet to a degree. We know this can't exactly last, but the moment the poor maybe-sick Kid is taken away to the orphanage becomes one of the most tragic (and yet partially triumphant) sequences in the movies. It's in a case like this, where we as the audience tear up, more or less, as the Kid is being carted away crying his eyes out, and then inter-cut with Chaplin's daring dash across the roof-tops to save him, that we see the genius of comedy and tragedy combined and working off each other. This is assisted greatly throughout by child actor Jackie Coogan who may be one of the very best child actors in any film, silent or otherwise; that it's silent adds to the challenge and success of pure pantomime that without fault feels true: even a beat with the Kid playing with toys, an obviously "cute" bit, is great, and up for the task of playing off a quintessential clown like Chaplin.Featuring some excellent set-pieces just unto themselves (aside from Dreamland there is the fight between Chaplin and the Brother with that belly-laugh part with the repetitive brick-hit to the head, or when Tramp and the Kid stop to sleep for the night at the home and have to sneak around to try and not pay an extra coin), an absolutely beautiful musical track from Chaplin, and excellent performances from all supporting cast (including frequent Chaplin star Edna Purvivance), it's altogether an awe-inspiring feat. To see this or City Lights or Modern Times to an extent is to see ideas and character outlasting far beyond their time and place as something far more valuable to the public consciousness.


                
The Kid became a critically hailed international hit. A tramp (Charles Chaplin) brings up an abandoned baby (Jackie Coogan), and later loses him to his mother (Edna Purviance); but there is a happy ending.The film is a sentimental silent comedy set in the slums. The comedy is sparingly laid on, but the overall effect is much less painful than the synopsis would suggest. The production is comparatively smooth, young Coogan is sensational, and the film contains much of the quintessential Chaplin. Chaplin had difficulties getting The Kid produced. His inspiration, it is suggested was the death of his own first son, Norman Spencer Chaplin a few days after birth in 1919.
Charlie Chaplin's first full length feature film, and his biggest success up to that date, is a remarkably heartwarming story , which makes the surprising connection between slapstick comedy and dramatic tragedy. It begins with a woman who's "sin was motherhood," who gives birth to a baby she can't support at a Charity Hospital which is kept pad-locked from the inside. She is forced to abandon it in an alley, and before long Chaplin wanders by and what follows is one of the best sequences of the film, as he is casually strolling by and then, through a series of odd but entirely believable situations, he is unable to get rid of it. It is no secret that little Jackie Coogan nearly stole the show from Chaplin (who was in top form) playing the little boy at 5 years old. Charlie's life is thrown into turmoil by the unexpected arrival of the baby, but eventually he sort of organizes his life and when the kid gets a little older they make a nice living together, the boy breaking windows and Charlie selling replacements. Soon the police notice so they have to cut and run, because there are other conflicts approaching which will warrant screen time much more than how they make money. It is interesting to watch the film oscillate back and forth from Chaplin's traditional slapstick comedy and a much more developed, dramatic story. The film is interspersed with pure slapstick and some genuinely moving moments (sometimes simultaneously, if you can believe that), but overall it is a truly heartwarming tale of friendship and family and survival, and it is never once predictable, all the way until the last frame.There is a quick scene where the kid gets into a fist fight with another little boy, and in between "rounds, " Charlie is rubbing the kid down and congratulating him on fighting so well, and giving him hints for the rest of the fight. Meanwhile, the other kid's brother shows up, a massive oaf of a man who looks more like Frankenstein's monster than anything else. What follows is a pretty funny fight that looks startlingly similar to the fight between Charlie and the town bully in Easy Street. This is a slapstick set-up that is so simple that it could have been thrown in just to take up screen time, were it not for it's direct relevance to the story.At another point, there is pure slapstick taking place in their little shack of a home, as the 1921 version of Child Protective Services shows up to tear the young boy crying from Jackie's arms. I think this is the only time in any film that I've ever seen genuine, low-brow slapstick so seamlessly combined with a truly sad and heartbreaking incident. This combination, not just here but throughout the film, is The Kid's biggest achievement. There is a dream sequence near the end of the film that I am really not sure what to think about, although my understanding is that volumes have been written about it's symbolic meaning, both within the movie and in reference to Chaplin's personal life. And speaking of which, supposedly there were some legal issues involving money and divorce for which Chaplin sped the film stock to Utah for editing. I don't know which story to believe, that it was because of Chaplin's painful divorce or because he was unhappy with his salary (I would bet it's a little of both), but the film is here and I guess ultimately that's all that matters. In the five or six times that I've seen The Kid, I am always a little uncomfortable with that kiss that Charlie gives the kid when he finally rescues him from the back of that truck, if only because I am conscious that he is not the tramp's real son, either on screen or off. Then again, I am looking at it with 21st century eyes. Some of Shirley Temple's early films are also a little disturbing to me, although for not quite the same reasons. By this time, Chaplin was fully on the road to his career in full length feature films, and after 36 short comedies for Mack Sennett at Keystone Studios and a dozen or so more for Essanay and Vagabond (along with a few assorted others), Charlie was fast on the way to establishing himself as one of the greatest stars in the history of the cinema.


                
This is such a incredible movie...Along with "City Lights" and "The Gold Rush" this has to be one of the best movies starring Charles Chaplin, and it is also one of the best movies ever made.It is true that for the modern viewers, the story of this film could be way too melodramatic and dated, but personally I think it is one of the most heartwarming and captivating films ever made, and a timeless classic from the age where movies were made with heart and not only thinking only in the box-office.That doesn't mean this movie isn't entertaining: In fact, I found this movie to be way more enjoyable than many modern unfunny "comedies" and also way more emotional and engaging.I truly loved this film. It is one of the best movies of the story of cinema and shouldn't be forgotten.


                
The opening title to this film reads "A film with a smile - and perhaps, a tear." Truer words about a motion picture have never been spoken, for Charlie Chaplin's "The Kid" has a plethora of smiles from start to finish, and yes, a few tears as well. The film tells the tale of a woman who abandons her infant son, who is eventually stumbled upon by the famous Little Tramp character, played by Chaplin. The Tramp takes the baby into his own care. Five years go by, and the Tramp and the Kid, portrayed by a young Jackie Coogan, are getting along just fine. However, a turn of events results in the two being separated, and from there the film moves on as the Tramp desperately tries to be reunited with the boy he has grown to consider his son.Charlie Chaplin is a true master of filmmaking, and this film is one of his best. His direction is truly remarkable, being able to manipulate the audience's emotions so much without sound. He is able to do more with silence than any living filmmaker could do with an insurmountable budget. He manages to make you laugh almost non-stop from start to finish, and even wind up causing you to shed a tear. It's so emotionally gripping, and you just fall in love with these characters from the get-go. Even though the Tramp may not have the best living conditions or resources to properly care for the Kid, his love and loyalty to his job of caring for the boy makes their relationship a truly beautiful piece of cinema.As emotionally wrenching this film is, it's simply hilarious. This film has some great slapstick humor, and Chaplin is a true master of it. Jackie Coogan is also great. If I had to find one flaw with the film, it would be the slightly odd and silly dream sequence, but it is symbolic of the rest of the film and I don't really mind it, despite being odd and out of tone with the rest of the film. Overall, The Kid is a film that can make you laugh out loud one minute, then tug at your heartstrings the next. It's an absolute riot, but one of the most emotionally satisfying pieces of cinema I've ever seen. And to think that Chaplin did all this without a line of dialogue, it's just incredible. And not to mention the music is just stellar too, Chaplin is a master at composition. The Kid is one of my favorite films, and anyone who has yet to see it should definitely get on that!


                
A picture with a smile and perhaps, a tear.That is the first line of the movie as it begins, and it stands true. We cry when the kid is being taken away from his father and we smile when they unite and share the feeling. Wow, I can't say ho much this meant to me as a father and son story. Now, we have got so many movie where a child is taken away and united finally, recent great movie is Finding Nemo. But what's special about this movie is simplicty, honesty and a rare kind of emotion that only Chaplin could bring into us.Done by the genius Chaplin, there is not a moment where we are left without a feeling, we either smile or bring tears. So to say there is never a dull moment would still be an understatement. Look for that dream scene and most of the things that we wish to do, are done there. Winning over a fight from a neighbour, meeting angels and all. Now, look at the editing in this less than an hour film, its neat and precise. The cinematography tells us the story superbly by moving camera at right pace. The music supplements at most places and yes it is great music in the context of the film. Acting is sublime by Chaplin, only few can do what he did and even today, hardly anyone can match him. It's a great movie undoubtedly and a must watch, atlas watch it before you die, you may learn something you never wanted to miss. It's 5/5 for one of the finest silent movies ever.


                
004: The Kid (1921) - released 1/21/1921; viewed 7/22/05 Martial Law is declared in Ireland following Bloody Sunday. An 8.6 earthquake strikes China, leaving 180,000 dead. Bricks of wine are widely sold throughout the U.S. during Prohibition.BIRTHS: Dave Brubeck, Jack Lord, Rodger Ward.KEVIN: Finally, we come to our first Charlie Chaplin film, which was also Chaplin's first full-length feature (even at 50 minutes), and one of Chaplin's best ever. And it has little Jackie Coogan, the first full-fledged, honest-to-god child star. And what an absolutely great film it is. Every moment of this one was just wonderful. You can tell that this film meant a lot to Chaplin emotionally. And Coogan is just as cute as can be, even when he's throwing rocks at windows with his tiny arms. Another thing I noticed was that the title cards in this film were much simpler and to-the-point, unlike the cards in Griffith's films, which were always very poetic and biblical-sounding, even in Broken Blossoms, where things were as far from epic as they could be. I must also say that the DVD restoration on this film is astonishing. It literally looks brand new, like it was shot yesterday.DOUG: In 1921, silent filmmaker extraordinaire Charles Chaplin (Charlie to his fans) released his first full-length motion picture (what passed for full length in those days at 6 reels and 50 minutes), The Kid. Let me first say that the DVD restoration for this film is excellent. It looks like it was shot yesterday. You can make out every window on the buildings, every leaf on the trees. I imagine this has something to do with the fact that the film was re-edited and re-released in 1971. I do kind of wish we had checked out some of Chaplin's earlier short work leading up to this, but we still have plenty more of the Tramp to go. This film was wonderful. Jackie Coogan is simply adorable as the title character, a perfect sidekick for the Tramp. Of course the big moment in the movie is when the workers come to take the kid away to a workhouse, and the Tramp ferociously fights back and reclaims him before they can cart him away. This is an intense moment in a very light and comedic film, no doubt with roots to Chaplin's own childhood. In Intolerance we also saw workers taking a child away against a parent's will, so I wonder if this was an issue in the 10's and 20's, this thing of taking young children away from parents who were deemed "unfit," to give them a "better home." We're rooting for the parents all the time; "All I know is that some strange men came into my house, asked me a lot of weird questions, and then tried to take my son away!" And hey, we get to see a glimpse of young Lita Grey, who will become important to Chaplin later...Last film viewed: Way Down East (1920). Last film chronologically: The Mark of Zorro (1920). Next film: Nosferatu, A Symphony of Horror (1922).The Movie Odyssey is an exhaustive, chronological project where we watch as many milestone films as possible, starting with D.W. Griffith's Intolerance in 1916 and working our way through, year by year, one film at a time. We also write a short review for each and every film. In this project, we hope to gain a deeper understanding of the time period, the films of the era, and each film in context, while at the same time just watching a lot of great movies, most of which we never would have watched otherwise.


                
Charlie Chaplin, as the unnamed Tramp, finds an abandoned child and raises him as his own. Five years later, the child welfare organizations try to take the child (Jackie Coogan) away, while the child's mother (Edna Purviance) is still trying to find him.Chaplin's first feature is another masterpiece, and a real tearjerker. Some scenes are probably there for comic relief (such as the scene with the doctor), but some are almost sad, and Chaplin continues his streak of movies dignifying the underdog.On a side note, it's hard to believe that The Kid is played by the future Uncle Fester, but it's true.


                
Charlie Chaplin's first feature-length theatrical is one of the greatest achievements of silent era of filmmaking that paints one of the most heartfelt portrait of father-son relationship on the silver screen, presents the gifted talent at the prime of his creativity, and despite being nearly a century old classic, can still put most comedies of today to shame.A comedy with a smile & perhaps a tear, The Kid tells the story of a tramp who after coming across an abandoned baby takes him under his care after which the film jumps five years in the span of which the grown child now works as his father's sidekick, helping his glazing business by breaking windows around the town. But an unfortunate set of events soon put their relationship into jeopardy.Written, produced, directed, composed & edited by Charlie Chaplin himself, who also stars as his signature character, The Kid is clearly a one-man show yet there isn't a single aspect where Chaplin's work isn't impressive enough. Plus his remarkable ability to fuse comedy with elements of drama in a seamless manner not only makes this tale a roller-coaster ride of rib-tickling laughter but also an emotionally moving story.The chemistry between Chaplin & Jackie Coogan, who plays the young kid, is absolutely spot-on plus their on-screen bonding feels wholly convincing. Technical aspects are full of little innovations, Cinematography crisply captures the unfolding events, Editing is tight for the most part but that dream sequence did feel a bit unnecessary. However, the wonderful background score does rank amongst my favourite soundtracks.On an overall scale, The Kid remains one of the most memorable, influential & greatest films of all time whose significance & contribution to the art of cinema cannot be downplayed. It has effortlessly managed to stand the test of time for what soon will be one whole century and thanks to its universal themes, will continue to do so for as long as cinema exists. Truly an unforgettable classic, definitely one of Chaplin's finest & certainly amongst my all time favourites, The Kid comes strongly recommended.


                
By the time THE KID reached theaters in early 1921, Chaplin had already been a household name for years and was, by this time, to some degree taken for granted by critics. However, having spent nearly two years on a production which resulted in a completed film of six reels, it must have appeared inevitable that the comedian had made himself worthy of another evaluation. Chaplin's first feature film as a director is presented as "A film with a laugh – and perhaps a tear" in an opening title, and this promise is being kept throughout; quite definitely so. The film has the Tramp finding an abandoned baby, whom he eventually adopts. As a few years go by, the two of them struggle to make both ends meet, and they are forced to use some quite imaginative methods in order to survive: a brilliant sequence has the Kid breaking windows while the Tramp casually walks by as a glazier<U+0085> Obviously, they are frequently in trouble with the law, and the Tramp might not come across as an overwhelmingly ideal parent; at least not at first sight. However, eventually a visit from a representative of a children's home put to question who is really capable of giving the Kid love and affection when he needs it the most<U+0085>Having started out his film career doing pretty much what most of his contemporaries were doing at the time (running around and knocking down a by-passer with a brick in the head simply because he looks kind of stupid), Chaplin had undergone a truly phenomenal artistic development during his first seven years as a film-maker. Although his talent had been evident from the very start, and he had several outstanding short comedies on his credit by this time, THE KID is probably the film where his ability to convey a strong dramatic aspect within his comedy reached full maturity. The chemistry between Chaplin and child actor marvel Jackie Coogan is not only touching, but appears to be truly genuine; it actually started a trend of adopting abandoned children among film comedians for the years to follow, of which Lloyd Hamilton is one example. However, one of the reasons why Chaplin's version remains so much alive in public consciousness to this day, while most attempts at imitating him are forgotten, is that the comedian based his story on truly personal experiences and concerns. Although being far from the first time he looked back upon his tough past as a poverty-struck boy in London in order to find a setting for his films, he had never before dared to let the pain which he suffered during much of his childhood become so visibly reflected. His memory of being taken away from his mother by cold authorities as a child is an unavoidable parallel, and it has also been suggested that the film may partly reflect Chaplin's sorrow over having lost an infant child at the beginning of the production.It is true, as some contemporary critics have noted, that the film does make use some of time-typical elements which might appear dated today, such as a few scenes with the mother and certain title-cards. The structure of the film appears more predictable in some regards than later productions of Chaplin such as THE GOLD RUSH and CITY LIGHTS. However, it would be quite pointless (and unfair) to expect THE KID not to have been affected by the time during which it was made. In the years that followed, the silent film language would reach perfection, as directors both in Hollywood and the rest of the world developed ground-breaking methods to convey depth and complexity through subtle nuances. Although I believe he is not generally given the credit he deserves, Chaplin's contributions to this progression stand as incomparable in several ways. With THE KID, he set a whole new standard as to what level the genre of film comedy could be stretched. Although Roscoe Arbuckle, Mabel Normand, Mary Pickford and Max Linder had appeared in features already (which had resulted in some fine comedies, indeed), Chaplin's ability to evoke genuine concern for the Tramp and the Kid left an impact which is evident not only in the later features of other great silent comedians such as Buster Keaton, Harold Lloyd and Harry Langdon, but remains visible to this day. Chaplin reached an emotional level which interacted smoothly with the comedy, forcing us to wipe our eyes even though we laughed ourselves silly some five minutes earlier. At ten years old, it was probably the first film to ever make me cry<U+0085>and I still do, when revisiting it.
The Kid represents cinema at it's finest. It has an amazing screenplay, amazing cinematography, beautiful set locations, and a story that will entertain and engage viewers of any age. What is incredibly effective about the film is how it is very much a drama as much as a comedy. The audience cares for the story's elements, and with that there are also various laughs found throughout the film. Granted, this is my first Charles Chaplin film (even though I do recognize that famous mustache!) so I am obviously going to be very impressed. I am just starting to see more silent films, so there is still much more to see. However, it is hard to imagine another silent film that will be better than The Kid, because it is pretty much perfect as any film goes.


                
One of Chaplin's best. Chaplin's character fins an abandoned infant on the street, and with more or less willingness, take charge of him. All is going well until five year later when the kid falls ill. A "country doctor" (in reference to a 1909 movie) is called, and decides that the sick kid need proper attention and care. Subsequently, a rigid and horrendous orphanage director comes with an officer to take on the child. Which, of course, Chaplin tries successfully to avoid, and ends up in a workhouse. Unfortunately, the formerly desperate mother, now become a star, posted an ad to reward who would bring the kid back, and while Charlie is asleep, the workhouse manager brings the kid to the police station. All ends well as the mother is not a heartless b***ch and welcome Chaplin to her place to see the kid. End. OK, this was factual. Now for the emotional part, Chaplin fulfill this masterpiece with laughters & tears, as we are foretold from the very beginning. This movie, seen now, emphasizes the different way comedies have turn now; no long declamation, forceful words to delineates as strong feelings, just suggestion, appeal to our heart. Simplicity and efficiency in the humor as in the pathos.
So beautiful, so ugly, so sad, so happy... there must be dozens different adjectives that describe this movie. Chaplin and Coogan are a great, unforgettable pair. In Coogan you can see little Charlie Chaplin. Little kid plays his role better than well... he's great and so is "the big" Chaplin as well! There's so much beauty in the story. The movie tells in a simple way a story about a little boy, a tramp and a desperate woman. In a cute Chaplin way everything has a happy end but before the happy end there's a lot of sadness... and of course also many funny scenes. I think it's amazing how Chaplin can make little things so funny. Charlie Chaplin's mimic is amazingly good, best in the world. His face can show all the feelings incredibly well and little Coogan has learned that from Chaplin. This film must be the most beautiful story about vagabond's life. Maybe Chaplin's best film! All Chaplin's films are worth of watching and especially this one! This movie shows that words are not needed in the movies... words are just disturbing the great mimic. One picture tells more than thousand words, Chaplin really shows that that's true!


                
Amazing movie.. genius.. this was made in 20's - still excel


                
Today, Charlie Chaplin is known primarily and exclusively for his silent, slapstick humor, but one mustn't forget that he was also a master at tearjerking drama. The Kid is perhaps the finest example of the classic comedy master's ability to tug at our heartstrings. The Kid is a film that is only about sixty minutes in length, and yet it has far more dramatic impact than most films that are twice as long! Although I seem to only be acknowledging the film's more emotional qualities, there is also no doubting that The Kid is also an extremely funny movie, possibly even among the funniest films ever made. Even within this tale of melancholy, Chaplin is able to inject some of his most clever and creative slapstick routines. With the help of child co star Jackie Coogan, Chaplin is able to get laughs that will please almost anyone's sense of humor, from the infantile to the elderly. Jack Coogan in particular has surprisingly solid comedic ability and timing, despite his obvious young age. The image of Chaplin picking up Coogan by his overalls as Coogan is in the midst of a fight is just precious, because of Coogan's reluctance to stop fighting. Instead of calming down and succumbing to his father's orders, he wiggles around vigorously, throwing out useless punches and kicks. Chaplin's ability to fairly balance extreme emotions is the stuff of cinematic legend. As the famous title card so accurately describes: The Kid is "A picture with a smile-and perhaps, a tear."


                
No more Words to say about the greatness of this movie.I SEE IT DAILY At least ONCE ON MY MOBILE PHONE.EXCELLENT COMBINATION OF FUN AND TEARS. A Must Watch!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Movie Title: THE KID [1921] Director & Writer: Charles Chaplin Starring: Edna Purviance, Jackie Coogan and Charles Chaplin


                
"The Kid" (1921) is an innovative classic. The film is about a tramp, played by Charlie Chaplin, who takes in a child, played by Jackie Coogan, abandoned by his mother, played by Edna Purviance, as they scheme and plot to survive the slums. This movie is Charlie Chaplin's first feature length film and it does not disappoint.Charlie Chaplin, well known for his slap stick comedies, stayed true to form while adding emotional drama and a hint of comedic subtlety. His shot sequencing and cuts are purposeful and direct. Unlike, some films of the same era, the mind is constantly engaged. The wonder of what is going to happen next is timely fulfilled with well-timed transitions.This movie was a very well put together piece with a strong, captivating story. I have never been a huge fan of silent films, but this film changed my opinion and can do the same for any audience.


                
The Kid is not Charlie Chaplins best movie by far, it is simply one of his good movies, one that is easily watchable and quite funny. Charlie Chaplin is easily in the top five directors of all time, and is one of the few that has never had a bad film, some are better than others but they never suck. The story is pretty good, not very original or developed but good all the same, and works well. The screenplay is excellent. The acting is amazing, Charlie Chaplin and Jack Coogan are truly phenomenal it is extremely hard to get emotions over without talking and they do it perfectly. The direction is even better than the acting and is truly great, one of the best directorial jobs ever. The visual effects are fair, but just genius for the time they even have people flying. Well worth a watch but not brilliant.


                
I'm a Keaton fan. To me, Charlie Chaplin has always meant the forced, artificial sentimentality of City Lights, Modern Times, and The Great Dictator, or the unfunny (and borderline disturbing) Monsieur Verdoux.But I never saw any of Chaplin's earlier films, so I decided to give him another chance at the week-long showing of The Circus at New York's Film Forum, and I was surprised that I liked it. I was impressed that he made it through a movie without pouring on the corn syrup, so I decided to give The Kid a try (partly because I'd never seen a performance by Jackie Coogan -- Uncle Fester in the Addams Family doesn't count).And I was blown away. This film is a masterpiece, showing that the early Chaplin could combine slapstick comedy, drama, and an appropriate level of sentimentality to devastating effect. And Coogan was astonishing -- not the typical child-actor, but at least an equal partner with Chaplin in the picture, despite his age. It's a pity Chaplin later degenerated into sentimental crap, but if the treacle of his later films makes you gag, give this one a try. I can't believe I almost didn't.


                
Yes, this is my favorite movie. No, it's not perfect, but I still love it.This was Charlie Chaplin's first, and--still my opinion--best film.The Kid is a marvelous mixture of both humor and drama. It's about a little man (called The Little Tramp) who finds a baby on the street. The Little Tramp reluctantly takes the child, begins taking care of it--and soon enough, the baby is a kid, more or less.The child is taken from him, but they still attempt to get back to each other in this captivating tale of companionship and togetherness.Go watch the movie--if you already have--then watch it again.


                
What can be said about Chaplin that hasn't been said before. He truly helped invent the art of cinema. I always remember a film teacher of mine telling me that sound came too quickly - that silent films were just coming into their own and that the rush to include sound prevented silent films from reaching their full potential. For those who say they don't like silents - then you can't say you love film. That said and done, THE KID does the near impossible. It has you laughing one minute and crying the next. But the emotions elicited by this film are real. There's no manipulation here. That's the sign of a true genius.


                
