While perhaps not as celebrated now as some of Chaplin's later features, "The Kid" is an excellent achievement and a thoroughly enjoyable film. Charlie and young Jackie Coogan make an entertaining and unforgettable pair, and there is a lot of good slapstick plus a story that moves quickly and makes you want to know what will happen.  Chaplin also wrote a particularly good score for this one, and most of the time the music sets off the action very nicely.While it's a fairly simple story, this is one of Chaplin's most efficiently designed movies.  Every scene either is necessary to the plot, or is very funny for its own sake, or both.  Except for Chaplin and Coogan, most of the other characters (even frequent Chaplin leading lady Edna Purviance) are just there to advance the plot when needed, and the two leads are allowed to carry the show, which they both do extremely well."The Kid" is also impressive in that, while the story is a sentimental one, it strikes an ideal balance, maintaining sympathy for the characters while never overdoing it with the pathos, which Chaplin occasionally lapsed into even in some of his greatest movies.  Here, the careful balance makes the few moments of real emotion all the more effective and memorable.This is one of Chaplin's very best movies by any measure.  If you enjoy silent comedies, don't miss it.


                
Wow, is this a memorable film! It is one of the most famous silent movies ever and justifiably so. That fact that it still entertains over 80 years after it was made is quite a testimony. It is a wonderful blend of humor and drama. Charlie Chaplin's unique humor, combined with an involving storyline and strong sentimentality make this one to remember. Chaplin's humor ranges from pure slapstick to some clever stunts.The "kid" - Jackie Coogan - is just as memorable, maybe even more so. He is unbelievably cute, especially in those old-time clothes he wore. Watching the expressions on his face, even as a baby, are fascinating and facial expressions certainly were a trademark of the silent era.So, between Chaplin and Coogan, and a very involving story that can break your heart one minute and have you laughing out loud the next, it's an amazing piece of work. This is a very fast-paced story which lasts less than an hour.The special edition two-disc DVD has a restored version of the print so the picture is very clear, actually astounding for its age. Excellent entertainment.


                
"The Kid" is a powerfully emotional and wonderfully hilarious motion picture and was a tremendous breakthrough in Charlie Chaplin's oeuvre. Chaplin hadn't filled a film so fully with pathos since "The Vagabond" (1916), and then it was in a very limited way, subject to the confines of two-reel length. Additionally, "Sunnyside" (1919) was a failure. The feature length of "The Kid" also allows Chaplin to elaborate and refine the gags, pranks and set pieces, and with the support of Jackie Coogan, it's one of his funniest comedies.The parent-child relationship has proved potential as sentimental entertainment, and, for me, not many have neared Chaplin in exploiting that formula in "The Kid". The sequence where they take the kid, for a workhouse, away from the tramp is probably the most powerful and endearing tearjerker moment in the film--or of all film. In addition to Chaplin and Coogan, Edna Purviance is also quite effective in the dramatic side of the picture. Furthermore, Chaplin and cinematographer Roland Totheroh's photography had by then improved vastly over their work at Mutual, and Chaplin was already an eccentric perfectionist, but the musical score added to the 1971 release, composed by Chaplin, taken from Tchaikovsky, gives the sentimental parts its most verve.Of the slapstick, one of my favorite scenes involves the tramp in fear of a bully. It's reminiscent of his Mutual short "Easy Street" (1917), which is made especially clear when the bully bends a lamppost with one punch. There are many other great moments of humorous pantomime and farce in this film. Yet, "The Kid" is much more than that, which makes it such a breakthrough; the slapstick fills the plot, and there is more of a developed plot here than in Chaplin's previous work. This was the beginning of the tramp as the sympathetic, pitiful hero, as well as clown, that's so recognizable and beloved to this day.Moreover, the dream sequence is an ingenious plot device; it adds dimensionally to the narrative and asserts its themes while delaying the inevitable conclusion of the outer narrative to poignant effect. It's also funny in a silly way. It's somewhat analogous to the outer reality story, although with much ambiguity. I wasn't always sure Chaplin was making any clear point, such as with the Christ image earlier in the film, but that seems unimportant; "The Kid" affects the emotions and isn't especially aimed at engaging the mind. At six reels, with more sets and a developed plot, this film was already an expansion compared to Chaplin's previous films; the dream sequence satisfyingly expands the narrative depth, thus making "The Kid" Chaplin's first complete feature.
What makes a feature film different to a short? It isn't just length. After all, some of Charlie Chaplin's later shorts were as long as forty-five minutes, while The Kid is barely an hour. No, when Chaplin made his graduation to full-length features, he also strove to broaden the scope, scale and above all the dignity of his work. The Kid is not just the addition of another fifteen minutes of funny business; it is truly a turning point in Chaplin's career.The Kid begins with a bit of backstory, as a few of Chaplin's shorts do, but never before has he conceived one as professional looking as this. Here we have the opening of a drama, and yet one written and staged with such simplicity that it does not overbalance the rest of the picture, and does not leave us waiting too long to get onto the comedy. Two shots and a title card tell us that the woman in this story is the mother of an illegitimate child. A couple more shots tell us that the father is now out of her life, and revealing him to be an aspiring artist gives us an idea of why she may have been attracted to him, and why perhaps their relationship was passionate yet brief. Of course, such seriousness was the sort of thing to be lampooned in a Chaplin short, but here that wouldn't be appropriate. Instead we are eased gradually into the comedy world, but having the pair of hoodlums who steal the car slightly buffoonish characters – they are by no means laugh-out-loud funny, but they certainly don't belong in a straight dramatic setting. And throughout while the drama remains very genuine Chaplin takes care never to allow any environment to become too serious, for example having Henry Bergman turn up as a flamboyant impresario in the dressing room scene.And never before has the effort gone into directing actors been so evident in a Chaplin picture. The performances in The Kid are full of subtle gesture and timing in ensemble pieces. Edna Purviance demonstrates a good sense of dramatic realism, with a little too much melodramatic exaggeration, but still very natural by the standards of the time. And of course, little Jackie Coogan is astoundingly impressive, his movements, expressions and timings all spot-on, so much so that it almost looks impossible for a child to be acting with such apparent awareness, and he appears more like a human cartoon character. Coogan steals the picture with ease, and for once the normally egotistical Chaplin steps graciously aside.This too is an important difference with The Kid. Chaplin had always resisted anything verging on a double act, famously severing his partnership with the funny-in-his-own-right Ben Turpin back in 1915. Now however he allows his rapport with Coogan to become the main basis for gags. Notice how there are very few protracted comedy sequences in The Kid that feature Chaplin on his own. The few examples, such as the routine with the policeman's wife and the window ledge, are often hilarious and Chaplin could easily have filled the picture with such material. However, he does the bulk of the comedy in duet with Coogan, in material which is perhaps not quite as funny but also has that endearing touch to it, and Chaplin willingly sacrifices his own time in the limelight to bring this out.Today The Kid can be looked upon as the ancestor of the successful feature-length spin-off. If you look at something like the 80-minute Christmas special of The Office, it similarly broadened out the scope of the TV series by adding some serious dramatic and emotional elements, and has become recognised as a masterpiece – better than the series. By comparison The Simpsons will always be best remembered as a TV show because The Simpsons Movie just felt like an extra long episode. Chaplin's full length features however were far more than just spin-offs, and have always been revered and regarded as the most important body of his work.


                
The simple, lovely story of an abandoned kid and found and raised by the little tramp is executed by Chaplin with an incredible sensitive touch. I'd say that it is as much funny as sad, and the music score couldn't be more accurate.Perhaps the most delightful surprise was to "In the dreamland" scene. So full of symbolism and lyrically narrated, the scene made me question myself if, at the moment, I was watching Buñuel and not Chaplin. It is not my Chaplin's favorite, but it's for sure one of his bests. Totally recommend to be watched. Chaplin will never disappoint you, that's for sure. If you watch this one, also with "City Lights" and "Modern Times", you'll be ready to enjoy his talkies: "The Great Dictator", a classic, and the perfect, touching till tears, "Limelight".


                
Due to an unwed mother abandoning her child in an automobile and said automobile being subsequently hijacked, The Little Tramp winds up with the baby and proceeds to raise it in its first five years.In reading Charlie Chaplin's memoirs I learned two things about the making of The Kid. First he had to get child star Jackie Coogan away from Roscoe 'Fatty' Arbuckle under whom the lad was contracted. Chaplin saw him and was determined to make a film with him. The second thing was Chaplin's determination to make a film that combined both pathos and comedy which many said could not be done.The success of The Kid is due to the chemistry established between Chaplin and Coogan. As Chaplin said in his memoirs young children in their uninhibited way are natural actors. Part of the chemistry though is to make sure they don't totally steal the film from you.The Tramp gets his innings in with The Kid. He's the same rapscallion Tramp we all know, but The Kid showed another side of The Tramp, one of deep feeling and protectiveness. Two people who need and love each other very much. This film couldn't miss.First National Pictures sure thought so as it became part of a three way tug of war between Chaplin, the studio, and his estranged wife Mildred Harris. The Robert Downey, Jr. biographical film Chaplin illustrates that whole bit of business where Charlie smuggled out the negative of The Kid and took it on the lam across state lines. He edited it and was able to get it back to First National as a finished product on his own terms. That whole business probably would make a good movie unto itself.Till that one is made see and enjoy the Tramp and the future Uncle Fester in The Kid.


                
"The Kid" was released in 1921, at the pinnacle of the Silent era, when emotions came to screen through looks and body language, when "we didn't need dialog, we had faces". And if there's one film where Charlie Chaplin's face oddly illuminates the screen, it's definitely "The Kid". Sure, many fans would argue that "City Lights" is Chaplin's masterpiece but something is too perfect, too masterfully directed, it was made during the talking era, Chaplin was in his 40's and had more experience, while "The Kid" features a more youthful director, It belongs to a whole other era, and has the historical feel of a Mark Twain or Charles Dickens novel, which is not surprising when you consider that the movie is chronologically closer to these classics <U+0085> Indeed, in 1921, Chaplin was 32, Hitchcock 22, Brando wasn't even born, discovering "The Kid" is like turning the pages of a dusty yellow-paged historical book, one eye is watching the film, while the other discovers a period. And I don't know if I'm the only one, but there's something in the setting, the location that makes the film look even older. For all I saw, the movie could have been set in the early century, and considering the timing of the film, maybe this feeling has been deliberately accentuated by Chaplin, himself. The film was made in a difficult personal time, when he'd just lost his son after his birth. There was a great wound in Chaplin's heart and a movie evoking childhood was the best way to exorcise his inner demons, and his discovery of a very young gifted child named Jackie Coogan the perfect encouragement.The context of "The Kid" is crucial to analyze and comprehend the personal motives of Chaplin beneath the simple desire to make a movie. Chaplin was a successful comedian at that time, which is even more impressive considering his seven-year experience, a short time but enough to create an icon, the Little Tramp, an immediately recognizable character that put a face in a rather young art named Cinema. Chaplin's story is also the perfect illustration of the American Dream and I'm sure that he felt privileged for having gone from a difficult childhood in a poor London district to Hollywood fame ... and maybe somewhere deeply in his heart, he felt obliged to let this part of himself having an occasion to shine, maybe he knew he was the only one who could direct himself in a more serious tone, and maybe the weight of the past was the little flame that ignited his desire to be a film-maker."The Emigrant" in 1917 was like the first step back into Chaplin's past, inspired by his own experience. The movie doesn't feature many emotional moments probably because the emigration carries a sort of hope for a better future, and leaving the motherland wasn't synonym of sadness, but the emotions were there, beyond the slapstick and the comedy, and waiting for another step back, to finally explode in an emotional firework, which directly transports us to Chaplin's past. He who grew up without a father, and started working at an early age, he who learned entertainment for survival more than for a living, before it cemented his talent, he needed to dedicate a film to what made Chaplin Chaplin. And this is how "The Kid" was made, and for the first time, Chaplin would become more than a simple clown, and get all the respect he needed from his peers, as a gifted film-maker. He could finally make his first masterpiece "The Gold Rush", but "The Kid" was this necessary last breath before taking the big dive.Many aspects of "The Kid" highlight Chaplin's past, and the level of pathos depicted in the introduction will disconcert many fans who expected good laughs : a woman abandons a child, expecting him to be adopted by a rich family, until funny yet hazardous circumstances put the child into the Tramp's arms. But what strikes the most is the level of maturity from Chaplin who, despite the archetypal situations, didn't make the gesture as spontaneous as it could have been, the mother of the illegitimate son is obviously devoured by guilt, as is the father, a nice-looking fellow, and a sign that Chaplin doesn't hold any grief against his father. These things happen, and we shouldn't feel sorry, as it contributed to the creation of one of the greatest early cinematic duos : the Tramp and the Kid.In every aspect, the Kid is Chaplin's alter ego : he's smart, tender, funny, sensitive<U+0085> and more than anything extremely convincing. We've seen so many child performances since 1921 to get a definitive opinion on what a great one is, and Jackie Coogan is one of the best, if not the best, almost stealing the show from the King of Comedy, and that the kid didn't become as much a star as Chaplin, is one of cinema's cruelest ironies. The chemistry between the two characters is genuinely authentic, and it takes its highlight at one irresistible emotional scene. I surrendered to tears when I saw the poor little kid crying, while the movie showed one of the rarest and most intense close-ups on Chaplin's face : his devastated look and his eyes suggesting an icy blueness as to incarnate the cold cruelty of a world that would allow the worst to happen, and whatever inhabits the Tramp's heart is communicated through an emotional score composed by Chaplin himself.Chaplin, like Disney for animation, handled drama with the same strength as for comedy, the necessary tears for a movie mostly made of joy, fun, cheers, and even some dreamy escapism allowing a self-reflexive approach of the magic of childhood. "The Kid" is not perfect, but it's a masterpiece of sincerity, of humanity that only Chaplin could have made and embodied through a magnificent music. If not his best, it's his most defining film <U+0085>


                
While I don't consider The Kid Charlie Chaplin's best, along with Limelight it is his most charming and most touching film. The Kid is a wonderful film and a near-masterpiece in my opinion. If anything though I feel it could have been longer by about 5 or so minutes, but it is my only minor complaint of this film.The story is quite a sentimental one, but it is also very touching and very involving. I love the comedy which was very unique and I think holds up well, it still makes me laugh and smile. The Kid also has a lot of sentimentality and it is very strong. But it is incredibly touching too, any scene with Chaplin and Jackie Coogan makes me cry as the final scene gets to me every time. The film also moves quickly, and has many effective scenes particularly the brilliantly done dream sequence. The performances are astonishing too, Chaplin is excellent and conveys a perfect balance of sympathy and humour, but Jackie Coogan almost upstages him in one of the most adorable and heart-wrenching child performances on film. The Kid is lovely to look at too, and has a charming score.Overall, while not Charlie Chaplin's best, it is a beautiful film. 9/10 Bethany Cox


                
"The Kid" makes the case that Charles Chaplin was the greatest silent movie star of all time. Now that does not disregard the excellent works of Buster Keaton and Harold Lloyd, but Chaplin was the best, and, to prove the point, he had the greatest number of major screen hits: "The Kid" (1921), "The Gold Rush" (1925), "The Circus" (1928), "City Lights" (1931), "Modern Times" (1936), "The Great Dictator" (1940). And he produced, directed, wrote screenplays, composed, edited, and acted (starred). "The Kid" was Chaplin's first as a director. The movie begins with a title card, "A picture with a smile - and perhaps, a tear." An unwed mother (Edna Purviance) and entertainer "whose sin was motherhood" walks out of a charity hospital and abandons her baby, and Charlie Chaplin eventually happens to notice the infant wrapped inside a blanket. He tries humorously and awkwardly to pass the little tyke onto others, but just cannot succeed. So he decides to raise the baby as his own. Five years later we see a spunky kid with baggy pants (Jackie Coogan) named John." It is obvious that Tramp's reward for his adoption is the happy presence and meaning that the Kid gives his life, despite conditions of poverty. The two are partners who work together to raise funds, which are always short. Their "work" consists of the energetic Kid breaking windows with rocks, with the Tramp just happening to show up as a glazier with a window replacement kit. There are a number of classic scenes: the Kid's grooming session, pancake breakfast, the bully fight, flophouse, and dream sequence. Meanwhile the Kid's real mother, who has finally made it big, has wanted her child back for some time. She is still searching. Will the three lives intermingle?The blend of comedy and pathos throughout are skillfully handled by the director. Also, there is incredible screen chemistry between Chaplin and six year-old Coogan, who made his debut. The latter stole most scenes, especially the part where the County Orphan Asylum authorities are separating him from his father. Chaplin didn't seem to mind as he and Coogan made quite a pair! The Chaplin-Coogan combination was a winning one, and Coogan's career as a child star, the first one in movie history, was launched. Chaplin himself became – not only the biggest Hollywood actor in the world – but also the most famous personality on earth. His image was recognizable in most places. The music score is very sentimental, and appropriate. The original 68-minute feature was trimmed to about 53-minutes by Chaplin in 1971.


                
The Kid is one of Chaplin's first major films. It combines elements of comedy and drama to tell a story that, even by todays standards, is highly engrossing. Charlie Chaplin plays the Tramp, a poor but sophisticated man. When he discovers a baby on the ground in the alley, he initially tries to get rid of it in a series of humorous attempts. Finally he finds a note inside its blanket, and decides to take care of it.The key factor that makes The Kid so compelling is the acting. Charlie Chaplin does his usual flawless performance, while Jackie Coogan makes a believable portrayal of the kid. If I did my math right, Coogan was only 6 years old during filming, which is phenomenal. The chemistry between the two characters is priceless. You grow to care about what happens to them, which is one of the things that makes the later parts of the film so interesting.The story uses elements of comedy and drama, and succeeds in both categories. The comedy aspects are still very effective today. Any of the fight scenes are exciting and well- planned. The dreamland sequence towards the end is pure genius. The drama aspects are also still fresh. Its probably the most emotionally touching film of its time. One of the few gripes I have is that there wasn't anything that made you want the mother to get her child back. There are obvious attempts to do this during the scenes where she breaks down thinking about the baby, but more could have been done.The Kid is very accessible even to today's audience. The mix of comedy and drama presents something that practically anyone would like. Chaplin and Coogan give charismatic performances that will make you leave with a smile.


                
A beautiful film, 'The Kid' features touching performances from both Chaplin and little Jackie Coogan, as the abandoned child who the Little Tramp adopts and brings up as his own.Chaplin's first feature-length is perhaps a little light on the gags we are accustomed to, yet it fills any void with a fine sense of cinema craftsmanship and storytelling. Chaplin was more than just a master of pratfalls- he was an amazingly skilled director with a keen awareness of broader social areas. This is apparent in his sympathetic treatment of Edna Purviance's character, the unmarried single mother of Coogan who is forced to abandon the child as she does not possess the adequate financial resources to raise him with. Purviance, Chaplin's regular leading lady in his numerous comedy shorts, provides a warm and engaging performance as the woman, now wealthy, who regrets having given up her child.Coogan is absolutely amazing and lights up every scene, almost stealing the picture from Chaplin. Chaplin appears not to be too overly concerned with this, as he looks to be in complete appreciative awe of his young co-star's precocious abilities throughout.This is an incredibly moving Chaplin film with one of the Tramp's most emotive performances. Chaplin also provides a beautiful moment for early silent cinema in his creation of the dream sequence near the mind of the picture. It is beautiful, daring scene that must have taken quite a bit of time and skill to set up. Keep an eye out for Lita Grey (Chaplin's future girl-wife)as the tempting Flirtatious Angel in these scenes. Lita Grey apparently was the inspiration for the seductive Lolita in Nabokov's famous novel. I also appreciated the heart-shaped camera dissolves that are employed a few times. Also memorable are the 'boxing' scenes between Coogan and another young boy. That said, all of Chaplin's scenes with Cooper are infinitely memorable.A rewarding silent-film experience.


                
Charlie Chaplin to this day remains one of the crowning legends of both silent filmmaking and visual comedy. His work has been known to provoke as much heart and pathos as it does laughter and smiles. However, out of all the film's he's made, The Kid might be the most heartfelt and bitterly sweet out of them all, mainly because this was a very personal film for Chaplin. Considering that he ended up getting taken away from his parents at a young age, one could only imagine how much this film meant to him. But how does it hold up today?The film focuses on Chaplin's famous Tramp after he discovers a little orphan and raises him, but then the orphanage reclaims him after the original mother finds out. Chaplin was a master at getting emotions across through strong performances, and the great acting helps establish the Tramp's relation with the boy as charmingly genuine. Whatever happens to the boy is all on the Tramp's hands, and the Tramp really is a guy who tries his best to care for the lad in spite of his impoverished lifestyle. While the ending is obvious by today's standards, the film makes you work for that ending by piling up so much drama and uncertainty throughout, succeeding well in the suspense department.The filmmaking is another added bonus, with plenty of distinct editing tricks and fast paced action to liven up the viewing experience. Even though the score was obviously recorded much later (the 1971 version is all that survives after all), it is well timed to the motion on screen, and it is quite memorable and harmonious in its own regard. It really helps when a soundtrack can make a feature come to life as much as solid acting and slapstick. My only complaint with the film is that the moment with the kid getting into a fight with a bully about his age goes on too long. While it does give the kid a good reason to defend himself, it kind of drags on too much and it doesn't even go anywhere afterwards.I can definitely see why Chaplin deemed this to be the most characteristically distinct out of all his work, since his childhood memories are all over this metaphorically. There aren't too many features that depict the bringing up of children in the poor population whilst depicting them in a positive light, so this film is a pure example of highlighting parenthood in the lower class. If you are yet to check this film out, definitely feel free to do so. Regardless if you're a parent or not, it will definitely shed a light on the pros of raising an infant.
Charlie Chaplin will never leave you disappointed with his work, this is just an another example of it. With every minute your amazing life. Comic with a message and lovely touching story in it. I'll not spoil your interest by discussing movie scenes which I felt amazing. Watch it and see many amazing moments in it


                
A sweet silent-era classic. Produced, directed by, written by and starring the greatest comedic actor of all time, Charlie Chaplin. He pretty much invented physical comedy for the silver screen, and also perfected it.It is amazing to see the creativity displayed by Chaplin in some of his sight gags. Not only to think of the scene, but also to make it and act it out. Simply astonishing some of the stuff he came up with. Plus, it all fits in with the plot of the movie. It's not just a random scene slotted in gratuitously. So many brilliant, laugh-out-loud moments. Also amazing to see what you can achieve cinematically when you don't have the "luxury" of sound.However, there is more to Chaplin than just comedy, and it's no more evident than in this movie. This is also a good drama, and a bitter-sweet, emotional one too.


                
This was Chaplin's and one of the first full-length movie for Hollywood. Before then, most silent films were still short and quickly put out. It took nearly a year for Chaplin to finish this movie. Although this film started out as another short film, by the time it was done, Charles taken more shots and retakes than any film before as done. By completion, it had grown into a six reel feature film. The Kid is thought to be influenced by Chaplin's own childhood and what was happening at the time in his life. At the time his wife Mildred Harris was pregnant. On 1919, she gave birth to a malformed boy that die 3 days later. The event took its ton on Chaplin's personal life. It seems to have influenced Chaplin's work, as he planned a film that turned the Tramp character into the father figure of a young boy. You can see that he transmute his personal pain into something that stir people hearts. His relationship with Mildred Harris have become soured to the point, that Charlie Chaplin became afraid of her trying to steal the film from him during the divorce hearings. The film opens up with an unwed poor mother (Edna Purviance) coming out of a hospital with a baby. You can tell it's illegitimate, as in Chaplin's life, who was himself illegitimate, edits the image of the father an artist burning the photo of the woman. The woman hold the baby and walks as if Jesus holding a cross which is shot fading out. It's hard to tell what Chaplin meant with this explicit Christian symbolism, but the symbolisms returns throughout the film confusing more people. I can only sense that Chaplin was going for fragility, and transience of true moments of human love, over the sacrifice of pain. By having a halo seem to appear the mother head for a few moments, it might represent Virgin Mary. Anyways, she comes across on her self-journey seeing a bride who just got marry. The bride drops a withered flower, symbolizing her loss of virginity. By doing this, I believe it represent her sacrifice her life by marrying an old man that she does not love for money. Within a few seconds, Chaplin takes pose symbolism that commit on hypocritical American piety, puritanism, and organized religion. It's hard to make a saint out of this movie character when she gives up the kid in hope of a better life by leaving the child in a rich person's car. Instead of an rich person finding the baby, two thefts stole the car, and tossed the baby out near some trash cans. It is there, that the Tramp (Chaplin) find the baby and does everything at first to dispatch of the baby, even contemplating throwing the infant into a street grating. While it might be a bit funny, its dark humor isn't what I thought of this family movie coming in. It was a bit disturbing for the Tramp to even think that way. Anyways, the Tramp accepts fatherhood, and adopts the kid. 5 years pass, and the baby grew up as John (Jackie Coogan). John help the Tramp get work by breaking windows for him to fix. Meanwhile, the grief-stricken Edna has seen the error of her ways and leaded a life of charity. Edna and John meets when John started a fight with the local bully. It is here, that Edna believes that John is her long lost child. Soon the Tramp get into trouble too, as agents of the law figure out that the kid isn't his own and try to send the boy to an orphanage. That scene alone will get you emotional. The Tramp now has to try to find a way to keep his only love from being taken away, not only by the law, but the mother wanting to see him. The movie goes pretty good until "Dreamland," sequence with angels in residence and devilish interlopers with temptation arrives in the form of 12-year old Lita Grey, whom Chaplin would marry and bitterly divorce in real life (Grey was the source of inspiration for Vladimir Nabakov's "Lolita"). That is where it lost focus a bit. I didn't like the ending as well. In no way, should John ever be reunion with the mother who abandon him. Jackie Coogan does a great job. It's weird in a way that the actor would end up playing Uncle Fester years later on 1964's Addams Family. There are several version of this. In 1971, Chaplin, who was eager to share his work with a new generation, that he re-cut the picture, resulting in a version that was shorter. I thought the scenes he cut were very good and added a little more depth to the characters. There is a crucial 80-second scene which is missing in that version. The mother goes to a bridge and encounters something which makes her decide that she wants the child after all. Since films and soundtracks are often copyrighted separately at the time, it was hard to find the right song for the film. Chaplin wrote all of the music for his pictures and few survive over the years. The film is still riddled with age related artifacts that, even with this skillful transfer, are still present. Film grain is moderate. Black levels are sometimes weak. The gray scale is adequately balanced. Aliasing, edge enhancement and shimmering of fine details are all present and sometimes distract. The audio is 5.1 and nicely balanced. I couldn't see the lettering in my version. Overall: If you are a Chaplin fan, this movie is a must have. If you are not a fan, but are curious what all the fuss is about, this movie will let you know. Without a doubt, one of the most beautiful, moving, and tearful both in sadness and in joy, movies ever made.
It was one of the first few movies of 'The Tramp' and what a laughter riot it is with a few brilliantly shot vignettes. The movie and the humor are timeless.An impecunious and unmarried woman deserts her just-born son to commit suicide and leaves a note with the baby asking to 'love and care for this orphaned child'. The baby is deposited in a car, which gets stolen by burglars, who eventually keep the baby next to garbage. The tramp finds the baby and despite several attempts to find the parent, he decides to take care of the boy. He makes arrangement for the boy to feed and purge. They team up to find a way to earn a living and they succeed by breaking glasses and fixing new ones. When the boy falls sick, a country doctor asks the Orphanage to come and claim the child for better treatment. The Tramp and the kid refuse to be parted and after a desperate and frenzied chase, they get back to each other. In the meanwhile, the kid's biological mother becomes a celebrated actor and the kid's father a celebrated painter. They reconcile and forgive each others' mistakes. The woman gets to know the real identity of the kid and declares a reward for those who return the kid. The kid is delivered to the woman but The Tramp, who has taken care of the boy for so long, is called up to the woman's mansion.
One of Charlie Chaplin's earliest features and first successful attempts at mixing slapstick and sentiment pairs the Little Tramp with a pint-sized alter ego (little Jackie Coogan), abandoned at birth and raised in poverty to be the spitting image of his surrogate father. The two established such a rapport that Chaplin apparently didn't mind having a child steal the film out from under him, not an easy task when working with the acknowledged king of silent comedy (notorious for his equally regal ego). The young star proved to be no less adept and resourceful at evading cops and whipping bullies, and while only half the size of his mentor was at least equally as funny. Chaplin himself was rarely more inventive, and the pathos promised in the opening title ("a comedy with a smile, and perhaps a tear") is, mercifully, kept on a tight leash.


                
I don't have much else to say about this movie that hasn't already been said. Its really good and I recommend it. Also I wish that hats had never gone out of fashion.


                
Almost a hundred years before All India Bakchod, India's YouTube based sketch group came to popularity and went onto make their Hotstar sponsored web exclusive called On Air with AIB with the tagline of "Comedy mein Tragedy hain, Comedy mein Tragedy hain..." (There is comedy in tragedy), the one of the two greatest of comedian minds I have ever witnessed, Charles Chaplin decided to observe that obvious truth and plot his entire basis of work. The fact that he is perhaps the greatest mind of his genre, time and even is considered to have made up a personal form of film-making just shows how defining his choices was. The Kid has only one flaw in the whole story which is the ending dream sequence which melds into the reality of the 'lone prospector' (that seems like perpetually Chaplin's character presentation except in The Great Dictator from what I have seen so far; I would correct myself if I see otherwise). It was jarring and snapped me out of the investment I had in the ending of the story because of what the penultimate scene shows with respect to the kid not being an orphan anymore and how it is resolved. Otherwise, it is pretty much another masterclass. The kid who plays The Kid is at times somehow a better act to observe than even Chaplin himself, who is more fatherly despite how clownish ways which makes it all an odd enjoyment.The highlight of the movie is definitely a quarter of the film in when the kid and his 'father' are all tucked into the daily way of life, going about their jobs breaking and repairing things, eating their home-cooked meals and winning fights against stronger strangers in surprising and ridiculous ways. To sum this story, it is about choice, love, loss and parenthood's absolute joy should you choose to accept it, making Life a little more bearable than it was before that choice changed your perspective on it.


                
What a wonderful story by Charlie Chaplin.In it, a poor, young mother gives up her newborn in a car in front of a mansion. Through a series of unlikely events, the young child ends up in the care of the Tramp. After a few funny attempts to rid himself of the child, he finally accepts his role as caretaker, naming his adopted son John.A few years pass, and the two make a wonderful duo - scheming and scamming people together in hilarious ways. But things take an unexpected turn for the worse when John becomes ill.I can't speak of this film highly enough. The performances of all the actors involved are wonderful. A young Jackie Coogan plays John and does so brilliantly, I can not name a finer child actor. Most child actors are sub-par, if not whiny and annoying. This film will make you laugh, cry and most importantly, think.


                
"The Kid" released in 1921 is the story of a tramp (played by Charlie Chaplin) that comes into caring for an orphaned child. The movie made me feel so many things! I felt happy for both the kid and the tramp in that they found each other and were able to formulate a life together. I enjoyed seeing their relationship progress and develop. I couldn't help but think about the kid's mother and feel sad for her, though I enjoyed seeing the tramp come into his own through taking care of the kid. The film was written by Charlie Chaplin, and I enjoyed seeing how Charlie as a writer developed the relationship and love and care between the kid and the tramp. I thought he did a great job in that regard, however, for me it bothers me when there are loose ends in stories and the mother's role and absence in the story really bothered me.Charlie Chaplin also directed the film, and I felt that he did a great job with both the performances of the actors and with the rhythm of the scenes. Jackie Coogan in particular did a wonderful job. His ability to play such a range of emotion – from being a loving child to the tramp, to "toughening up" when the other kid stole his toys, to all of his hurt and anguish when the men were trying to take him to the orphanage. I enjoyed the pacing of the scene where the kid is making breakfast. There's something that's so great and nuanced seeing how they interact with each other and how something so little can be so funny and enjoyable. Edited as well by Charlie Chaplin, I enjoyed the scene where the kid's toys get stolen from the boy and the shots cut between a wide of the two kids fighting, a medium of the two fighting, and onlookers cheering on the fight. I enjoyed the way that those shots were cut together in that they paced things out nicely and allowed for a great entrance by the tramp to come in and rescue the kid. In "The Kid", Roland Totheroh does the cinematography. I felt that the quality of the lighting added to the mood of the film in that there was a lot of great contrast. I feel that it's hard to articulate the quality of the lighting with the film done in black and white, but overall each shot seemed to have quite a bit of contrast, which I felt added a lot to the film, particularly in the outdoor scenes. The outdoor scenes were light and airy as opposed to the scenes in the tramp's home that felt a little darker and moodier, but still felt very homey and comforting. All in all, I enjoyed the film. As expressed previously, the only part for me that was particularly jarring was the storyline of the kid's mom. I would have liked to see that aspect of the story come a little more full circle.


                
I had seen one Buster Keaton silent comedy film, and enjoyed it immensely, so it was obvious I wanted to see the most famous British silent star working in America in a film. Basically The Woman, or Edna (Edna Purviance) comes out of the charity hospital, carrying her new born baby, which she places in a limousine with a pleading note, and she runs away to commit suicide, which she does not go through with. The limousine is stolen by two crooks who find the baby, and dump it in a garbage can, where he is found by passing Tramp, or Charlie (Sir Charlie Chaplin). The Tramp cares for the Kid, or John (Jackie Coogan, who grew up to be Uncle Fester in The Addams Family, 1960's TV show) for five years, and in that time Edna has become an opera star doing charity work for poor children, hoping to find her son. The Kid is The Tramp's partner in crime, breaking people's windows so that Charlie can put a new piece of glass in and get money from it. A doctor comes round to see the Kid when he is sick, and he is shocked to see the note left when he was a baby, he says he will get the Orphan Asylum men to come and get him. This note is passed to Edna, who realises they have found her little boy, and the Tramp manages to save the Kid before he gets to the Asylum. The Kid is taken away again, and after a quick dream involving angels and stuff, The Tramp wakes to be taken to Edna and the Kid where they all unite at her mansion. This is notable for being the first feature length comedy to combine comedy and drama, and only a fine director and star like Chaplin could do it. It is a film that makes you laugh at the moments of slapstick, and with the help of the music and the touching abandoned child story and some great music by Eric Rogers, it has emotion too, a great classic. Sir Charlie Chaplin was number 50 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 24 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, he was number 10 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, he was number 38 on The World's Greatest Actor, and he was number 67 on The 100 Greatest Pop Culture Icons, The Tramp was number 38 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, and the film was number 99 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers for when The Kid is taken away and then found again. Very good!
Stunningly sentimental, but amazingly effective.  This film reminds us that Chaplin was much closer in time to Dickens than to us.  He tear-jerks us to and past the limits of modern cynicism, and makes it work.  The penultimate reel, which distills the whole tale into a fantasy of love spoiled by jealousy, is a complete delight in and of itself.


                
When you are about to watch a Charlie Chaplin movie your mind is set up for a comical yet dramatic roller coaster ride. I have watched several of Charlie's movies like the 1931 masterpiece 'City Lights' and the wonderful world of 'Modern Times'. You are hugely mistaken if you think movies of the past are superannuated. In fact, I used to think like that too until I watched City Lights. On the other hand, The Kid was released years before City Lights. It is not an overstatement to call Charlie a genius. The Kid, even being such an old movie, has a rich plot. One of the main characteristics of Charlie's films are the details. If we watch his movies carefully each and every scene have a grandeur of details. One example of a clever yet a powerful detail from the movie, for a 1921 movie, as I remember, was a scene when Charlie showed "the kid" to the women outside his house. The women asked Charlie the name of the kid. Charlie didn't knew the name. He would have told any random name but he didn't as he didn't knew if the kid was a boy or a girl. So, he goes into the house; checks; comes out and instantly tells the ladies "John". It takes some time to get all the jokes as we the people of 21st century are not used to silent comedy.The plot of The Kid is quiet simple but pretty effective for a 1921 movie. A depressed woman abandons her new born baby. A tramp (Charlie Chaplin) notices the baby and tries to find his mother but he can't. In the end he takes the baby to his home. The story then takes a leap of five years. The baby now helps the tramp in his day to day endeavors to earn money. The kid also helps him in the kitchen. There is a lot of humor content in this part of the story. Jackie Coogan did an outstanding job as the Kid. You don't expect much from a child artist but this little guy was beyond exceptional. After half an hour the story takes a dramatic turn and the kid fells sick. When the doctor comes to their house he notices that the tramp is not the real father of the kid. This information somehow gets to the City Orphanage. They try to take the kid away from the tramp but the tramp doesn't give up on the kid. He fights everyone for the kid. This part of the story shows the love that have been cultivated between the tramp and the kid in the last five years. The movie clearly shows how two people doesn't need to be kith and kin to care for each other.As for a movie nearly a century old one can't complain about the camera and sound effects. I could call the direction a fairly decent one but it's was more of a clever one than just being a simple one. The set direction was very impressive, 8/10 for that. Costume design was good too. If you are into entertainment and movies, this movie is a must watch for you. It's really interesting to see all the techniques used in the past to present a story. For others, I guarantee this movie won't disappoint you. We talk about movies like Godfather and Star Wars as timeless but these movies are not even half as old as Charlie Chaplin's movies. His movie has lasted the test of time and it always will. Charlie is dead but his movies surely are eternal.Overall I would rate the movie 9 out of 10.
The KID is a very concise movie by modern standards I think. BUt at the time it was made, perhaps it was perceived as elaborate. This was longer and had more scenes than many movies at that time. THE STORY is simple, and very well told, with only a few distractions from the main line. The strength of the story is great, drawing from the abandoned child theme from ancient tales (AHM the scholars call it) of Moses, Krishna,... many others probably!! In this a prophecied baby is abandoned due to bad circumstances, and raised by common folk, to grow up to do great deeds. These stories are so fundamental to HUMAN storytelling, that the mere introduction of the idea connects the viewer to the entire history of story telling, a comfort achieved within the first 10 minutes of this movie. The rest of the movie is framed in a very MODERN set of circumstances( at that time).The Camera-work, angles, timing, editing is close to perfect, a marvel perhaps at that time. This beats out vast majority of MODERN movies in quality of image. I am GUESSING they used tripods and abundant light, and rehearsal of shots. CHaplin's later movies (modern times, great dictator) may have improved on this one in technical senses, but THE KID is technically sound enough to meet the requirements of any CINEMATOGRAPHIC- or CLARITY-buff(except the color part). This is a GRAYSCALE movie!!!The ACTING performances are all masterful, they may be slightly overacted by SOUNDED standards, but needed for a silent movie which is to be viewed by people of cultures across the world. THe movements and expressions had to be very universal to be communicated effectively. Remember, even within USA, we had a large variety of cultures within as it we had plenty of regional variation and first or second generation immigrants!! I did not like the overmakeup sometimes, but that is my only criticism of this movie, along with one more criticism which I reserve for people who have not seen the movie yet!!ANY STUDENT of cinema has no business not seeing this movie.COMEDY and DRAMA Fans, will have the best of this movie. ACTION fans, limited scope here, but have several somewhat pioneering scenes, including great rooftop chase(first?...correct me) THREE's Company fans will see where Jack Tripper may have borrowed some of his signature moves.CRYers will have two scenes to refresh their tear ducts.KIDS will be delighted with this easy to follow Film!!T H A N K S F O R R E A D I N G ! ! ! !My review is OVER, THANK YOU! Do not read the rest, it is just filler, go read another review please, by the time you read the end of this you could have done something else.


                
