If you are going to buy one Conan Doyle DVD let this be it. If you're going to watch a single episode, let it be The Crooked Man.For this is as good as it gets. We have a glorious incarnation of Holmes and Watson here. Brett's Holmes - cantankerous, affected, whimsical, rude, arrogant, precipitous, charming - can only have been drawn from the deepest possible understanding of the text. There have been similar efforts along the same lines, though none so successful. No other Holmes has come close to Brett's portrayal of the brilliant but obsessed mind, teetering on the knife edge dividing madness and genius.Brett's portrayal of Holmes is enough to lift this series above any other. But Granada (who are damn good at this sort of thing when they try) have nailed the two other vital essences of the stories and this makes their achievement unique. Firstly we have a totally new take on Watson, a brisk, wonderfully intelligent man of action, a fearless fellow crime fighter and stalwart support. As David Burke leads Holmes round the Aldershot camp in The Crooked Man, you understand exactly what Holmes found appealing in the bluff ex-soldier, who chronicles his victories, appreciates and learns his methods and soothes his clients when Holme's interrogation causes offence. This is new and unsurpassed. I prefer Burke's to Hardwicke's more thoughtful Watson. Both are top drawer character actors with fantastic credits, but for me, Burke has an impulsiveness and breezy candour that gives his Watson extra light and colour. Hardwicke, in the later series, does a lot more to suggest the difficulty of living with a man like Holmes.An even more significant achievement is the recreation of the deft energy, economy and speed with which Conan Doyle transports his audiences into the heart of Victorian London. Only Dickens did it with anything like the same authority and style. Lovers of the fantastic Sydney Paget illustrations will recognise his work everywhere in the props and scenery. Many of the more famous illustrations are lovingly recreated, but this is really about the chemistry of detail and pace. Granada have the formula just right. So perfect in fact, that when they try to extend it to feature length, it fails, just as Conan Doyle failed in his own attempts to extend the format to novel-length stories. The longer pieces are again, the weakest of the set.If this disk doesn't fill you with delight, go back to the text, read again and look again, or you risk undervaluing one of the greatest achievements of TV drama.Sir Arthur, I'm sure, would have been both delighted and impressed.


                
This serialisation is so very beautifully made. Jeremy Brett as Holmes is excellent. In fact, he is the definitive Holmes. He is still sadly sadly missed.The costumes and background scenery are magnificent. What has since happened the ITV network is a disgrace. They were once the kings of drama like this, and now they exist on reality TV only and premium rate telephone numbers - rubbish.Bring back the days, ITV, of magnificent dramas - like Holmes. Of actors of the calibre of Jeremy Brett and the rest of the cast. Of scenery to die for.I fear we will never see the like of this type of drama ever again. You actually believe that you are in the 19th century - transported back in time to a bygone age of steam and fog. Of coal fires and personalities long gone.What has happened to you, ITV? Bring the quality of dramas such as this, back again. I love everything that Jeremy Brett did as far as his portrait of Holmes is concerned. Absolute dedication to the part. You actually believe he IS Holmes. Jeremy Brett, I salute you.11/10 Top top marks for a absolutely beautiful series.


                
I cannot praise this masterpiece of a series enough. There is absolutely nothing wrong with it whatsoever. In fact every one of the Sherlock Holmes are superb, but this is the definitive one.The plots are in general true to the books, which are just as excellent, save a couple of wholly forgivable liberties. The scripts are sharp, classy and sophisticated, and all the adaptations have a certain atmosphere to them, and that is exactly what I want. The music is just outstanding, not only beautiful but very haunting, and the background music is rich and just adds to the atmosphere of the series. And the scenery, camera work and costumes are flawless.As for the acting, one word, superlative. Jeremy Brett is without doubt the best Sherlock Holmes ever, he is just perfect as the character. He is true to the character of the books, while making some subtle differences along the way. This is all to do with interpretation, and where I am concerned, this is one masterful interpretation of a truly complex character. David Burke is suitably intelligent as Watson; while I am more familiar with Edward Hardwicke, Burke is just as good. Many great actors and actresses have come and given memorable appearances, and I cannot decide who impressed me most, because they were all great.All in all, an absolute must-see. It is a television masterpiece. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
I have reviewed a ton of Sherlock Holmes films over the years since I am a huge fan of the original Conan Doyle stories. However, despite enjoying these films, I must admit that the many movies up until "The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" have really done a disservice to the stories. Part of this is because they so often strayed from the original stories (which were gems) and partly because they portrayed Holmes in ways that were totally different from the stories.The Sherlock Holmes the public assumes is from the Conan Doyle stories is actually mostly the product of the actor William Gillette. On stage and in silent films, he popularized the image of the deerstalker cap (which Holmes only really wore when traveling in the country--if even then), the curved pipe and the phrase "elementary, my dear Watson". Instead, in the books the Conan Doyle character would have dressed and acted exactly the way Jeremy Brett did in these TV mini-movies.It's obvious that the makers of these films really cared. Holmes was like Holmes and the plots were almost always exactly like the stories with only the smallest of changes to fit the time frame and tell a cohesive story.See these films. They are literate, intelligent and trust the original source material. I congratulate all those involved in these beautiful shows. Unfortunately, however, Jeremy Brett passed away a few years back and we won't see any more of these Holmes shows, though it is fortunate that before his death they brought so many of them to the screen. Too bad one of my favorites ("The Four Orange Pips") wasn't one of them. However, my very favorite ("A Scandal in Bohemia") was!


                
I read all of the Sherlock Holmes stories at once this past year. It was the perfect reading experience--the books I read were reprints of the original magazine editions, down to the illustrations and the name Conan Doyle without "Sir Arthur" looming in front. Doyle amazed me by making Sherlock & Watson my contemporaries. The stories leapt over the decades, over the differences in fashion (wardrobe, philosophy, & vocabulary) to show me these were just a couple of guys sharing an apartment, one of whom being rather eccentric.Adaptations of literature can deeply offend me. My disgust over The English Patient hasn't died down yet (story and various emphases, not cinematography or acting), for instance. Therefore, after Doyle had made Sherlock so real to me, I didn't believe there would be a portrayal that didn't anger me. At the same time, I had finished all of the stories, and Doyle being long dead, there would be no more. So when my honey discovered some episodes online, I gave some a try.Jeremy Brett brought together important physical characteristics, the desire and intelligence to bring the character to life, and the acting capability to actually do so. Supported by exceptional writing, with changes only to the point of necessity given media constraints. Brett even added gesture and expression not mentioned in the story, yet fitting as well as if they were.Fans of the stories should not hesitate to watch this series given the opportunity. Even more, fans of the shows would gain to read the stories because of the greater elucidation of deductive principles.I actually gave it a ten.


                
Before commenting on Mr. Brett's performances, read the books. Otherwise, you have no idea of what Sherlock demands as a character!!! Some previous disparaging comments base an assessment on the stereotype found "in the movies". Sherlock should be smart, upper crust and stylish? NO - read a book if you can. Basil Rathbone's Sherlock fought the Nazis for god sake. Don't you see something wrong with that? Jeremy Brett not only plays t-h-e definitive Sherlock, He plays the most beautifully drawn, and accurate, characterisation; Standing clear yards above a-n-y other performance to date! The only performance full enough to satisfy anyone who has come within a whiff of Mr.A.C.Doyle's books!


                
There is a reason why this series gets such a high rating. This superb television, it is so good that it is superior to most superb other shows.The script is fantastic, it oozes "britishness" in all its meanings. Beautiful locations, wonderful dialogues but the unique selling point is the haunting performance of Jeremy Brett, he is intense, a maniac, he is almost diabolical good. I wont say much about Brett what cant be found on the internet, just know there is a tragic secret behind his performance.In short, superior television in every possible way, Sherlock Holmes has been done many times and sometimes very good (Benedict Cumberbatch) but Holmes's real name is Jeremy Brett for ever.Thank you for reading.


                
For us Anglophile viewers, this series would have been superb even if the cast had just dutifully recited their lines and tried to look pretty. For this is unrivaled period costume drama, with exteriors and interiors that sometimes make me pause the picture every five seconds, just to take in the Victorian visual cornucopia in all its fine detail. But the series is so much more than that: Jeremy Brett's Sherlock is imbued with such depth, subtlety, color and nuance, the crime story becomes a symphony - a rumination on life, fate, betrayal, companionship, surrendering one's youth, and many other things. This embodiment of Sherlock is not just the moody and eccentric character we grew up to know, playing a violin in between racking his brains. He is a choleric, a mystic, a philosopher, a scientist, even a psychic and occultist when the occasion calls for it, and quite possibly a mason and a homosexual; a man living by his own rules. The 'whodunit?' element thus refreshingly doesn't dominate the story; it is the central character's unpredictable actions and interactions that steal the show. Wonderful viewing.


                
The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes was the first season of a long standing television series. It was the most accurate portrayal of what Sir Arthur Conan Doyle imagined and absolutely Magnificent. It was simply superb and Jeremy Brett, David Burke and Edward Hardwicke truly breathed life into their characters. If Sir Arthur was alive today, he would have been teary-eyed. Yes, the show's quality declined as it progressed, but probably it was Because the best stories had been used up in the earlier seasons already. Nevertheless, it truly was, very well made and in my opinion, one of the finest ever.


                
Outstanding adaptations of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's celebrated stories is exemplary; Jeremy Brett was an inspiration in the role, capturing the eccentricity, curiosity, impatience, yet strong moral convictions of the famous detective. He was supported in this first series superbly by David Burke, who does not play it like a lovable bumbler, but an honorable and loyal friend who simply has his hands full keeping up with the genius that is Holmes.Handsome and authentic productions enhance the atmosphere in these intelligent stories; all are first-rate, and deserve multiple viewings to appreciate how much skill went into this.A masterpiece!


                
I read my first Sherlock Holmes stories when I was a little boy, I saw the great Peter Cushing in "The Hound of the Baskervilles" when I was a teenager, and then Basil Rathbone, Robert Stephens and Christopher Plummer, all which were very good in different degrees. But it was the late Jeremy Brett (the posh Freddy Eynsford-Hill in "My Fair Lady", can you believe it?!- who, to this day and in my most sincere opinion, has played the best Sherlock Holmes ever. Now every time I re-read Doyle's stories, I can not picture anyone else in my mind but Brett as the great detective. I can hear his voice and see his gestures, and with all my respects to all the others who preceded him, Mr Brett shall remain my favourite Holmes ever, with his outbursts of temper, his sudden enthusiasm at the challenge of a new case, his cynicism, his drug-addition and his vanity, but also his sense of human justice that sometimes stand above the law. He shows Holmes' virtues and faults as a human being, and can be as admirable as pompous and even irritating at times, like any human being can be. In my opinion, he perfectly captures Holmes' psychology. Not long ago I acquired the DVD set of the excellent TV series made by Granada between 1984 and 1995. In the first season, David Burke makes a clumsy, bit foolish and humorous Dr. Watson. Then he was replaced by Edward Hardwicke, who brought a more gentler side to the character, a bit more self-composed and equally lovable. And Colin Jeavons as foolish Inspector Lestrade of Scotland Yard, a pompous inept ass who is always fun and one of my favourite characters in the series. It is a real pity that the death of Jeremy Brett in 1995 brought an end to this magnificent series. And then a few months ago, I learnt with sadness that Edward Harwicke had just also passed away. I would like this review to be a little tribute to the two of them, for all the cosy entertaining evenings they have given me. Thank you.


                
Brett was, put simply the definitive Holmes and a brilliant much underrated actor. This is obvious when looking at the score this series receives from the discerning users of the IMDb website. This wasn't the only reason for the success of his 4 Sherlock series. The attention to detail, the beautiful sets and the respectful adherence for the most part to the original books all combine to make this some of the best British TV ever made. There are few DVD sets that bear repeated watching but this is certainly one and rates in my top 3 of all time screen favourites. I guarantee you wont be disappointed when you buy one or all of these!


                
There is no other word to describe Holmes - Watson Duo other than BRILLIANT!!! Jeremy Brett---The best Holmes ever! Just Scintillating as the greatest, most loved and congenial detective of all time. David Burke---Great Watson! Brilliant acting , brilliant picturisation. I just love watching the Sherlock Holmes series The Way Brett plays Holmes is amazing! That spark in his eyes, that sheer Drama in his presentation! He plays Holmes to the T! His way of delivering those Sherlockian Punch lines is just out of the world! Burke ably supports Brett as the beloved Sidekick Watson. Entertaining and gripping to the Core. No one matches the Great Holmes Watson Duo!


                
He is (was) wonderful in this role, beyond any expectation of a Basil Rathbone fan. There is NO thought or emotion that does not reflect in his face, and each separately at that. No mush. And always a sense of mystery about him. It's why the camera focuses so much upon his face. Without meaning to insult Basil Rathbone, Jeremy Brett is the consummate Holmes. Any aspiring actor should watch his face, his sudden physical actions and responses, his equally sudden humor... I don't know how he was in any other performance, but his Holmes is the winner of winners. As far as Dr. Watson himself, the film production, location, costuming, the other character actors - all brilliant. brilliant.


                
I am a huge fan of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's works and came across "The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" quite by accident. What immediately struck my attention was how good the characters were portrayed - Jeremy Brett has delivered an outstanding depiction of the famous sleuth. The location settings takes you back to the time when the events were supposed to have happened with almost every little detail intact.I only wish the filming was done for all the stories in the Sherlock Holmes series (some of the cases in the book were not filmed). I have also watched Hercule Poirot series(another of my favorite), but i felt that the reproduction was not as good as Sherlock Holmes. All in all, this is a must watch for every SH fan.


                
Everything about this series is superb. The production quality and attention to detail are excellent. The cast is consistently excellent, including both David Burke and Edward Hardwicke as Dr. Watson. But the crown jewel is Jeremy Brett. For me, there will never be another actor who captures the essence of Holmes like Brett. His precise diction, the physical idiosyncrasies, his moods, his powers of observation--it's all a tour de force. Sir Arthur Conan Doyle surely would approve of this fantastic television series, one of the best shows I've ever watched.


                
Sherlock Holmes is the name given to the TV series of Sherlock Holmes adaptations produced by British television company Granada Television between 1984 and 1994, with the first two series bearing the title The Adventures Of Sherlock Holmes on screen and being followed by subsequent sub-series bearing the titles of other short story collections by Arthur Conan Doyle.A definite must-see. 10 out of 10 stars. Superb!


                
They say television is a medium, because it is neither well done nor rare. This is the series that puts that statement to bed. So incomparably produced, written, and best of all acted, it stands alone as one of the finest television has to offer, 25 years after being produced. Jeremy Brett, an actor who so completely encapsulates everything Sherlock Holmes is and was. Brutally efficient, calculating, precise, and clever. There has hardly ever been a better pairing of character and actor, so brilliant was Brett's portrayal. Alongside Holmes, is his ever present companion and house mate, Dr. Watson. Played by two separate but distinct actors, David Burke in the earlier series run, and later Edward Hardwicke. They both complement Holmes with the audiences' eyes and ears. They are Holmes' most delightful targets as they are confounded by Sherlock Holmes' amazing abilities to deduce the most incredible conclusions from the smallest details. Along the way, we watch with amazement as Holmes and Watson decipher some of the most ingenious criminal plots ever put onto paper courtesy of Mr. Arthur Conan-Doyle. What a pleasure this series is to watch, every detail is picture perfect, and you are taken away to Victorian London, to walk alongside Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson. One episode that is a particular favorite is 'A Scandal in Bohemia' A classic if there ever was one ! Highly Recommended!


                
Has Patrick Gowers been given his real due for the music he has written for this series? The title music, that beautiful, rather morbid theme for the solo violin (Holmes's instrument, of course), so subtly coloured by the harmony and instrumentation of the accompaniment, reflecting a number of elements in these stories (I fancy that there are tragedy, regret, tenderness, ennui and cocaine all in there somewhere), is uncannily right, and the composer is endlessly inventive in deriving other passages of music from this material. I have just watched 'The Adventure of the Solitary Cyclist' and marvelled yet again at the superbly atmospheric touch Mr Gowers has, applied with such taste and economy - a haunting octave-oscillation, for instance, suggesting the up-and-down movement of bicycle pedals but also full of mysterious, suspenseful malevolence. At every turn the music, while never pushing itself to the fore, complements and enhances the excellent production with the utmost effectiveness. We never tire of that ubiquitous theme, presented and developed in such cleverly varied ways.Whoever engaged Patrick Gowers for this job deserves our gratitude, and as for the composer himself - well, eat your heart out, Richard Wagner. Fantastic music which surely has few equals among all film scores.(For some episodes the solo violinist in the title music is absolutely first-class - who is it? - , while for others it seems that the soloist is different and, while acceptable, not quite as good. This seems rather odd.)


                
