If you are going to buy one Conan Doyle DVD let this be it. If you're going to watch a single episode, let it be The Crooked Man.For this is as good as it gets. We have a glorious incarnation of Holmes and Watson here. Brett's Holmes - cantankerous, affected, whimsical, rude, arrogant, precipitous, charming - can only have been drawn from the deepest possible understanding of the text. There have been similar efforts along the same lines, though none so successful. No other Holmes has come close to Brett's portrayal of the brilliant but obsessed mind, teetering on the knife edge dividing madness and genius.Brett's portrayal of Holmes is enough to lift this series above any other. But Granada (who are damn good at this sort of thing when they try) have nailed the two other vital essences of the stories and this makes their achievement unique. Firstly we have a totally new take on Watson, a brisk, wonderfully intelligent man of action, a fearless fellow crime fighter and stalwart support. As David Burke leads Holmes round the Aldershot camp in The Crooked Man, you understand exactly what Holmes found appealing in the bluff ex-soldier, who chronicles his victories, appreciates and learns his methods and soothes his clients when Holme's interrogation causes offence. This is new and unsurpassed. I prefer Burke's to Hardwicke's more thoughtful Watson. Both are top drawer character actors with fantastic credits, but for me, Burke has an impulsiveness and breezy candour that gives his Watson extra light and colour. Hardwicke, in the later series, does a lot more to suggest the difficulty of living with a man like Holmes.An even more significant achievement is the recreation of the deft energy, economy and speed with which Conan Doyle transports his audiences into the heart of Victorian London. Only Dickens did it with anything like the same authority and style. Lovers of the fantastic Sydney Paget illustrations will recognise his work everywhere in the props and scenery. Many of the more famous illustrations are lovingly recreated, but this is really about the chemistry of detail and pace. Granada have the formula just right. So perfect in fact, that when they try to extend it to feature length, it fails, just as Conan Doyle failed in his own attempts to extend the format to novel-length stories. The longer pieces are again, the weakest of the set.If this disk doesn't fill you with delight, go back to the text, read again and look again, or you risk undervaluing one of the greatest achievements of TV drama.Sir Arthur, I'm sure, would have been both delighted and impressed.


                
I must confess that until a few years ago I fully believed in the deer-stalker wearing, beak-nosed incarnation of Sherlock Holmes as seen on bill-boards and children's cartoons. Then one night my father persuaded me to watch this series on TV and after that I just had to read the stories to find out what had happened.Ever since then I have watched every Sherlock Holmes movie that ever came on TV just so I could shout abuse at it, all except this series. Of course it has its faults as does every good thing but there can be little denying that when it came to the casting of the lead it could have not been more perfect.Brett brings such an energy to the part that is sorely missing in other adaptations. Few other Holmes's have thrown themselves onto dusty floorboards with such gusto or made the veins stand out on their brows in anger. He is deceptively charming and at the same time faintly unsettling, not to mention immensely funny at the correct moment. With him we get a Holmes who, it can be said, is a full human being, flawed but only in the way that a diamond may be flawed, that does not mean it is not still a diamond.The supporting cast is also excellent with David Burke and Edward Hardewick providing slightly different but equally good Watson's.Anyone who claims to be a great fan of the stories but does not like this adaptation should look again at the narratives and hang their heads in shame.


                
This superb series is not only the best adaptation of the Sherlock Holmes stories that I have ever seen (and I have seen a few), it is one of the best television series ever made, period. Some episodes are better cinema than many feature films made at the same time. It is amazing to see the way Granada and the cast and crew kept the quality consistently high in every episode of this series, as well as the second series of the ADVENTURES, the RETURN, and the adaptation of THE SIGN OF FOUR. Later shows showed some decline in the quality of the writing and direction, and the illness of star Jeremy Brett also had a deletrious effect. But there is no negating what went before. Jeremy Brett leaves all the other actors I've seen play Holmes in the shade, and both David Burke and Edward Hardwicke are marvellous as Dr. Watson. For the first time, I believed that these men were good friends. Why has it taken over a century for someone to play them in this fashion? The credit goes to the people involved in this landmark production. The biggest crime in the series: why no professional awards or nominations for such marvellous work? There is no excuse for this. Watch the shows on video, recent broadcasts butcher the life out of these wonderful treasures.


                
When I started reading the Holmes canon in grade school, I was struck by the character of Holmes.  He was obnoxious, priggish, intolerant of anyone who was beneath him intellectually (which is almost everyone but Mycroft) and anti-social.  Dr. Watson was a more well-rounded character.  A doctor trained at Edinburgh (which was stringent in Victorian times), a soldier who undoubtedly performed surgery under fire, wounded (twice) and a fine lad with the ladies.  It was clear Holmes needed Watson to operate in society. Without Watson, Holmes would have been a freak.  But in movie versions I caught later (such as the otherwise fine Rathbone/Bruce pairings, and perhaps most egregiously in Bernard Fox's Watson opposite Stewart Granger's Holmes) Holmes appeared to be Watson's keeper;  or, as with Howard Marion-Crawford, Watson was the officious Britisher to a more cosmopolitan Holmes.  Even as late as "Crucifer of Blood", Richard Johnson's Watson is something of a dunderhead.  Some of this scurrilous misinterpreting of Watson was chipped away by Colin Blakely in "The Private Life of Sherlock Holmes", a misfired comedy;  and some in "Murder by Decree" by James Mason's Watson, who, while not as incisive as Christopher Plummer's Holmes, is only dunderheaded on the exterior, and who proves he can take care of himself. But with the advent of the Jeremy Brett "Sherlock Holmes", David Burke's Watson, while still not an intellectual rival to Holmes (who is?) is competent, athletic, courageous, and more of a partner to the great detective.  One senses that Holmes needs Watson to operate in society, and Watson needs Holmes as mental stimulation to take him out of his dreary medical practice."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" is the finest adaptation of the Holmes canon yet.  Taking a few liberties (such as giving Watson some of Holmes' lines or putting Moriarty in "The Red Headed League") it nevertheless presents a superb Holmes (Brett) and a Watson who, for the first time, is an invaluable colleague."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" is a must for any Holmes fan and a great introduction to anyone who doesn't want to read the stories but wants to see a Holmes close to the original as possible.  (Though I was disappointed Burke didn't return in the "Return of Sherlock Holmes" series, Edward Hardwicke continued the tradition of an accomplished Watson, but also giving him a mellowed flavor like fine old vintage wine).


                
This is a Sherlock Holmes series that is absolutely faithful to the original stories. The excellent cast with Jeremy Brett in the lead leaves no wishes open. Many roles were given to icons of British drama and cinema, such as Charles Gray, Eric Porter, John Castle, Joss Ackland and Eric Sykes. Others went to upcoming stars of the late 80s such as Marina Sirtis and Natasha Richardson. The mise-en-scene was certainly not only developed true to the books, but it was also inspired by Sidney Paget's drawings, which were published together with the early stories in the "Strand Magazine" from the beginning of the 1890s onwards. Compare, for example, the King of Bohemia, who faces Holmes as a masked stranger, or the struggle of Holmes and Moriarty at the Reichenbach falls in Switzerland.This series is a true masterpiece of television.


                
These comments apply to all series and full-length Holmes episodes filmed by Granada between 1984 and 1994 and starring Jeremy Brett as Holmes, and David Burke (later Edward Hardwicke) as Watson.  In my opinion, Brett was totally spot-on for the role.  Never has Holmes in all his complexities been laid before us.  Brett's Holmes is tragic, infuriating, funny, smart, human.  He has his weaknesses to offset his sharp mind and encyclopedic knowledge of low-lifes, drugs, and cigar ash.  Stand-out episodes include The Devil's Foot, The Speckled Band, The Master Blackmailer, The Eligible Batchelor, The Copper Beeches, The Empty House, The Six Napoleons ...  as for the Watsons, David Burke was more amused than amusing, quietly tolerating his friend's unusual personality traits.  Hardwicke was a comedy character, not in the vein of Nigel Bruce in the old movies, but a buffoon with a heart and a mind who could be relied on in a crisis, but often showed his irritation at being woken up in the middle of the night or missing his lunch!  For a whole decade British TV was the better for this long-running series.


                
I have only seen a few episiodes of the Jeremy Brett version of 'Sherlock Holmes' but already (to me) Jeremy Brett is THE 'Sherlock Holmes'. He gives the character a real personality and not only plays the character but BECOMES the character. I know that Jeremy Brett was not always comfortable with the character and lacked confidence in his portrayal of 'Sherlock Holmes' but to me he is the ULTIMATE Sherlock!!!! It's so unfourtunate that a character who ultimately brought such pleasure to so many people brought the actor such a mix of joy and misery!!!! Jeremy Brett was a great actor and a great man and thats why he is one of my all time favourite actors!!!!!


                
This 40 minute gem is currently being rerun on a Saturday afternoon on BB2 in England. Jeremy Brett makes a fantastic Holmes. Always slightly on edge with the right accent & demeanour, he really makes this programme the perfect example to how Holmes should be played. David Burke also plays a perfect Watson without appearing the slightest bit "bumbly" like in the rest of the adaptations. A definate 10/10


                
Splendid television series about Arthur Conan Doyle's master detective. The series was catapulted by an intense performance by Jeremy Brett, who was a true vision and David Burke as the first Dr. John Watson. The role would later go to Edward Hardwicke, the son of actor Sir Cedric Hardwicke. The series was quite popular in the states as well as in England. Each episode was well paced and about 90 percent of the time faithful to Conan Doyle's literary works. It took chances. It took risks and it was successful. For Brett, it was the character he would be remembered for. Thank God for him...he played the part masterfully.


                
Jeremy Brett is by far the best Holmes to date and his passing is truly a great shame. All of his representations of Holmes should not be missed. The rest of the cast are excellent. The sets and costumes are supurb as well.


                
This series was indeed the best I've seen for accuracy to Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock Holmes character and novels.  The settings are superb, the plots are true and Jeremy Brett is excellent as Holmes.It is well worth your while to see this and other Holmes series (Return of Sherlock Holmes, Memoirs ... etc).


                
It may have been a long time since I read "The Complete Sherlock Holmes" but I thought Jeremy Brett's performance in the Holmes role was extraordinary. Holmes isn't James Bond. Holmes is a self-centered, egotistical, genius of the art of perception.  Brett not only plays the role as it should be, he oozes the passion he has for the role in almost every line, whether he be in the midst of "The game is afoot" or occupied by cocaine use when the case load is slow or "boring". A genius portraying a genius!  Although I grew up with the Basil Rathbone and Nigel Bruce version of the movies on late night television and enjoyed them, this is by far the more accurate portrayal of the character of Holmes.


                
This serialisation is so very beautifully made. Jeremy Brett as Holmes is excellent. In fact, he is the definitive Holmes. He is still sadly sadly missed.The costumes and background scenery are magnificent. What has since happened the ITV network is a disgrace. They were once the kings of drama like this, and now they exist on reality TV only and premium rate telephone numbers - rubbish.Bring back the days, ITV, of magnificent dramas - like Holmes. Of actors of the calibre of Jeremy Brett and the rest of the cast. Of scenery to die for.I fear we will never see the like of this type of drama ever again. You actually believe that you are in the 19th century - transported back in time to a bygone age of steam and fog. Of coal fires and personalities long gone.What has happened to you, ITV? Bring the quality of dramas such as this, back again. I love everything that Jeremy Brett did as far as his portrait of Holmes is concerned. Absolute dedication to the part. You actually believe he IS Holmes. Jeremy Brett, I salute you.11/10 Top top marks for a absolutely beautiful series.


                
These comments apply to all the Sherlock Holmes series and episodes produced by Granada and starring Jeremy Brett as Holmes and either Burke or Hardwicke as Watson.Brett certainly gave the most definitive portrayal of Holmes. One must remember that Holmes, although a decent and upright gentleman had his dark side -- his conceit, impatience with people of lesser intelligence and, as a product of imperial Victorian England, he displayed traces of jingoism, racism, sexism and hypocrisy. Note that episode where he remarks on the French surname of a suspect or in the cavalier manner he uses pejoratives to refer to peoples of Asiatic origin. In another episode he tells Watson that his nemesis is "but a woman." Expecting high moral standards of others, he was nevertheless a drug addict (cocaine in the original stories by Doyle and also absinthe in the Granada series). He also used smoked opium occasionally when in disguise to track down suspects or missing persons. In one episode he was caught red-handed by Watson (the one portrayed by Hardwicke) with a syringe although it is not certain what drug it was supposed to contain, probably morphine as I doubt if heroin had already been extracted from opium at that time. These flaws viewed in the context of the era and of the peculiar circumstances of Holmes, instead of making him out as an ogre, make him all the more human and believable. On the whole, however, Brett's Holmes is exceedingly kind, self sacrificing and high minded. He could also be quite droll and able to take jokes at his expense as when a phrenologist remarked that he would very much like to take a cast of the cranium of the very intelligent Holmes "until the original should become available." Note that he rarely collects fees and places life and limb on the line for his clients. No wonder the sophisticatedly discerning French have a Jeremy Brett society. Between Burke and Hardwicke as Watson, one is likely to vote for Burke as he is funnier, younger and better looking. But Hardwicke better displays the character of a retired officer of the Indian (Imperial British) Army by his physical courage and readiness to use his firearm. His portrayal also brings out the difficult side of Holmes. It was to Hardwicke's Watson that Holmes unusually expresses (in a letter in Hound of the Baskervilles) deep concern and affection with such words as "there is nothing that I desire more than to have you safely back in our Baker st. lodgings."Finally, if you have seen all the episodes, watch them again and keep your eyes peeled for those delicious antiques -- porcelain washbowls, iron stoves, 19th century lamps, brass door knockers, handsome hansoms and carriages, even a pristine horse drawn red and brass fire engine with immaculate white hoses. And were those mansions, manor houses and country cottages merely sets or genuine locations? I suspect the latter. I would suggest to the English that they revise their Sherlock Holmes tours to include visits to places where Granada shot the series.


                
I have been an avid fan of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's 'Sherlock Holmes' and have read most of his stories.  I have watched the old movies with Basil Rathbone or Peter Cushing, or Christopher Lee as the great detective, and I feel that Jeremy Brett's interpretation is by far the closest to the feel of the character and stories as they were written.  Each episode is extremely faithful to the book, bringing it to life.These were first shown in the mid-80's on PBS in the USA.  I taped the series when it was first broadcast. I have since bought the complete set on DVD and unfortunately without Vincent Prices' (and Diana Rigg in later episodes) eloquent openings (trivia, history, background, etc.), something is lost on the DVD.  The Stories however are excellent, and are highly recommended.


                
Wow! If science fiction was reality, I would say Arthur Conan Doyle first saw Jeremy Brett, then created Sherlock Holmes, on his picture! Being a Sherlock Holmmes fan (rather an expert), I may say I was shocked the first time I saw Brett playing Holmes. Never could I have imagined such a perfection. I even dare say, forget about the plot, forget about the movie itself, and just watch Brett and enjoy. This, of course, must not make us forget the excellent adaptation of each story, may be too faithful sometimes.


                
I've seen this entire series as well as many, many other Holmes films. This is far and away the best characterization of Holmes, the best ensembles of actors, and the truest to the original Holmes stories. I have enjoyed many different Holmes "types" as personified by Rathbone, Williamson, Stephens, et al, but Jeremy Brett simply becomes Sherlock Holmes. In addition, both Watsons are entirely believable and not at all the buffoon-like sidekicks that are usually portrayed. The hour-long episodes are the best introductions to Holmes a "non-Holmes" person could have. The acting is incredible on all fronts; the writing is excellent; even the music is definitive Holmes. This series is a literary, cinematic and cultural treasure.


                
This is a great series! The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes is a wonderful show that ran from 1984-1985! This is terrific! The show changed over time, new actors and the same becoming different. Anyway, this is a good watch! The shows are faithful and the Holmes played by Brett is 100%.  The Adventures are available on DVD (individually or in a collection. Get the collection if you're willing to spend...the series promo is good but there are no other "wonderful" special features. But with a show like this you really don't need much else!


                
Whether you grew up reading Arthur Conan Doyle's stories of Sherlock Holmes or not (I didn't), this superbly crafted, lavishly produced series from Granada Television is arguably by far the best filmed version of Sherlock Holmes. With faithful translations that are artfully done, historical accurate, and acted to perfection. It aired on ITV in England and in America aired on PBS's Anthology series Mystery!. It became a popular series running from 1984 to 1994 in four volumes along with five feature length films.However, the main attraction is Jeremy Brett, by far the definitive Sherlock Holmes to me. No actor previously has played him more masterfully and memorably than him and will remain an incredibly difficult act to follow for who decide to play Holmes in the future. His performance makes Holmes into a complex character. His Holmes is conceited, melancholy, eccentric, and often very aloof, being a brilliant but very human detective. Brett truly captured a man whose mind is always at work. He truly embodies the role showing nothing but prowess in each and every performance. Whenever, I think of Sherlock Holmes it will always be his Sherlock Holmes.In "Adventures", David Burke makes a wonderful Dr. Watson bringing a certain exuberance to the role. His Watson is not the annoying buffoon that Nigel Bruce was but an intelligent person that can hold his own and plays off very well with Holmes. I just love the banter they have. Burke's Watson is also impulsive and always makes room for humor. He would be replaced afterward in later volumes by Edward Hardwicke whose take is different but equally excellent.The series also had fine supporting casts which included Rosalie Williams as Holmes's motherly housekeeper Mrs. Hudson, Charles Gray as Holmes's brother Mycroft, who is as brilliant if not more so than Holmes himself, and Colin Jeavons as the inept Inspector Lestrade, who thinks he can outdo Holmes in solving cases but always ends up being proved wrong. Also, Eric Porter made a very menacing Professor Moriarty.Another thing that stands out in the Granada series is the vivid period flavor. It makes you feel like your there in Victorian Era England with the mansions, countrysides, trains, and horse drawn carriages. The interiors of houses look like they would during this period, especially with the look of Holmes flat on 221 B Baker Street. You can tell that the makers of the series went to incredible lengths to make every detail accurate to the era and in the text. This series has the finest locations, costumes, props, and sets that I've ever seen."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" is the first and best volume in the series. It has several of the finest adaptations that Granada has to offer. Episodes such as "A Scandal in Bohemia", "The Greek Interpreter", and "The Final Problem" are sensational. Although, my personal favorites are "The Crooked Man," "The Copper Beeches," and "The Blue Carbuncle". The tales in this volume are the most playful and just like the title, they are adventurous. The photography and directing in these is magnificent giving the stories great visual flavor. These are classy adaptations of classic stories.This series is a must watch for Holmes fans, mystery lovers, and anyone who craves high quality television.
I cannot praise this masterpiece of a series enough. There is absolutely nothing wrong with it whatsoever. In fact every one of the Sherlock Holmes are superb, but this is the definitive one.The plots are in general true to the books, which are just as excellent, save a couple of wholly forgivable liberties. The scripts are sharp, classy and sophisticated, and all the adaptations have a certain atmosphere to them, and that is exactly what I want. The music is just outstanding, not only beautiful but very haunting, and the background music is rich and just adds to the atmosphere of the series. And the scenery, camera work and costumes are flawless.As for the acting, one word, superlative. Jeremy Brett is without doubt the best Sherlock Holmes ever, he is just perfect as the character. He is true to the character of the books, while making some subtle differences along the way. This is all to do with interpretation, and where I am concerned, this is one masterful interpretation of a truly complex character. David Burke is suitably intelligent as Watson; while I am more familiar with Edward Hardwicke, Burke is just as good. Many great actors and actresses have come and given memorable appearances, and I cannot decide who impressed me most, because they were all great.All in all, an absolute must-see. It is a television masterpiece. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
As far as I'm concerned, no other actor played Holmes better than Jeremy Brett. In the early series, it was almost as if one of Sydney Paget's original illustrations of Holmes had leaped out of the pages of the Strand Magazine and onto the screen. Brett also brings a much-needed comic streak to the role. As the years progressed, however, his interest in the character seems to have waned somewhat, as his portrayal grew exceedingly more eccentric. Supporting cast is great, particularly Charles Gray as Mycroft Holmes. During the course of the series, Brett had two Watsons, David Burke and Edward Hardwicke, with the latter being the most memorable.


                
I have reviewed a ton of Sherlock Holmes films over the years since I am a huge fan of the original Conan Doyle stories. However, despite enjoying these films, I must admit that the many movies up until "The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" have really done a disservice to the stories. Part of this is because they so often strayed from the original stories (which were gems) and partly because they portrayed Holmes in ways that were totally different from the stories.The Sherlock Holmes the public assumes is from the Conan Doyle stories is actually mostly the product of the actor William Gillette. On stage and in silent films, he popularized the image of the deerstalker cap (which Holmes only really wore when traveling in the country--if even then), the curved pipe and the phrase "elementary, my dear Watson". Instead, in the books the Conan Doyle character would have dressed and acted exactly the way Jeremy Brett did in these TV mini-movies.It's obvious that the makers of these films really cared. Holmes was like Holmes and the plots were almost always exactly like the stories with only the smallest of changes to fit the time frame and tell a cohesive story.See these films. They are literate, intelligent and trust the original source material. I congratulate all those involved in these beautiful shows. Unfortunately, however, Jeremy Brett passed away a few years back and we won't see any more of these Holmes shows, though it is fortunate that before his death they brought so many of them to the screen. Too bad one of my favorites ("The Four Orange Pips") wasn't one of them. However, my very favorite ("A Scandal in Bohemia") was!


                
I read all of the Sherlock Holmes stories at once this past year. It was the perfect reading experience--the books I read were reprints of the original magazine editions, down to the illustrations and the name Conan Doyle without "Sir Arthur" looming in front. Doyle amazed me by making Sherlock & Watson my contemporaries. The stories leapt over the decades, over the differences in fashion (wardrobe, philosophy, & vocabulary) to show me these were just a couple of guys sharing an apartment, one of whom being rather eccentric.Adaptations of literature can deeply offend me. My disgust over The English Patient hasn't died down yet (story and various emphases, not cinematography or acting), for instance. Therefore, after Doyle had made Sherlock so real to me, I didn't believe there would be a portrayal that didn't anger me. At the same time, I had finished all of the stories, and Doyle being long dead, there would be no more. So when my honey discovered some episodes online, I gave some a try.Jeremy Brett brought together important physical characteristics, the desire and intelligence to bring the character to life, and the acting capability to actually do so. Supported by exceptional writing, with changes only to the point of necessity given media constraints. Brett even added gesture and expression not mentioned in the story, yet fitting as well as if they were.Fans of the stories should not hesitate to watch this series given the opportunity. Even more, fans of the shows would gain to read the stories because of the greater elucidation of deductive principles.I actually gave it a ten.


                
I have to agree! Jeremy Brett is THE Sherlock Holmes. I've seen so many versions of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle's most famous character, yet no movie or series gives life to the true spirit of Holmes as does Jeremy Brett.What I love most about this series is that it is true to the books as is possible. Most other versions either add or subtract for cinematic effect and hereby ruin the purity of the work. For example, most other versions go on the stage stereo type of Holmes in a deer stalker cap and always smoking a pipe at a crime-scene and saying "elementary my dear Watson".....which he never does in any of the books!!! It is in short, a very honourable tribute to that great detective.


                
Jeremy Brett is Holmes all the way through the series and he probably animates Conan-Doyle's detective better than any of the others who have played him on the screen. He doesn't LOOK that much like the Sidney Paget illustrations. He's a little short, but that's about the only problem. His face and figure are lean and his movements are suitably quick or languid, depending on whether he has a case or not.Basil Rathbone had the advantage of height and of resembling the illustrations more closely, but Rathbone lacked the tic-y quality and the frigid aloofness that characterized Holmes. Brett is an arrogant and superior thinking machine. Rathbone was a detective of intensity. And, really, only once did Rathbone's Holmes refer to the use of an illicit drug. At the end of "The Hound of the Baskervilles," Rathbone snaps out -- "Oh, Watson -- the needle." The TV series went through two Watsons, equally good, and close to Conan-Doyle's original, rather than the well-intentioned buffoon of Rathbone's Watson.Like many of the English mystery series, occasional well-known movie figures would show up to take roles -- Natasha Richardson here, Jeremy Kemp there. Even Harry Andrews. Their presence added variety to the series."The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" was the first set of episodes in the series. As the years went on, the adapters were forced to draw on some of the lesser tales. "The Creeping Man" still makes me wince -- in print or on film. And the cast was hobbled by a personal crisis in Jeremy Brett's life, and by his continuing struggle with heart failure. His lost his ascetic look and became plumper and older. Finally, the writers seemed to become desperate, making up pastiches and having Holmes practically fall in love while in disguise.But it's impossible to criticize the presentation of the first couple of years. The period detail and photography are magnificent, and Brett gives Holmes all the quirks and aversions that made him compassionate without ever allowing him to be warm.
