This is a magnificent collection containing the splendid Sherlock Holmes/Jeremy Brett TV series . Outstanding Brett's acting , he along with Peter Cushing are the best Holmes television and the best in cinema results to be forever Basil Rathbone . Jeremy plays as a stubborn, resolutive ,smart, astute pipe-smoking sleuth . Doctor Watson as a perfect counterpoint to Holmes is perfectly played by Edward Hardwicke and David Burke . Here Watson isn't a botcher, humorous and clumsy pal as was incarnated by Nigel Bruce but is cunning and clever .Into ¨The adventures of Sherlock Holmes ¨, I have seen three episodes : ¨A scandal in Boheme¨(Paul Annett), it concerns about the battle of wits between Holmes and the famous Irene Adler (Gayle Hunnicut) whom the famed detective falls in love and results to be the only time which Holmes is enamored . ¨Naval treaty¨(by Alan Grint) deals about some plans are robbed and endanger the country security and of course Holmes investigates and resolves . ¨The solitary cyclist¨(by Paul Annett) where a beautiful young cyclist seeks help of Holmes. These three chapters are excellent, they are plenty of intrigue, too much suspense and mystery. The episodes get thriller, tension, detective action and packs an exciting amount of astounding surprises and twisted ending with great lots of fun . Rating : Above average . It's a must see for the Arthur Conan Doyle's Sherlock fans .


                
"The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" is highly acclaimed for faithfully adapting the stories of Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. The detective may be best remembered from the well-known 1940s film series starring Basil Rathbone in the iconic role, with Nigel Bruce as Dr. Watson. Those enjoyable adventures, however, were only very loosely based on the source material. I've never read the original stories, but I understand this British television series is regarded as one of the better Holmes productions.The mysteries take place in the Victorian Era, like the sourcework did. (The Rathbone movies moved Holmes to WWII-era London.) The show also differs from the Rathbone series in many other ways. Watson, as played by David Burke, is much younger (younger than Holmes?) and is smarter than the Nigel Bruce comic-relief portrayal. The first episode emphasizes Holmes as a master of disguise and the show even hints at the detective's recreational drug use. In my opinion, this version is more similar to Billy Wilder's THE PRIVATE LIFE OF SHERLOCK HOLMES than to the Basil Rathbone films, if that's a useful comparison.Jeremy Brett is lauded for his characterization of the titular eccentric genius, but I think I might still prefer Rathbone. Maybe I'm too used to seeing Rathbone, but Brett doesn't quite look right as Sherlock Holmes. (Something about the eyes...) But you get used to it over time. And Brett does do an admirable job stepping into the role of the great detective and making it his own.There's not a lot of action or excitement, even compared with earlier depictions of Sherlock Holmes adventures. Each episode is a self-contained mystery, often a low-key scheme in the English countryside. And I don't know if it's the television production values or the lighting, but the stories seem to lack a certain atmosphere. They don't feel as suspenseful or ominous as the Rathbone films, which had that 1940s detective movie flair to them. (Shadows and fog, standoffs at gunpoint, double crosses, races against time, sinister plots that threatened the entire country.) By comparison, this show seems kind of bland. Brightly lit mansions, methodical investigations and long expository flashback sequences. (Perhaps this style is truer to Arthur Conan Doyle's storytelling.)But the Holmesian mysteries are generally splendid, as the detective uses his unmatched intellect to piece together solutions to complex problems. Watching Sherlock Holmes solve crimes is always fun, and this show offers some classic Holmes stories. I find that some episodes are more entertaining than others, but they all are of a fairly high quality, and should satisfy your thirst for deduction.I think I prefer the look and feel of the Rathbone movies, but this show earns points for sticking with the Victorian setting and the details of Doyle's source material. It's allegedly the most faithful interpretation of the original stories, so it could be argued that "The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" brings to life the TRUE Sherlock Holmes. Worth checking out if you're a Holmes enthusiast or a mystery lover.


                
"The Adventures of Sherlock HOlmes" and the first half of "The Return of Sherlock Holmes" are the apogee of Holmes on film (including TV). Before Brett and Burke, too often Holmes was a winsome genius (think the almost perfect Basil Rathbone) while Watson, for more screen time, was increasingly buffoonish (think Nigel Bruce). Holmes was almost like Watson's keeper.Brett and Burke were Holmes and Watson as a team. After this, as Holmes lurched toward Robert Downey, Holmes' flaws, especially regarding drugs and misanthropy, are played up so that the eminently sensible Watson seems more like Holmes' keeper.Not only are the Brett/Burke/early Hardwicke Holmes shows the best balance between the two characters, early on they are incredibly atmospheric and evocative of the period. And, for the most part, aside from a few technical changes in the shift from one medium to another, they are the most accurate.But the makers of "The Adventures" made a fundamental bloomer, no doubt for ease of storytelling. In the second recorded Holmes story, Watson got married and moved out. It is quite common for two young people of the same gender to live together while they are making a way in the world, to share expenses (in fact, in the Victorian era, it would have been unthinkable for people of Holmes' class to share lodging with a female). Holmes was just starting out and Watson was invalided out of the service on half-pay, with no other profession. But for greater facility for storytelling, most Holmes presentations show two middle-aged bachelors living together in one set of rooms, which is hardly accurate. And this is a great problem in telling the story "The Final Problem."In the original story, Holmes and Watson have not seen each other for some time (Watson has a successful medical practice). Holmes shows up in the good Doctor's surgery much worse for wear, and tells the story of the attacks on his life, and about Moriarty (about whom Watson knows nothing).Here, the way Watson is introduced to Holmes' condition is ridiculous. And there's lot of padding and a wholly anachronistic imagining of Holmes' involvement when the Mona Lisa was stolen (in 1911,though this story is set in the early 1890s) that is more like pastiche than Arthur Conan Doyle (who, admittedly, at his worst, was like a pastiche of himself).However, once Holmes and Watson FINALLY catch their train, the show gets back on the rails, so to speak.It's still head and shoulders above any other Holmes adaptations before (with idiot-Watson) or since (with astrung-out, anti-heroic Holmes who can barely care for himself). And the Swiss shots are beautiful. But the shaky first half comes from eschewing the literary accuracy that otherwise is the hallmark of this series. Very sub-standard. I was even left unimpressed by the much-vaunted fall at the falls.
