the title sounded funny. Actors: Julianne Moore, Jeff bridges. OK, at first glance it looked promising. I really thought that I was going to have such a great time watching a comedy movie with great actors.This movie has the great rating, the prominent actors that I much enjoy watch in many of their great performances... It seemed that it automatically was going to be a great comedy. so, I sat there waiting and waiting for the next great scene that never came up:-( I just felt that I wanted to laugh, but could not... needless to say, I did not get this movie...all the topics were funny but did not click together: the rug? The same name? The unusual nickname? The kidnapping of the girl? I mean... Jeff bridges and Julianne Moore can do way much better. I would not have waisted my time...
This film was supposed to be a comedy, and I admit that the very last scene was funny, but the rest of the film had no humor. The tremendous dependence on a single expletive and its many forms became dull and boring after the first five minutes during which it was used about 100 times. The two scenes in which a topless woman appeared were obviously inserted just so she could be shown, but there was no point other than that one. The scene in which a Corvette was destroyed was completely predictable, and it unfolded in a strange way, and then faded away.Julianna Moore was the best part of the film, and Joe Pesci's talents were wasted on a trivial part for which he clearly had no enthusiasm.Jeff Bridges practiced in his role for his academy award as the character was identical.Once again, Hollywood insists that all drug usage is good, lack of moral character is good, drinking is good, and being a bum is good if you have a heart of gold.The film was long, too.


                
I recently saw an interview with Jeff Bridges where he commented that he has become personally identified with "The Dude," the character he plays in this movie. He also noted that "The Big Lebowski" has developed a cult following. The interviewer added some praise. That, together with the high rating on IMDb, convinced me to give this a shot. Early on I realized that the story was not to be taken seriously. This movie is a series of loosely connected comedy sketches (well, some hardly connected at all). The result is an absurdest comedy that had very few laughs for me.I did not find The Dude at all appealing as a person. How much is there to admire in someone whose life goals seem to be bowling and drinking white Russians? I do give Bridges credit for inhabiting the role. John Goodman's character really grated on me--his passions seem to be bowling and the f word. The positives: the scenes with John Turturro gave me some laughs; the scenes filmed from within a bowling ball were an interesting curiosity; some non sequiturs were worth a few chuckles.I guess one person's humor is another person's tedium. I found this movie to be tedious.


                
Well , It's my first review here , I really couldn't resist .. I just watched the movie because it has a high rating and Julianne Moore . I really was shocked of the film , gave it 2/10 only because of the last scene that I felt some comedy about it . Rest of the movie I saw no comedy at all . The story isn't that powerful and didn't sound interesting enough to me or maybe it could have been done better. I don't know why it has that high rating or what the people liked most about it but everyone has its taste for sure .. The most boring film that I've ever seen till now .. It's my first time to leave a movie and go to sleep then continue it later .. As for it's genre ,, It's not mysterious as it looks like , not enough crime and Surely not Comedy ..I was expecting much more and I am really disappointed about it
This movie is truly awful! It's supposed to be some legendary comedy, but it IS NOT funny! This movie is just really weird and stupid. Literally nothing makes sense in it, i hate every character except Julianne Moore's. The dude is so stupid and annoying, and so is John Goodman! I was struggling to understand what in the world the plot was about, and i never laughed, not once! This movie's ONLY saving grace was Julianne Moore, she actually did a good job, and i liked her character, but everything else....nope! 2/10. Save your time for a much better comedy, and just movie in general, such as Plains trains and automobiles, or a million other better ones!


                
Agreed, the enormously popular Coen Brothers are an acquired taste.  And the David Lynches of quirky slapstick must be considered a hit-and-miss affair, but diehard fans are almost always left hungry for more.In the indigestible "The Big Lebowski", however, somebody REALLY forgot to tell the boys that off-the-wall just for the sake of off-the-wall can REALLY be bad.  Like the equally indulgent and incomprehensible "Mulholland Drive," this so-called entertainment misses at every step -- as spoof, satire, revenge comedy, whatever.Check out "Raising Arizona" and "Fargo" to see real genius at work. Unfortunately, the Bros took a total sabbatical from creative filmmaking when they locked horns on this one.  I guess the success of "Fargo" went SO to their heads that they decided to test their core fans.  Are we now SO cool and SO popular that we can pass anything off as long as its weird? 
Obviously, from the looks of things, they can.  Oh, please, IMDB people -- this "film" is BOTTOM "250", not TOP "250" material.  It reminds me of the time back in the 1970s when Paul McCartney wagered that he too could throw out anything musically and have the gullible public eating it up.  And so he did.  He composed a new pop tune using the lyrics of "Mary Had a Little Lamb", of all things, and earned his next solid hit.  Ugh!  I fear for the future of mankind when stuff like this happens. A thuddingly dull, incoherent mess that purports to be a quirky comedy, Jeff Bridges and John Goodman, who play bowling teammates, are the primary victims of this highway robbery.  Sad too, because this could have been Goodman's night to shine (as he did in "Raising Arizona") and, God bless 'em, he does give it both barrels, but what can you do when you're given blanks? Always the professional, Goodman tries to act cool...like he's in on the insanity.  A sleazy Bridges too rolls with the punches as a pothead slacker named Dude who through a series of mistaken identities finds a way of making make some quick dough involving a porno king and mobsters.How can such a dazzling, eclectic cast, who are perfect for this peculiar type of movie fodder, be so abominably misused?  Julianne Moore, Steve Buscemi, Peter ("Fargo") Stormare, Ben Gazzara, and David Huddleston in the title role are such pros and come off looking like rank amateurs.  The last vignette with narrator Sam Elliott on a barstool is the capper. Terrible...just terrible.There are two reasons only why I gave this "BOMB" a "2" out of "10" instead of "1".  John Turturro as a creepy bowler named Jesus literally comes out of nowhere and demonstrates the Coen Brothers at full potential. His freakishly hilarious scene (which, of course, makes no sense whatsover) shows exactly what can happen when the Bros assert themselves.The other reason is sentimental.  Much of the action takes place at the Hollywood Lanes on Santa Monica Boulevard in Hollywood, California, where I use to bowl every Monday night.  I loved that place as it holds many fond memories.  Out of nowhere the district decided to tear the place down in the summer of 2002 to make room for a school.  Opposers, like myself, felt it was a landmark and deserved to be protected.  Anyway, it's gone now.
The good news:  Any time I get nostalgic for the old bowling center, I can always rent out "The Big Lebowski."  The bad news:  I have to rent out "The Big Lebowski."


                
I can understand that our average bong-smoking, jobless, couch (or rug) potato American doesn't see himself represented too often in the movies, at least not in a favorable light, so The Big Lebowski must be appealing to a sizable portion of our population. But, for the rest of us, this movie is painful to watch. Have you ever tried to listen to a gang of complete idiots chitchatting for ten minutes? Then go figure what it is to watch it for a full length movie. The worst thing is, the fact this movie was done by the Coen bros. and has a well known cast gives it an aura of respectability it does not deserve. Forget for a second the names in the credits and you're watching standard Cheech & chong material. And that's not a good thing.


                
I am thinking to myself "what are you people watching?" for those who found this film in the slightest funny. This was bad, just plain bad. The only positive comment I would have is with Turturro's character. He is the sole standout. I found myself getting very upset and hating Bridges' and Goodman's characters. If this was the directors' motivation, then they succeeded big time. I think that the actors - Buscemi, Turturro, and Hoffman - all got lulled into a false sense by the success of the directors previous film - Fargo. What a shame and bad move. The film totally misses its point of being this off-beat quirky comedy. I can't say it enough, it was painful watching Goodman's character say the same stupid line to Buscemi – over and over. A complete waste of time.


                
that I think to be nothing more than a piece of crap. This is one of those films. You Pulp Fiction was about nothing, but it was interesting nothing, whereas this is about really nothing and it sucks at it. This film is neither funny, nor exciting, nor anything that represents a state of entertainment. This film sucks. I'll never understand it's rating a 7,7 ????!!!!. I think the reason for the rating is that it was made by the Coen brothers. Why they get so much good ratings for their films? Hell I don't know. I though this was crap. Fargo was only average. And O brother, where art thou was pretty good. Nothing to make a fuss about (in a good way) was ever made by the Coen brothers.
2 out of 10


                
I honestly don't understand why anyone would want to see this movie. It manages to be simultaneously obnoxious, ridiculously stupid, and incredibly, mind-numbingly boring all at the same time. If one is fond of toilet humor and a seemingly endless stream of swear words coming out of the actors' mouths then I suppose this movie might be appealing, but I don't see the attraction. The plot of the movie is virtually nonexistent, and the dialogue is horrendous, mostly consisting of the f-word. By far the most obnoxious character is Walter, played by John Goodman, whose incessant uttering of the phrase "Am I wrong?" began grating on my nerves within the first twenty minutes. This movie is, while perhaps not the worst movie I've ever seen, definitely near the bottom of the barrel.


                
So its in the IMDb top 250.. I had to see it.. it was not funny at all. It actually is a movie about.. nothing! there are some characters thrown in for good measure that really do not serve any purpose (for eg Julianne Moore's character). It was boring and at no moment in the movie did I feel like laughing hard. Jeff Bridges is good in his role. If this movie can get an average rating of 8.2 then by that logic 'The Pineapple express' too should be up here within the confines of the IMDb top 250. The fact that it isn't and this movie is means that there is something horribly wrong with people's perceptions. My opinion is.. don't waste your time on this one.. instead go watch the pineapple express.. you wont be disappointed.
My close pal persuaded me nuts to watch this movie. The fact that I agreed to his persuasion shows that I learned nothing from my experience from O'Brother Where Art Thou and 'No Country for Old Men'; the fact that I was persuaded to see this movie is the reason why i am still eagerly looking for this close pal with a poison dripping machete in the hand( Hope he doesn't read this review till we meet again).It's said everything in the life has a reason behind it. Of course those who say it haven't seen The Big Lebowski or they would have furiously denied ever having said such rot. Apparently Cohen brothers don't believe in making a movie with a reason behind it, or within it. What's more apparent is that they also don't believe in making movies with any storyline, plot devise, characterization or a rudimentary sense of storytelling. So in this respect The Big Lebowski can be held as one of their crowning achievements.There is nothing much to say except that even your best of pals are not to be trusted these days- the guy I spoke about in the first line just called me and hearing that I have forgiven him for his sin, he has agreed to come over for a drink. I am going to get my machete now.


                
So I fell for all the hype, and finally rented this. Turns out it's an unimaginative storyline (lifted from any number of third-rate gangster flicks) peopled with one-dimensional cartoon characters and bogged down with a profanity-laden script that doesn't even offer one memorable line. If this is what passes for a "great film" in the current Hollywood climate, that only goes to demonstrate how far Hollywood has fallen from the glory years of the 1940s through 1970s.Jeff Bridges spends the entire movie doing his best Tommy Chong impersonation, John Goodman wastes his affable and agreeable screen presence on a Vietnam vet still fighting the war in his mind, and the rest of the characters are shabbily-conceived caricatures. The filmmakers desperately tried to make this "hip" by introducing a steady parade of John Waters-esquire "oddballs" but the ones in this film are like prefabricated oddballs they picked up on the clearance rack at Oddball-Mart, and have none of the quaint charm and humanity of Waters' characters.The inevitable plot twists and attempts at "black humor" are so predictable you can almost draw a schematic of the film while you're watching it. When one of the characters smashes up a shiny brand-new car, you can see the "joke" coming a mile away. Sorry, but I couldn't find anything in this film with any originality or even any entertainment value. If you're unfamiliar with the Coen brothers' films - trust me on this point: the only good film they ever made was "The Man Who Wasn't There." Rent that one and forget the rest.


                
If a movie has a good rating in IMDb, I usually purchase a Blu- Ray to support good movie makers. That's why I paid more than 10 euro to watch it at home.I was never disappointed by IMDb Ratings before thus the money I have paid to watch other high rated movies was worth it. However, this was anything but that, I waited and waited for this movie to become funny and interesting but I got nothing but totally dull moments with no humor at all.I fell asleep after a hour or so and let me tell you that I have never ever slept so soundly while watching a movie. I don't know what happened after a hour and I'm not at all interested to know. I didn't even chuckle the entire time I was awake but finally the next day I was laughing at myself for spending money on this prosaic work and this was the only laugh I got from it. Only watch this movie if you have insomnia. This movie could very well be the next step in treating sleep disorders. Bottom line: The most overrated movie in history - waste of time and money - unimaginably dull, slow, humorless, uninteresting ....+ all the synonyms of BORING in the thesaurus.
Okay. So read so much about this movie on internet and the ratings of 8.2 really will make anyone to watch this movie. How do I tell you, how many times did I see my watch and waited that something will happen in the movie. I waited that somehow, someway the movie will pick up its pace. Plain movie with no characters you will feel to remember. All foolish guys with no remarkable dialogs. Stupidity with no humor. So the clear hint is don't ever ever watch this movie if you liked "Snatch" or "Fight Club" etc. Do watch if you liked moves like "The lost highway","Brazil","Kiss kiss bang bang" and other such crazy movies. Take my words..if you don't obey the above hint...you are to suffer... 2 points for I laughed may be twice between 2 hours. There should also be a FAQ section explaining the movie cause even though I understood all mind-fck movies(and I really liked many), this one has clearly made me frustrated all day. I guess, this one is really for the Americans cause may be there are cultural jokes which only the Americans willunderstand. Really hoping that the people all over the world give genuine ratings to this movie so that others can avoid getting fooled.


                
At first, I blamed myself for not liking this film. It's been out since 1998, have heard about it many times, even achieved the famed "cult" following but not until I saw an interview with Sam Elliot in which he said this movie was his personal favorite did I make an effort to watch it. Even the opening monologue by Elliot had me sitting on the edge of my seat...with the tumbleweed blowing and Elliot introducing us to "the Dude", and how in whatever time and place there always seems to be a guy that is designed to be there...a true man of his times...I was preparing myself for greatness. An then it just seemed to all fall apart. I thought I understood because I, too, consider myself "the Dude". Maybe not a man of times for the 90's but certainly for the 70s...I mean I was meant to be there. I understood everything about that world so maybe that was the problem. And then I thought maybe it was because I didn't grow up in LA. Maybe it's an "LA" things I was missing. I ended up fast forwarding through the middle of the movie because it was so boring and only gave it two stars out of homage to Elliot and Bridges whom I both admire. I still blame myself for not "getting" this highly valued and brilliantly reviewed work. I guess I'm a failure.
To make long story short, I don't understand what really matters in this film.
The plot is rather simple, a lazy jobless middle-aged man living in Los Angels gets in trouble only because his name is identical to the another man who looks a millionaire but in fact lives by the money of the foundation that he represents.
The plot may become interesting if the main characters have more concrete biography and have a will to live their life in such so that it would become better than the total wasting of time.
But what the authors made of the plot is the contrary. No one of the characters has a will to live otherwise, that is, they want to live only as lazy dogs with no positive or creative purpose. Their sense of justice and sense of duty is lower than average , their desire to have a lot of money without working is not motivated by any thought-out view of the world, and as a result they look very flat and boring people. 
Here the simple plot is played by very boring people and authors' effort to make simple boring story look interesting resulted in an empty demonstration of cheep and disconnected images (visions of daydreams of the main character).
Sorry, but I feel no sympathy for dose lazy and healthy guys only playing but not living.
Don't get why this is such a good movie. Just some guys bowling and one dies. Missing wife, missing rug, the end.
