This movie is not funny, it is not memorable, and it is not enjoyable. It's a story that reads like it was written by some pinhead with ADD who heavily self-medicates with marijuana; a ridiculous amount of random things happened for no damn discernible reason or even a more than tenuous connection between them. I am a charter member of the Jeff Bridges Fan Club and the way he was wasted was nearly criminal, and the same goes for Steve Buscemi. The movie needed a lot less John Goodman and a lot more John Turturro. It feels like some film student decided to ape the Coen brothers. If i hadn't rented this movie for free with a coupon, i would feel totally ripped off. Something about the movie made me dodge it when it came out, and all the years since, but i finally decided to fill in a gap in my Coen brothers movie track, and now i'm sorry. I blame all of you jerks.


                
This has to be one of the most overrated movies I've ever watched. I mean, I don't hate the Coens, and while I think that Fargo is also very overrated, I love NCFOM and consider it one of the best movies of this century. But as far as The big lebowski is concerned, this movie is not only not funny, as it is incredibly boring and clumsy. I mean, I don't really mind unlikable characters, but when I start wishing them to just die so the movie can end faster, then I know something is very wrong. Or maybe that's what the directors were going for and if that's the case, I can just say congrats, because the totally hit the right mark... I do realize people have different tastes, so I won't tell anyone not to watch it. Maybe it's better in a second viewing or while high or drunk... I will never know it, however, because I'll never watch it again...


                
I get why people gravitate towards the Coens' "Big Lebowski." It has a certain appeal that you don't find every day in movies. While most say it has a profound wit and originality that makes it special, I say "The Big Lebowski" is an overdone and forced film relied heavily on its weak script. "The Dude" Lebowski (Jeff Birdges), mistaken for a millionaire Lebowski, seeks restitution for his ruined rug and enlists his bowling buddies to help get it. With help from John Goodman as The Dude's crazy friend, "The Big Lebowski" stays away from complete failure. The film never strives to do anything but portray a goofy crime story that we've seen hundreds of times. Not one performance feels witty or unique, and the direction has zero creative input by the Coen brothers. The Coens are masterful filmmakers, there's no question. It's just that this film is their big flop that everyone still liked. This is perhaps the most overrated movie of all time, and I don't say that lightly.


                
In an eminently flaccid and insipid movie Goodman delivers a remarkable performance as a Polish turned Jewish, while Julianne Moore is less hot than she ought to.Goodman and Bridges interrogating the imbecile kid is very funny; Goodman trying to unmask old Lebowski is perhaps less funny. The comedy is really scarce, forced and often unfunny.The 'brother Seamus' line is also nice.Goodman talks about Shabbas and Jewish things with conviction, he remembers the Asian wars and still loves Cynthia; yet the life the character gets comes not from the script—but from Goodman's gusto.My assessment is that LEBOWSKI is a very poorly written script; the directing is needlessly 'classy' and artsy. And look at Julianne Moore—this babe uses to be tremendously hot—what's her role in this flick? The impression is—flaccidity.
I heard good and bad things about this before I saw it and now I know why. There are some fantastic characters in this, some great dialogue and funny lines (favourite - "This isn't 'Nam, this is bowling. It has rules!"), good acting... But it doesn't add up to much. In fact the explanation for things is a bit of a copout. Furthermore, at other times the Coen brothers are just lazy - ignoring their fantastic talent with words they rely too often on boring and inane swearing. Swearing can of course be funny, here though it isn't. It's repetitive and dull. So this is an average film IMHO, a wasted opportunity, though it does have interesting bits. Julianne Moore even gives a dull performance. And you can always rely on her. Try other Coen brothers films - Blood Simple, their first, is possibly their best.


                
The reason I disliked this movie, is becauseI'm not a fan of this type of comedy. If you like Trailer Park Boys,and other white comedies, then you will for sure enjoy this movie.If you are more of a fan of vocal, awkward,situational humor rather than slap-stick, ridiculous, self-defeating,laugh-at vs laugh with, humour, then stay away from this waste of time.I got up to the half hour mark, at which point I just couldn't bare to sit there wasting time.I laughed once during that half-hour. There was no visual appeal, rich story-line, likable characters, or even a good sound track. This movie was low-budget, and made just over what they put in.I suppose it has a good rating on IMDb because there is a large number of people who do like trailer park boys, corner gas, and other racially unique humours.
One of the worst movies I've ever seen. Total crap and not even a bit funny, only when Walter empties the can with Donny in it. It shouldn't be in the top 250. I read the other comments and I don't understand your enthusiasm about it. There in almost no humor in the movie, no decent crime/action where the movie is ranked for. Please help to remove this movie from the top 250. I watched over 100 top250 movies and they were all worthy of a place in this ranking, but this one is such useless crap that it really has to be lowered in ranking. I normally enjoy this genre so it's not that i'm a hater of this type of movies, it's just not a good movie.Please watch it and give a comment, but i needed a second watch to finally make it to the end of the movie. It's boring and once again not worthy for #181 in the ranking.
Saying this film is overrated is an understatement. Why are some ludicrous films rated so highly? One might wonder if most of the viewership is amateur film goers or just stoned. Films like Forest Gump, The Wolf of Wall Street, Schindler's list or even art house ones like Birdman are great films. But The Big Lebowski is a Big Disappointment. It is a disjointed and abhorrent mess, sorry I'm using the word abhorrent here which might too big a word for most of the big raters of this film. I'll use simpler language for those who loved it, it stinks. This film made no sense and has to be one of the biggest disappointments of cinema. What an odd bunch of people it would take to make such a mess. It takes an even bigger odd bunch of people to love this film, write rave reviews and praise it. People obviously get a kick out of explaining something that isn't there. A spade isn't a spade to them.


                
What is this? Is this funny? Intelligent? I know the girl sitting next to me in the theater was laughing her head off. I personally didn't find this movie amusing at all. I thought it was pretty boring, dull and not a bit entertaining. Maybe it's just me.


                
I finally broke down and bought this movie because of all the glowing reviews I'd read here about it. Surely a movie so many people liked and waxed lyrical about would be worth owning. The first time I watched it, I got to the dude's second encounter with Maude and turned it off just annoyed by the film. I watched it again and made it through to the end a few days later.I've only seen three Coen brother films, Raising Arizona (mostly hated it), Fargo (mostly loved it) and this one (still trying to decide). One thing you can say about the Coen brother's films is that they are complex. This one is somewhat of an homage to Raymond Chandler's LA based Philip Marlowe mysteries. I happen to love Raymand Chandler's works and consider him one of the most brilliant authors of the 20th century, so am somewhat disappointed by the Coen brother's thievery (their characterization, not mine) of his style.The Dude, like Chandler's Marlowe get's caught up in a web of intrigue and runs around LA meeting mostly unsavory characters that you can't begin to like. Marlowe himself is somewhat unlikeable, but not as unlikeable as the Dude. At least Marlowe is working while the Dude is motivated by primarily his own greed, first in wanting to obtain a new carpet for free, and secondly by increasing offers of money from the other Lebowski and the other Lebowski's daughter Maude.But if the Dude is unlikeable, most of the other characters are even less likable. John Goodman as Walter, is especially annoying, and most of his scenes are played out so over the top to be totally unbelievable. Most of the other reviewers talk about how "realistic" the conversations between Walter and the Dude are, yet gullibly laugh at Walter throwing himself out of a moving car with an Uzi wrapped in bubble wrap to go try to catch a kidnapper to beat the truth out of.Donnie is probably the most likable of the three friends, or at least maybe you feel most sorry for, as he is continually told to shut up by Walter. At least Donnie gets one of the most memorable lines of the movie when the Dude and Walter are talking about something that Lenin said and Donnie interjects, "I am the Walrus?" Of course the Coen brothers for no discernible reason kill Donnie off at the end of the movie.I don't know why the Coen brothers felt they needed Sam Elliot in this movie, but I liked it as a nice touch of surrealism. I didn't like the dream sequences very much, especially the second one. I also found the German nihilists very insultingly portrayed, kind of along the same lines as how the Germans in Hogans Heroes were portrayed. I'd expect better from the Coen's they are smarter than that.The film wasn't totally worthless, I did laugh out loud at points (the In and Out Burger fixation was hilarious, as was the 2X4 nailed to the floor as a doorstop that the Dude later trips over, for a couple of examples), but there were as many things that I found just downright annoying about the film as well.Far from a masterpiece, it's a badly flawed, albeit, amusing film.


                
A movie about a rug? Bowling buddies? Why not make a movie about a lost toothbrush and friends in a chat room? The fat slob is supposed to be entertaining. I have nothing against Jeff Bridges, I vaguely recall him from my young adulthood and I liked him in K-PAX. As the main character in this movie, his part was a slob. I don't know why this movie is rated highly. You would have to be a really great actor with lots of help from the creative departments to overcome the slobbery character. He didn't do it for me. Maybe it's the nostalgia that most people like. An actor must be enjoyable to watch, regardless of the character. This just wasn't. If you're a big fan of Jeff Bridges and you must see this movie, I hope you find it much more entertaining than I did.


                
A care-free, broke, and calm Lebowski (the dude) get tangled with The Big wealthy Lebowski.. this is the story!! but then many sides used or took advantage of the poor care-free Lebowski who have friends that less to be said they raise the flames of the already lighted fire! .. It is funny and at some points hilarious. I didn't get the purpose of the few characters in the movie but in overall the few main characters (dude and his friends) were funny in their way of looking at things!.. I can't say that I enjoyed the whole movie but I can say that there are very few scenes that worth saving for repeat watch!!
