The Coen's most endearing film perhaps, the Big Lebowski was unappreciated upon release but since has garnered a massive following. Jeff Bridges plays the ultimate slacker- Dude whose sole purpose in life is to laze around in his room smoking pot or go bowling with his strange friends- a militant gun lover played by John Goodman and a meek fellow portrayed by Steve Buscemi. One day he is mistaken for another man (a very wealthy man) with the same name by a batch of inept crooks who take his rug forcefully. What follows is a bizarre, offbeat tale of mistaken identity and revenge. This is a typical offbeat Coen's film ably supported by Julianne Moore who, for once, chooses to tackle a funny role (and has a hilariously surreal dance sequence with Bridges).


                
The story is so nicely lightweight that the whole case is actually dismissible from the entire movie. All those crazy antics The Dude does, and the stupid practical jokes that his responses make is just hilarious. I really like the marmot gag and the ash spreading gag, they are very entertaining. The character building is also very strong. The Dude, Walter and Donny are nicely three sides of a coin, the lazy no good bum, the overly strict and cranky hot-head, and the cowering coward ready to run from anything that shows the slightest sign of danger. The acting overall is quite nice. Jeff Bridges proves his acting prowess in role here as the lazy bum. John Goodman really inserts the crazy comedies from his lines and character role. Having Steve Buscemi and Peter Stormare really adds very nicely, while Julianne Moore and Philip Seymour Hoffman complete the angles needed for the story.


                
The Big Lebowski was a movie where going in all I knew was that it was a comedy, and it is definitely a hilarious movie. The story itself is what is so confusing, how nothing really matters and you just follow this plotline that was linear yet infrequent with seemingly random things occurring. The whole point of this is to satire crime dramas while also giving you some easy laughs mixed with the deep ones.


                
The Coen's most endearing film perhaps, the Big Lebowski was unappreciated upon release but since has garnered a massive following. Jeff Bridges plays the ultimate slacker- Dude whose sole purpose in life is to laze around in his room smoking pot or go bowling with his strange friends- a militant gun lover played by John Goodman and a meek fellow portrayed by Steve Buscemi. One day he is mistaken for another man (a very wealthy man) with the same name by a batch of inept crooks who take his rug forcefully. What follows is a bizarre, offbeat tale of mistaken identity and revenge. This is a typical offbeat Coen's film ably supported by Julianne Moore who, for once, chooses to tackle a funny role (and has a hilariously surreal dance sequence with Bridges).


                
This movie came out when I was 5 and yet I was still able to find it years later and relate to the dude! Hilariously loose and laid back performance by the lead. Excellent supporting cast and an all around cult classic for sure!


                
I like the way coen brothers write and direct this movie. He always made "above average films" in his history. In this movie, he try different thing, it's to make a comedy genre films. But i think he specialize at character depth. Every movie he made such as "no country for old men" and "true grit" have very strong lead character depth in the films. And he also success in "the big lebowsky", the characters depth portrayal (Dude,Walter,Donny,nearly all of the actor and actress) were very exceptional and convincing.Some people said the best thing from this movie was it's humor, they said it's clever. But not for me, this movie has more artistry inside. the strenght of this movie definitely not from it's humor, but from the other things such as character performances, photography, rich script, art-decoration, and music although they're not reach a word "superb". We can't compare the humor from "the big lebowsky" with "monty python and the holy grail" (most intellect comedy), TBL was nothing. But when you see the performances, it is unbelievable. Dude portrayal was astounding even dude was a hard role to play but he did it, and the supporting all took part also. the music really match with the genre of the movie. The script was soft and light but it's clever, not too much badwords like comedy genre movie nowadays.For me, this movie has good entertaining aspect. Because it's light, easy plot to follow, soft and rich script, with great music, and extraordinary acting. If you want got entertained from your stress in the weekend, watch this with your warm people, friends, family, or couple, and i assure you all will got a great experience.


                
Coen brothers are famous for their inventiveness as they never repeat the themes of their films.The same thing can be said about their erratic choice of actors.In "The Big Lebowski",we see some of the best talented actors of Hollywood doing highly unconventional roles.The beauty with a brain Julianne Moore plays a hard to believe adult movie star,Jeff Bridges is nice as a bum.John Goodman and Steve Buscemi are good too as a bunch of good for nothings.Regarding "The Big Lebowski" the best comment should concentrate on the film's raison d'être.It is about creating funny episodes out of nothing.Sometimes it is a nice feeling when while watching a film people decide not to bother about plot,camera etc and start enjoying the poetry of nothingness.It is this senseless yet charming session of mirth that has been created by Coen brothers.A different yet unusually similar film comes to my mind "A wish called Wanda".Those who have seen both the films will not hesitate in declaring that both of them provide a century of laughs.


                
Think what you want of Saddam (I think of him as a traitor to his people) but the fact is he was a paid CIA employee dating back to 1959 (probably earlier), when he was part of a CIA-authorized six-man squad tasked with assassinating then Iraqi Prime Minister Gen Abd al-Karim Qasim (who was an asshole as well but he was our asshole until he made a fatal mistake and he in CIA terms had to go). The first attempt failed but eventually in February 1963 Qasim was killed in a Baath Party coup which was followed by an orgy of bloodshed. The leftists were all murdered and the lists of those to be killed were supplied by the CIA! Saddam eventually became dictator of Iraq and we played him like an instrument. George Bush Sr. needed to look strong so April Glaspie, (our Ambassador to Iraq) when approached by Saddam regarding Kuwait invited him to invade Kuwait by stating the following: "We have no opinion on your Arab-Arab conflicts, such as your dispute with Kuwait. Secretary Baker has directed me to emphasize the instruction, first given to Iraq in the 1960s, that the Kuwait issue is not associated with America." We were setting him up to make Bush Sr. look like a strong leader. Anyone who spent the least amount of time reading between the lines knew this at the time, yet a horrible slaughter ensued that was so freaking unnecessary, but hey "money trumps peace" (quote from George Bush Jr.), in reality actually it's really more than just money! Okay enough of my rant to sum it up I loved the movie but cringed at the unnecessary propaganda that conveniently predated the release of the PNAC position paper! The performances were magnificent especially Jeff and John. I encourage everyone to watch it but be aware it's really a propaganda piece designed to get you ready for the next Iraq war! But I must say despite my misgivings I will always cherish this film and will remember it fondly in particular the performances by Jeff and John!


                
"The Big Lebowski" is a hilarious movie. It makes you laugh scene after a scene and that makes it a fine piece of quality comedy. It has a rather bizarre story which sometimes gets a bit silly, but it's still enjoyable all the way through. The story tells about a man named Jeffrey "The Dude" Lebowski. He is accidentally mistaken for a millionaire Jeffrey Lebowski and this leads him to things he wouldn't want to have experienced. With his bowling buddy Walter's help he tries to get things right but is constantly failed in his tasks, mainly because of Walter's strange personality and anger issues.The best thing about this film is the characters and the role performances done by the actors. The characters are just great, they're vivid and they all have odd personalities and different ways of interacting. Jeff Bridges plays the character of "The Dude", a total looser who would have preferred bowling instead the things he accidentally mixes up with. Bridges is so real in the role, though the character itself is so surreal, sort of an ignoring person who pretty much defines stupidity. Although Bridges is superb in the role I thought John Goodman was more entertaining in the role of Walter Sobchak. The character of Walter is just so bizarre. He is a Vietnam veteran who constantly deals with his anger issues and thinks he's right when it comes to solving things, yet being pretty much wrong in every case. Trying to help "The Dude" he just makes things worse and doesn't even admit that he's been wrong. I've never really found John Goodman as entertaining as in this movie, so thumbs up for that. There are also other characters worth mentioning; The always enjoyable Steve Buscemi as Theodore Donald 'Donny' Kerabatsos who never seems to be able to speak up his mind as he is always bothered by Walter. Being a bowling buddy of "The Dude" and Walter he still remains as one member of the group and there is some sympathy showed towards him in the end. Julianna Moore is also in a so surreal role, the role of Maude Lebowski who is obsessed with sex, the British daughter of the real millionaire Lebowski. We also see for example Philip Seymor Hoffman and Peter Stormare in one of the roles.The screenplay's very well written, written by Ethan and Joel Cohen it definitely mixes up everything from the beginning till the end. This what also makes the plot a bit confusing at parts. You really need concentration, as there is constantly this fast dialog between the characters and it's just impossible to know what is important for the plot and what is not. There is just so much fillings in the dialogs that it gets a bit messy. The directing pretty much does the same, directed by Joel Cohen. It can be described from what I described the plot and the dialogs. Being precise, entertaining and swift it also blends up with the story so well, making the whole movie this one big entity where the main theme is never lost. Although it does get a bit confusing it's still that definite quality and you just can't go wrong with that."The Big Lebowski" is a good movie, it's nothing phenomenal but it's definitely something worth watching if you don't want to watch something that serious, as it just does include these irrelevant and silly, yet hilarious parts which in their way are simply one crucial part of the movie. You will laugh, if not because of the great jokes or the dialog, then the odd silliness it has inside it. Great characters, superb role performances, a plot that evolves to something you couldn't have imagined and a guaranteed laugh-packed ride. "The Big Lebowski" does what it needs to, it doesn't have to exceed that.


                
The story of the Dude (Jeff Bridges) is a strange one indeed. Content to spend his days drinking white Russians and bowling with his buddies Walter (John Goodman) and Donny (Steve Buscemi), the Dude is the alpha bum and ultimate passivist. A case of mistaken identity is what forces the Dude to react (first to get reparations for his soiled rug and secondly to assist in the recovery of Bunny Lebowski) and a torrid tale of plot twists ensues. The Coen brothers are master story tellers that love to tell dark tales that focus on the internal truths of human nature. They do not give us heroes, but instead present us with realistic characters that possess questionable morals as seen in some of their other films like No Country for Old Men, Fargo and more recently The Ballad of Buster Scruggs. The Big Lebowski is no exception as every character introduced possesses some form of character flaw. Ultimately what the Coen brothers are trying to show us (Theme) is that nobody is perfect and that even a bum like the Dude can own the moral high ground over those of higher stature.The Dudes first interaction with one of these characters of higher stature occurs when he is mistaken for the other Jeffery Lebowski (David Huddleston) as one of the thugs urinates on his rug. The Dude visits Jeffery "Big Lebowski" Lebowski at his mansion to ask him to rectify the situation by paying for the soiled rug. Even though Mr. Lebowski is clearly at fault and morally obligated to make restitutions, he proceeds to deny any responsibility for the wrongful actions taken against the Dude. This theme continues when the Dude meets Jackie Treehorn (Ben Gazzara), who is the one responsible for the earlier assault. At first Jackie comes off as a reasonable man, offering to pay the Dude a finder's fee for recovering the money he is owed. We quickly find that this was just a set-up, as the Dude slowly drifts off to sleep from the drugs Jackie has mixed into his drink. On a lesser note, though Maude Lebowski's (Julianne Moore) character comes across as cold she appears to me morally sound, however she tricks the Dude into impregnating her as she does not want a father that is going to "stay in the picture". All of these characters are elevated members of society yet lack the same morality as the lowly Dude.Throughout the film, the Dudes character is challenged mostly by his friend Walter, who continues to try and manipulate the Dude's decisions. While making the drop off of the ransom money, Walter manages to botch the entire operation by throwing a "dummy" bag, and jumping out of the moving car (while driving) which subsequently wrecks into a tree while the dude is inside. However, the Dude maintains his laissez-faire attitude (except with Walter) and remains static all through the film. The reoccurring theme or motif of bowling and white Russians further solidifies the Dudes character as a devil may care "hippie" that is very much lost in time. His mind is never truly in the moment at hand, subconsciously thinking about bowling as evident in the two beautifully constructed dream sequences. The soundtrack for the film is the who's who of 60s era music, including the Dudes favorite Creedence Clearwater Revival. Deemed by many as a cult masterpiece, The Big Lebowski shows that even the humblest vagrant can be righteous if their moral compass is true.
The Coen's most endearing film perhaps, the Big Lebowski was unappreciated upon release but since has garnered a massive following. Jeff Bridges plays the ultimate slacker- Dude whose sole purpose in life is to laze around in his room smoking pot or go bowling with his strange friends- a militant gun lover played by John Goodman and a meek fellow portrayed by Steve Buscemi. One day he is mistaken for another man (a very wealthy man) with the same name by a batch of inept crooks who take his rug forcefully. What follows is a bizarre, offbeat tale of mistaken identity and revenge. This is a typical offbeat Coen's film ably supported by Julianne Moore who, for once, chooses to tackle a funny role (and has a hilariously surreal dance sequence with Bridges).


                
A stoner called The Dude is mistaken for a millionaire who shares his name, the big Lebowski. This rich man's wife owes cash to a goon. She is subsequently kidnapped and the big Lebowski assigns The Dude the task of being the bag man in return for a load of money. The mission is screwed up, however, when The Dude's friend Walter joins in and messes things up. This leaves The Dude in a shaky position where he has to attempt to reclaim the money.This is a defiantly pointless film. It's a crime-comedy with very little emphasis on realism. It's played for laughs pure and simple. It benefits from an impressive cast. Jeff Bridges is good in the lead role, with some funny support performances from John Turturro as a sleazy bowler and Philip Seymour-Hoffman as the big Lebowski's personal assistant. Although I found John Goodman a little overbearing and annoying to tell you the truth. It's a highly stylised film, which you would probably expect coming from the Coen brothers. It isn't always as funny as it thinks it is though, although there are admittedly a number of very funny moments. It was nice to hear some good sounds in this one though. In particular a couple of ultra-cool laid back tunes from early 70's Italian movies, namely Piacere Sequence by Teo Usuelli (taken from the giallo 'Amuck') and Traffic Boom by Piero Piccioni (taken from the comedy 'All Screwed Up') - the latter of which was the soundtrack to the film within a film here.Its story-line is very unfocused, maybe that's the point I suppose but it certainly means that in order to enjoy the film you need to be able to overlook this. It's surely no coincidence that lots of people say they weren't too keen on this film the first time they saw it and it took subsequent viewings to appreciate. I myself am pretty much the same and this no doubt explains its lukewarm performance at the box office and then it's slow-burning success on home video. Having said all this, despite being an entertaining film, I still find it kind of hard to understand the real appeal of this movie. An amusing enough flick for sure but not a grade A Coen movie in my opinion.


                
Pacifists vs. nihilists comedy from Joel and Ethan Coen is predictably (and amusingly) weird and lively, and so full of comic tension and malice that it is nearly irrelevant the 'plot' (as such) does peter out after the first hour. A bearded, unemployed, pot-smoking holdover from the '60s becomes entangled in corruption after he's hired to be the ransom-courier in a kidnapping. As the Dude, Jeff Bridges gives his all to this loose, shaggy character; the Dude is not just a textbook hipster, slacker or fish out of water, he's a laid-back guy cartoonishly naive of the craziness inherent in this new generation's loss of morals, and he's so generally good-hearted that he's blindsided by violence and craven villainy. The Coens nearly outdo themselves in creating eccentric, mercurial characters, cutting twisty corners with an irony that isn't condescending or too obvious, and their cinematic conception of this material is often dazzling. *** from ****


                
One Roger Lebowski is a slow-witted LA waster who spends most of his days in a drug induced haze and lives in a low rent apartment. Another is a rich businessman with a wayward trophy wife and who lives in a mansion. Witless debt collectors mistake one for the other and start a chain of funny, off-beat and intriguing events.The Coen Brothers are simply not capable of making a bad movie, they couldn't do so even if they tried. They are masters of taking things just far enough to be strange and off-beat and yet not let it all fall apart completely. Something that David Lynch should learn from. Even if you are not taken by the plot they throw so many extras at you that you can just enjoy the productions for those alone.This is something of crossbreed movie. Indeed it takes from Raymond Chandler to the Odd Couple stopping off at Pulp Fiction. Star turn is not Jeff Bridges (hippie Lebowski), but his bowling buddy John Goodman who puts in an amazing performance as a damaged and deranged Vietnam vet and some of his lines are laugh out loud funny - especially how he deals with a fellow bowler who has "stepped over the line." A little scene that stands up to the best of the funny business in Pulp Fiction.Maybe if you want to be harsh they do turn this in to a bit of a variety show that goes from the bowling alley small-talk, to surreal dreams scenes, to the tale of a how a pair of dimwits try to dig themselves out of a hole. Four letter words come thick and fast and you wonder whether we really need them. This is - after all - a silly comedy. Why cut off part of the audience? Equally why is Roger (the dim one) only called The Dude throughout and never by his first name? Good entertainment and sure to become a cult - if it is not already.


                
This was a freaky film. It took me a while to get going on it, but when I finally got into the thing it became very enjoyable and I began to get the comedy angle. As usual Bridges was first rate and Goodman was totally bizarre as the know-it-all, kooky vet who simply refused to be mistaken about anything. Way too small a part for one of my fave player's, Steve Buscemi. Strange picture, man. By the way, the language would freeze a 6 striper sailor.


                
The Big Lebowski is a good movie , I do not think the best of the Coen brothers , plus the script is excellent, and the cast not to mention , Jeff Bridges is excellent , the cast still has great John Goodman , the soundtrack is great , the best scenes are in the bowling alleys in my opinion , have a fun character who is Jesus , and has excellent dialogue , the picture is good , the pace can sometimes be tiring , for a comedy film , I admit that I do not I gave a lot of laughs , I really liked the movie plot, cast and scenes in bowling alleys , plus it's a good movie, the Big Lebowski has Excellent dialogue and fine performances , more is not the best of Coen , at least that's what I guess. Note 7.7


                
Today I saw "The Big Lebowski" for the first time. Somehow I missed this movie in 1998 and never saw it on DVD in the years after its release. About the only thing that I knew about the film was that Jeff Bridges was "The Dude". Now I know the rest of the story.Before moving on, I'll offer up this quick disclaimer: This is in no way a family friendly film. That should be expected from the Coen Brothers, but since I went into it not knowing what to expect at all, and my only perception of the film being that it was mostly a comedy, I thought that it might be somewhat lighter than most of the Coens' stable of films. And it was. But there's still language throughout the movie, along with some fairly adult themes at points. Several times along the way I found myself feeling that this was the Coens' answer to "Pulp Fiction" (the chasing of the brief case, the remark about the quality of the In-n-Out Burger, the fact that Bridges dresses like Travolta and Jackson at the end of PF, etc.).The film is quite funny, in that dark style of humor that the Coens are known for. Sometimes the humor is so prevalent that it becomes banal. Nevertheless the film does feature quite a few good laughs. But then mixed in with those laughs are the odd Coen Brothers moments, such as what I'll call "the ear scene", in which the mixture of humor and horror blends in a way that challenges the viewer's comfort.My main beef with this film is that it doesn't end with a resolution. Yes, all ends well (Spoiler alert, but "The Dude Abides"). Still, you never find out what happens to the briefcase or whether it had money in it (another similarity to Pulp Fiction). The situation with Bunny sort of gets forgotten, too. All in all the ending of the film just felt anticlimactic to me. I nevertheless did enjoy the movie, though. It is what it is, a Coen Brothers film that makes you laugh all while pushing boundaries. Still just as there are Elvis people and Beatles people, I think that there are Coen Bros. people and Tarrantino people, and I'm a Tarrantino person. So I think I'm going to go with 7/10 stars. Enjoyed it, but not in my top tier.


                
Ehm...they did not finish the story.Were we not supposed to notice or were we not supposed to care? Towards the end Big Lebowski had about 5 or 6 story threads going, but left 2 of them untied at the end, one of which was a relatively major one. There is unexplained plot point or two. All in all, the story ends up being kind of disappointing.Then again, the story is not very important because this movie is all about the characters. The Dude and Walter Sobchak, the main characters played by Jeff Bridges and John Goodman respectively are awesome and memorable creations. Yes, Steve Buscemi is there too, but he doesn't do a lot. All of the characters in this film are eccentric. On the one hand, that is what gives this movie its colour, but on the other hand, this approach to character creation feels a step below simply having good believable people who are different from one another in a subtle but perceivable way. You and I, we too could come up with some crazy personalities that would as a result be memorable: we can create a guy who makes racist jokes every time he appears on screen and smokes a whole lot so we will make him have two or three cigarettes in his moth at all times. Making ridiculous characters is easy and lazy. And while the Dude and Walter ultimately do work as characters, some of the others in this movie do not.There are a few funny moments in this film, but there are equally few jokes that fail. The dialogue can be pretty good, pretty stupid and sometimes both at the same time.The film has a number of interesting looking scenes, mostly when the main character is knocked out or drugged. The music covers the visuals with a layer of rock, complementary to the Dude's and Walter's 60s persona. It is safe to say that the film goes for a specific style and nails it. It is only unfortunate that it is a bit more style than substance.Big Lebowski is like the weird friend in your party who is awkward and sometimes ruins things, but he has in time grown on you and you know that the party just wouldn't be the same without him. In that aspect he is very much like the main characters of this film.


                
I have long been a fan of the Coen Brothers films, and I admit I was hugely disappointed with the Big Lebowski when I first saw it in the theaters, especially since it was the Coen's first film release since  the incredible Fargo and many viewers (like myself) had high expectations.
So I avoided viewing it again for a few years until I got the urge to complete my Coen Bros. video collection and I hoped that with the passing of some time my opinion would change. It did for the better.Granted, The Big Lebowski is still no Fargo, and I still think granting this film a higher rating than far better Coen films is awfully gratuitous, but at least it can be viewed and appreciated on it's own terms now instead of having the critical and commercial triumph of Fargo looming overhead. Unlike films such as Fargo, Barton Fink, or Oh Brother, Lebowski plays as a loose, far less structured, and meticulous affair. The Coen Bros. quirkness abounds, but seems to be devised more for pure pleasure than imagery of any deeper, metaphorical meaning. This actually makes it unique among Coen Bros. films, because one gets the sense that they just wanted to make a straight forward (for them, at least) comedy about a character thrusted in a weird predicament that's incongruous to his persona. It does seem to play a bit forced, however, as if the Coens felt that they needed to uphold their trademark stylizations, and the dialogue does get a bit wordy and tiresome after a while. It entertains on a fairly basic surface level, whereas other films in the Coen catalog (such as Barton Fink) have an incredible amount of depth and are far more thought provoking. There's nothing cryptic or profound here, the depth of the film lies in the filmmaker's vision and the character development, but not so in a storyline with any underlying hidden meanings or moral lessons.Overall an entertaining and engaging film, but definitely not the best Coen Bros. film nor "the funniest film ever made".


                
If you like quirky, and John Goodman, then rent Raising Arizona instead.The plot begins with Jeff Bridge's character being mistaken for another man with the same name.  The other man's wife apparently has a lot of outstanding debts and the ruffians who pay Jeff a visit urinate on his rug before he finally convinces them he's NOT the rich husband they're looking for.  He's simply a bum known by everyone as "the dude".  The dude decides that if he simply visits the rich guy with the same name, he can probably talk him into replacing his rug, since technically they were supposed to have urinated on the rich guy's rug instead.  The rich fellow, however, tells the dude that his wife's been kidnapped and asks the dude to carry the ransom money to them.Why?  Good question... and from there, the story gets even more confusing and pointless.  Which, the filmmakers freely admit.  On the DVD version, the filmmakers frankly state that the confusing plot takes a back seat to the quirky characters we get to meet.  Oh joy.They even admit that when one of the actors asked what his character's motivation was, or why he was even in the story - they didn't have an answer for him.  They say this laughing (at the viewers?).Anyways... the only positive thing I can say about this movie is that the visuals and transitions are unique and creative, and that Jeff Bridges proves again that he's such a good actor he can even come out shining when buried under a pile of feces.  His portrayal of the dude is priceless - and he doesn't dance half-bad either.


                
A very very funny film.  If you want some laughs, I highly recommend it.  Please take this bit of advice: don't expect everything to get tied up neatly.  Just enjoy the time you spend watching the film.  I was very upset at the films close because of lack of closure.  There is so much buildup that I expected something really grand as a climax.  There isn't really a climax..unless you count The Dude knocking Maude up. 
Things do get basically tied up, but not everything, and not very satisfactorily...did I spell that right?  No matter.  I gave the film a 9...until it ended and dropped that to a 7 due to my dissatisfaction.


                
What probably happened was, the Coen brothers had a bunch of cool visual and story ideas they didn't know what to do with, and they decided to make a movie out of these disparate elements. The result is a bit of a mess. You can just hear the Coens saying, "Hey, what if there was this guy who's the ultimate slacker? And what if there were these guys who thought they were nihilists but were just a bunch of pathetic poseurs with exaggerated German accents who played geeky German electronic music on a puny ghetto blaster? What if-" - by this point they're already laughing themselves silly, and they're right: this stuff is very funny. But it doesn't add up to anything.This is easily their most disjointed film (their only disjointed film, actually), and their least involving. But it's worth seeing once, if only for the wonderfully conceived central character (Jeff Bridges in a pitch-perfect performance); for Steve Buscemi's skillful, subtly hilarious puppy-dog performance; and for moments such as the narrator saying near film's end that "it's good to know the Dude's out there", a statement made humorous by the fact that the main character couldn't be less of a hero.


                
I'm not sure why, but lately, I have just been hearing reference after reference of The Big Lebowski lately. Not to mention my sister telling me how funny this movie is and that I should definitely watch it. Well, my sister just handed me the movie and said she would not speak to me until I watched it. Some ultimatum, huh? Well, I did watch it immediately.The Big Lebowski over all was a funny film. I had more than a few good laughs. I think my favorite running gag was between John Goodman and Steve Buchemi and how John just keeps telling him to "Shut the F up, Donnie" and finally his last line to him is "These are bad men, Donnie", I'm not sure why I found it so funny, maybe it was the way it was said. It just played off so well. Also the Jesus gag, the Spanish bowlers were hilarious. Not to mention a few other scenes of The Dude getting knocked out.But still, I'm not too sure if I found this movie to be funnier than other comedies I prefer. I think everyone has their different taste. But my sister did say to watch it one more time, so hopefully, maybe I'll get why this is such a great movie to others.7/10


                
John Goodman's character impressed me more than the Dude did. Because he is funnier & deep.Following the story of how a slacker and his bowling club friends fall into a parade of crime is written with humor in mind. The characters are very different & genuine from each other. The boldness is another thing to consider. Great music playing as the background score, there are few moments when it comes to total laugh out. The thought of these sequences will make you laugh. Improbable situations deliberately brought out by the characters will feed you with story, narration & food for thought.Lengthening the plot a bit and shut-up ending makes me feel not totally satisfied by the dude & his chums. I'll rate a humble 6.5/10 for the gang and the eclectic characters, music & setups. Very impressed as this is my first film by Coen Brothers. Steve Buscemi is good while Jeff Bridges is cool as hell.BOTTOM LINE: Extremely funny for people who can relate. Moderately funny for people who enjoy logical scripts.Can be watched with a typical Indian family? NOProfanity: Strong | Sex/Vulgarity: Mild | Nudity/Porn: Critical | Violence: Strong | Gore: Mild | Smoking: Strong | Alcohol: Very Critical | Drugs: No


                
I'm not sure what to think about this movie. The movie is at times funny, very funny, intelligent, artistic. But at other times it is simply, flawed, annoying, silly & stupid. The main character is an interesting character, I liked "the Dude". His friend Walter must be the most annoying film character I've ever seen. But he serves his purpose. But then again, you got Buchemis role, he just pops up now and then, never really contributes. The story was good, "the dudes" struggle was funny. But it just kinda ends up with nothing. I don't know. Some call it the 2001 of bowling and weed smokers, fair enough, it has a few clever trippy moments. But I don't know, it lacks structure. I give it a 7/10.


                
