The Coen brothers are up there with my very favorite filmmakers (Scorsese, Kubrick, Carpenter).  I am very fond of their work.  Throughout their irreverent career, they have explored different subjects and themes.  Their best stories evolve from  kidnapping schemes in films like "Raising Arizona " and "Fargo", one of my very favorites.  I thought that film was fervently free.  I was so ever wrong. It's as if the Coen Brothers have celebrated their complete breakthrough success (Academy Award winners), and now are willing to do whatever they please.  "The Big Lebowski" is a film so meandering, so wonderfully novel, that I found myself missing the many other sporadic jokes as I was heaving from laughter.  The film is basically about mistaken identity, eccentric characters, and a soiled rug.  This film extols the bowler, the allies, even the pins.  We experience an actual bowling ball POV, as the Dude (Jeff Bridges) hallucinates.  This film has nihilists, feminists, millionares, paedophiles, drugged out hippies, underachieving students, incompetent criminals, pornographers and 'Nam veterans.  This movie is open to anything , anything... Some people are turned off by absurd looniness, because it's so grandiosely different.  Yet who couldn't chuckle, if not explode, when a bowler dressed in a tight purple suit licks a bowling ball's finger hole, and the camera pans down to reveal his name as Jesus! I will disclose no more, but urgently recommend you to traverse to your nearest video abode and rent this true escapists' feature. Abandon all solemn inhibitons, though!  One can not keep a straight face whilst watching.


                
The story's message is very simple as in all Coen Brothers' movies, 
the symbolism is so subtle and exquisite as in all Coen Brothers' movies, and every character with or without an arc or a sub-plot has a thing to do in the movie's plot or at least make you appreciate the movie even more than you do, but despite all that the redundancy of using the allegory by using many characters and sub-plots with the fast pacing could make you feel the movie's story is very sophisticated and convoluted even it's not. Also, I found some characters haven't been merged well with the plot (even they are very meaningful like the rest of the characters as I said). That being said, these issues didn't bother me at all as I was so invested in each character and I really enjoyed every second in the movie.Jeff Bridges maybe give the best performance in his career. It's really a shame he didn't get an Oscar nomination for his vivid and stellar performance in The Big Lebowski. 
John Goodman was great, and he had a wonderful chemistry with Steve Buscemi as well as with Jeff Bridges.
Philip Seymour Hoffman didn't have a lot of time on the screen but he was so hilarious.Roger Deakins did an awesome job as usual and crafted not just a beautiful cinematography but also a very smart and shiny one that has aged (and will age) very well.The soundtrack maybe is one of the best soundtracks ever put to movie. It's a very very underrated one.The Big Lebowski is a delightful ride. It's one of the best Coen Brothers' movies, and hands down it's the most "Coen Brothers" Coen Brothers' movie.(8.5/10)


                
The Big Lebowski is, without a single doubt, one of the funniest movies of all-time. It's that kind of movie where you just can't stop laughing at it's glorious achievements at humor. I literally hurt myself with laughter multiple times during this movie.The great thing about The Big Lebowski, other than it's amazing humor, is how good of a movie it actually is. Along with the laughter, you get an awesome movie with a fun story.Comedies do not get much better than this. The Big Lebowski stands among the top not just in comedies, but in general good movies. It's highly recommended to anyone searching for a new favorite movie.


                
The Big Lebowski is a great movie with a well developed storyline and a terrific cast. With it's very goofy set up and even its characters, you wouldn't expect very big performances from the cast, but they all deliver superb acting, they were all taking a huge risk with this very unusual film, and they ended up making a good choice. My favourite scenes are definitely any one between Jeff Bridges and John Goodman, the chemistry between the two of them is terrific, they both play very unique characters, nothing like any of their previous roles. It's definitely longer than it needs to be, it's nearly too hours long, and with the story being as ridiculous as it is, this can get a little bit tiring after a while, but it is mostly entertaining and hilarious throughout. Very different and packs in plenty of laughs, I would recommend the Big Lebowski to anyone looking for a good comedy. A man must cope with being mistaken from a millionaire who owes a lot of money, and receives the help of his bowling buddies to seek revenge. Best Performance: Jeff Bridges Worst Performance: Tara Reid


                
Really liked this movie, I heard from a friend that this was his favorite movie so I thought I'd give it a chance. It's a movie that I would watch multiple times because apart from the great plot it was also very funny and the music was well chosen. Jeff Bridges makes you believe that he really is "The Dude", and you start too sympathize with him even though he is a lazy unemployed man. When the film started with a voice-over of an old man i thought "oh this is gonna be so long and boring", but it wasn't until 5 minutes later that I totally changed my mind, and I was sucked into the story-line . I gave this film eight stars and I would definitely recommend it.


                
"The Dude" Lebowski just wanted to get his rug replaced. After a couple of thugs mistaken "The Dude" for a big shot millionaire of the same name and urinate on his rug. This simple act of degradation starts the Dude on a path of absurdity involving a trophy wife, German nihilists, a crippled millionaire, a neo-expressionist feminist artist, kidnappers, a Vietnam veteran and porn producers, all vying for a million dollars in cash. To further complicate matters, the Dude has to deal with a "good ol' boy" police system and a bumbling private eye.Complications, idiots, schemes, cons and double-crossing are all ingredients needed to make a successful Cohen brothers film, and that is exactly what this is. One of the Cohen brothers biggest hits, The Big Lebowski is considered one of the best "cult-classics" of all time. In true Cohen brothers form, this film is packed with big name stars that all turn in superb performances. Jeff Bridges, John Goodman, Julliane Moore, Steve Buscemi, Phillip Seymour Hoffman, Peter Stormare, and David Huddleston are all on top of their game and the Cohen brothers bring out the best in them. The Dude Lebowski, who wants nothing more than to bowl with his friends in a local bowling league, gets wrapped up in a kidnapping plot involving a million dollars. Of course, there are several other players that are interested in obtaining that cash. A true anti-hero, the dude is a remnant of the late sixties counter-culture movement, living in the late 90's as he lived back then, smoking weed, drinking white Russians, and just taking it easy. As the Dude stumbles throughout the film in his own lovable way, he starts to figure out all the ins and outs and "what-have-you's" of the current game being played by the players in the film. Very, very loosely based on the Raymond Chandler novel "The Big Sleep", The Big Lebowski pays a certain amount of homage to the original source material, without being an obvious portrayal of the novel. The Cohen brothers have successfully transformed the gritty, hard-boiled detective's novel into their own unique form of comedy and entertainment. And as in other Cohen brothers works, the mystery doesn't ravel in a traditional form, with all the answers being given to you at the end with an exposition. Instead, each sub-plot ends at some point in the film and you, the film-viewer, are responsible for picking up that fact. One of my favorite aspects about the Cohen's is that they respect the audiences intelligence a bit more than most, thereby, not patronizing with endless exposition.A smart, slick comedy, this film is highly recommended for those who enjoy films that fall under that category. The excellent acting and directing by all involved have truly formed a "cult-classic"."The Dude abides. I don't know about you but I take comfort in that. It's good knowin' he's out there. The Dude. Takin' 'er easy for all us sinners. Shoosh. I sure hope he makes the finals." –The Stranger
I first watched The Big Lebowski about 12 years ago and i was extremely underwhelmed by it . I liked it , sure , but i couldn't see what all the fuss was about. Since then i have had a love hate relationship with the Coen Brothers movies. Some of their films i really have not liked such as O Brother, Where Art Thou? and The Ladykillers and recently i have enjoyed the likes of No country for old men and Burn after reading , so i decided to go back and watch The Big Lebowski again and see if , with age , i had become accustomed to their humour and the answer is yes....and no. Jeff Lebowski is the victim of mistaken identity. Two thugs break into his apartment in the errant belief that they are accosting Jeff Lebowski, the Pasadena millionaire--not the laid-back, unemployed, stuck in the 70s Jeff Lebowski who calls himself the Dude. The Dude's first mistake is paying a visit to his wealthy namesake in the hopes of getting a replacement for his soiled carpet. But instead of a Persian loaner, our reluctant hero and his buddy Walter are swept up in a Coenesque comedy/thriller of extortion, double-cross, deception, embezzlement, sex and dope. It takes guys as simple as the Dude and Walter to make a story this complicated...and they'd really rather be bowling. There is no doubt about it that The Big Lebowski has some memorable moments. The characters are fantastic . Jeff Bridges as the Dude , Jon Goodman as Walter Sobchak and John Turturro as Jesus Quintana are the standout performers and they have the best lines in the movie. I love the way Jeff Bridges IS The Dude. He is so perfect in that role that it could have been written for him ( maybe it was?) . Goodman is also outstanding as the wannabe Jew who is highly strung and aggressive and again the role is perfect for him. Now for the problem with the film. The plot. I really feel the story is too weak and at times a little too confusing . I know that's maybe the idea the Coens had when writing this but it does spoil it a little for me. There are times when i felt myself drifting because it was becoming too convoluted. Also the Julianne Moore character seemed unnecessary and became another distraction. The best way to explain the way i feel about The Big Lebowski is that the characters are far too big for what is a pretty lame story and at times they swamp it. I'm glad i went back to watch this movie again but i still feel it's not quite justified in the admiration it still gets. I first watched The Big Lebowski about 12 years ago and i was extremely underwhelmed by it . I liked it , sure , but i couldn't see what all the fuss was about. Since then i have had a love hate relationship with the Coen Brothers movies. Some of their films i really have not liked such as O Brother, Where Art Thou? and The Ladykillers and recently i have enjoyed the likes of No country for old men and Burn after reading , so i decided to go back and watch The Big Lebowski again and see if , with age , i had become accustomed to their humour and the answer is yes....and no.Jeff Lebowski is the victim of mistaken identity. Two thugs break into his apartment in the errant belief that they are accosting Jeff Lebowski, the Pasadena millionaire--not the laid-back, unemployed, stuck in the 70s Jeff Lebowski who calls himself the Dude. The Dude's first mistake is paying a visit to his wealthy namesake in the hopes of getting a replacement for his soiled carpet. But instead of a Persian loaner, our reluctant hero and his buddy Walter are swept up in a Coenesque comedy/thriller of extortion, double-cross, deception, embezzlement, sex and dope. It takes guys as simple as the Dude and Walter to make a story this complicated...and they'd really rather be bowling.There is no doubt about it that The Big Lebowski has some memorable moments. The characters are fantastic . Jeff Bridges as the Dude , Jon Goodman as Walter Sobchak and John Turturro as Jesus Quintana are the standout performers and they have the best lines in the movie. I love the way Jeff Bridges IS The Dude. He is so perfect in that role that it could have been written for him ( maybe it was?) . Goodman is also outstanding as the wannabe Jew who is highly strung and aggressive and again the role is perfect for him. Now for the problem with the film. The plot. I really feel the story is too weak and at times a little too confusing . I know that's maybe the idea the Coens had when writing this but it does spoil it a little for me. There are times when i felt myself drifting because it was becoming too convoluted. Also the Julianne Moore character seemed unnecessary and became another distraction. The best way to explain the way i feel about The Big Lebowski is that the characters are far too big for what is a pretty lame story and at times they swamp it. I'm glad i went back to watch this movie again but i still feel it's not quite justified in the admiration it still gets. clear rating


                
The Big Lebowski is a really good film. It folows the adventure of the dude (mr Lebowski) trying to get back his rug. With his two freinds that are also his bowling partners. The movie never slows down to explain it all, but instead slows down during the dialogue. For me i really liked this because of how interesting it is. There is almost never a dull moment in the film. Basically what the one gripe i have with the film is there isnt really a payoff. Sure thats fine sometimes, but with all that had happend it kind of seemed weird not to have one. Still though it doesn't change the whole movie and its score. So i give it 8/10 and a recommendation aswell.


                
I had seen this movie once before and got way more out of it when watching it recently for the second time.I think the complexity of dialogue is one of this movie's most fantastic aspects. Ironically though, I think it's also the reason I didn't like the film as much from my first viewing. I think this is also where the movie's rewatchability comes from. The dialogue is written in an extremely non-linear fashion. Often much of it has to be filtered through to follow the plot, as there can be so much going on in a scene. Upon my rewatch I was able to better follow and inspect what was going on in the more dialogue heavy scenes and when you're no longer struggling to just follow the plot, you can really appreciate the intricacies the Cohen brothers wrote into these conversations.I found the chaos of these dialogue scenes very humorous and you really get to see the dynamic of the Dude's friend group through these scenes. It's hilarious watching everyone talking to each other, yet so caught up in their own heads at the same time.The story and wildness of the tale is captivating and the wacky premise with which it starts draws you in quickly, especially with the way the Dude and his pals respond and react to the events that befall them.Julianne Moore's role in the film is one of my favorite and in my opinion most mastered storylines of the movie. Her introduction is particularly memorable and impressed into my brain.The narration in this movie fits well throughout and towards the end became one of my favorite parts of the film. It brings a whole new path to reflect about the movie on and does a phenomenal job at wrapping the narrative in a meaningful and expansive way that adds to the movie at the same time as it encapsulates it.The dream sequences provide nice intermissions to the story and are also hilarious as well as visually a joy to watch.My biggest complaint about the film has to be the potential for it to cause confusion in its complexity, but this is also what makes the movie so great and makes it worth watching again. I look forward to the next time I see this movie and anticipate my third viewing to be even more enjoyable than my last!


                
'THE BIG LEBOWSKI' was directed by Joel and Ethan Coen, and stars Jeff Bridges, John Goodman and Julian Moore. When 'The Dude'(Jeff Bridges) is mistaken for Jeffrey Lebowski(David Huddleston), his life becomes a lot more complicated than before. Word of Advice: watch this movie while intoxicated. I watched it while sober and still enjoyed it immensely but I guarantee that watching this movie while off your head will improve it. That said, this is a very enjoyable comedy. Jeff Bridges shines bright as 'The Dude' with an excellent cast, including John Goodman and Phillip Seymour Hoffman, also providing great performances and being the potatoes to this meat and potato pie. The comedy is pretty good and I'll definitely say that more jokes hit than they do fail. That said, I won't say that many jokes in this movie are hysterically funny; I chuckled a lot but I only full on laughed out loud maybe 2 or 3 times. That isn't a massive gripe but it's something I though I should mention.My main gripe with this movie is that being intoxicated is probably the best way to see it, and that is not a major gripe at all. The story is pretty basic but works well for what it is attempting to do. Despite this, they set up a lot of character and story arcs that go NOWHERE which was really annoying. That is my second major flaw with this movie. It sets up interesting characters like Jesus and even Donnie but then ignores them or even completely forgets them for the majority of the plot. I would rather the characters not be in the movie, than have them in it for only a minuscule amount of time. The ending(which I love by the way) is very open and allows a lot more possibilities for sequels where they could have explored these characters more and gave them more depth instead of cramming them all into this one movie.Even with these flaws, the movie is very damn enjoyable. Its incredible, colourful, imaginative characters really drive the movie and they are what makes this movie shine. That is why I wanted more time going to some of the supporting roles. A lot of effort was clearly put into these characters and I wish they got more screen time to bloom.It's a very technically proficient movie; the cinematography is pretty good. The set and costume design is great. I have no real flaws with this movie as far as sets and camera-work goes. Maybe a few changes to character and set design but I can't say it was anything that really hindered my enjoyment.All in all, this movie is very enjoyable sober(and I imagine even more so while on something) therefor I do recommend this movie to anyone, so long as you're prepared to possibly have a breakdown during a few sequences of this movie. It's a very enjoyable movie, and I'll rate it 8 rugs out of 10.


                
"Big Lewbowski" is one of the very few comedies that still cracks me up every single time I watch it.For what some might dub as a "stoner comedy," there's quite a lot going on this movie, and it's damn near impossible to catch everything on the first viewing. I wont get into the plot details, since I think it's best to watch it for the first time without knowing anything about it. Then watch it again a couple weeks later. I'll bet you laugh more the second time you see it. Office Space was the only other comedy that had this affect on me. Oh and one other thing. DO NOT WATCH THE EDITED VERSION ON TV! This movie is rated R for a reason, and if you watch the edited version you are missing half the movie.
It's a rare thing when movies like this come along. It's the kind of picture where you'll either marvel at the highly woven plot and genre-hopping genius, or deplore it for being a completely random, stupid and unfathomable piece of crap.The Dude (Jeff Bridges) is an iconic, laconic slacker. Instantly likable, the Dude's own slant on life is that most things can be solved by taking it easy or going bowling. His partners in crime are Walter; a deranged 'Nam verteran (John Goodman in superb scene-stealing form), Donny, one of his bowling buddies (Steve Buscemi in an understated role) and David Huddleston as the title character, complete with assistant Brandt (Philip Seymour Hoffman, turning the smarm right up to ten). What starts as a simple case of mistaken identity and damaged property quickly becomes a roller-coaster tale of backstabbing and caricature characterisation which gets faster and more twisted as it reaches the final minutes.The first time I saw this I must say, it just seemed ludicrous and not at all humorous. I wasn't really sure whether it wanted to be a comedy or a surreal drama. After getting about two thirds of the way through I got up and walked out, convinced that this was the worst film in the Coen brothers canon. But on a second viewing I stopped taking this film too seriously and it was then the offbeat comedy and plot really came together.Ingenious, hilarious and unexpected you really don't have a clue what is going to happen, but the direction and cinematography make it seem like it was inevitable all along. Challenging and rewarding.


                
The absurdity, the coolness, and the essence of just being are present in a cocktail of so like the brothers Coen.At first I didn't want to go to see this movie as I am not into "lazy time wasting slackers" or bowling.  I know now that I have truly underestimated the importance of bowling, and that God is in the details.


                
One of the most watchable movies of all time. Quirky in all the best ways.


                
John Goodman and Jeff Bridges are an absolutely fantastic duo in The Big Lebowski. However, I want to talk about the direction of the Coens' for this film. The writing also reminded me of Thomas Pynchon's Inherent Vice a decent amount, and I definitely mean that as a positive.However, the Coen brothers' direction is for me what brings the other components of the film together. The film's weird psychedelic scenes, the slow motion bowling with John Turturro, and the wonderful use of space, particularly with the houses of the two Lebowskis, all add comedic, eccentric depth to an otherwise still funny movie. The trip The Dude takes when he lays down on his floor on his rug and starts flying is one of the psychedelic scenes that comes to mind. it feels so odd, but in another way, entirely right. John Turturro's (Jesus Quintana) character does not have much to him other than the beautiful slow motion bowling scene, but man is that enough. Finally, I got to thinking about the disparity of space between the two Lebowski places. The Dude's place is relatively small, but it's there that we go on a trip (and Treehorn's place, but that's for another time) that opens up to the whole city. Whereas when we are at The Big Lebowski's place, The Dude, Brandt, Bunny, and almost anyone who enters looks small in comparison to the space of the house. It's an interesting dichotomy that truthfully may not mean much, but it's something small (I guess pun intended) that makes the direction of the movie more special. It's also just a legitimately very funny movie that really does thrive off the duo of Goodman and Bridges. It's weird and it's frequently nonsensical, but it's still worth a watch.


                
This movie is a beautiful mess. First and foremost, it's a laugh out loud hilarious farcical comedy with an pleasantly odd sense of humor and a penchant for satire. It's also a crime drama with some mystery and mind bending elements. The acting is great and the directing has a level of meticulousness and polish to be admired.It has a way of making a simple story needlessly complex and adds unresolved plot threads on top of unresolved plot threads with a badge of honor. It even piled up so many meandering elements, that it's confused in itself. The Big Lebowski is what America is, at least if you're looking at it from the view of a Coen Brother.


                
The Coen brothers' movies never cease to amazed me. From Blood Simple to Raising Arizona, these two cinematic geniuses always made me laugh and also enlightened me in any situation they put on the big screen. Yet even in the slightest sense sometimes, their stories can be twisted, but hilarious. And after seeing The Big Lebowski twice on DVD, I can finally sit down and write a critical review of the movie.The story takes place in Los Angeles in the year 1991. Jeffery "The Dude" Lebowski, (Jeff Bridges), is not your average movie hero. In fact, the Narrator, (Sam Elliot), tells us in the beginning of the movie that the Dude is considered the laziest man in Los Angeles. He's a loner, a loser and a fan of drinking White Russians. The Dude also has friends like his bowling buddies, Walter Sobchak, (John Goodman), an angry Vietnam veteran, and Donny, (Steve Bucemi), an simpleton who doesn't seem to pay attention to somebody's conversations. When the Dude is ambushed at his home, he realizes that the guys who assaulted him got the wrong man. He soon finds out that there's a another man who has the same name, Jeffery Lebowski, (David Huddleston). The big Lebowski, (Huddleston), wants the Dude to find his kidnapped wife after receiving a ransom note from the kidnappers. So, the Dude and Walter decides to bring the ransom money to the kidnappers since they were given instructions from them. Unfortunately, this doesn't go as planned. The Dude and Walter failed to bring the money and as a result, the Dude receives news that the culprits cut off her toe. With evidence pending, The Dude decides to investigate the mystery along with Walter as the story deepens into bizarre twists and turns involving a porno king, (Ben Gazzara), who uses the Dude to star in one of his films.After seeing this movie twice, I started to figure out why this movie became a cult movie of its own. And I think I know why. Most movies consists on telling stories that have a meaning to it. The plot can be either straight forwarded or filled with many twists and turns. There isn't really any meaning to The Big Lebowski. Maybe audiences are tired of seeing movies that are predictable or recycled. In fact, I am also one of those people who can't stand watching films that are recycled from the screenplay factory. The Coen brothers don't fall into that specific category. These two men can write sharp and witty dialogue. Some might even compare this movie to Quentin Tarantino's Pulp Fiction. What these two movies have in common is, yes, they are set in the City of Angels, but also to make a point, the way the characters in both movies talk in such a way that it's sounds screwy and also funny at the same time. It's rare today to see films that are dialogue-driven. I know for a fact that some audience members don't like too much dialogue. I can understand that statement. But, dialogue doesn't hurt. It certainly doesn't.Out of all of the characters that the Coen brothers has written in their films, I have to say that the Dude is, perhaps, the best well-written character that they could come up with. In many ways, The Dude lives by his own rules and doesn't seem to pay attention to the world around him. When he has to investigates the kidnapping, he does his way rather than stopping and looking over the specific details that are involved in the crime. It's almost as if he consumes most of the evidence through his brain and finally after so many complications, he finally understands what is going on. On the other hand, Walter is also like the Dude. Walter is, unlike the Dude, a Vietnam veteran who doesn't like to be wrong on the things that he does, yet he thinks he's being blame for the wrongdoings that he did while serving in Vietnam, hence his repeated line, "Am I wrong?". Another similarity is that he and the Dude are somehow stuck in the early 90's. They think they are still living in the 60's. Jeff Bridges is wonderful as the Dude. He brings a lot of heart into his character. He makes the Dude likable because of his on-screen presence. John Goodman is very funny as Walter, the angry Vietnam veteran who reluctantly agrees to help the Dude with his investigation. Among the supporting performers are Julianne Moore as Lebowski's daughter, who specializes in pornography. John Turturro is also well casted as Jesus, the gay Latino bowler who is always eyeing the Dude, Walter and Donny, since they are competing him in a bowling tournament. And I wouldn't want to leave out Phillip Seymour Hoffman's and Julianne Moore's performances. Those two performers did a very good job portraying their own characters with sharp writing.What I also like about the movie is the bowling aspect. This is a very good movie about bowling even though it is a not sports movie. But furthermore, The Big Lebowski is also an ambitious movie that tries to crammed as much as it could because they are so many things going throughout the entire movie. You have a mystery, a kidnapping, a bowling tournament, an investigation, pornography, a rug that the Dude owns that had been peed on, and German nihilists. How could one movie fit all of this in? Well, ambition is the key and so is the writing that drives this movie altogether. <U+2605><U+2605><U+2605> 1/2 3 1/2 stars.


                
The Coen brothers' The Big Lebowski is a friendly, clumsy comedy about a man named Jeff Lebowski, who calls himself the Dude, and is illustrated by the narrator as "the laziest man in Los Angeles County." He lives merely to go bowling, but is taken for a millionaire named the Big Lebowski, with calamitous results. We all know people like the Dude, and so, supposedly, do the Coen brothers. They rooted the character in a producer named Jeff Dowd. Both dudes rely on lateral thinking much more than orderliness.The Dude is paid a visit by two enforcers who obviously have the wrong Lebowski, but before they discover that, one has already peed on the Dude's rug, sparking intense hostility: "That rug really tied the room together," the Dude laments. John Goodman's Walter Sobchak leads the vendetta. Sponging lines straight from Bush 41, he declares that "this aggression will not stand" and insists the Dude "draw a line in the sand." The Dude drops in on the real Lebowski, leaves with one of his rugs, and soon finds himself solicited into the millionaire's conspiracies.Rich Lebowski, wheelchair-bound like General Sternwood and staring into a fireplace like Major Amberson, wants the Dude to deliver his wife Bunny's ransom. This plot is countered by Maude, Lebowski's eccentric daughter from a past marriage. Julianne Moore, who played a porno actress in the great Boogie Nights, here plays a largely dissimilar sort of erotic artist, swathing herself in paint and launching herself through the air in a leather harness. L.A. in this film is a menagerie of idiosyncratic characters. One of the funniest is a Latino bowler named Jesus. The Dude is prone to lively fantasies when he's punched out or knocked unconscious, which occurs frequently, and one of them turns into a musical comedy set piece featuring a beautiful POV shot from within a bowling ball.The Big Lebowski tears across all trajectories and never goes anywhere. That isn't so much a failing as its technique. The Dude, who rocks a lot of ganj,' swigs White Russians mixed with half-and-half, begins each day full of determination, but his devices steadily melt into a fog of lost chances and misconstrued intent. The atmosphere is set up right at first, when the narrator begins sufficiently well but ultimately admits he's lost his own gist, a droll curveball drawing our attention to the incidence of screenwriters who will never be unwilling to remove all support from us even after it has been literally soiled by a shaggy-dog-story character we may or may not ever see again in this chaotic plot.This could never equal its predecessor Fargo, but it's bizarrely winning, like its hero, played by Jeff Bridges with a goatee, potbelly, ponytail and Bermuda shorts so bulky they may have been scrounged from his sounding board and bowling partner, Walter Sobchak. Their other teammate is Donny, who may not be too sharp-witted, but it's difficult to know as he's never permitted to finish a sentence. Set at the time of the Gulf War, here are characters whose language was created by earlier times, Vietnam, flower power and the Twilight Zone. As with Raising Arizona, The Big Lebowski shows us a protagonist whose doofus-y simplicity appears to be his sole defense from the real world. He and Walter's very idea of real life may be wrought by the narrow ways they have to express it. Bridges does more with his downcast physical expression than countless comics can manage by laying it on thick.From its opening credits, The Big Lebowski indeed appears and feels like a shuck-and-jive. That's why the recognizable premise of a staged kidnapping complete with betrayals is only outwardly commonplace. Crime and reason are not the concerns here. What matters is how hard-wearing the two or three characters we're most concerned for are, despite the misfortune generated by their own ineptness. The Big Lebowski---a surrealist farce cooked up by the unruly Coens out of odds and ends of the deep-rooted and the new-fangled, the philosophical and the primal, in a fraction of LA where heightened reality crashes with autistic character interaction---amounts to noticeably less than the sum of its frequently lively and entertaining parts.


                
Greetings again from the darkness.  I have fought this for quite some time, but must now give it up for the greatness that is ... the Coen Brothers. Bad pub made me stay away from Lebowski on its theatrical release, and am just now getting around to it.  What a gem! Truly brilliant casting and the Coen's now customary bizarre dialog make this one something special.  Who, but the Coens, would cast Steve Buscemi as a former surfer or Flea (Red Hot Chili Peppers) as a nihilist?  Yes, we expect perfection from Jeff Bridges every time - here he delivers.  Is he a slacker or just a decent guy who doesn't wish his rug soiled?  Bridges perfectly captures the spirit of the dude.  Goodman is his usual over-the-top self, only moreso.  His dialog seems at time pulled straight from "Casino", if you f** know what I f** mean.  The beautiful Julianne Moore seems a bit disinterested in her role until her wonderful scene for improving conception.  Philip Seymour Hoffman again shows why he is absolutely the best young character actor working today.  Tara Reid ("Cruel Intentions" and "American Pie") has a brief yet effective role as teh trophy wife with confusing intentions.  David Huddleston steals his scenes for the first time since "Blazing Saddles" and Coen regular, John Turturro is terrifically offbeat as Jesus the wonder bowler.  Sam Elliot lends a touch of class as the stranger, and don't miss Aimee Mann ('til Tuesday) and Ben Gazarra.  Another aspect that we have come to expect in Coen movies is a wonderful soundtrack.  Lebowski provides us with Dylan and Costello along with the wonderful work of Carter Burwell. This movie begs for repeat viewings, but do brace yourself for the boundary pushing.


                
From the get-go, the Dude comes off as a nonchalant guy looking to take in the most of life without extravagance. His pacific nature, along with his friends (who can be polar opposites at times) are lovable characters who all love to bowl. But in all seriousness, this movie revolves around the misfortune(s) of Lebowski: a lovable passive man who just wants to enjoy life, but is put in a whirlwind instead. From the bowling alleys to the bridges, going on this adventure is constant excitement and joy. You can't help but smile to see the Dude take what life has to throw at him in the best way he can. Lebowski is quite the man, and this movie's highs (literally) and lows certainly prove it is more than just another dull comedy. Watching this movie even after hearing about all its reviews, I was still quite impressed in every aspect of the film. Whether it just be scenes of playing at the lanes, or taking a relaxing drive outside, I can't overemphasize how much I enjoyed this film. I highly recommend The Big Lebowski since I'm sure it will put a smile on your face...and even give you a little something to think about.


                
Once again, the Coens go and make an original picture that is hard to match anywhere else in entertainment. Speaking honestly as far the story goes, The Big Lebowski is to movies the way Alice in Wonderland is to books. It is really like no other movie that I have seen before. True it does seem to go all over the place, but in the end there are no loose ends that are left untied. An achievement that you don't see much in the mainstream due to the fact that they hope to make a sequel.After watching and laughing within the first five minutes of the film, I had to pause it every now and then to control myself before continuing. There's so much in this film to love that it is no surprise that film has gained a cult following. What I personally love about this film is how the Coens picked actors that actually looked like someone that you would find walking down the street or inhabiting the suburbs of America. Jeff Bridges just nails his famous role as "The Dude" and is part of the reason I think people like this film. The entire film is pretty much about an average guy thrust into this random stream of events and he's still trying to figure out what the hell is going on.If you haven't seen it, watch it. Now.


                
Maude Lebowski: What do you do for recreation? The Dude: Oh, the usual. I bowl. Drive around. The occasional acid flashback. That just about sums up this trip: Some bowling, where we meet one of the most interesting characters I have ever seen in Jesus Quintana (John Turturro), and where The Staranger (Sam Elliott) pops in from time to time to offer such sage advice as. "Sometimes you eat the bar, and sometimes, well, he eats you."Some driving around in a comedy of errors where John Goodman really shines as Walter Sobchak. With friends like that, you certainly don't need enemies. We also meet really colorful characters like Maude Lebowski (Julianne Moore), who just wants The Dude's seed; Bunny Lebowski (Tara Reid), the porn star turned gold-digger; and, of course, The Big Lebowski (David Huddleston) and his faithful servant Brandt (Philip Seymour Hoffman). And when Steve Buscemi started talking about the In and Out Burger, I almost lost it. I swore he was going to go into "the old in and out" routine.A visit to Jackie Treehorn (Ben Gazzara) brings about an amazing thing that could only be described as an acid flashback. I have to admit I had my mouth open the whole time it was going on. It was just that incredible.You should get the idea that this is not a film about kidnapping and money and criminals; it was a film about the characters. i only touched on the main ones. There are plenty more interesting gems to find.Only the Coen brothers could have dreamed up the story of a slacker caught up in a bad situation. It was one of the funniest films I have ever seen.


                
The Coen Brothers indulge us into the lives of the seemingly humdrum, yet intricately fascinating, lives of 70s enthusiast Jeff "The Dude" Lebowski and his Vietnam-scarred, sociopathic friend Walter Sobchak. There is no point. There is a very complicated, and in the end quite anti-climactic story. What there is ,however, is more inventive charm than a circus show put on by David Lynch. Not to mention loads, and loads, and LOADS of laughs. I LOVED it. And so will you.Jeff Bridges plays The Dude, or his Dudeness, or El Duderino "If you're not into the whole brevity thing." We are treated at first to the site of our protagonist being given a rather unpleasant "gift" by two goons sent to recover some sort of payment. As it turns out, they have the wrong man. Soon the dude finds himself entangled in a web of lies, as he attempts to find out who the money came from, and why they owe it. There are many plot twists along the way, which I won't ruin, although it's futile to think this film is about plot.This is perhaps the Coen Brothers' most creative work to date. Even their wildly abnormal works like Raising Arizona have been matched for delightful weirdness, in the form of The Dude's various trip-out dream sequences. This being a Coen's film there is no such thing as a small part. Check out John Turturro's wild cameo as malodorous Paedophile-cum bowling deity Jesus Quintana. Or Sam Elliot as the film's bookending cowboy narrator. He sums the film up brilliantly two minutes in when, as our narrator, he says "Maybe I just lost my trail of thought. Maybe...After viewing "The Big Lebowski" I was convinced that Jeff Bridges' sole existence on earth was to play The Dude. He is just perfect as the man who seems to get through all the destruction in his life with an apathetic retort of dowdy-hippydom. In a demented way it's what makes him so tranquilly admirable. John Goodman matches The Dude's bathos with psychotic blunder, and Steve Buscemi's Donnie is a rare Buscemi treat of cluelessness.Despite it's convolutions The Big Lebowski never feels unrewarding in its Rubik's-cube plotting. Whereas earlier works like the ambitious Miller's Crossing (1992) were flawed on basic storytelling levels, here we are treated to the demented worlds first, and story second. The denouement is somewhat of an anti-climax but by that point you are so far into the world of deadbeat optimism that you won't be disappointed. In fact, the indifference to it's own crescendo makes for a very fitting finale. In the end, it's not the destination the counts, it's the ride. And what a ride. I don't think Joel and Ethan have written a script with better lines, nor do I think they've ever had a better cast. This is a film without meaning, but loads of heart. And white Russians too.
Joel and Ethan Coen can be proud of their BIG LEBOWSKI. Be ready to laugh your butt off. Jeff Lebowski(Jeff Bridges)is a pot bellied, pot-smoking laid back slacker that insists on being called "The Dude". His two best friends are Walter(John Goodman), who sees the world against him for surviving the Viet Nam War; and Donny(Steve Buscemi), who manages to butt-in on conversations only to be ignored. Dude's world consists of bowling and getting stoned. Somehow Dude is mistaken for a wheel-chaired millionaire (David Huddleston)and is caught up in a kidnapping scam for the ransom. Dude seems more upset with getting restitution for his urine ruined rug. Dude of course needs the aid of his two foul-mouthed bowling friends. Also fitting into this amusing plot are: Julianne Moore as Maude the erotic artist; John Turturro as a hair-netted Latino bowler named Jesus and Tara Reid as sexpot Bunny Lebowski. Rounding out this diverse cast of characters are Philip Seymour Huffman, Ben Gazzara, Flea and Sam Elliott, who also narrates. The dialog seems glued together with the "F" word...which of course is a noun, verb and adjective. It seems one toke over the line is not enough. Cheers for the Coen brothers.
Another Coen classic I dare say. Certainly one of the weirdest Coen films in my book. Jeff Bridges delivers a brilliant performance as "The Dude" but not only he, also John Goodman as Walter is unbelievably good. There's not one character that feels miscast or "out of place", not even the German nihilists. And then there is Jesus... When you think it can't get any weirder (unless you go see "Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas") wait until Jesus starts to bowl. Now you may not like bowling but that's of no consequence because "new things will come to light" when you keep watching, things like beverages of a certain kind, rugs, toes, scribbled notes, car stolen, car found, a baseball bat, money lost, the Eagles, thorough doctors, sex, not necessarily in that order.The dream sequences are yet another part of this movie which in itself would be totally cheesy and boring for anyone to watch, but this time around it's the dude and you fly along with him. No questions asked.
One cannot help but wonder though how the dude makes a living besides playing courier for ransom money? Maybe he acts as a jury for his landlord's dancing performances? Who knows? It's beside the point. The dude does what the dude does: Nothing, but that he does exceedingly well.8/10


                
