If you want an action movie, watch something else.  Das Boot reflects what war must really be like, showing not just the 1% of terror and confusion, but also the 99% sitting around waiting for things to happen. It is also the best if not only explanation I know, of how honourable men could have fought for the Nazis. I have now seen "Das Boot" 4 times.  The first time was the "Director's Cut" with subtitles.  Since then I have learnt German, so each time I watch the film I understand it better.  It is still very difficult to follow, and a great deal passes me by; I think this film probably has the hardest German of any of the 50 or so German-language films I've seen.  This is part of its authenticity; you don't expect people to speak Standard High German when they think they may die horribly in the next five minutes. The original mini-series has about the same amount of action as the Director's Cut, but a great deal more explanation and character development. For example, the Captain gets to comment on his actions towards the English sailors from the sinking oil-tanker.  I think the sound of the Director's Cut was redone for Dolby-7, so the noises seem to come from all around and at times make you want to hide under the seat. However in all other respects, I think the mini-series is very  much better than the Director's Cut, brilliant though that is.


                
I taped the original Swedish airing of "Das Boot" in the late 80's,and thought it was amazing. Now I own the DVD,and I still think it's amazing! Fortunate enough, this film lack the big special effects,which makes it stand excellent against time.I prefer the mini over the feature movie. The slower pace and the closeness to the characters really gets to me. Over the years I must have seen this film more than 50 times,and it's still great! The casting is excellent and so is the directing. Wolfgang Petersen have done really well with a great novel. He captures the boredom and the fear in war in a superb way.Perhaps the labeling of this film as a "war movie", has scared off many viewers from a great piece of art. Both those who dislike war movies and those who like war action.


                
I researched German U-Boats for many years, interviewed surviving crew as well as current day German naval officers. I read at least 100 books on U-Boats. I did this to research my novel, An Honorable German, a World War Two naval epic told from the point of view of a heroic yet deeply conflicted German naval officer, published in 2009. I say this to establish my credibility to write the following review.Das Boot is based on the novel of the same name which is a thinly disguised memoir by the author, Lothar Gunther Buchheim. This imparts an authenticity to the film often lacking in many war films. The author of the novel was actually aboard the U-Boat on several war patrols. The IMDb lists the German actor Jürgen Prochnow as playing Capt.-Lt. Henrich Lehmann- Willenbrock, the actual commander of U- 96 and 6th highest scoring U-Boat ace of the war when Buchheim was aboard and not the fictitious commander of the U-boat always referred to as the "Old Man."I would strongly recommend that you watch the movie in the original German with English subtitles rather than the version dubbed into English. You get a far better feel for life aboard a German U-Boat when the men are speaking in German and you hear the urgency in the voices of the actors as it would have been in real life. Buchheim was a war correspondent working for the German Propaganda Ministry (all war correspondents in the Third Reich worked for the Propaganda Ministry) and in that capacity he went on two war patrols aboard the actual German U-Boat, U-96.I can say with every assurance that this film is an accurate description of daily life aboard a German U-Boat in World War Two we will ever see. But even more important, this film depicts the horror and terror of war in the most compelling way possible. To me, no other war film comes as close to Das Boot in depicting both the boredom and terror of war.The film is extremely accurate in its depiction of the foulness of everyday life aboard a German U-Boat. None of the boats had bathing facilities so the men could never clean themselves except with a bucket of salt water from the ocean. Nor could they wash their uniforms, of which they were only allowed two while on board.They had special salt water soap but all that did was irritate the skin. Boils, rashes and skin infections of all kinds were common among U- Boat crews. Fresh water was strictly rationed and none could be spared for bathing. The men did receive a cup of water each day for brushing their teeth and cleaning their face etc but most were so thirsty from strict water rationing that they just drank the cup of water.Food grew slimy and green with mold as shown in the movie and there was such limited storage space that sausages really did hang down in the compartments as shown in the film. Fresh food only lasted a few days and the rest of their food came from cans.Because of the rocking of the boat and monotonous diet, the men developed constipation. Unlike American submarines in World War Two, German submarines had no air conditioning or heat (except for so small portable heaters). The boat took on the temperature of the water outside the hull so you can imagine how uncomfortable this must have been. Ventilating the boat was very difficult and many crewmen developed lung problems.When the movie first appeared in Germany in 1981, it was vilified by many surviving U-boat crewmen. Small details were pounced on and men said "we didn't have that on my U-Boat" which is sort of meaningless since no U-Boats were equipped exactly the same. What is more interesting about the vilification of the movie, which gave it immense publicity in Germany, is that the former commander of U-96, Henrich Lehmann-Willenbrock, was on the set everyday advising the actors and the director. The "old man" had survived the war and in what must have been a surrealistic experience, he later helped put the movie together and coached Jürgen Prochnow how to play Lehmann-Willenbrock, that is, himself.Another high scoring U-boat ace, Erich Topp, advised on the movie as well. Those who criticize the film usually fail to point this out. This was one of the first movies to use the technique of hand-held cameras to give the viewer a sense of the movement of the boat and the men. This technique had become ubiquitous today and in my opinion overdone.This film is an incredible work of art and is, in my opinion, the greatest war film ever made. There is no "sugar coating". The brutality and randomness of war are shown without any attempt to make them "pretty." If you are only going to watch one war movie in your life, then watch this one.


                
Despite the extra length, I would *strongly* recommend the mini-series version. I first watched this when it came out on TV as a mini-series (293 min, 1985), then recently as the movie version (149 min, 1981), and then the mini-series again.In cutting the length down for the movie version, what largely remains are action scenes. Retained in the mini-series version are the quieter more reflective, atmospheric scenes, which in my opinion are what most make Das Boot truly AWESOME. These scenes gradually and subtly develop the characterizations of the crew members: their divergent political beliefs, the tensions among them, their cynicism or honor, their bravery or fragility. The submarine itself is a central character too: emerging through the depths like a great lethal whale, or plowing through the spray in rough weather, or floating calmly across the placid ocean surface, all to the backdrop of the haunting and memorable theme music. These subtle atmospheric aspects are what most stayed with me for 30 years. I would also suggest watching it in German with subtitles - one of the things that makes this an unusual WWII movie is that it is from the German perspective, and hearing it in German gives a more intense feel for that Germanic aspect and its special qualities (even if you don't understand German). Das Boot is an amazing experience, and it is well worth immersing yourself in the original full length miniseries version for a memorable and unique experience.


                
Das Boot is considered by many one of the best war films ever made. They have been a number of versions, the theatrical cut and the director's cut. The film was financed by German television and the director Wolfgang Petersen converted it into a 6 hour mini-series. The DVD is an epic 4 hour 42 minutes, cut in a seamless fashion.Das Boot is a rare film, a film that tells a story of World War II from the German perspective. It shows the mission of U-96 in the winter of 1941 when the Battle of the Atlantic is turning towards Britain's favour. Britain is using the convoy system, having more supplies from the American merchant navy and the Britain navy is getting better armed, so starving the nation seems hopeless. The crew are on a simple mission of trying to sink as many British ships as possible whilst avoiding British patrol planes and destroyers, a very tough think to do. The focus of Das Boot is on the experienced war weary captain (Jürgen Prochnow) and Lieutenant Werner (Herbert Grönemeyer), a young war corespondent for the German military and an outside to their world. All the characters are individuals, treated with respected, even the only character who is a Nazi is treated like a human being. This is a complex drama about the moral of warfare and the collective spirit of serving in a submarine. It is a tough world where young men are serving in one of the most dangerous fields of war during World War II. This a conflict where they are long moments of boredom in a close environment. This can lead to conflict within the crew. Whilst when the U-Boat does find a convoy it can be a massive struggle between life and death for the whole crew.Das Boot is clearly Wolfgang Petersen best work. He shows the claustrophobic environment of what a U-Boat would have been like. It is a noisy environment, and it can lead to conflict within the crew, but also the crew are also close and have to be because they depend on each other. As well as the moments of boredom to show character development and debate the war, Petersen also knew when to add the tension and made Das Boot an instance experience. He also showed his skill with action. Wolfgang Petersen focused on character development, unlike his Hollywood films. He does not villainize either the British or German navies, or the people who fought in the war. Despite Das Boot is based on a fictional novel, it is one of the most accurate portrayal of naval warfare during World War II.Das Boot has a very 80s score to it, using modern instruments, which surprisingly works, adding to the imagines. I personally would have gone for a more classical score, but that's just me.A must see.


                
I watched this movie the very first time as a kid in 1985 on TV and was stoked right away. I had not even been allowed to stay up late at that age but I was able to persuade my parents to let me watch it. Since then I must have watched this five hour version at least seven times and I would be very happy to see it again but unfortunately I do not own it.Do not let the genre "war movie" keep you away from watching this because it is far from being one of those typical "war movies". It is not only the story which makes this one great but also the acting, the lack of special effects and the authenticity. And of course Jürgen Prochnow is king!


                
seems like everything is right about this movie/series. the actors are all really good & the camera-work is excellent. great use of colors also... you know it's war, but still you have all the sympathy in the world for the crew. it's like a world of its own inside "das boot". you can't help but feeling claustrophobic when you watch it, especially when the boat dives deeper & deeper to shake of the enemy...then the attack from above starts & you really start holding your breath, it sucks you in, in ways only movies of very high quality can. i watched the long version, but it felt like it was not that long at all, because it was such a thriller. amazing film, a classic.


                
I agree with everyones comment on the feelings it gives you.One thing that opened my eyes some is the fact when the officer on the ship where they docked and re-supplied in Italy, raised his hand toward the captain and said "Heil Hitler", The captain just looked at him and never saluted back the same.That indicates somewhat that he is disgusted with Hitler and basically is there to complete his orders as any dedicated soldier would do.The eyes of Chief Engineer Hans when he was cracking up under stress, really got to me. The close-up of his eyes put chills down my spine.You can watch this movie numerous times and always find something you missed.
absolutely love this.i think a sign of the wonderful writing and plot-line of this is that it becomes largely irrelevant as to who is in the boat. instead of it being a typical 'war film' of Germans=Nazis=bad guy and allies=good guys, as you are drawn into and through the series, you sympathise only with the crew. it shows beautifully the way that although lines are clearly drawn in war, chances are those at the 'front line' are in exactly the same situation, whatever their allegiance.given the abhorrent conditions they have to endure, the occupants are unsurprisingly less than deferent when they encounter the 'suits' who are in charge - notably when they receive their 'reception' and all the top brass are interested in promoting their gallant u-boat captains, but the crew are either disinterested to the point of irritation, or think 'great! a feed and a booze up' there is so much i could comment on about this, i just love it! p.s. this refers to the serial version - have only once seen the dubbed movie version and i didn't like it! much prefer to hear the original version with the actors' own voices delivered at the time and have to read subtitles, than listen to some bloke's approximation of it
For lack of a better comparison, Das Boot basically did for the war film - and that small sub-genre of WW2 submarine pictures - what Alien did for science fiction space movies: it looks and feels dirty in this environment, and the people who work on these vessels are hard-bitten and look filthy and are more like blue-collar workers than what one would normally picture them being in. In Das Boot (or, of course, 'The Boat'), Wolfgang Peterson adapts Bucheim's journalistic WW2 story about a U-boat in late 1941 who are tasked to go into the North Atlantic and take on the enemy, primarily British convoys and other boats of the like. It's a grim, relentless, sometimes depressing but often invigorating story.One might also be thwarted, as I was for some years, about the idea of 'Huh, the Germans as the heroes of this story, get outta here.' But it's more complex than that, or rather it's not as simple as 'They're Nazis' in that way. Actually most of these officers and naval-men on this U-Boat, run by Jurgen Prochnow's character, have no real firm affiliation, and when they meet other officers when they pull for a brief stop in Spain, they don't even 'Sieg Heil' the other officers. Why this works for an international audience, why it didn't just stay a German-based sort of entity with minimal interest for outsiders who might still have grudges, is that Peterson and company a) don't have any real interest in the politics of anything, it's ALL about the sub and what the missions are, and b) the depth given to the characters (certainly in the director's cut, if not the even longer version) makes these people stand out as people first and foremost.Are they all super complex? Maybe not. Some come close to being clichés and stereotypes, though other times, wisely, before s*** hits the fan, there are some scenes given to showing the men just talking like men, about sex stuff, goofing on each other in that Tough sort of manner. Probably my favorite supporting character, aside from the Correspondent Lt. Werner, the sort of audience surrogate (rather, the guy who other people can explain stuff to so we know), is Johann. He has not a ton of scenes, but he has enough to have a clear, interesting arc where he works in the engine room, and during the big centerpiece of the film where the U-Boat is under attack from the Convoy and they're losing ground, he abandons his post and loses his mind for a few minutes. He apologizes, but can he really redeem himself? Certainly among this cast he has one of the most expressive faces and eyes.This was a fascinating watch for me in a number of ways - the fact that the filmmakers were able to hold attention for long stretches where, frankly, not a lot is "happening" action-wise, and we're made to just sit with these people and see what happens when they don't have enemies to attach or problems to solve, was one thing. And Pruchnow is a good actor who, frankly, is most effective in scenes involving eye contact (he has good, steely-blue type of leading man eyes), and when there's danger and he has to raise his voice. Otherwise, he has to be the Rock for these men, and does a good job. Other performances range from very good to just decent, but no one is bad at all here. Also, I should note, this uncut "miniseries" version (which, on DVD, is presented as a regular movie, albeit 4 hours and 53 minutes long), sheds light on some things that otherwise were left little spoken or mentioned, more moments of depth and character development. As Ebert noted in his review, one such thing you can see is the difference in this and the director's cut in how the bombing of the British ship is dealt with (the ones not saved by the Captain) - here it's clearer and, frankly, a bit more fulfilling dramatically speaking.Yet what made this go from being a very good experience to a great one, was the finale. I wouldn't dare reveal what happens even with a 'Spoiler' warning, but suffice to say it's one of those moments where I practically had to laugh in astonishment. For a film this unrelentingly harrowing and bleak, the ending throws the kind of "twist" that is far from something unbelievable or out of this world. On the contrary, it's so logical and spot-on as a dramatic moment that it made everything else coming before it matter more - or at least have an ironic light to it. Das Boot is one of those very long "guy" movies that goes past how we usually view war films; the action happens and is any-number-of-ways-to-say-intense, but the time spent with the characters, observing them, seeing how long they're in this environment before things start to happen, gives the experience the texture of a long novel.
The verisimilitude is (presumably) immaculate; I have never been aboard a U-boat, and after watching "Das Boot," I am quite thankful that I was not a young German in the Kriegsmarine during World War II! Seriously, though, "Das Boot" is movie-making at its finest. Watch it. Watch the Uncut Version. (It is not much more explicit, just longer, bringing some sequences to near-real-time.) Spend half your day watching the movie, and the other half contemplating the depth of what you have just seen.Every aspect of this production is genuinely superb: from Klaus Doldinger's leitmotif that has variations ranging from doleful dirges to rousing fanfares, always with the same music; to Juergen Prochnow's restrained and dark, but ultimately cynical and reasonable acting; to the claustrophobic camera angles filmed in a period-accurate "iron casket" with no removable walls. The diegetic (occurring in the story) music is memorable and well-chosen, including the out-of-control jazz music in the La Rochelle nightclub, the "Tipperary song," and the Captain's personal favorite song.With movies such as this one, "Downfall," and "Das Leben der Anderen," German cinema has shown a level of admirable candidacy and skilled artistry in depicting the modern country's distant but troubled origins.Even if you don't like war movies or submarine movies, even if you don't speak a word of German, WATCH "DAS BOOT," because it is legitimately powerful, genuine, and impressive. 10/10.


                
Is 'Das Boot' the greatest ever TV series? It certainly ranks alongside 'Washington - Behind Closed Doors' 'Talking To A Stranger' and 'Edge of Darkness.' But it was made and released as a movie first, but they still managed to get 300 minutes' worth of film out of an original movie cut of 140 and a director's cut of 209?!!! The TV series works because it plays out the length of time, the boredom of wandering the Atlantic looking for prey, and the claustrophobic life of being on a Uboat at rest and under attack. The characters grow or stay the same as nerves and personality gnaw away under tremendous stress and pressure. A magnificent achievement, especially for 1981. It packs a punch, if not quite the same effect as watching 'Salvador' or 'All Quiet on the Western Front' the first time, as it tells the story of a predatory, merciless weapon of pretty vast destruction preying on defenceless merchant ships, whilst at the same time being hunted by an enemy that is technologically and logistically gaining the upper hand. Superbly acted, directed, and staged, this film/TV series stands with the all-time greats - watch and be stunned!
Television Review: "Das Boot" (1981-1985)When "Das Boot" firstly streamed in its 150-Minute-Theatrical-Cut in German cinemas from September 17th 1981, little did the director Wolfgang Petersen and Producers Lutz Hengst (died 1999) and Günter Rohrbach know that the ultimate Anti-World-War-II motion pictures from German filmmakers themselves had been going around the world by the year 1985, bringing the Director and Cinematography Academy-Award-Nominations in the year 1983 due to highly-inventive Steadi-Cam-in-ultra-tight-places within real-size submarine interior operating Jost Vacano as stranglehold-gripping suspense in any editorial ranging upto 500 Minutes in a deeply-moving struggle of a German submarine captain "Der Alte", with guts, glory, sweat and beard-portrayal by actor Jürgen Prochnow. Any audience is able to follow the full extent of being at shore at nightly party-out, drinking, smoking in" Part 1" over battling environmental storms as water-bomb-dropping English destroyers in open water Atlantic conditions in "Part 3 and Part 4", when final nerve-wrecking strikes of fully-abandoned hope situation under strictly-male submarine behaviors of all-sense-indulging cock fights, especially between visiting War-journalist Lieutenant Werner, ranging from innocence to war-approved performance by new-to-acting musician Herbert Grönemeyer only packed up against a pack-of-wolves pushing performances of several known German television stars, including Heinz Hoenig as Sonar-clinging Hinrich, Martin Semmelrogge as humor-infusing character of 2nd WO, Uwe Ochsenknecht as reason-over-dispute character "Bootsmann" and Actor Klaus Wennemann (1940-2000), who as 1st Engineer onboard remains the closest friend to the captain in the darkest hours of lost causes in a seemingly senseless war situation of highest emotion and thrill.Even in retrospective, the production of "The Boot" based on Lothar-Günther Buchheim's novel from 1973 brings full-frontal as immersive character conflicts down to the bottom of the sea as well as the human spirit struggle itself to fight war within oneself, stunningly catched by Director Wolfgang Petersen, who builds an atmosphere on-set that nearly unbearable to endure for any cast member, who nevertheless share pitch-perfect beats of powerhouse acting to be watched several times as witnessed for first-time viewers in an highly-recommended 5-hour-cut by editor Hannes Mikel (1931-2001) over 150 Minutes theatrical version, when German cinema as television reached its peak of Post-World-War efforts to reunite enternal-wounded State of Germany in season 1989/1990. © 2018 Felix Alexander Dausend
(Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
Without a doubt, one of the most authentic both visually and emotionally, depicted films that l have ever seen. I might add that this comment comes from an British Ex- Royal Marine Commando (Retired)


                
This master piece of a war movie. and a submarine movie.
is still great. and atleast to me dosent seem dated.but i have seen it several times. form when i was a teenager.
we even saw it in school. on VHS. and i have them on DVD. and BluRay.
and its still great. maybe on BD it could have cleaned op better.. but stillthe movie is pure awesomeness. but it does have slow times. that might be hard for the newer, instant gratification generation. now all movies have to be fast paced anf full og action. and no mental action. or trying to put youre self in there position. and that is what is so much more gripping i think.


                
A riveting film experience which is a very special event to watch. In the same likeness as Dunkirk, you feel like you are experiencing everything every character 's experiencing in all its raw, and gritty reality. You hold your breath experiencing the stress and anxiety which flows through every single every character. It's amazing cinema at its best. I have never seen the shorter version, but I would highly recommend this version as you need the time to experience and indulge every single detail in order to fully experience the panic in which the crew is going through. And I believe that's only achieved in this longer version. It's well worth the watch. You won't be disappointed!


                
