It's certainly not a new complaint in relation to this film, but I must register it anyway: Jack Nicholson's acting here is all wrong for the material. Instead of a slow buildup from banality to insanity - which, given the movie's otherwise brilliant creepiness of tone and style - could have been truly horrific to watch, we get Jack Torrance as the nutjob Big Bad Wolf right from the very beginning. It's weird: it's as if Kubrick is indeed making the ultimate horror film, and Nicholson is sabotaging it every step of the way by enacting the ultimate horror film *parody*. Each on its own terms is immensely enjoyable, but they effectively cancel each other out. I've never seen the styles of director and star diverge so emphatically (A minor comparison would be the first "Fletch" movie, where Michael Ritchie's taut direction is appropriate to a gritty crime thriller, but where star Chevy Chase waltzes through the vehicle glibly throwing darts into every dramatic setup).However, there's no point in blaming Nicholson for the mess - this was clearly the way Kubrick wanted the part to be played. Perfectionist and control freak that he was, you don't believe for a minute that any inch of a Kubrick film isn't exactly how he wanted it; he certainly wouldn't allow a mere *actor* to steamroll his well-laid plans, not even one as forceful and magnetic as Jack Nicholson. Still, this movie - together with Batman, and even One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest - soured me on Jack for a long time; I found in him an actor far too willing to coast on his personality and to ham it up mercilessly, rather than bother to actually create a recognizable human being. Such a technique is fine, even commendable, for farceurs like Jim Carrey or Paul Reubens (either one of which would probably have been just as effective as Nicholson is here at being Jack Torrance) but we should expect more from our so-called Dramatic Actors. It wasn't until I saw some of his more restrained, nuanced work in such films as Ironweed, Wolf, The King of Marvin's Gardens, and even (amazingly) Easy Rider that I realized what a truly fine performer Nicholson can be when he is forced to, as it were, paint in between the lines (by the way, no complaints from me about his Oscar for As Good As It Gets - he's the only actor alive who could have made that part work the way it did). It's just too bad Kubrick didn't decide to use him this way; watching Jack Torrance go from a diffident, restrained man (watch the first part of Wolf to see how surprisingly well Nicholson can play such a character) to a rampaging lunatic would have been truly frightening (even with the extra bit of campiness Nicholson throws in - "Heeere's Johnny!", etc). It would have been as if the Overlook Hotel unleashed some primordial demon from the depths of an essentially decent man. The way it plays now, Jack's evil and insanity are loudly telegraphed from the very beginning (those dancing eyebrows of his NEVER stop!) - all that's left is to go through the motions.Of course, there are some pretty startling motions to go through in this movie; Kubrick's technical brilliance and his ability to create an engrossing mise en scene ensure that the film can never be seen as a total failure. In fact, when Nicholson is offscreen, the goosebump factor here is actually pretty high. The long tracking shots of Danny riding his Big Wheel through the winding hotel corridors are justly famous, as is the very design of the Overlook's wide open - yet paradoxically oppressive - map room (where Jack does his "writing"): these sequences effectively make the Overlook into a character itself. The isolation of it, its stillness and quiet, and most importantly its labyrinthian hugeness serve to overwhelm the tiny family and break down whatever bond they may have (which, again, would have been so much more effective if we felt this family was ever bonded in the first place). Kubrick ingeniously avoids shock devices, for the most part, and creates his spooky atmosphere through an almost inhuman stillness and quiet - which effectively creates an undertow of dread and expectation in the viewer. Quite simply, there are images and flash-cuts in this movie that will get under your skin and that you will never be able to shake - they will haunt your subconscience forever (deliciously). None more so than the truly classic moment where Wendy, the wife, finally discovers what it is Jack has been "writing" all this time: I can think of few movie moments in history that are so gut-bustingly hilarious and at one and the same time so bone-chillingly frightening and perverse. For this one moment alone, the film demands a viewing.It's simply too bad that Kubrick felt the need to invade the sanctity of his gothic cathedral like setting with the over the top rantings and ravings of the town lunatic. Not that that lunatic is not one devil of a fun guy to hiss and laugh at, it's just that he belongs in a different movie - the Evil Dead flicks, maybe, or one of Freddy Krueger's opuses. This conflict in styles between star and director ultimately make The Shining, for me at least, a frustrating experience: I keep wishing one of them would just get out of the other's way. The Shining could have been one of the hammiest and most enjoyable grand guignol horror experiences ever, or it could have been perhaps the most finely crafted and subtly shaded psychological thriller of all time. Alas, it cannot be both - and in trying to do so, it effectively undermines itself at every turn.


                
With THE SHINING Stanley Kubrick grabs the audience with the very first shot of the opening title sequence: A zoom shot over a lake as bombastic and very disconcerting music is played and as the music continues eldritch cries of children can be heard in the background!!!!! SLIGHT SPOILERS !!!!! This is scary and Kubrick also injects even more terrifying moments into the movie . Three people husband and wife Jack and Wendy Torrance along with their young son Danny stay at a remote hotel as caretakers during the winter , a winter that sees them snowed in so right away you know this family can't easily escape or call for help so did anyone else feel their heart jump Wendy comes screaming to Jack saying they're not alone in the hotel and that there's an old woman there ? Did anyone get a fright when Jack confronted her in the bathroom . THE SHINING is full of these very scary moments " If it's got so many scary bits and works in terrifying you Theo why only seven out of ten ? Surely this must be something of a horror masterpiece " It was awarded seven out of ten because that's what THE SHINING deserves over all . Despite moments of heart-attack inducing fear that's all they are - Moments , which makes THE SHINING rather patchy and we have to endure many slow moments . You want to find out how boring it is being a caretaker at a remote hotel ? Watch this movie I could have forgiven the slow moments but my major gripe is that I found the movie confusing . I have never read King's novel but that doesn't matter because an adapted screenplay should make sense whether the audience has read the book or not and since the message board for THE SHINING is overflowing asking this and that question as to what the ending was about ? , How was Jack Possessed ? What is that photograph about ? etc this means the story has been badly adapted for the silver screen , which considering the potential can possibly be described as unforgivable since my abiding memory of this movie is how much it caused me to scratch my head , nott how much it caused me to jump out of my seat
'The Shining' is often named as one of the greatest horror films ever made. And while I do agree that it is in the top five in the horror genre, its not exactly a perfect film. It has its superb moments and its lackluster moments, in my opinion.As far as the good points go, Jack Nicholson is one of the obvious ones. Nicholson is a very talented actor and his role in this film is a display of his brilliance. He has the ability to turn almost every role he plays into a one-man show (for example, his iconic role as The Joker in 1989's Batman). He makes his character, also ironically named Jack, dimensional. He's menacing, conflicted, witty, and eventually psychotic. Danny Lloyd, also playing a character of the same name, also does a great job with his role as the little boy who "sees all". The film in itself, based on the infamous Stephen King's novel, has a disturbing atmosphere to it. A few of the famous scenes ("Redrum", the twins in the hallway, "Here's Johnny!") definitely leave an impression on the viewer.As far as the negative goes, one big problem I had with the film was the casting of Shelley Duvall. She is, at least in my opinion, a horrible actress. Or shall I say over-actress. But, to her credit, I'm not sure if it was her acting or if her character was actually written to be shrill and stupid. Either way, she was distractingly bad and unintentionally funny in most of her scenes. Also, the running length does go a little long. It clocks in it at over 2 1/2 hours. I can watch a film that long if the story keeps moving and developing. There are a handful of certain scenes that feel too drawn out and prolonged, dragging the pace of the film unnecessarily. I understand King's novel was very lengthy, but the film could've been just as effective if cut down about 30 or 40 minutes.That being said, this film is still breath-taking and much better than some of these 'slasher' flicks that have come out in the last decade or so. But, it does have its flaws at the same time.
I'm a big Stephen King fan so I am a bit biased but having read the book a year ago I though enough time has passed for me to watch the movie. I'm also a fan of Kubrick and his movies work on me every time, he can combine music and visuals in a way that no one else can to create a sense of dread. He is a master when it comes to making me feel uneasy, most of his movies aren't horror but a lot of the scenes feel like horror scenes and are more scary than actual horror movies. After seeing The Shining I still think Eyes Wide Shut is his scariest movie, one that got under my skin the most but the Shining has plenty of great moments of tension and creepiness. Due to that I still really enjoyed the movie, more so the second half than the first, it looks great and the music is fantastic but I have to say the book is just much better. In the book Jack Torrance is a fascinating character, a guy trying to fight his demons and turn his life around to provide for his family, he gradually turns crazy throughout the book due to the paranormal forces of the Overlook. I don't know if in the movie Kubrick wanted to make Jack plain crazy or if this is just Jack Nicholson's acting but the character is purely one dimensional, right from the start he is unstable and it seems as if he is bringing his family deliberately to the Overlook so that he can dispose of them and pretend as if it was an accident. The book is a great family drama, a tragic story which makes you feel a lot of sympathy and sadness towards Jack even when he is on his murderous rampage. The movie doesn't do that at all, he is just a typical psycho, you could replace him with Michael Myers from Halloween and you'd have the same result. I have to say that Jack Nicholson does play crazy really well and provides some great moments of dark humor. On the other hand I think the movie did a great job adding some imagery like the twins and the blood pouring from the elevator and it was a good choice to not do the topiary animals as they wouldn't have translated well to film. All in all I don't dislike it as much as Stephen King apparently does himself but I just think the book has a lot more heart and tells a much more compelling, sad story whilst the movie looks absolutely gorgeous and oozes great creepy atmosphere but doesn't deliver a satisfying story.
The photography is exquisite, the score insinuating, the direction unblemished, and the acting sumptuous. It's so good that even Steven King's usual pulp horror script can't undo it.From the opening scenes of an insignificant Volkswagon beetle snaking up the deserted road towards an old fortress-like hotel, with an ominous, electronic Dies Irae providing the accompaniment, we know we're in some strange territory. At the wheel of that tiny car is Jack Nicholson who is about to be hired as the winter caretaker of the Hotel Overlook. He brings his family, goggle-eyed but beautiful Shelley Duval, and his cute little son along to keep him company while he does his minimal manual chores and tries to write the great American novel. Things begin to go wrong. The echo of things past begins to make itself heard. Nicholson goes berserk, kills a good Samaritan (Scatman Crothers) with an ax and hunts down his wife and child. Duval manages to reach the snow cat, the only vehicle that can travel through the monstrous snowfall that has isolated them. Nicholson chases little Danny through an intricate maze of thirteen-foot-high hedges, howling and lugging his bloody ax. Danny outwits him, escapes with Duval, and Nicholson is finally left to freeze to death in the middle of the insoluble maze, a more cinematic ending than the novel's boiler room.The hotel is a stage set in England and so is the exterior. But what a set it is. It comes across not at all faked but rather like stylized reality. Kubrik does a fine job. The natural tendency in a spooky horror movie would be to hurry the pace so as not to bore the audience of impatient teens. But Kubrik takes his time. The first hour does little more than introduce us to the characters, just enough information to pique us. The shock scenes are not sprinkled throughout the film but are built up to as logically as possible. Threats don't lurk in the shadows. Everything is visible. And the scenes are sometimes funny. The camera views Crother's TV through his bare feet as he lies in bed, under the portrait of a naked babe with an Afro the size of a medicine ball. His camera placement is original. Often the scenes are brightly lighted and the characters seem to be without makeup and the conversational pauses and hesitations stretched out to the horizon, a self-imposed directorial challenge.And an acting challenge too. Jack Nicholson has been in better films but his performance here has never been topped. There are some long takes during which he speaks to Loyd, the ghostly bartender, while looking directly into the camera. He delivers a superlative slice of ham here and elsewhere, winking, wriggling his tongue at his wife, snorting, making gargoyle faces, acting stupefied. What a performance. Everybody else is good, too, if not quite at Nicholson's level, but of course he has by far the juiciest part.The story is so full of holes that it's hardly worth bothering with them. Something strange happens to Nicholson, let's say. A beautiful naked woman approaches him in one of the hotel's rooms and smooches him while turning into a rotting corpse. Nicholson screams in horror and runs away. When Duval asks him what happened, he says, "Nothing." And if Loyd the bartender is a real ghost, and if the booze is real, and if Nicholson's character is really a recovering alcoholic who has decided to get off the wagon, then why does Jack order just one drink and then wander away to join a supernatural party? Why doesn't he say, "Loyd, give me something simple -- a bottle of bourbon and a straw." But suppose Nicholson is hallucinating the ghosts? Well, that can't be, either. One of them unlocks the door to the food storage room and lets Nicholson out. And Shelley Duval and little Danny see them too.This doesn't really torpedo the movie. It has too many superlative features to be destroyed. The holes are irritants but not lethal. A good deal of talent was lavished on this lowbrow script. See it if you can.
I ask the question because the very first thing we hear about the hotel is this shared dramatic roots : the place was a sacred burial ground that has become desecrated for modern life ! There's no doubt that Kubrick was a talented director : The way he shoots this empty, majestic haunted hotel is indeed fabulous ! Usually, when a movie takes place in a single location (ex : « million dollar hotel »), the director pays no attention to it while it's the first character ! Here, we understand the topography, we know the different places so we are really immersed in what happens between the characters. In addition, the sights are totally incredible as well in natural outdoors as sophisticated indoors and i'm really fond of social, collective places becoming desert (ex : a mall like in « career opportunities »)<U+0085>Now, it's hard to tell if the movie is frightening as i'm an adult, i have read the novel and i have watched it a long time ago ! Actually, the way dark forces twist the family is really original because except for very graphic moments, the horror is mostly verbal and psychological : to illustrate those fears and anguish, I found the cast really talented : Danny plays great when we think how young he was ; His mother was really caring for the whole family and shows resources when needed and Jack was indeed a fabulous puppet man driven crazy ! So maybe the flaw was just him as King told : if Jack is perfect when crazy, he is unfit to play the normal guy : at the start of the movie, he doesn't act like the perfect husband, loving father or motivated employee so we lost his unexpected fall and thus a lot of the dark intensity of the movie<U+0085>But, after 36 years, the movie doesn't look old and senile and with that late 70s fashion and design, it's still pertinent and a must see movie today !!


                
I have seen this movie SO many times (prior to reading the book) and it never fails to scare me each and every time. Jack Nicholson, of course, was born for the part of the lead male but I have found that the Jack of the movie is not necessarily the Jack of the book. On its own, the movie is one of the best in its genre but if you have never read the book, do yourself a favor and do so. Having never read a King novel before, I was impressed. The book was excellent. The depth of characters is so vastly different from those depicted in the film. You actually like the Jack of the book! You 'feel' for him. You understand him. Some of the action of the story too has been altered in the film, and in my opinion, not for the better. I plan to watch Stephen King's The Shining now as I understand it more closely resembles his original story and is more in line with what the author wanted the Stanley Kubrick film to be. The real reason for Kubrick's reinterpretation can be researched, as it too is an interesting read.


                
Jack Torrance (Jack Nicholson) arrives at the Overlook Hotel to interview for the position of winter caretaker, with the aim of using the hotel's solitude to work on his writing. Manager Stuart Ullman (Barry Nelson) warns him that a previous caretaker got cabin fever and killed his family and himself. Jack's son, Danny (Danny Lloyd)and Jack's wife, Wendy (Shelley Duvall), feel terrified about the hotel. Wendy later tells Jack that Danny told her that a "crazy woman in one of the rooms". Jack investigates Room 237 where he encounters the ghost of a dead woman, but tells Wendy he saw nothing. Wendy and Jack argue about whether Danny should be removed from the hotel and a furious Jack returns to the Gold Room, now filled with ghosts having a costume party. While searching for Jack, Wendy discovers his typewriter; he has been typing endless pages of manuscript repeating "all work and no play makes Jack a dull boy" formatted in various styles. She is confronted by Jack, who threatens her before she knocks him unconscious. Jack awakes and chops through the door where Wendy and Danny are hiding. He then chases Danny through the maze. After Danny throws him off his path he escapes with his mother and Jack freezes to death.The scene where Jack first meets Lloyd, he's lit from beneath, which illuminates his already ominous features. When Wendy finds "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy", she is positioned right in the center of the scene and it's red right behind her (Kubrick always makes interesting use of red). Then, what appears to be a POV shot moves towards the chamber, but it turns out not to be; Jack moves into the scene. The camera views Crother's TV through his bare feet as he lies in bed, under the portrait of a naked women. His camera placement is original. Often the scenes are brightly lighted and the characters seem to be without makeup and the conversational pauses and hesitations stretched out. Camera-work had this quality of making the viewer expect that there is something around the corner.Nicholson is an artist who uses his face and various features in a brilliant manner. His expressive eyes, broad smile, ever moving eyebrows, deep crackling voice. He displayed cold frustration as effectively as outrageous anger. Portrayal of a frustrated madmen who slowly looses his mind was very detailed and must have resulted from a lot of homework. I found it to be very entertaining, very suspenseful and a visual treat. Those visuals were so good that I didn't mind the slow pace. Jack Nicholson was perfect for the role. Shelley Duvall was fascinating with her "Olive Oyl" face especially with the camera pan.Something obviously falls out when you're watching the movie on a 67" high def. This scene was heavily planned and Kubrick was obsessed with aesthetic symbology. My theory is that the elevators represent Danny's mouth and him screaming was the elevator doors opening and Tony spilling out. All the bloodshed from melanin-eating white people killing native Indians and black people was all symbolic for the hotel being America and the history loops back in the destiny of evil white men. White men's novel is the destiny he writes for himself and that destiny is rage. "all work and no play (murder) makes jack a dull boy".... even when they first showed him throwing a ball at a wall that had a native painting of Indian deities that look a lot like the dead twins in blue outfits; the scene first started off with the blank typewriter. Him throwing the ball was symbolic for throwing or chopping an ax. (the ax in the hallway scene of the dead twins)I feel it was a slow long movie. I enjoyed it and recommend it to anyone who likes a horror or mystery. I haven't read the novel but i guess the movie wasn't what Stephen King wanted it to be. There was some disturbing images (not being scary) but who wants to see a fully naked rotting women, it was a raw movie, you saw their bare faces and true expressions. You felt the crazy.
Stephen King, if he had been dead, would have been spinning in his grave. Stanley Kubrick's version of "THE SHINING" lost me as a fan when it departed so radically from the novel. I do not wonder that King had another version of the story filmed later. While Kubrick is a great director has done wonderful films, this one missed its chance. I am not saying that it is not a scary movie, it is that. But the casting of the film was all wrong, except for Scatman Crothers as Halloran. It is his murder, among the other changes from the book that disappointed many King fans. I also felt cheated when they substituted the maze for the scenes in the Topiary Garden and the playground, which to me were some of the most terrifying in the book. In it's defense I will say that the scenery and sets for the movie were first rate. I would like to have heard Wendy Carlos' complete score for the soundtrack. Still it is watchable, but just not the film it should have been
While by modern standards this film is overly long, complicated, and cliche, that is because this was the film that made these tropes mainstream. A young family occupies an absent hotel during the off-season, and each member experiences hallucinations or encounters with supernatural beings that haunt the hotel. The father goes insane, and attempts to murder his family, as the child channels a demon, and the mother attempts to navigate her homicidal family: a classic sit-com plot, as anyone can tell. The deliberate slow pacing of the high action scenes and the low angles that show us an interesting perspective and pacing of the shots put the audience on the edge of their seat, despite the extended run time.
I believe that Kubrick incorporated many different Easter eggs into the shining and I believe they were put there intentionally. The most obvious Easter egg seen in the movie is the Native American influence on the many native American artworks and symbols. Some of these symbols included the native American chief head on the food cans, the paintings in the hotel and the styles on the carpets. I think that Kubrick was trying to build an uneasiness about the hotel in the way of it being on a native burial ground. The theory that there was incest in the family between Dani and Jack I believe isn't very viable even with the different Easter eggs in the movie. The scene of Jack reading the playboy magazine before his interview, Dani's imaginary friend tony, and the mention of past abuse to Dani from Jack i don't think does enough to suspect incest but I do think that it makes it very likely that Dani was abused more than once unlike Jack said in the movie. I think that this movie should be considered a classic because of its many layers in the story line that make it enjoyable to watch more than once because you may catch something the next time you watch it. This is a very great movie and I definitely would recommend watching it.
If you watched the shinning not knowing of Stanley Kubrick, his style, his history in film you could watch the whole movie on a surface level and enjoy it. There is that base level "Enter the dragon" way of watching where you suspend your disbelief and just enjoy the film for what it is. If you watch the shinning like that you will most likely enjoy yourself and not think much of it but when you start to unpack it, dig into the deeper meanings you find yourself watching an almost completely different movie. The biggest of these "easter eggs" has to be the Native American themes throughout. The first hint is when Ullman, Jack's boss says the hotel is built on a Native American burial ground. From then on we see multiple subtle nods to the conflict with jack throwing a ball at a Native American sand painting and cans in the pantry adorned with chieftain heads behind certain characters meant to represent the culture. And that is just the most obvious theme. So I definitely think Kubrick incorporated hidden meanings into the shinning. The shinning is a very talked about movie especially with people like my brother who loves Stanley Kubrick so I am familiar with the talk surrounding it. I can see what the hype was about with some claiming it is the best movie ever although I don't agree with that statement it is an undeniably a classic in my eyes. From shot one you are on edge with the creepy music making the peaceful atmosphere of the mountains, an aesthetic I usually feel quite at ease with, eerie and unsettling. I think it's best to say now I went into this movie almost blind only really knowing it was horror movie and a few things like the term shine and the famous "here's Johnny scene". So this unease continues on throughout the movie until we realize jack has finally snapped. From then on it's an intense chase that keeps you on the edge of your seat until the final almost unbelievable ending of the snow-cat driving away into the fog. We then see jack has frozen to death failing his mission and in complete contrast with other films in the genre making it a welcome change.
After watching The Shinning for a second time I began to realize small details that I didn't notice while watching the first time. Kubrick left small and subtle details unexplained. These small details explains much bigger things that some people may not realize. Native American genocide was subtly hinted throughout the movie. We first hear about this when the hotel manager is telling Jack that the Overlook Hotel was built on "Indian" Burial Grounds. Later in the film Jack is seen throwing a ball at a Native American art. Jack killed Dick Holloraan on a native drawing on the ground. Lastly Wendy is seen wearing dresses similar the the native American culture and her hair is black and bone straight. I enjoyed analyzing this film and enjoyed watching it too. I was able to think about was has happening and what the connection may be to other things in the movie instead of just watching it and moving on. This was the first movie I watched twice to find small details that I didn't notice.
It is funny that so many people love the Shining-- for being a scary horror film of Stephen King/Stanley Kubrick. Kubrick doctored this film so much from King's original version, that King hated it! It is also shown painstakingly that Kubrick is making this into his own Frankenstein production through the scenes and clues he leaves in the film(the red beetle being crushed and replaced by a yellow car, etc.)After watching a lot of other documentaries about how this ties in with the moon landing and historical events and commentary, I believe most people missed the point of the film. It is beloved as one of the greatest horror films of all time, but it comes across on that level as silly and humorous to me. I don't think Kubrick was trying to do a horror adaptation at all. I think he was trying to scare you on another level about what was really going on with the fake crap people believe on their movie/TV/media screens and outlets. There are too many things to list, but research all the clues he leaves in dozens of scenes about the Apollo mission and about fake media.
I am not one who enjoys scary/horror movies at all, but I know this movie to be deemed a "classic" and a "must see" by many, so I gave it a try.As the movie is pulled out over some 2 1/2+ hours, it is critical for the building of the story line. For a large portion of the film we watch a seemingly normal family settle into an easy job tending to a large resort in Colorado for a few months in the off-season. The family uses it as a time to both work and relax. All the while viewers know that something is going to go terribly wrong somewhere along the lines. Unlike in today's "horror" films, the action is not in your face, which has grown to become boring. It is instead slow building as we watch the characters develop. Jack slowly begins to become anxious and upset by his work load and wife, and we watch cabin fever slowly set in as he becomes obsessed with making Wendy (his wife) and Danny (his son) pay for their misbehavior at the resort after a visit from ghosts past.Within the last 45 minutes or so we watch Jack's mental state come crashing down, and with it he tries to bring his family. He is set on killing them, trashing his ax into the resort's cook and then tearing into their bedroom on a wild hunt for Wendy. The most spectacular part of it all is not only the famous one-liners ("heeereee's Johnny!!") and light bit of dark humor sprinkled into the madness, but the sheer unpredictability of it all. In the thousands of square feet laid out in front of them, will Danny and Wendy manage their way out? Or will they live (or shall I say die) to haunt The Overlook as well? The story is not only intriguing, but the acting is authentic, almost to a point where you question the actual mental state of Jack Nicholson. His facial expressions, tone of voice, and mannerisms throughout the film are slow building and hold a lasting affect. It was a movie that, even today, sets a standard for horror films that many movies fall short of in all of their predictability and tired clichés. Definitely worth the watch.
Jack Nicholson, Shelly Duvall and Danny Lloyd star in Stanley Kubrick's 1980 horror film based on Stephen King's novel. Nicholson (Batman) plays Jack Torrance, a school teacher turned writer who becomes the caretaker of an old Colorado hotel, "The Overlook" located in the mountains. He takes his wife, Wendy (Duvall) and young son, Danny (Lloyd) there where they stay for the winter. Soon, strange things begin to happen as Jack tries to work on his book and becomes insane. Danny starts to have a psychic ability and sees strange visions learning the hotel is haunted. This is a good horror flick that's one of Jack's best and Wendy Carlos' score is eerie. 
I recommend this.
Stephen King's intentions are simple: scare the s*** out of people. He succeeds every time. From the beginning, the movie seemed crappy and weird, but it specialized in the dramatic effect; building suspense. I don't like horror films, nor do I enjoy reading horrific stories, the paranoid coward I am, but this is one of those classic, memorable movies that needed to be experienced. I've experienced other works of Stephen King ("Secret Window", "Christine", "Carrie", "Pet Sematary"), and I noticed he leaves a creepy ending every time. I did not particularly like the way the movie was filmed. There weren't enough closeups, when there should have been; but maybe I'm just used to the 21st century way of filming movies. My not-so-best description of this movie would be, creepy and weird. But I suppose that's the point. Jack Nicholson did a phenomenal job in portraying the major creepiness of the main character. This movie kind of freaked me out (as it was supposed to) and reminded me of the craziness that resides in normal people. You just never know.


                
As much as I love Stephen King, his novel "The Shining" just never really did anything for me. And as much as I love Kubrick, he can't really get me into it either. I mean, of course "The Shining" is a good movie. The cinematography is breath-taking (just check out the marvelous opening credit sequence), the acting is great and the multi-layeredness of the screenplay is perfect. But alas, it just doesn't move me. The elevator doors opening, the identical twins, the "REDRUM" scenes, I just don't find them as creepy as I should. That's kind of a problem, because the actual plot moves quite slow. Once Jack Nicholson (here cleverly named "Jack") finally turns crazy he sure as hell delivers, but it takes him a while to get there. The last half hour of this movie is the part most people remember, before that a lot of the scenes seem too stretched out and in some cases just plain redundant. "The Shining" is a classic, just not one I'm particularly fond of.


                
Jack Nicholson, Stephen King and Stanley Kubrick sounded a teaming to die for when announced in 1979. But King's straightforward horror premise has had to bear the burden of Kubrick's portentous cinematic self-importance. Still, he builds up the atmosphere pretty well at the beginning with those majestic helicopter shots of the Rockies, and of the lonely hotel beset by winter silence, given even more eerie dissonant resonance by Bela Bartok's music. The technical mastery, always Kubrick's forte, is there indoors, too. The immaculate camera-work (by John Alcott, who lensed 'Barry Lyndon'), with its severely symmetrical compositions and long flawless tracking shots, sets up the scenes superbly, especially when Nicholson meets or imagines the satanic bar-tender Lloyd.The problem is that as the story progresses it becomes worryingly clear that Kubrick has no firm idea of how to direct a horror film. When it comes to actually delivering the shock moments, all he can manage is a quick melodramatic zoom-in to try and startle up scenes that just fail to exude the frisson intended (the first appearance of the twin girls, the word 'Redrum' on the mirror, the ghostly guest who says "Great party!", or the clunking flashback images of the butchered twins). And was anyone sitting in the director's chair when Nicolson indulged his ludicrous, eye-rolling "Little pigs, little pigs" moment?Like virtually all of Kubrick films it's undeniably watchable. It's his most commercially successful film and, after shaky reviews, has gained a reputation as a genre milestone. Except it's really just an elaborate dead-end.


                
Kubrick lost the plot on this one. The film left out many important details from the novel, hence making Shining lose much of its psychological impact. It fails to get under your skin as the novel does. Elsewhere, beyond Kubrick's half-baked script...his direction is flawless. Notably, the opening credits, the wide follow sho...(read more) ts of the hotel interior, the 'blood' scenes, the ballroom/bar sequences, jacks fury, and the maze chase are masterful . The film is beautifully shot...the hotel looks both inciting and forbidding. The score is memorable. Performances by the cast is commendable. Of particular note is the boy who plays Danny and Scatman Crothers as Mr. Ullman. The mothers performance is effective enough to induce sympathy from the audience. Elsewhere, Jack Nicholson is brilliant in one of his most recognizable roles. He is both hilarious and terrifying at the same time. Overall, The Shining is a decent adaption that is pulled down by its unfaithfulness to its source material. Though its not a Kubrick masterpiece, the film is worth seeing for Nicholson's performance and cinematography alone.


                
There's a reason why this film is dubbed "Stanley Kubric's The Shining".It is not like the book. And mind you, both are very good. Just in different ways. Kubric had a different view of Jack and his family, their stay in the hotel that winter, etc...and he brings that to the screen with chilling imagery, eerie subliminal flashes, and Jack Nicholson's performance as a wild-eyed madman. That being said I enjoyed the film for what it is--Kubric's the Shining. Not King's the Shining. The scenes were creepy, frightening, and unsettling. Blood pours out of elevators, The ghosts of twin girls tell Danny "come and play with us" as the images of them chopped to pieces flashes in front of our eyes. Sure, it's not King's original vision--which of course is excellent!But Kubric wanted to freak us out, give us the creeps, making us feel like we're watching someone else's nightmare. He's succeeded.
1st watched 5/28/2001 - 7 out of 10 (Dir-Stanley Kubrick): Excellent portrayal of descent into madness by Nicholson in this Kubrick directed scary film based on a novel by Stephen King.  What seems to be lacking to make this a great film is some consistency in what was truly possessing Jack to do what he was doing.  We get clues that there was a murder in 1970 at the same hotel, and later that something similar must have happened around 1921 with the strange coincidence that the top dog of the hotel back then looked like Nicholson.  We also have a series of strange hallucinations seen thru the eyes of Shelley Duvall's character that lead us to believe the place has been haunted for awhile.  This type of uncertainty seems to prevail in many of Kubrick's movies so I guess I should have expected this, but it seems that more information(possibly in  King's novel) should have been included.  But as a scary movie, with a knockout performance by Nicholson, as well as most everyone involved,  there ain't too many pictures of this type that beat this.  Sometimes the way to determine whether a scary movie does it's job is if you don't want to watch the movie again -- which happened to me, so I guess Kubrick did what he intended.


                
The Shining is a mediocre horror effort, I have been scared more by episodes of Dr Who. Although the novel is a very absorbing story, (me being a knowledgable horror critic) it does not deserve the praise it recieves. In the entire film I don't think I was scared once and certainly didn't have to "sleep with the lights on", the downfall however was not acting ability but an inappropiate screen adaption, which didn't force the viewer to think or at any time be in any doubt of what the that his/her perceptions were incorrect. Although it might sound it, I don't hate this film, as films go it is quite good, it is just not one of the top notch horror films that it is made out to be, better screen adaptions of Stephen King Novels are Misery and perhaps IT (bar the stupid ending), which I would much rather recommend.The Shining is a film everyone should see once (no more).7/10.


                
Which may be why I gave this movie a 7, the idea of making a horror-noir movie like Kubrick did is a big gamble, but he pulls off some great work nonetheless.SPOILERS people! The shower scene is perfect creepiness, so are those twins just standing there (the lighting, directing and make-up for that still should be commended!) I can't really see how Delbert Grady is creepy in this movie, he's better in the book! Which is something that I must point out... this is STANLEY KUBRICK'S The Shining, not Stephen King's. The book I liked better and has more suspense, but this movie is practically nothing like the book, so comparing the movie would be unfair. Of course I have to watch the DVD on this one, it seems the editing makes this movie a little convoluted w/ continuity errors (why did Wendy start carrying that bat around? I know...) Jack Nicholson's ad-libbing in this movie does develop his character so well, I wanna be like him!! (Acting-wise that is!) Shelly Duvall was starting out her career it seems, I don't know how her character was supposed to be, also with Danny, you just don't quite know what's up w/ him! If you want a plethora of madness, read the book, if you want a creepy film w/ thrills to an extent, watch this flick.
7. The Shining (horror, 1980): Jack (Jack Nicholson) is a writer trying to get away from the city to start a book. He finds the time as caretaker of the Overlook Hotel, high up in the mountains. He takes his wife and son Danny along. The owners tell him of a supposed haunting that has befallen the place, brought on by an act of violence decades ago. Jack brushes the story aside. But just days after, his son Danny falls mysteriously ill. As each day passes Jack also experiences mood swings and bad dreams. He's becoming mad.Critique: 'The Shining' is, simply put, a walking psychotic dream with lots of space, tension, noise, and spookiness. With this film director Stanley Kubrick was at his most technically assured. The themes deal with an unknown fear or intruder. Images and sounds that are seen and heard but just out of reach. Their source? Their meaning? It's all just a ghost story told by a masterful filmmaker. Nostalgia looms high and wide across the spacious hotel, which in turn seems to control each inhabitant. In '2001'(Kubrik's best known film) there's a scene towards the end where astronaut David Bowman goes through a series of light shows (as he enters the aliens' domain). He suddenly 'lands' in a 16th-century style bedroom. The room looks so quiet and 'shining' that you can even sense it. This is what 'The Shining' reminds me of, a longer version of that film's final, and hauntingly puzzling scene.Quote: Jack: "Here's Johnny!!"


                
