Chilling, majestic piece of cinematic fright, this film combines all the great elements of an intellectual thriller, with the grand vision of a director who has the instinctual capacity to pace a moody horror flick within the realm of his filmmaking genius that includes an eye for the original shot, an ice-cold soundtrack and an overall sense of dehumanization. This movie cuts through all the typical horror movies like a red-poker through a human eye, as it allows the viewer to not only feel the violence and psychosis of its protagonist, but appreciate the seed from which the derangement stems. One of the scariest things for people to face is the unknown and this film presents its plotting with just that thought in mind. The setting is perfect, in a desolate winter hideaway. The quietness of the moment is a character in itself, as the fermenting aggressor in Jack Torrance's mind wallows in this idle time, and breeds the devil's new playground. I always felt like the presence of evil was dormant in all of our minds, with only the circumstances of the moment, and the reasons given therein, needed to wake its violent ass and pounce over its unsuspecting victims. This film is a perfect example of this very thought.And it is within this film's subtle touches of the canvas, the clackity-clacks of the young boy's big wheel riding along the empty hallways of the hotel, the labyrinthian garden representing the mind's fine line between sane and insane, Kubrick's purposely transfixed editing inconsistencies, continuity errors and set mis-arrangements, that we discover a world guided by the righteous and tangible, but coaxed away by the powerful and unknown. I have never read the book upon which the film is based, but without that as a comparison point, I am proud to say that this is one of the most terrifying films that I have ever seen. I thought that the runtime of the film could've been cut by a little bit, but then again, I am not one of the most acclaimed directors in the history of film, so maybe I should keep my two-cent criticisms over a superb film, to myself. All in all, this movie captures your attention with its grand form and vision, ropes you in with some terror and eccentric direction, and ties you down and stabs you in the heart with its cold-eyed view of the man's mind gone overboard, creepy atmosphere and the loss of humanity.Rating: 9/10


                
Even though The Shining is over a quarter of a century old, I challenge anyone to not get freaked out by Jack Nicholson's descent into madness. This is a rare example of something so unique that no one has been able to rip it off; instead it has been referenced time and again in pop culture. The twins, the elevator of blood, RedRum, the crazy nonsense "writing"... this should be seen, if for nothing else, to understand all the allusions to it in daily life. The film is simultaneously scary, suspenseful, beautiful, and psychologically intriguing. It has the classic mystery of Hitchcock and the terror of a modern thriller. And it has what horror movies usually lack: a great script.


                
The Shining is a masterclass in film-making and a staple of popular culture. I, personally, cannot stand horror films. I don't like to feel scared, and I don't like to have my emotions manipulated by scary monsters, scary music, scary lighting, etc. I feel like horror is an easy genre - it's easy to scare some people, and people go to movies hoping to feel something, so why not fear?But, I had heard a lot about The Shining. I decided I would look up the plot and watch some clips so I wouldn't be caught off-guard by anything, and I could just appreciate the characters, directing, cinematography, etc. Despite knowing everything that would happen, the film was unbelievably engaging. I couldn't take my eyes off the screen. Jack Nicholson, of course, steals the show with one of the most iconic performances ever, and the other actors were decent, but the real star was Kubrick himself. Every shot, every set, the sound design, and everything has his fingerprints all over it, and it is such a delight to watch. When Jack advances up the stairs demanding the bat from Shelley Duval, I grinned from ear to ear because everything in that moment was just perfect in film.The movie, like all others, has problems. In my opinion, the Grady girls and the bloody elevator do not hold up. I knew they were coming from the summaries I had read, so I knew what to expect, so the only reason I could see them as being scary or unsettling is if the viewer was caught off-guard. If you're pretty feminist, you're not going to like Shelley Duval's character, as she is a pretty weak character.All in all, this film is fantastically-made, a cinematic and acting delight, and a gripping horror film that is considered a classic for a reason.


                
I'm not a Horror nut.But, "The Shining" is one of the few Horror films that I did enjoy watching.Not only is it a Kubrick(2001 and Clockwork Orange)Movie, but it's also one of Jack Nicholsen's best leading role's I've seen yet.The story is about a teacher who's now a writer named Jack. He applied to be the Groundskeeper for a Hotel Resort in the mountains during the Winter. They close the Hotel during the Winter because the place would be snowed in and be difficult for the cars to get out. It would cost to remove the snow all the time so closing the Hotel for the Season is cheaper.Jack got the Job and brings his family along to stay there for the season. Jack feels very honored to get a job like this. His wife is proud of him too. And his son, Danny is looking forward in seeing the place.Danny has a split personality where he has a bitter half named Tonny who live in his mouth. And has some physic powers too. This freaked Danny's mom a bit but a Doctor said it's nothing too serious.When they made to the Hotel they get a tour from the Hedge mazed to the lobby and to the Kitchen. This Hotel however is built over an Indian burial ground. Strange things happen in this type of place. Being trapped in a place like this all winter can make a kind man become a serial killer.I never read the book but I enjoyed this movie a lot. It's one of the few Horror/Thriller movies I consider "cool". Has some great moments, great dialog, and a cool ending. It's something I can see again and again.I recommend it to all the Kubrick, Nicholsen, and Stephen King Fans.


                
I was kinda surprised when I heard that Stanly Kubrick had made a horror film and that it was The Shinning was a big shock to me. Kubrick is one of my favorite film makers and after I saw 2001 and Clockwork Orange I had to see his other movies. I had heard a lot about this movie and kinda a lot of the scenes but I really didn't remember this movie that well. So I rent the movie and watch it as soon as I got home and loved it. This is one of my favorite movies even though I really do not like the horror movies. Jack Nicholson give his best performance(have not seen One Flow Over The Cuckoo's Nest).Sherry Duvall and Danny Loyd do better good but I didn't like their performances. The thing I didn't like about this movie is that the shinning in the story is wear the Danny can do a lot of telepathic things with his head, which I thought was kinda random. Even though that the things I didn't like about this movie really bug me I still love this movie. This is a great movie if like to see another Stanley Kubrick film or just want to watch the one of the best horror films out there.


                
When it comes to Stanley Kubrick's 1980 film, The Shining, there are not many movies that can show the slow and uneasy turn to insanity that someone like Jack Torrance experiences. The movie's simple plot: a family lives in a hotel in the mountains, to keep it in good working condition for the spring time. Jack Torrance slowly loses his mind as his own thoughts are the loudest thing in the hotel.
The film is groundbreaking and influential, not only for the industry as a whole, but also for what I hope to emulate on day and improve on. The films application of color was unnoticed to most, once the audience has knowledge about that theory, it changes the whole perspective, giving the viewers a roller coast of emotion.
When it comes to the editing of The Shining, the long and growingly uncomfortable shots make the audience notice even the most minor of details, from Jack raising his eyebrows to Wendy's growing fear on her face. The pacing of the film is something that most films cannot replicate, the exponential increase in horror and tension near the end of the film seems to come out of nowhere for the average viewer, but more people more in-depth with the knowledge of the industry, it is obvious from the start. The perspective of the film is highlighting Jack, who is a struggling writer, trying to finish a book that he started, giving himself space to think. His own mind ends up being the jail cell he was trying to escape.
The Shining is a great film, that will stand the test of time. Though Stephen King wasn't a fan of it, most critics welcome The Shining with open arms, excited to see another one of Kubrick's creations.


                
When this came out on DVD, I gave it another shot, after not being too impressed with the VHS the first time. Wow, what a difference! Now, it's on Blu-Ray and it's really fantastic - the best yet! This is a "must see" in high-def.I found it to be very entertaining, very suspenseful and a visual treat. Those visuals were so good that I didn't mind the slow pace. Jack Nicholson was perfect for the role. Shelley Duvall was fascinating with her "Olive Oyl" face, smile and soft voice. She got panned by a lot of people, and that was unfair. She's fine. The kid (Danny Lloyd) was good, too, as were the supporting players.The film is typical (director Stanley) Kubrick weirdness but not as weird as some of his other stuff. The only things I personally didn't care for were two blasphemous outbursts by Nicholson and a general unpleasant feeling seeing the innocent Duvall and son terrorized near the end. I did think, story-wise, that Nicholson's character went "crazy" a bit too fast. That could have been drawn out more....but I'm not complaining because I genuinely am fascinated with this film.


                
This is another fantastic movie directed and produced by Stanley Kubrick.It was released back in 1980 so you shouldn't expect the overuse of special effects (SE) like in many modern movies. They simply didn't have that technology. And I think the quality of the story sometimes can benefit from that. I've seen to many movies were stories drown in SE. Anyway, Kubrick won an Academy Award for SE. In The Shining he sure knows when to use them and not. Excellent camera-work.Kubrick uses well balanced and clear images. Combined with a fantastic story progression and strong psychological impressions it all sums up to a great movie experience with a great nerve. It is all so clear and so deadly. It really is composed well and it does exactly what a horror movie is intended to do: Scare the hell out of the audience.


                
All alone in a hotel for months on end, nothing but you your family and the ghosts of the family murdered there. (The Shining) is known as the greatest horror film ever and it has earned that title. This film is able to get you closer and closer to the edge of your with every second passing and keep you guessing at every turn. Terror seeps from just the title of this not only due to the horror themes but because of the direction, story telling, acting, and imagery.
A recovering drunk is trying to land a job to support his wife and five year old wife, so he gets an interview to be the caretaker of the Overlook Hotel. The ensuing months at the hotel turn out to be a little more than the family can take at this hotel. Accompanying the Jack Torrance (the recovering alcoholic) is his wife Wendy who is a typical housewife and their son Danny who happens to have special power. There are a couple other characters in the film but only that plays a role into the story, Halloran. He is the cook of the hotel who happens to share the same ability as Danny.
This movie is not only seen as the greatest horror film but as a great film among all genres. This film is absolutely brilliant it Kubrick hits on every note here. He has a very interesting way of making his films that I find odd sometimes, I like some of his films while I hate some of his others but I love this one and the direction that he took King's story. However the biggest the part of this movie that has stuck with me since first watch and is part of what made me want to be in film is Jack Nicholson's performance. The progression of his character was so perfect and made for such a nail biter. There is in a scene in this movie that made my skin crawl due to his his portrait of Jack Torrance, the "dull boy" scene. I saw this movie at a very young age it was never the scariest movie for me upon the first couple viewings but as I got older I started to appreciate the filming techniques used and the acting and the brilliant imagery.
Next to the performances in the movie my favorite part of (The Shining) is the setting. The narrow hallways and open lounging rooms feel very small. Something that I love more anything in horror films is isolation. (The Thing), (Invasion of the Body Snatchers) and even (The Exorcist) all of them create such a tight feeling of isolation. This feeling is created here ten fold with the family being in this huge hotel you wouldn't think so but the surrounding snow keeping them in and having someone in the hotel start to lose it as well as the thoughts that someone might be in the hotel with you harming your child, makes the hotel a lot smaller and smaller. Kubrick made the this place so small and awful for the characters. When the characters have nowhere to run to and nowhere to hide than the viewers feel the same way trapped and stuck and this was felt very strongly for Wendy and Danny.
There is a lot that kubrick added to this story that made it the film the that it is today. A big thing that Kubrick added that King didn't have in the book was the feeling of suspense, the feeling made by unanswered questions. He leaves so many things unknown as far as the mystery of what is going on and what is happening in the hotel. This is what makes the movie a horror film for me. It leaves so much to keep you thinking then all of the sudden another curve ball is thrown and you have to find out what is going on this time.
There is one message that stuck with me throughout this film and was solidified in the end shot is the message that you can not escape your fate. This feels very strong throughout the film as things progress, and it can be seen in some of the characters. I can not get to much into this message or any message without giving away some of the movie for those that have yet to see it.
Before I rewatched this movie the other day I read the novel, I had always wanted to read the novel to see what all the fuse that Stephen King put up about he film. After finishing it I can understand why there was a lot of stuff that was left out including some of the turmoil that Jack Torrance felt about his addiction to alcohol. So I understand why he was upset but I felt Kubrick enhanced the story to make an amazing adaptation of this film. I have seen the film countless times and I love films So naturally I draw more towards them than books but I have read and watched a lot of the greatest horror stories and have liked a lot of the books more and I do not understand how moving the story to the silver screen could mess it up that bad. Watching this movie and reading the book I get why there is a large group that is lead by King in the hate for the adaptation. With all of that being said I felt as though King was spoon feeding me every little detail that he thought of so I am and have always loved the film more that is not to say that I didn't like book I just happen to love the movie.
This is one of the greats. The shining was groundbreaking for films, not just on the horror side of it. The cinematography in this movie is some of the best I have ever scene and the way we are able to dive into a crashing mind to see what is going on is brilliant in this movie there are some thing that happen towards the end of the movie that upset some people but I loved it and I feel it adds to the feeling of the Overlook Hotel as a character. The acting in this movie was amazing and almost perfect. One flaw I had with the movie was Shelley Duvall as Wendy, she played very well when she was terrified but for the scenes when she is calm and happy I find her acting very out of place and like she has the script in her hands to deliver those lines. That is the only problem I can see in this movie though, it "Shines" on every other level for me. With only one flaw it is hard to rate this movie on a scale of one to five, so I would give Stanley Kubrick's (The Shining) a 9.5/10.


                
A proper psychological thriller about a haunted house and a man's troubled psyche.


                
Although it doesn't take after the book literally, this movie is one of the best adaptations I have ever seen. Based on the novel "The Shining" by Stephen King, the story takes place at the Overlook hotel, where Jack Torrance and his family (his wife, Wendy, and his son, Danny, who "shines") spend the winter, Jack having gotten the caretaker's job there. Being completely isolated from the world due to snowstorms and witnessing manifestations of evil supernatural forces, the Torrances are forced to defend themselves...at all costs.The concept of "shining" can be explained as telepathy. That is why Danny can talk to Dick Hallorann without having to open their mouths like in a normal conversation.Stanley Kubrick made a very inspired choice by choosing Jack Nicholson to play Jack Torrance. With his kind of "Damn you!" grin and his ability to fake madness, he scared me more than anything in this movie. Because this movie definitely wouldn't be half as good as it is if it didn't have Nicholson in it. This movie practically "belongs" to him and I wouldn't see anyone else in his role.A few deviations from the book are present, but are marvelously compensated by other made-up facts. The movie has good structure and is worth viewing, not only for Jack Nicholson's great performance, but for the simple fact that it didn't need so many flashy special effects to stand up.
The Shining is a scary horror thriller from the late acclaimed director Stanley Kurbick whose admirable in making this movie based on a book by Stephen King by giving audiences almost everything they could except from this kind of genre. Jack Nicholson turns in a great performance of Jack Torrence a writer who slowly begins to slip into insanity because he's being influenced by the dark evil spiritual forces that haunt an isolated hotel in the mountains of Colorado where he and his family are staying as caretakers during the winter. Nicholson is convincing as Jack playing a man whose losing his mind because of the evil spirits that haunt the hotel. Shelley Duvuall is okay as Jack's wife Wendy but nothing memorable. None offense. The rest of the cast including the young boy who played their son are good in their roles as well. The Shining has enough scares, suspense, creepy moments, and surprises. The music seemed to sync well with the tone of the film. It also added to the suspense and creep factor. The running time of over two and a half hours does make it feel a little long but the rest makes up for the movies few flaws. With it's few flaws aside The Shining is definitely one of the best horror films out there and I recommend this to any fan of the genre if you can get past the long running rime. Overall The Shining is an effective horror thriller with suspense, scares, anticipation, creepy moments, surprises, and good performances by the cast especially Nicholson who make this movie worth the time to watch.


                
The Shining is a 1980 movie by Stanley Kubrick, whom by now has become my favorite director. The movie is based on Stephen King's novel by the same name. The story tells us of Jack Torrance, a retired teacher and now writer, who plans to spend his winter, along with his family, at the Overlook Hotel as the caretaker. The isolation of the place seems to be the perfect condition for Jack's inspiration to flow. His wife Wendy, seems to agree with this decision, but their son, Danny, seems not to like this idea. Doc, as his parents call him, possesses a special talent, a so-called imaginary friend by the name of Tony, whom reveals him future visions. Danny later learns through Mr. Halloran, the hotel's chef, whom posses that same power, called "The Shining", power which also allows the to communicate through some sort of telepathy. From this point on, they are left alone and the story starts becoming awkward. Jack locks himself to type and Danny strolls down on his tricycle through the Overlook's hallways, creating one of the mos memorable scenes of the movie. The mere sound of the vehicle's wheels rolling on the carpet and then on the wooden floor help get the mood right. Mood which is only made creepier by Kubrick's imagery. A pair of twin girls, an elevator filled with blood and the mysterious room 237. Jack on the other hand has been having some mysterious encounters with other people on the supposedly empty hotel, and in a conversation with whom he believes to be the caretaker who killed his own family, is that he is finally revealed to have some sort of background inside the hotel, and is also lead into "correcting" his son and wife. The typewriter continuously clicking on various scenes, makes us believe of Jack's efficient work, but when Wendy manages to enter and read his papers, all she finds are pages and pages filled with the phrase: "All work and no fun, makes jack a dull boy". After a first fight where Wendy knocks Jack with a bat and locks him in the storage room, is that we learn that all the weird things going on are not just in the Torrances heads, but that there indeed are other forces at work, which manage to open the locked door to Jack, hand him an Ax, and change his mind once and for all into killing his family. Jack heads towards the family's room, where Wendy and Danny are hiding in the bathroom. Danny escapes through a window, which is too small for Wendy. Jack makes his way through the locked doors with the help of an Ax, and exclaims the movie's most memorable quote: "Heeeeeres Johnny!". Jack gets his hand cut by Wendy and decides it's better to chase Danny. the boy leads him into a maze and finally to Jack's freezing death, which allows Danny and his mom to escape. Jack Nicholson is amazing, he is perfect for the role, somehow mad men roles fit him perfectly. Whether it is in Batman, The Departed or even Anger Management, Jack's most sane role, ironically, is One Fleew Over The Cuckoo's Nest's McMurphy. Shelley Duvall is also quite perfect to me. Her dialogs seem scared when they ought to be and determined when they need to. Finally, Danny, played by Danny Lloyd makes a respectable job, but always subject to some limitations due to his early age. Stanley Kubrick made all of this possible on his screen adaptation of the novel, which Stephen King considered "Not that faithful to the book". Its dialogs, sequences and specially its imagery are what have made out of this movie such a classic of not only cinema, but of popular culture. References which can be found on The Simpsons or even in Slipknot's video for Spit it Out, to name a few. The soundtrack by Wendy Carlos fits perfectly, its highlights being the simplicity of the main theme, and the piercing screech when the shining is used. So, you may wonder. What makes this movie so scary? There are no alien invasion, epidemic diseases and the ghost do not act directly on people (except the lady from the 237). The terror applied by King and Kubrick relies on the terror caused by the mere idea of being tried to kill by someone you love, and who is supposed to protect you. In any conversation of terror movies, The Shining will always be present.
There's no doubt that SHINING is a major classic of the horror genre, but it's even a bit more than that. It's the horror movie elevated to the "art status". I mean, unlike the majority of the horror films which use the same kind of plot, stereotyped characters, clichéd scenes, and worst of all, are produced and reproduced in endless sequels, SHINING is a single and unique piece of "Horror Art" (as PSYCHO was until they remember to do the first sequel in 1983). It doesn't mean that SHINING doesn't have some clichéd scenes, because it has indeed (I can remember the scene when WENDY lock herself in the bathroom and tries to escape through that little window where barely could pass her head<U+0085>), but if we "forget" about the few clichés it has we really have a good horror film here. On the other hand, in this movie, horror is more symbolic than actually gory. It is mainly symbolic icons which create the horror scenes, so we can definitely say it's more a psychological horror movie than really a gore fest. In fact, there's almost no blood, if we exclude those "blood waves" gushing out through the corridors (here it is one of the symbolisms I did refer<U+0085>). More than a horror film, SHINING is a terrific essay about Human's insanity, because it explores until the edge the loss of self control and the irrationality of the Human mind! And to do that disturbed character, JACK TORRANCE, who better than Jack Nicholson?! He really looks like a true lunatic! Superb acting I must say! He has the perfect face, expression, sarcasm! On the opposite side it's the acting by Shelley Duvall, which plays WENDY TORRANCE! It's really bad! She doesn't convince at all playing the victim, as her acting just seems too fake to me! Danny Lloyd, the small kid, also does a nice performance. Excellent film, I score it 9/10!


                
I am an avid fan of both Kubrick and Stephen King so perhaps I am a little bit biased in this review. But still, I simply cannot understand the critical slander that is often heaped on this film. It is nothing short of brilliance. Any even casual reader of King's novels understands the understated and claustrophobic terror that he conveys to your subconscious, the eerie images that creep into your mind when you wake up in the middle of the night and make it difficult for you to get back to sleep. "The Shining" is the only adaption of any of King's novels that I have seen that conveys these extremely unsettling images to the visual medium. Jack Nicholson gives one of the most hauntingly fascinating performances in film history in my opinion. The scene in which he slowly pursues Shelley Duvall up the stairs ("Gimme the bat, Wendy!") is absolutely horrifying, yet impossible to look away from, because you know you are witnessing great acting at its pinnacle. There are those who call Nicholson's performance "over the top" and "campy", but I simply do not agree. This movie belongs to Jack Nicholson, and he absolutely owns every single second he appears on screen. With possible arguments made for "Chinatown" and "About Schmidt", this has got to be the finest performance of his amazing career. Shelley Duvall is perhaps a bit overmatched (imagine Meryl Streep or Cybill Shepherd in her role), but she gives a respectable performance and the makeup team does a frighteningly terrific job in making her look progressively weary and haggard as the film goes on. And young Danny Lloyd is terrific in a role that must have been extremely difficult for a child his age to understand. Overall, I believe "The Shining" is a standard by which all other horror films should be measured and is infinitely more frightening than the never-ending and schlocky slasher pictures that seem to dominate the mainstream nowadays.


                
I began watching horror films as a phase in 7th grade and me being a kid it scared. So now since I'm older I decided to go back on FiOS On Demand and the first movie I watched was The Shining (1980). I immediately fell in love with this film for so many reasons. Jack's decent into madness, the ball room scene, the chase scene in the maze, when he goes completely insane I loved every second of it and It captivated me. However, it does has slow pacing sometimes where I felt it was not needed. Aside from that, this film was great. 9/10.
With all the horror movies I've seen, this is the one the competition has not beat. This movie has the main component for a horror film, the terrifying background. A lot of horror films nowadays have jump scares for cheap thrills. But instead, most of the time invested is the whole emotion of the movie as psychotic and terrifying.Not only the scare factor, but another thing that makes this movie have you think even more. "The Shining." If you've watched the movie "I hope you have", it's something that motivates the film even more. And is a mysterious thing.The music and filming was good and simple. Not great in any means, but good enough. Another reason this was a great horror movie, is that many reference in modern pop culture still refer to this movie.


                
Out of all the film adaptations of Stephen King novels out there, this one might be the most beloved. Although not a critical hit on its original release, it did gain more positive attention in the following years, and now it is hailed as one of the greatest horror movies of all time. As for me personally, I very much agree with the cultural impact this film has left on society, yet I think it holds up even more now as a young adult. As someone who tends to work mostly within the indoors, the paranoia created in the film really hits home to me.The film centers around Jack Torrance, who becomes the caretaker at the isolated Overlook Hotel in Colorado during the winter in hopes to continue his writing. Upon settling in with his wife Wendy and psychic son Danny, they gain visions of the hotel's dark pasts. As Jack discovers the hotel's spooky secrets, he grows into a homicidal maniac intent on murdering his family. With that said, the shear horror in the film comes from the isolation of Jack living in this hotel whilst coping with his inner sanity. Unlike the book where Jack started off as well intentioned before slowly turning insane on account of his former alcoholism, this version of the character is implied to be insane from the start, and Jack Nicholson brilliantly showcases the pure turmoils caused by cabin fever.Some particular scenes that convey Jack's sanity breaking are his bonds with Danny, as it's speculated that they both have the so called "shining" yet in different viewpoints. Where Danny sees them as omens, Jack cannot help but to be lured in by their strange appearances. Even if many of these oddities are more ambiguous, the execution of them is handled in a way that lets the audience figure them out themselves, which has led to wonderful theories that make the viewing experience all the more interesting. The only weak link in the film for me is actually Wendy herself, as she comes off as so timid that she becomes shrill and whiney. She does surprisingly look after the hotel more than Jack, but Shelley Duvall ends up giving Nicholson a run for his money in hamminess, and she's not really written as a very bright character either.As for the technical aspects, director Stanley Kubrick always knew how to say so much by showing rather than telling. Every psychedelic illusion comes off as intimidating albeit distinct given their unique designs, and they're on screen long enough to sink in within the subconscious of the audience. In addition, this was one of the first films to utilize Steadicam cinematography, and it helps add in to the extravagant scale and scope of the Overlook Hotel. One of my favorite scenes is where Danny is riding on his big wheel through the halls whilst the camera follows him, as it recreates the point of view of a child in a brand new environment. No matter what scene you watch in this film, including that WTF moment of the bear, they all serve their purpose in either showcasing the hotel's many haunting illusions or just serving as gothic art.Sure, King himself may not have liked it, but that didn't stop this film from aging like fine wine. Overall, while a loose adaptation of its source material, Stanley Kubrick's The Shining works as a great horror movie on its own for its commentary on isolation and insanity, psychedelic nature, haunting cinematography, and storytelling ideologies left to be talked about. Whether you're a fan of King, Kubrick or horror movies in general, this is a definite watch for how much it displays paranoia in a slow albeit mesmerizing way. I'm sure you'll relate to the claustrophobic aesthetic of being stuck inside for so long, especially during this time of year where staying inside is wiser than going out.
Stanley Kubrick's 'The Shining', a Stephen King novel film adaptation, pushed the envelope, moving cinema away from the then-tired, predictable horror towards an era of deeply abstract, thoughtful, and atmospheric psychological thrillers.The plot follows Jack Torrance (Jack Nicholson) who becomes winter caretaker at the isolated Overlook Hotel in Colorado hoping to cure his writer's block. 
He brings his wife Wendy Torrance (Shelley Duvall) and son Danny Torrance (Danny Lloyd) who is plagued by psychic premonitions. 
As Jack's writing goes nowhere and Danny's visions become more disturbing, Jack discovers the hotel's dark secrets and begins to unravel into a homicidal maniac hell-bent on terrorizing his family.Kubrick weaves in a deep sense of disorientation and surrealism throughout, he brings forth themes of transcendentalism that departs from what initially seems to be an innocent family drama. I think there are deep spiritual themes here; with Kubrick allegedly calling King during filming to ask him about his belief in God.The film's production period and method was as atypical and unnerving as the film's material itself. 
Kubrick's approach to directing was abusive and callous, he knew that the environment and circumstances around making a film always help to significantly shape the content itself. 
He used this knowledge and his position to elicit certain emotions from his cast in the pursuit of method acting, with Shelley Duvall saying that "I lost some of my innocence on The Shining, because for the first time I felt I had to have a lawyer." One of her scenes had an astounding 127 takes with Kubrick known to have screamed at her in front of the cast and crew, she suffered from nervous exhaustion throughout filming, that includes physical illness, she even lost her hair. Jack Nicholson during filming swore he'd never work with Kubrick again.What message does the film try to send?Speaking about the theme of the film, Kubrick stated that "there's something inherently wrong with the human personality. There's an evil side to it. One of the things that horror stories can do is to show us the archetypes of the unconscious; we can see the dark side without having to confront it directly"The ending suggests that past and present are interspersed. The message is clear, no matter who comes and goes, the human condition remains the same; inherently flawed and spiritually fallen.I will leave you with this Bible verse that says everything:ADAM! "HOW HAST THOU FALLEN FROM THE HEAVENS, O SHINING ONE, SON OF THE DAWN." (Isa. 14:12, Young's Literal Trans. Of The Bible).


                
This is a movie I highly regard, namely for demonstrating some great artistic merit (some other movies in this category are "Cat People", "A clockwork orange" and "The baby of Macon", which I've also reviewed here).When I first saw this movie as a teenager, I must say I was very disappointed, as it was a movie that was hyped for its shock value, and I didn't find it that shocking.Anyway, the plot of the movie concerns a family who move into a hotel during winter to act as caretakers during the off season. The father is a man who has struggled with alcoholism in the past. His son seems to have some sort of sixth sense, which gives him some very disturbing 'visions' in the hotel.As winter sets in and the isolation becomes more pronounced for the father, he returns to drinking. He starts behaving erratically and violently and may be interacting with his own demons or actual demons in the hotel.I don't want to give away too much more about this movie. In the past, I tended to think of "The dead zone" as the best adaptation from a Stephen King novel. Having seen The Dead Zone many years later, it struck me as being little more than a midday movie.So, what made me change my mind about The Shining? One scene. It's the scene where the caretaker's son rides his tricycle inside the hotel...over floorboards and carpet. It struck me as great art-the sheer acoustic sensuality of the sound of the wheels travelling over various textures.It's odd, I know, but I really value that kind of art in a movie.The movie does contain some very creepy scenes, so it is not just a horror movie with artistic flourishes. I'm sure that many of the scenes will haunt you for a while.Just by the by, some years ago, I saw a mini-series of this story, which had Stephen King's involvement. I must say, I did find King's own mini-series to be really awful-especially the ending. Normally novellists complain bitterly about directors ruining their vision. In this case, it was all King's doing.


                
well i'm not really a big fan of horror/thriller etc movies but this is a classic obviously. first of all the scenery of the movie is outstanding and as many people say now ''aesthetically'' pleasing so it makes me like this movie even more.i'd love to stay in a hotel like this even though id face the consequences(spoilers watch the movie and u will see what i mean)second the acting is very good doesn't get better than this.the duration of the movie.,, maybe it could be a little shorter i feel like its a bit too long with some scenes that aren't necessary but in conclusion its very good.the quality of the movie is good which is OK for an 80s production film.and to be honest this movie isn't really scary like it doesn't have any ''disturbing'' scenes its just associated with horror in my opinion


                
The Shining is one of the best horror movies ever created, and one of Kubrick's most remember-able and well produced films. The soundtrack is terrifying and haunting, it keeps the audience on their toes throughout the entire film. The cinematography is very cinematic, including numerous tracking shots, making the film looks beautiful and makes the location seems more real. The performances are good for most of the cast but Jack Nicholson's performance is over the top, his performance could have been more restraint early on in the film. But it does make the film more entertaining and remember-able. Characters could have had more development to define the characters more; this could have made them more interesting. Also some back-story could have been used to define and to make them more interesting as well. Good dialogue that works in the film. A very intriguing plot that only gets better as the film goes on. I enjoy how the plot unfolds growing ever so creepy and unpredictable as the time goes on. Great unique visuals are used frequently giving the film a interesting look. Amazing set design of the overlook Hotel. Good characters, they are not all are amazing characters but they work in the film. The Shining is an iconic must see for any movie lover, mainly for horror film fans.


                
Stanley Kubrick is considered one of the top directors for a reason, his adaptation of Stephen King's The Shining is a tremendous piece of cinematic history. The scenery and music in the opening credits are eerily horrifying right off the bat. The character of Jack Torrance would not have a better role if it wasn't done by Jack Nicholson. The small supporting cast of Shelley Duvall, Danny Lloyd, Scatman Crothers and Barry Nelson were equally great in the film. Although there were terrific performances, the real star was The Overlook Hotel and the masterful way Kubrick portrayed the evilness of the place. The film develops itself very slowly and builds itself into complete insanity. The horror scenes that include the twin girls, Room 237 and the stairway are all freaky and expertly shot. When the ending comes it does come as a shock because the vast majority of viewers have no idea what just happened. It takes multiple viewing and additional research to completely understand King's and Kubrick's deranged story that is The Shining.


                
I'm used to the gore and cheap jump scares of modern horror, so I was expecting the scariness of "The Shining" to have dulled over 35 years.Nope.Psychology, that's where the real horror lies. That, and the claustrophobic atmosphere (pretty snow on the outside, encroaching madness on the inside). Hopeless isolation. And it doesn't help matters that Kubrick plays on your emotions. He just wouldn't let up with the often-terrified expressions on Danny Lloyd's face, but it is extremely effective. And between the tracking shots, movements and unbalanced camera angles, it's just watching the maestro at work, turning the screws just a little bit more. Cold and calculated.And let me just say that, even though it's never mentioned alongside the other famous images ("Heeere's Johnny!", the twins, REDRUM, the blood), the woman in the bathtub scene was the scariest. The reveal in the mirror, her cackling, the unrelenting strings - Jesus Christ, "unnerving" would be the understatement of the year. Kubrick turns something erotic into . . . that?! Maybe it's because that's the movie's first real scare, but that scene left its mark, no question.What a movie!9/10


                
Here's Johnny! A brilliant, intense thriller. Written by Stephen King, directed by Stanley Kubrick, starring Jack Nicholson: the ingredients are all there. And what a combination they make! Fantastic water-tight plot. Great direction by Kubrick - the intensity builds and builds, and the settings and camera angles are spot on every time. And then there is, of course, Jack Nicholson's perfectly controlled yet over-the-top-intense performance. Masterful.Good support from Shelley Duvall, but this really is the Jack Nicholson Show...A true classic.


                
