If you were only to see the scene where news anchor Howard Beale does his 'mad as hell' speech, you'd think this was a gripping well-made indictment of the television industry...It isn't.It's more a disorganized grabastic load of pig crap that looks more like some cloistered monk's supposition of what television is than the real thing - and I'd been looking forward to finally seeing this.You get a few good scenes - Beale's announcement that he's planning to off himself on air works.The contract negotiations with the Ecumenical Liberation Army is hit or miss - spoiled by the stupid name that shrieks 'writer's clever idea'.The revamped news broadcast they build around him face-plants hard. Stingie-ouchie hard.Admittedly this was before the golden era of info-mercials, Video News Releases and the endless line of entertainment quasi-news & gossip shows - you'll note that they all stick fairly closely to the man-behind-a-desk format that Network thinks is in its dying days - but even in the 1970s no television director in their right mind would think that a dark stage with three floodlit spots showing Beal, some Psychic and whatever the other act was is going to fly with audiences on a nightly basis - especially a live studio audience.It just looks bad. This movie wants to eat it's cake of comic satire and have it's Important Message too and fails on both counts. This is one of those few films that might benefit from being remade.* UPDATE - 11 May, 2010 *When writing this review back in 2008 I had yet to discover the epic lulz that is Glenn Beck - who was in the process of moving to the Fox Network. Even if you don't subscribe to his philosophy, one would have to agree that The Prophecy is essentially complete - and with decent art direct no less.
I saw the movie the week it came out in the theater. The theater was packed. No one in this packed theater laughed at anything. This was because they did not know it was a comedy. To the audience, the movie was a dud. It wasn't funny, and it couldn't be taken seriously. At the end of the movie, most of the people wanted their money back. The acting was good, but the movie tanked. If this movie was so funny, why did none of the three hundred people in the audience laugh? Dark comedy either works, like Fargo, or it bombs. Network bombed.


                
