To think that this blackest of black comedies was made in 1976 could only means two things: 1) Nothing has changed or 2) Paddy Chayefsky was seeing the future with the most disturbing clarity. I endorse the later of the two because I believe things have changed since 1974 - I wasn't born yet, but I know because of my parents, the movies, literature, etc, etc, etc. Peter Finch as the mad prophet of the airwaves gives Chayefsky a riveting and powerful voice. The scenes between old chums Finch and William Holden are some of the best written scenes in any American movie until the Coen brothers emerged. Finch is superb, superb! and Holden, at the end of a legendary career, gives a performance of such ferocious sincerity that I rediscovered the man, the actor and felt the need to revisit some of his opus. From Golden Boy to Sunset Boulevard, Holden was a man who carried his own discomfort as a weapon. Extraordinary! However, the most alarming character in the whole thing is Faye Dunaway's. She is magnificent in her thin, nervous, bra-less attitude. She is a monster of commercial amorality. Everything in this incredible movie moves with the precision of an inspired clairvoyant's vision. Duvall's executive, Beatrice Straight's betrayed wife and Ned Beatty's god like big shot makes this one of the most frightening, entertaining, funniest, remarkable film from the 70's. Sidney Lumet proves once more that he's as good as his material. Here he is at his zenith.


                
Now, here is a film that everyone needs to see, especially today.Children should be raised on the truth instead of fiction.Television seduces, entertains, divides, desensitizes, and corrupts not just kids but adults as well. It's gotten so bad over the years it's like some kind of a disease now. Most people believe everything they see, read, and hear. Fortunately for me, I'm not most people. There are things that I question and there are things that I know are very wrong. Lying to the American people in every possible way is very, very wrong.I've never seen anyone open up their window and stick out their head and yell that they're as mad as hell and they're not gonna take this anymore. I've never seen anyone say that they were a human being and that their life had value. We're so screwed up in the head we don't even deserve to be called human beings. We're like pre-programmed, numbered, clones enslaved from the cradle to the grave; clones that are programmed and structured to obey authority of all kinds."Network" deserved the Best Picture Oscar for '76, but it lost to "Rocky". How the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences allowed that to happen is beyond me.That's all I have to say about that.


                
I can't put it more perfectly than Turner Classic Movies' Robert Osborne who said "What was originally a satire is a stinging mirror of television news today." I strain to think of a film that is a more brilliant take on society, and all of the flaws it has. It's obedience and entertainment by those who rebel, no matter how insane they are. The exploitation of those in peril for any kind of economic profit. And the fact that everything Beale preaches is completely true and completely bashes the people who are producing him. I was amazed by how much he sells out while continuing to rant about how terrible the people he works for are, and the fact that they just keep him on the air because they want ratings.It couldn't be more related to today. Turn on the news and you see videos of how horrific the war on terror is and how horrific American society has become, but it stays on the air because people don't want to see the good things in life. They care about the bad and the corrupt. People must have laughed it off back then, but it was such a foreshadow to the near future. The performances are just as brilliant as the social commentary. Each actor becomes so absorbed into their characters that you can't even tell they're acting. It feels like you're watching these people in their daily lives, interacting and becoming more and more corrupt. Finch and Dunaway easily give two of the greatest performances of all time. I could write 20 more pages about it's brilliance, but I'll stop now to keep me from rating. I just have to say that it's so rare to find a film as incredibly flawless as this.


                
Groundbreaking is the term for this movie...It is considered one of the hundred best movies ever made and for very good reason...Director Sidney Lummet has a reputation for the director of the non-conventional!!...A cogency for making the absolute truth a guileless villain, a rude awakening for television viewers, and a stubborn scripture for facts is what purports a film like Network as a masterpiece for the prolific and intellectual!! You could not ask for better acting!! The acting in this movie is second to none!! Robert Duvall, William Holden, Faye Dunaway, Peter Finch, Ned Beatty and a whole list of others...Perhaps the best acting in any film made whatsoever!! It starts with Howard Beale (Peter Finch) a victim of his own human pitfalls...Ossified and dejected from his declining years going from bad to worse, he becomes isolated, desultory ,morbid and morose and feels his life has no meaning, he threatens suicide on live television and is discarded as being a wacko!!...At first!!..but guess what!! he's a hit!!...So the ratings crazed cutthroats make him an instant success by labeling him "The Angry Prophet Denouncing the Hypocracies of Our Time"...As long as we've gone this far, let's break all of the rules...Bring on the terrorists, the soothsayers, the insurectionaries, the financial gurus, the faith healers, and the para military radicals, to reduce the severity of hard bitten news to a side show of carnival freaks!!! William Holden plays the old school business man with "primal doubts" about his life in general..."male menopause" with "defineable features" He is happily married yet after being bombarded from all sides in the autumn of his years, he is frightened that the new generation is impervious to basic tenets of human morality such as ethics and compassion...The woman with whom he gets involved, is callous not because she is vindictive, but because she is emotionless!! This woman (Faye Dunaway) is the "Television Incarnate" Ice Queen who reduces time and space to "split seconds and instant replays" the daily business of life is a "corrupt comedy" and the only redeeming quality to modern marvels and a "radiant eruption of Democracy" is that it gets a 32 share!!...This acting performance is perhaps the best acting performance I have ever seen...The type of person Dianna Christensen was supposed to be was played out perfectly...The delivery of the elaborated monologues and diatribes were absolutely remarkable....She was ideologically explosive yet person-ably obtuse. You knew why she wasn't the drinking type...she was too emotionally detached...In the thick of women's liberation, whereby a woman wanted to be just like a man, this movie portrayed how being just like a man had it's drawbacks!! "Arousing quickly, consummating prematurely" and suffering from the cumbersome fate of being crippled by ineptitude at everything else but your work, made Dianna Christensen perennially wistful of testosterone laden aggression!! Aggregately, she invoked societal demise through channels of deductive reasoning!! Director, Sidney Lummet, was insistent that Dianna Christensen be utterly devoid of vulnerability!! Mr Hackett (Robert Duvall) played the hatchet man for the CCA...A rough around the edges errand boy for Mr Jensen (Ned Beatty) who viewed this network as his big chance and that whatever worked worked ..Scruples were never an issue, and ratings were pending exchange!! Howard Beale (Peter Finch) the "Angry prophet denouncing the hypocrisies of our time" surprised even himself with his charismatic clout with the naive television audience!!! He was the UBS star-lighted "Mad Prophet of the airways"...He could arouse anger and counter-culture overzealousness just by appearing crazy!!! One speech Mr Jensen (Ned Beatty) was a bit role but incredibly powerful in his delivery of the basic concept that ideology is for sale and that television is the ultimate vehicle for manipulation!! Paddy Chayefsky is pioneer with this film as an acrimonious depiction for making world phenomena such as the fall of Communism and landing man on the moon to be minimized to a market share!!!..The terms entertainment and egalitarianism now became pejorative!!!! The movie audience is hit with the terrifying reality that a societal caprice will induce the avaricious to capitulate to human catastrophe...Give Paddy Chayefsky and Sidney Lummet credit for unveiling the revelation that ratings and the dollar take precedence over humanity!!! Howard Beale, the decrepit alcoholic, euphemistically transformed to the prescient paragon of intuitiveness, was alright so long as his innocuous chastisements did not disrupt worldwide pecuniary acquisitions!! Once they did, he was quelled, and thus deemed a total ratings chart disaster!! Ultimately, Howard Beale, the once disheveled dipsomania-cal curmudgeon, turned Messianic Savonarola, becomes the typification of the corporate guinea pig!!!!This movie is avant-garde in it's ability to convey the message of greed first democracy second, or third, depending on the sponsors of the Howard Beale Show... An incident was determined traumatic or not traumatic by it's lucrative marketability potential!! Terrorism is not terrorism if it means ratings!!! The character assassination of all the people in this movie was at the grass roots level!! Their avoidable flaws were entrenched as irreconcilable!! Any people with any conscience whatsoever (William Holden & his wife) were decimated by reveille with selfishness, now it is imperative that they pick up the pieces!! How many imitations of this movie have there been...thousands!! Network however was the first movie of it's kind to effectively portray the concept of "dying Democracy and dehumanization" probably the best movie of it's kind as well... This is an illustration of how heinous tragedy has to be stomached by the television audience, their response to clinical trauma transcends the impact suffered by the actual victims involved!! It is a proverbial case of ratings eclipsing reality!! The film "Network" resonates itself to a point whereby the American people are reduced to meager by-products of the Fortune 500!! I wish there could be a movie of this caliber made again!! I am angry that there has not been a sensationalistic masterpiece to come around for some time, and I'm as mad as hell and I'm not going to take it anymore!!!
This movie came out when I was nine years old, and I saw it on network TV the following year, lured by the brouhaha that surrounded the use of the "barnyard epithet" during prime time. I loved this movie before I understood it, and I worship it now. Like "Elmer Gantry" or "1984," it's a work of didactic art that only fails on an imaginative level -- Sinclair Lewis couldn't grasp how debased evangelism would become, Orwell couldn't foresee the excesses of Mao or Pol Pot, and Chayevsky couldn't envision the absolute decline of television from a vast wasteland to a malevolent sewer. Fox News, reality TV, even the OJ chase, "Network" anticipates every vile bit of it.Now, it's ridiculously overwritten -- NO ONE is as articulate as the characters in this film, and most certainly, no one who works in television is as literate as Diana Christensen (the Faye Dunaway character). I doubt that poet laureates or even Eminem could spew as witty an aside as "muttering mutilated Marxism." But damn if that isn't part of its charm. Plus, outside of Max Schumacher (William Holden), the characters are pretty much archetypes instead of real people (the Robert Duvall character might as well wear a black cape and top hat), but their two-dimensionality works as a good metaphor for Max's seduction into the "shrieking nothingness" or television. Plus the actors are so superb they make screeching caricatures into almost-sympathetic characters: Duvall is a credible and charismatic villain, Finch is a fine mad prophet and Faye Dunaway manages to make a shrill, manipulative, soulless neurotic so damn cute and sexy you'll want to leave your wife for her, too, just as long as she promises to keep sitting cross-legged on your desk and hitching up her skirt. (Therein lies the real eroticism, forget the intentionally mechanical, unerotic coupling later in the flick). Anyway, this is complex, high art masquerading as popular entertainment, go rent it now.


                
Thirty years after its release to public praise and multiple Oscar wins, Network is one of those films that instead of dating badly or becoming a product of its time has actually grown and become even more relevant today, and if it were re-released in 2006 for its actual thirtieth anniversary not on film but on national television right at the beginning of the fall season (complete with the most lurid reality TV shows and inane TV pleasers), it would only become more justified in its story.The story of the failing network that didn't have a show on the Nielsen Top 20 and resorted to extreme measures to ensure that this changed seems so today: we see how channels that once had failing ratings churned out shock television right smack in the daytime while still applying Standard and Practices to other "prime-time" shows that could be taken the "wrong" way. Jerry Springer, Maury Povich, Rikki Lake, Oprah, Mark Burnett, MTV -- they're all here under different guises, all competing to have their voices heard on television, all eventually becoming as ratings-hungry and establishment-friendly as the CEOs running the show.Today we don't quite have Howard Beales ranting and raving about the ills of society on national TV (although they do "tell" us how we should feel, when we should laugh if we're too stupid to get the joke, who to vote for, the "truth" about the tobacco industry). Today media is all the rage and televises even a fart if it deems it interesting and guarantees more viewers. Today shows like "20/20" or "60 Minutes" bring us 'exclusives' even if it's at the cost of journalistic integrity. And now, with 'reality TV' still the dominating novel trend even in little-seen cable channels, creating stereotypes in leaps and bounds while claiming authenticity of the events depicted, there hasn't yet been a need to create a lunatic who could sermonize everything and make us Mad as Hell. On this aspect alone NETWORK has dated: the 70s were all about counterculture, anti-establishment, revolution, leftists, Patty Hearsts, Lennon and Yoko, "Nova", the Mansons, the hippies, the Earth-lovers, the militants. Nowadays, buff bodies parade themselves in shows containing outlandish competitions where eating the most grotesque concoctions are the norm, or enduring a barrage of extreme insults has become entertainment (i. e. "American Idol") and the very concept of dignity flies out the window. Of course, after signing an extensive release form in which they free the network of all responsibilities if something goes wrong because we all know networks can't be held liable for any faux pas. In short, nowadays people from all over try to become the next It person and outlast their 15 minutes of fame. Nowadays, everyone has their own reality TV show depicting their 24 hour day activities. I wonder if Diana Christensen isn't alive and well and exerting absolute control over the networks in general, bringing anything and everything that can garner a little bit of shock value (Boy Meets Boy, or any reality TV self-made "villain/villainess") and eventual ratings, taking over actual scripted shows with real actors.NETWORK is a powerful movie of which I can't praise enough about even if its screenplay, by Paddy Chayefsky is a little too verbose. No one talks the way he makes his characters talk, using impassioned speeches with big, even archaic, words, and more than once the script makes the characters go completely over the top but even then it makes its point. Of the actors, William Holden's quiet portrayal of a former television exec, Max Schumacher, who has a conscience, but still feels some attraction to danger and risks his own family to experience is who is at the heart of this crazy story who was ahead of its time. Peter Finch's Howard Beale never comes through enough as a real human being: just someone who was pushed too hard and decided to shut down for the remainder of his life. But Holden holds the moral glue of the story, and interestingly enough, is wise to know that his affair, perfectly scripted as he even states, will end on a high note -- he'll return to his sanity and his wife, and Diana Christensen will bask in her own executive madness, since this is all she knows and holds dear. In her last words -- "Let's kill the son of a bitch." -- she informs us this is all she is about without so much as batting an eye. Who comes, who goes, is irrelevant to her, as long as the network can be number one. And that is the inhuman reality of television -- a media directed to entertain humans.
I just finished watching this movie and was blown away. Sidney Lumet's satire shows the hollowness of television and the mindless generation that is produced from an excess of it. This film is shocking and eye-opening also showing executives' mad quest for ratings.The acting in this film is superb. Peter finch stars as the TV anchor who becomes an "angry prophet who denounces the hypocrisies of our time." We gradually see how he first preaches to the common everyman, but is then exploited by the slick executives to achieve their one goal: Ratings. Faye Dunaway also shines as the Vice President in charge of programming who finds herself becoming less aware of the difference between television and reality. William Holden also lends fine support.As the acting and directing in this film are exquisite, the message it portrays is a very strong one. This scathing indictment of TV is necessary for everyone to see.


                
"I'M MAD AS HELL, AND I'M NOT GOING TO TAKE IT ANYMORE!"One of the most famous lines in film history is as impactful today as it was when it was first uttered by fictitious news anchor Howard Beale in Paddy Chayefsky's (seemingly) parody of where TV and TV news is heading, 1976's NETWORK.The astonishing thing about this terrific motion picture is how prescient it is. News is now entertainment. Appeal to the disaffected masses. Drive our message to the viewers. Be provocative. The 6:00 news had "less than 1 minute of hard news, the rest was sex, scandal, brutal crime sports, children with incurable diseases and lost puppies."Sound familiar? This isn't from today, it came from this movie that was made 42 years ago as a cautionary tale of what might happen.Besides the social ramifications, how does this film hold up? Quite well, indeed. A rare 10 star BankofMarquis film. Starting with the great Paddy Chayefsky's Oscar winning Screenplay. This was the capper on a brilliant career from Chayefsky - who also won Oscar's for his screenplay for 1972's THE HOSPITAL (I'll have to check that one out) and 1956's MARTY.What does a terrific screenplay do? It attracts top-level talent clamoring to be in this - and they all deliver. Start with Faye Dunaway who won the Lead Actress Oscar for her role as Entertainment Head Diane Christensen - a driven, work hard, play hard individual who has the idea to make news "entertainment". Lost in the fog of time (and MOMMIE DEAREST) is the fact that in the mid-1970's, Dunaway was, perhaps, the greatest leading actress of the day and her skills are in sharp display in this film.Joining Dunaway in terrific supporting turns are Robert Duvall, following his turns as Tom Hagen in GODFATHER I and II, as network head, Frank Hackett, Ned Beatty as Ned Jennings, President of the company that owns the network - he has a speech towards the tail end of this film that is as good - both in performance and in the way that it is shot - as anything put upon the screen - it was masterful. Speaking of masterful, Beatrice Straight won the Oscar for Best Supporting Actress in one of the shortest performances to ever win. She is in this film for about 6 minutes in total - but she won her Oscar for a 5 minute scene that is, most definately Oscar-worthy.And then there are the leading men. William Holden gives one of the last great performances of his extraordinary career as the "voice of reason in this film". He is our everyman caught up in the bizarre, absurd circumstances that evolve around him. It is his effort to try to make sense of this insanity that jumps off the screen. Holden was, deservedly, nominated for a Best Actor in a Leading Role Oscar, but lost (rightfully so) to Peter Finch's turn as crazed newsman turned prophet, Howard Beale. His maniacal (but not over the top) turn is one for the ages. If you do nothing else, see this film for his performance (but there is so, so much more to love here). Unfortunately, Finch passed away from a heart attack in between his Oscar nomination and win, and was the first posthumous winner in an acting role (sadly, Heath Ledger would join this "club" years later).Finally, enough cannot be said about Sidney Lumet's direction. A movie like this would not succeed without a sure, steady and seasoned hand at the helm - and this is how I would describe Lumet's direction. He lets the camera roll and lets the actors and the screenplay take center stage, not drawing attention away, but adding to the themes of the film throughout - especially in Beatty's speech at the end.NETWORK was nominated for (but did not win) the Oscar for Best Film of 1976. Did it lose out to other nominees ALL THE PRESIDENT'S MEN or TAXI DRIVER? Nope, it lost to ROCKY.Let that sink in.If you get a chance to watch (or rewatch) this film, I highly recommend you do so. For me, it was GREAT to watch this on the big screen with an audience, one of the reasons I love - and will continue to attend - the SECRET CINEMA series of films.Letter Grade: A+10 (out of 10) stars and you can take that to the Bank(OfMarquis)


                
"Network" is a fantastic movie that illustrates just how the "mob" and the media can exploit even the best intentions for mutual profit.Howard Beale (Peter Finch) is an on-air personality that, after finding he is not bankable anymore, snaps and starts to speak his own uncensored, and highly inflammable commentary about the hypocrisy of modern life.In his mad-hatter routine, somehow he sparks his audience's interest, and in a twist of fame finds himself, the not bankable as prime market share for prime time television. And naturally, his bosses and those who stand to profit from his actions, use his fame to better their own cause.Beale's rise to stardom is only one facet of this intricate story about how the mob influences media. Throughout "Network" we as the audience are constantly shown, to nausea, how ruthless popularity and trend mold what we see as consumers of entertainment. Most of the main characters are in fact trapped in their roles - and powerless to the bottom line, which is that media relies on advertisement and ratings to generate revenue.In fact, I believe that is what the point of "Network" is - this movie shows us, that "news" is entertainment, and how we as viewers (whichever demographic you are) are willing to suspend all common sense, class, independence, honor, integrity for a few moments of triumph or more pragmatically, how we relish tragedy."Network" is too heavy for most people - it is meant for people who do not like TV, who think that product placement is ridiculous, and in general do not like to think of themselves as a "market". If you need your reality spoon fed to you, this movie is not for you.However, if you have had enough, and wish to feel for a moment like you are an empowered free thinker, i would humbly suggest that this movie is for you.


                
Engrossing satire from Paddy Chayefsky and Sidney Lumet about sensationalism and the almighty dollar in television. All the performances astound, especially Beatty as the tycoon who tells Peter Finch his ideal America and his ideal philosophy on where America is heading. The film is a fine mix of black comedy and drama, brought to life by Chayefsky's incredible script and Lumet's superb direction. Dunaway won a much deserved Oscar for her performance. It's a performance that makes your jaw drop to the floor from start to finish. She makes being a bitch look so darn good.


                
Although I really like watching movies, and do it a lot, I am not totally comfortable with watching the old ones. I gave this a shot(totally embarrassed typing this), after bumping into several reviews lately, and my oh my.. What on earth have I been missing.Not only the people in media industry need to watch this. Any human alive should watch this movie.After watching Network, I watched it again and again. 3 times in a month. That was like a public apology. Not only a bulls eye projection as it is, also contains many micro similarities with the simple human behaviour today. The materialism, sincerity, mind games, nasty tricks, its all there.


                
This satirical masterpiece is considered, by experts, to be one of the greatest movies ever made. This website ranks it 197 out of the top 250 movies ever created. AFI (American Film Institure) ranks "Network" one of the top 100 American films (#66) to ever be produced. The phrase "I'm as mad as Hell, and I'm not going to take it anymore" is ranked the 19th most famous quote ever, in the history of the cinema by AFI. Last, but certainly not least, the script for "Network" is rated as the eighth best script ever written, according to discerning critics of the Writer's Guild of America East. This last accolade is one for which I wholeheartedly concur with. Originally, the film "Network", was inspired by an incident which involved a possible corporate takeover of the ABC News Division back in 1970. The entire matter of a corporate takeover of a network news division initiated an outburst of creative genius from Paddy Chaefsky (The writer of "Network") to address the dubious repercussions of such a corporate megalomaniac's scenario. Should a corporation take over a major network's news division, the ultimate goal of huge profits would compromise the journalistic integrity of the news, as well as the news' tenacious objective for hard bitten accuracy! The film "Network" became a cult sensation which fascinated the movie audience. The traumas of terrorism and apocalyptic catastrophe are reduced to numbers on a conceptualization analysis chart which crossed the table of a Madison Avenue boardroom! Their degree of doom and despair is measured in terms of marketability potential! Tummultuous radicalism became relegated to the mundane process of contractual consent decree. Basically, Howard Beale was a deteriorating news anchorman for UBS whose neurotic compulsions escalated into a Nielson ratings bonanza. Within the realm of exaggeration, all occurrences in this movie were acrimoniously plausible! The unprecedented talent in "Network" is unbelievable. Sidney Lumet, was a director who was driven by the uncompromising efforts of New York Theatre. Peter Finch, and Faye Dunaway, were performers who had an enormous amount of theatrical experience, this was advantageous to the support of their roles in "Network". Other performers in this film, William Holden, and Robert Duvall, were actors who were known for their straight shooter intensity, and, their ability to cogently focus! "Network" was a film which depicted a bevy of left wing coups and wanted criminals to be an auspiciously cunning carnival show for caricatured reprobates. Each character in the movie had their own brand of emotions; William Holden (Max Schumaker) was always afflicted with one sordid conundrum after another,this always left him ethically challenged. His wife, (Beatrice Straight- Who won an Academy Award for best supporting actress with her character)played the part of the proverbially injured party.Peter Finch,(Howard Beale) who won the Oscar (posthumously) for best actor with this role, became an overnight pop culture icon who was perpetually agitated. Howard Beale belonged in one of three places, Bellvue, Believe it or Not, or, the third one, which wound up being his choice; Prime Time Television. Robert Duvall (Frank Hackett) was the corporate yes man who thought everything could conform to a Fortune 500 pie chart. Ned Beaty, (Arthur Jensen) was the dictatorial disciple who explained to all parties involved that euphemistic phraseology and showbiz buzz words were simplistic subterfuges which corporations used to accommodate their precarious quest for the almighty dollar. Finally, Faye Dunaway, (Diana Christensen) was the television induced purveyor for ratings popularity.. For her, corporate callousness was a by product of lucrative business decisions. Faye Dunaway's performance as Diana Christensen was perhaps the single greatest performance that I have ever seen in any movie whatsoever. A performance like this, has the potential to spoil the writers of a movie script! Such esoteric dialog that "Network" possessed, straddles the fence of liability which can be made or broken on a performer's delivery. Such a stellar delivery of the lines in this movie, by Faye Dunaway, could very well be perceived as a windfall of reassurance to the writers, directors and produces of this film. Suffice it to say, Faye Dunaway won for best actress in 1976 with her role in "Network". The single greatest attribute which an actor or actress can garner with a part, is the quality of having a totally comprehensive control of the part in which they are playing.(Prime examples of actors with this quality are Al Pacino and Kevin Spacey) Faye Dunaway's performance in "Network" indeed, epitomizes such a remarkable feat! The ability to detach yourself from the mechanical persona which you have assumed in a movie, cultivates a zenith in professionalism, with it, emanates an idealistic state of mind! This performer's dichotomous isolation establishes a necessary bluntness for their character, thus making it easier for that character to be effectively entertaining! Faye Dunaway's portrayal of Diana Christensen was one whereby the utterly heartfelt responses of a human being were very derivative for her, realizing that, she confined herself to her work. The fact that she was impervious to compassion, devoid of vulnerability, and "insensitive to joy", was what made Diana Christensen's stilted demeanor vicariously devastating to any decent individual with whom she encountered! Director, Sidney Lumet, was vehement about requiring that the character of Diana Christensen remain academically ruthless all throughout the entire film. His purpose for doing this was to see to it that she would purport an essential mass media concept which made this movie extremely powerful. This omnipotent concept advocated a sub humanoid philosophy that unfortunately establishes rudimentary ground rules for the disconcerting and virulent world of television. This film was spectacular! Why "Network" lost out for best picture to "Rocky" is very inconceivable to me! Paddy Chaefsky and Sidney Lumet were brilliant! All of the actors and actresses were magnificent!! The fact that it did not win for best picture in 1976, leaves me with only one thing to say: "I'm as mad as Hell, and I'm not going to take it anymore!!"


                
I loved this movie. It totally blew me away. My roommate recommended it and it was beyond amazing. The writing perfect and just created a world that was utterly insane, but more real than a lot worlds created by the movie industry. The whole world of network television is just put in another light when watching this movie. I was not alive for the heyday of network news, but it had to be so much better than it is today. Watching current news programs it is exactly like watching the Howard Beale show. It was scary and sad, but still managed to be funny. Funny in an uncomfortable way. There are a lot of layers to this movie and I have only watched it once, but I am sure a lot more would be revealed as I watched it again. First of all lets comment on the acting. Top notch and I see how so many Oscars were given out. At first Faye Dunaway's performance seemed too flat, but by the end of the movie one sees why it was acted like it was and it was perfect. The perfect tragic figure that did not change and did not learn a lesson just because it was easier for her to continue her life like she always have even knowing it was wrong and would never give her happiness. Nothing needs to be said about Peter Finch's performance except wow. The next performance that stood out was Ned Beatty and his whole scene was film perfection. As he starts his speech to Beale the shot is perfectly crafted and even being such a small spot on the screen he fills and it and gives a damn memorable speech that almost evokes Emerson (maybe not in tone so much, but it was still there). As he calms down the camera moves in, but he is no less engaging. I like how they managed, perhaps by accident, able to convey the racism of the time and in the media. The fact that the movie started out as a movie about a news network and managed to turn them into terrorists and murders in such a short period of time was amazing. The directing was amazing, but with such a good script and with such quality actors it cannot be hard to make such a masterpiece. Not to belittle with Lumet did because he made the movie from the start feel flat and by the end of the movie made it perfect. the best part of the movie was the writing. Top notch writing and one of the better scripts I have encountered in a while. I am going to seek out more of his movies and see what else this guy is capable of. Overall a brilliant movie and I probably go on about how it was perfect. I am not sure I can think of a bad thing about this movie.
I first saw this movie in 1976 when it came out. I actually thought it was kind of funny. At the end when the announcer says something like Howard Beale is the first one to be killed because of bad ratings. But maybe it wasn't so funny taking into consideration the reality programs that we have on T.V. today. I still do, however, enjoy this movie and watch it whenever it is shown on T.V. I wonder how far the T.V. Networks will actually go in the future? "Kill the son of a bitch" might not be so far off... I do think this movie was far ahead of its time..Great dialog and the way it was filmed... Had a documentary style to it. Better then most movies today. Seems to hold up even though it is almost 30 years old. They could make it today but would have to add computers... No computers on anyones desk... However did they do their work?
Back in the mid 1970's, cable TV was a luxury. There were three networks, two forms of channels to surf (UHF and VHF), and the national news was either in print format or available through only ABC, CBS or NBC. Women anchors were few, let alone executives, so Faye Dunaway's character here (Diana Christensen) is far ahead of her time, and admittedly "one of the boys". Peter Finch's fictional network national news anchorman Howard Beale has been through the ringer and has been given his notice, and like "Meet John Doe's" Long John Willoughby, plans to kill himself. Unlike Willoughby, however, his suicide is planned to be real from his own lips, where Gary Cooper's "Meet John Doe" character only planned to disappear after the circulation scheme created by columnist Barbara Stanwyck passed its target date. It's the people behind the scenes in "Network" who pull the strings here, and instead of just newspaper owner Edward Arnold in that Frank Capra classic, you've got bigwigs from around the world it seems playing puppet master with Finch's life. Sidney Lumet, one of the great directors of the modern era of cinema, leads the way for what is considered one of the all time classics of the past 40 years.With one of the greatest ensembles ever assembled for a big budget cinematic release, "Network" grabs you from the moment of Lee Richardson's voice popping up to narrate Beale's story. Gradually, you get to meet the important people involved behind the scenes which includes Vice President of programming Dunaway, Finch's old pal, executive William Holden, and Robert Duvall as the head of a conglomorate who has bought up the network for its own selfish purposes. Others behind the scenes in smaller but equally important parts include veteran actors William Prince, Wesley Addy, Jordan Charney and Ned Beatty, each add to the bubbling volcano boiling within the network, not only focusing on the news program, but potential series Dunaway considers to help build up ratings which seem to be at an all time low, having it at the bottom of the four.TV series of the time from other networks are mentioned as ratings giants dominating the airwaves, and political events and tensions are added in fictional subplots to create even more tension. Marlene Warfield and Arthur Burghardt get an interesting subplot as members of a black extremist group whose cause becomes Dunaway's prize ratings cash cow, even though you can tell that she really could care less about any cause except pushing her own career up the ladder. Dunaway's affair with Holden causes a split between him and his long devoted wife (Oscar winner Beatrice Straight in probably the greatest cameo in motion picture history) and leads Holden to see what is behind the dwindling soul of the very troubled Dunaway. As she reveals the history of her failed love life (a husband who ran off with another man and her inadequacies in bed), you see someone with one direction in life that is easy to see ending with either suicide or a mental hospital. Twists involving her at the end might even have you drop your jaw in shock. By this point, there's no turning back for her, and it really makes you feel sorry for her as well as her victims.While the temptation is there to compare her performance to her notorious role of Joan Crawford in "Mommie Dearest", the subtle nuances Dunaway utilizes here makes her fascinating to watch. Diane Christensen has been compared to several powerful women in business who had reputations for being horrible to work for, the character of Diane is written as more commanding than demanding, somebody you might respect at first glance for her intelligence and beauty, but once subtleties make her real character known, she becomes closer to Sigourney Weaver's comical executive in "Working Girl" rather than Meryl Streep's nasty Miranda Priestly in "The Devil Wears Prada". The scenes between Holden and Dunaway exploring the nuances of their relationship show a very damaged woman, a fascinating view into the future of people obsessed with social media and unable to see reality past the push of their finger from their electronic devices.Then, there's the powerful cameo of Ned Beatty as one of the heads of the social destructive conglomerate, tearing Finch down for taking things too far in his sudden fame after his "I'm as mad as hell!" declaration and basically threatening to destroy the agendas Beatty, Duvall and others have set up in their attempts to manipulate and control society. Like Ms. Straight, Beatty takes over the film for one five minute scene and becomes unforgettable. It is with his appearance that this film delves into the darkness of the future from 1976 which now seems to be our present. A well received Broadway version of "Network" has opened to raves and sold-out performances, and dismisses any notion film historians have made in discussing the relevance of "Network" in movie history. There was much tension at the 1977 Academy Awards because of the powerful competition "Network" faced (two films, "All the President's Men" and "Taxi Driver", also show dark glimpses into American society; the winner, "Rocky", was a crowd pleaser that stood the test of time), but winning three out of the four acting awards as well as screenplay, "Network" is a modern classic that film students will be discussing for years.
Sidney Lumet's "Network" is one of the best satires of cinema. It is to the world of broadcast television what "Dr. Strangelove" was to the world of national security. The script by the late Paddy Chayefsky is full of gems, as well as some of the best movie monologues ever. In particular, Ned Beatty's "you have meddled with the primal forces of nature!" tirade is riveting. The performances are outstanding, with Peter Finch masterfully playing latter-day prophet Howard Beale; William Holden as Beale's friend and associate; and Faye Dunaway as a bitch-on-wheels programming director. As I mentioned in my critique on "Taxi Driver", these two films paint a portrait of the world that is as dark and realistic now than 23 years ago. "Network" describes a world in which ratings are emphasized over content, and with the amount of cliched sitcoms, reality-based dramas, and talk shows that border on exploitation, the ideas in the film have manifested in the 1990s. This is an important film that shouldn't be missed.


                
Oh, I'm so happy that "American Beauty" won the Oscar last weekend! Justice has been done to one of the greatest films ever. However, justice is not always done at the Oscar. "Beauty", "Shakespeare in Love", "The Silence of the Lambs" won when they deserved, but the Oscar was very unfair to films like "A Clockwork Orange", "2001: A Space Odyssey" and "Network". This one won best actor, actress, supporting actress and screenplay, but why not best picture? Well, "Rocky" won that year but, if the masterful "Taxi Driver" was almost forgotten, the equally excellent "Network" should have won. Do you want some reasons? 1- It is one of the most sarcastic, darkest comedies ever made.2- It is brilliantly acted, with amazing performances of Faye Dunaway, William Holden and Peter Finch.3- The screenplay is one of the best ever written, mixing very well dark comedy and personal dramas.4- It discusses some main subjects, as ethics, and makes an acid critic to the TV.5- It doesn't only care about this, but also to each character. Each one is very well developed, with his/her own problems.6- The film is profetic. It's more realistic than ever in our days.7- It keeps suspense about the destiny of the characters, with a very precise narration.8- The direction of Sidney Lumet is more than a high quality direction.9- It has one of the best movie quotes ever: "I'm mad as hell, and I won't take this any more!"10- The ending is just... great! Unpredictable and surprising! Between my favorite endings (along with "The Sixth Sense", "2001", "A Clockwork Orange", "Witness for the Prosecution", "Nashville", etc)Do you want something else? So watch "Network". It is a true masterpiece and a unquestionable classic.


                
Network gets better with age. The 1976 indictment of television and its quest for ratings at any cost seems to have accurately predicted what became of network news here in this century. Viewed as an absurdest depiction in its day of a media and society gone shameless we now actually live in one that celebrates it, courtesy of the plug in drug. Networks now take sides, Fox on the Right, MSNBC on the Left. They believe a more perky personality (Katie Couric) will make bad news more palatable. They spend endless hours on dead blonds and self destructive bimbos. They give the people what they want. Network lays this all out in a comically sardonic film that eviscerates a media whose lost its dignity and sense of purpose.Paddy Chayefsky's script bristles with sharp wit and biting dialogue that is delivered by a cast giving career performances. Peter Finch clearly steals the show as the messianic news anchor Howard Beale. His "mad as hell" speech is one of the greatest in all of film but Faye Dunaway, Ned Beatty and William Holden, in his last excellent role, give superb performances as well. Actor's director Sidney Lumet (12 Angry Men, The Pawnbroker, The Verdict) fine tunes the cast so well that actress Beatrice Straight makes the most of the five minutes of screen time she has with an Academy Award performance.Network is a superb confluence of script and performance flawlessly presented by all involved. It may not be a pretty picture but it is a work of art.


                
With the primacy of reality programming on current primetime TV schedules and the fight for ratings even more virulent with the dismantling of the networks, the vitriol and perceptiveness of Paddy Chayefsky's screenplay for this searing satire resonates today more than ever. What gives the prophetic movie its power is how the story never veers that far from the truth, even in 1976 when the film was originally released. In fact, what may have seemed excessive back then has mostly come true, and that's the beauty of reintroducing this modern classic in a bountiful two-disc DVD package in 2006.Set in the fictitious offices of the ratings cellar-dwelling UBS network, the multi-layered story initially focuses on Howard Beale, the aging anchorman of the evening news. About to be fired and in a state of dementia, he announces on the air that he is going to commit suicide. Veteran UBS news director Max Schumacher, Beale's longtime friend and colleague, is called in to convince Beale to retract his statement. Instead, Beale goes on a rampage about the nauseating decline of American society. Ratings skyrocket, and up-and-coming programming executive Diana Christensen wants to take control of Beale's show and turn it into an outrageous infotainment show with Beale as the "Mad Prophet of the Airwaves". Schumacher and Christensen are at odds professionally but not before entering into a torrid affair which has him leaving his patient wife. The novelty of both the program and the affair, however, eventually wears off, and ratings plummet leading to drastic measures that the network decides to take.Director Sidney Lumet certainly knows how to tell a virulent story that teeters precariously between reality and satire and uses Lee Richardson's appropriately stentorian voice-over as the perfect chorus. Lumet also gets superb performances out of a powerful ensemble starting with Peter Finch who captures the visceral rage and psychological decline of Beale in accurate detail. It's a showy role with little introspection shared about his elliptical character, but he makes it work for the viewer. In what turned out to be the best of his late career performances, William Holden guides the only moral conscience the network seems to have, even as he gives into the temptations of a younger woman who only lives for and through television.Ideally cast, Faye Dunaway uses her cool, collected beauty to great advantage here. What's more, with barely a hint of humanity, she pierces with the sheer venom of Christensen's unapologetically Machiavellian strategies. She has a willing partner in Frank Hackett, the ratings-hungry head of UBS, played with malevolently energetic force by Robert Duvall. In smaller roles that amount to vividly etched cameos, Ned Beatty brings out Shakepearean-level bluster as corporate bigwig Arthur Jensen preaching to Beale on the power of the almighty buck; Marlene Warfield is all anger and commercial savvy as the Angela Davis doppelganger revolutionary Laureen Hobbs; and Beatrice Straight is superb as Schumacher's betrayed wife moving from fury to resignation with aching desperation. Even though the film has the visual look of a television show, it is a true masterwork driven by Chayefsky's brilliant script.The DVD package contains Lumet's expert commentary on the first disc. The second disc has an 85-minute, six-chapter documentary produced specifically for the DVD, "The Making of Network", which includes participation from among others, Lumet, Dunaway, Beatty, producer Howard Gottfried and Walter Cronkite's daughter Kathy (who had a bit part as a Patty Hearst-like character in the movie). Produced by Laurent Bouzereau, who did similar duties on the recently released DVD of David Lean's "Ryan's Daughter", it is chockfull of interesting information about the production and a fascinating historical perspective by Cronkite himself.In addition, there is an odd curio, an appearance by Chayefsky on Dinah Shore's daytime talk show when the film was released. He lends intriguing insight into his screenplay, his perspective on television and what he feels the movie is all about, even though Shore and guest Steve Lawrence are intrusively banal with their interjectory comments (Shore's other guest Anne Bancroft has the good sense to keep her mouth shut when Chayefsky talks). The last piece is a career retrospective interview with Lumet on Robert Osborne's "Private Screenings" series on Turner Movie Classics. While Lumet's film-making career is impressive, Osborne's rather celebratory questioning really doesn't lend much insight beyond a recital of Lumet's laudatory accomplishments.


                
Much as Stanley Kubrick took a satirical aim at America's Cold War paranoia in DOCTOR STRANGELOVE, so too do Sidney Lumet and Paddy Chayefsky take a satirical aim at television in NETWORK, still one of the most pointed films ever made.  The film centers around UBS, a fourth-place TV network without a single show in the Nielsen Top 20.  Then their long-time TV newsman Howard Beale (Peter Finch), having been canned due to poor ratings, announces on the air that he is going to kill himself!  But that's not the end of it. The following night, he comes back on and apologizes, saying that he "just run out of bulls***!".  The ratings soar right through the roof, inspiring the two top people at UBS (Robert Duvall, Faye Dunaway) to give Finch his own show--a deal that is sealed when Finch urges his audience to open their windows and yell, "I'm as mad as hell, and I'm not gonna take this anymore!"Back in 1976, of course, NETWORK was so outrageous that everyone in television dismissed it as a joke.  But look around you now, and you'll see that its visions of tabloid journalism and guerilla warfare TV shows are perilously close to coming true today.  And what else is Finch's Howard Beale character but a model for, respectively, Rush Limbaugh (on the Right) and Howard Stern (on the Left), and even Jerry Springer (in the Toilet!)?Finch and Dunaway won Oscars for their lead roles, and Beatrice Straight won a Supporting Actress Oscar for her brief role as the wife of UBS' former, conscience-stricken news department chief (William Holden).  Holden's performance is also incredible and explosive; who would have thought that the "Golden Boy" would ever say, on film, "Tell Mr. Hackett (Duvall) to go f**k himself!"?NETWORK, to sum it all up, is still brilliant and now more timely than ever before.  Lumet and Chayefsky (whose script won an Original Screenplay Oscar) concocted not merely a satire, but a scathingly realistic nightmare as well.


                
Sandwiched between "Jaws" and "Star Wars", Sidney Lumet's "Network" was one of the last gasps of the American New Wave. With the unprecedented box-office successes of blockbuster movies, studios quickly seized upon high-concept premises, putting greater emphasis on tie-in merchandise, spin-offs and the use of sequels.Realising how much money could potentially be made in films, major corporations started buying up the Hollywood studios. The corporate mentality these companies brought to the film-making business would slowly squeeze out the more idiosyncratic of the young New Wave filmmakers, while ensconcing the more malleable and commercially successful of them. Modern Hollywood was born. A smooth conveyor belt that bowed to art only when trends got stale. Test screenings, market analysis, committee screenplays and multi demographic franchises were here to stay."Network" is a Sidney Lumet satire devoid of pyrotechnics, fancy editing, noticeable camera work or even music. It concerns a news anchor by the name of Howard Beale, who vows to commit suicide on air. He's fed up of his life, his marriage and the meaningless crap he's forced to report. Why not end it all?Beale's angry rants and morbid honesty begin to appeal to audiences, and soon he's the star of his own show. Beale's network (UBS) hates his instability but loves the fact that he's bringing in huge ratings. Soon his anti-establishment stance is being prostituted as a means to make easy money. As the film unfolds, we watch as dissent is commodified and the counterculture becomes part of capitalism's politico-military-media complex. Like "The Parallax View", all shocks to the system are enveloped.To the powers that rule the news, Beale is a powerless fish in a pond far bigger than himself. They let him speak his mind because they know that he's ultimately impotent. But as UBS grows in stature and clout, unseen corporations begin to buy it up. Shares are sold, managers are changed, until eventually a mysterious Saudi Arabian company, backed by oil money, orchestrates a silent take over. Suddenly Beale is no longer a news reporter; he is seen as a prophet of truth, a tool whom new, unseen shareholders decide to use for their own ends. Beale will not stand for this. He rallies the population and gets them to send angry letters to the White House. Due to public pressure and cold hard democracy, the Saudi Arabian company is forced to back down. Behind closed doors, shares and stock change hands.Angry that Beale has thwarted a lucrative business deal, the mysterious head of UPS - played by Ned Beatty as a fuming corporate psychopath - summons Beale to his office. His scene steals the movie. Apocalyptic and furious, Ned tears apart Beale's philosophy with his own "corporate cosmology".Patriotism, race, nationality, democracy, religion, these are all dead modes of organisation. The world is ruled by business. Profit has replaced prophet and the only effective praying is done by greedy conglomerates who prey on the wants and needs of the many. Man is standardised and institutionalised, he says. Individuality is important only insofar as it is marketable to the drones. All the troubles in the world are caused, not by the horizontal distinctions between race, religion and colour, but between the vertical distinctions between class, money and power.As such, Ned demands that Beale preach a new message. That the world is one vast and ecumenical holding company, for whom all men will work to serve a common profit. A company in which all men will hold a share of stock, all necessities provided, all anxieties tranquilised, all boredom amused. Beale is chosen to preach this evangel, and so he leaves Ned's office as a battered and disillusioned man.Needless to say, America does not like the new Howard Beale. His defeatist truth is too bleak, too harsh and too gloomy. They want a revolutionary and a prophet, someone to offer them hope. Beale sees no more hope.Beale is assassinated days later, because of his increasingly low ratings. Over the course of the film, we've watched Beale transition from suicidal news reporter, to empowered revolutionary, to disillusioned wise man, to a dead and discarded piece of meat. The film is defeatist, though Beale's combative spirit continues to live on in certain circles, very much like Paul Newman's dead character in "Cool Hand Luke".9/10 - "Network" still packs a prophetic punch, thanks largely to Paddy Chayefsky's screenplay. A control freak and auteur, Chayefsky (and producer Howard Gottfried) submitted the "Network" script to United Artists in 1975. UA drew up a short list of directors suitable for the production. This list included Roman Polanski, Stanley Kubrick and Sidney Lumet. Kubrick was given a script and sent back a favourable reply, but Chayefsky, who was as much a stickler for control as Kubrick, didn't want to hand his vision over to an auteur. Sidnet Lumet was finally chosen because it was felt that his working methods were suitably restrained. Years later, Chayefsky would remove his name from the "Altered States" screenplay because of Ken Loach's wild style. Chayefsky views his screenplay as the final word. The story set in stone. And in "Network" Lumet obliges by filming his words as simply and religiously as possible.
This is one of those works that is emblematic of what can be done with a director who knows his craft and chooses a style that is both controlled and not controlling, a writer who can let out some wild scenes and incredible exposition and make it practically believable (maybe more so today), and a cast that understand their creative forces at work. After seeing the film I was actually struck just as much, for example, by William Holden's performance as I was by Peter Finch, though the latter usually gets most of the credit (and rightfully so, in an Oscar-winning turn beating out De Niro in Taxi Driver if one can believe that). But then one has to take into account their different levels of skill in their performances, and how they both deliver even more than what is required. Holden, for me, is just as good here as he is in his best work (Sunset Blvd, The Wild Bunch), but in the role of the worn-out, dedicated professional who in his own way has had about as enough bs that can be taken as the main character. Yet Holden also knows his performance needs to be more reserved, and as his story gets more complicated he has to make some subtle choices as perhaps the only really sane person in the film. His work here is accomplished in the style of one sense, while Finch, who plays a character going back and forth between being totally nuts and knowing more than anyone else out there in TV land, takes his role with a heedless abandon.In short, this is one of the more fearless looks at the media ever presented on film, and it's even more relevant today perhaps than when it was first released. It's sad that not only did Lumet and Paddy Chayevsky think that what they were doing (aside from the ending) was all true, but that as the decades have passed since Regan's to-do with changing the rules of journalism, it's gotten worse. It was actually kind of shocking to see one or two of the revelations from Finch in some scenes, and the connection made in the 3rd act with Saudi Arabia is one of my favorite parts of the film (particularly the speech by Ned Beatty in one of the all-time great one-scene roles). News, basically, now is like everything else on TV, where you get what you pay for via the advertising, but not as it should really be with the news as it is. Howard Beale, basically, is like one of those ultra-symbollic (but relatable) characters in movies, in a demented way like Stewart in Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, where the truth has to be spoken by someone, but who in America will listen (or, ironically, who won't if it's shelled out right in front of the cameras).In other words, this is one of those films that does ask a viewer to think about what is being shown- an 'informed' public (which is growing less and less as the media becomes smaller and more controlled via government and regulations)- while still providing acting that sticks and lines of dialog that are among the best in 70's films. Faye Dunaway is the female counterpart to her older male stars and is just as good, being like a very cold, typical businesswoman who only makes things feel like she does, as if something was lost in youth. Duvall is also good here, if maybe not at his very best, in a role as a TV exec. But there are bit parts that are really good too, like the black female militant member who complains at a meeting about the grosses of showing footage on TV. And in a small way, like the films of Brooks and Monty Python, Lumet understands how to film things very realistically (though the style appropriately changed from start to finish) so that the satire within can spring out. Even an over-the-top scene like Beale's first Mad-as-Hell speech works on this level.Overall, this is a really amazing film, with enoughs scathing, dark material mixed with the truth that should and isn't presented to those who rely solely on programming. "Because you're on television, dummy" are the last words Beatty says to Beale in their scene after Beale asks "why me?" By the end, as the film reaches its ultimate climax, one might wonder if his question is relatable to all TV, not just the news. Why is it what you say to people through this abstract medium important, or not? The answers, looking at how the news is run now, should be obvious. Maybe Lumet's best outside of his more 'urban' films (i.e. Serpico, The Pawnbroker, Dog Day Afternoon).


                
"Network" is a blazing, ballsy, and smoothly calculated satire of all things American and Corporate as seen through the tunneled vision of mass market consumerism in the form of television. Made in 1976 with no-nonsense old-school direction from Sydney Lumet and a so-good-it's-almost-sick script from Paddy Chayefsky, this is not only the second best film satire ever made (behind only "Dr. Strangelove" in my book) but also a simplistic hologram of what every great film, no matter what the genre, should be: a stone-cold acting, writing, and directing tour-de-force.Faye Dunaway (Oscar winner) is icy perfection as the programming exec who will put anything on TV for higher ratings. Peter Finch is "mad as hell" in his Oscar winning performance as the "mad prophet of the airways" spouting off tangents on everything from soulless consumerism to the dangers of MidEast corporate buy-outs (sadly things are still the same thirty years later). William Holden is equally good in his part as an aging and recently axed news exec looking for old-fashioned love in a crazy god-less new world. Robert Duvall (with his dreams of big-titted hits), Ned Beatty (with his forces of nature), and everyone else involved are all amazing. This is one of those films so perfectly tailored to its cast and sublimely directed that an actress (Beatrice Straight as Holden's wife) can walk onto screen for a mere five minutes, exorcise her lines as if this is her death dirge as an artist, and walk off with an Oscar.Then of course there is the writing. This is a film not only of great lines (like "I'm mad as hell, and I'm not going to take this anymore!") but also of grandiose, verbose, and articulate dialogue (take any of the Dunaway-Holden scenes or the Beatty/Finch showdown of apocalyptic proportions). Only "Casablanca," "Annie Hall" and perhaps "Paris, Texas" can compete with "Network" for best film dialogue ever.And finally, this is one of the few classics ripe (and dare I say begging) for re-imagining. In 1976 this was a hilariously dark satire joking about the worst case scenario of a new world order. Viewed today, it's a horrifying oracle of things that came true. If ever was there a film from the past with a more urgent message, I dare you to name it.


                
This is a fictional story of "UBS Evening News" anchor Howard Beale (Peter Finch).He's fired because of the low ratings.On the next broadcast he announces he will commit suicide live on air.This makes him bigger than ever.He becomes the prophet of television and he's as mad as hell.The brilliant director Sidney Lumet is the director of this classic called Network (1976).It is a winner of four Academy Awards.Peter Finch is terrific in the lead.He won the Oscar posthumously.Too bad he wasn't here to enjoy it.One incredible scene is between him and Ned Beatty, who plays Arthur Jensen.The legendary William Holden is news editor Max Schumacher.His character, who's married falls for the somewhat heartless Diana Christensen, played by Faye Dunaway.Robert Duvall does always a good job and his work as Frank Hackett, one of the executives is fantastic.This movie works today as good as it did then.The reason for this must be because we're living those times as portrayed there.The big executives do anything for good ratings.They might even be ready to kill someone like Howard Beale as was done in this movie.Think about what will be the next step of reality TV.I'm too scared even to think about that.The future of television doesn't seem too bright.
At the very heart of this film is Arthur Jensen's speech about the replacement on the world stage of nation-states by multi-national corporations. The new God, Jensen, reveals to his prophet, Beale, this "evangel" to deliver to the people via television. This is a film about corruption of all human associations - religious, political, corporate, marital. Humans are just "humanoids." Allegiance to some multi-national corporation is far more important than allegiance to some complacent, ineffectual government - or to the real God. "Network" is simply the specific environment that Chayefsky uses to show this corruption; and Beale, Christensen, Schumacher, Hackett et al are merely the specific "humanoids" chosen as variant examples. Television is both the least significant end of this corruption (not "actual, real living") and its most significant means of perpetration on humanity ("because you reach 50 million people, you idiot!"). This is 1984, written from a later perspective than Orwell's. Keenly perceptive of 1976? Absolutely! Prophetic of 2008 - and beyond? No question.The only reason OPEC doesn't raise precipitously the price of oil to $200/bbl is because too many petro-dollars are invested in the West. Its collapse would also bring down the OPEC countries, themselves. The national debt of the U.S. is so great that over half of the annual budget goes to banks - not to amortize the debt, but just to pay interest! Americans don't own our country any more (and haven't for a long time); WE RENT IT.That Chayefsky and Lumet and Co. could actually film this statement of unadulterated TRUTH in the first place is astonishing. That "Network" hasn't been destroyed, but continues to be shown is proof that we are, indeed, "humanoids," and the powers-that-be need not fear our coming to a comprehension of that TRUTH.
