When this movie came out in '76 I didn't bother seeing it because I rejected the premise as implausible; the very idea that a network anchor would go nuts on the air and become a hook for ratings seemed ridiculous on its face.
Would that it were so.Today we have Jerry Springer, Maury Povich, Howard Stern, etc. etc. etc. At the beginning of the movie a drunken Max Schumacher (William Holden) fantasizes about a show called "the Death Hour" comprised of films of car crashes, suicides, train wrecks, and so forth, to be put on Sunday night in prime time. "It'll blow Disney outta the f------g water!" he laughs. A few years back some network put exactly such a show - "Eye Witness Videos" - on the air. On Sunday night. In prime time. In short, as most everyone here has commented, "Network"'s horrifying vision - brilliantly written by the incredibly prescient Paddy Chayevsky -  has been truly and frighteningly prophetic, and rings absolutely true today.The movie is a veritable feast of tour-de-force acting from all involved. In particular  William Holden's wrenching performance as the burned-out but still sensitive Max is drop-jaw stunning. I feel he, not Finch, should have gotten the Oscar, though Finch's work is not exactly chopped liver either. And what a brilliant device on Chayevsky's part to make the lunatic Howard Beale the only one of the bunch with clarity of vision.
That the film is intended to be a satire and a comedy is clear from the narration, especially the final comment about Beale becoming the first man to be killed because of lousy ratings. But it is without doubt the blackest black comedy ever filmed. A lasting legend of filmmaking art.
"Network" is the satirical movie written by Paddy Chayefsky, and directed by Sidney Lumet. The main character, Howard Beele, was a respected news anchor who hit a slump. When he's fired from his desk, he finally snaps. His ravings reveal the truth, and he is soon dubbed "The Mad Prophet of the Airwaves." Today, in the age of trash TV, "Network" still has significance. There are several aspects of the story that ring true today with TV news: the sacrifice of journalistic integrity in the scramble for ratings, and media bias fueled by sweetheart deals by rich special interests. Knowing that this exists in the world is enough to make anyone mad as hell.


                
Perhaps it was a poor idea, prior to watching the film, to mentally link 'Network (1976)' with Alan J. Pakula's true story of newspaper journalism, 'All the President's Men (1976).' Whereas the latter is an absorbing dissection of the go-getters behind the written media, Lumet's film would probably feel more at home alongside 'Dr. Strangelove (1964),' an intelligent satire that occasionally oversteps the line of credibility, but, because we've gone with it this far, we're quite willing to take those few extra steps. The film is a stern indictment of the unscrupulous executives behind television, and also society's own obsession with mindless entertainment. Diana Christensen and Frank Hackett may very well be miserly, immoral reptiles, but it is ultimately their viewers, us, who drive their crooked dealings. Lumet delicately places the blame on his audience; we are the "ratings" for which the networks hunger so fanatically, and it is the crumbling state of our own culture that fuels absurd endeavours like "The Howard Beale Show" {thirty years on, I think we can all agree that things have only gotten worse}.A perfect example of the film's style of satire can be found early on, after veteran news anchorman Howard Beale (Peter Finch) learns that he is to be fired in two weeks' time, on account of poor ratings. The following evening, Beale calmly announces to millions of Americans his intentions to commit suicide on the air in a week's time. The show's technicians idly go about their duties, oblivious to what their star has just proclaimed, before one employee tentatively ventures, "uh, did you hear what Howard just said?" The network, in their ongoing quest for high ratings, was so blindly obsessed with perfecting all their technical aspects that the mental-derangement of their leading anchorman went almost completely unnoticed. At first, there is an attempt to yank Beale from the air, but one forward-thinking producer, Diana Christensen (Faye Dunaway), proposes that the network could double their current ratings by keeping him in the spotlight.Peter Finch, who was awarded a posthumous Best Actor Oscar for his performance, is simply explosive as the unhinged anchorman whose volatile outbursts of derangement are celebrated by a society which, in a better world, should be trying to help him. Beale's memorable catch-cry <U+0096> "I'm as mad as hell, and I'm not going to take this anymore!" <U+0096> symbolises his revulsion towards the crumbling values of today's society, and, as fanatical as he might be, most of his raves are worryingly close to the truth. William Holden is also excellent as Max Schumacher, Beale's long-time colleague, who resents the networks' treatment of his friend, but does little to interfere. Schumacher's adulterous relationship with the seductive but soulless Diana (Dunaway) consciously follows the conventional path of a television soap opera, ending with the realisation that his affair with the ratings-obsessed mistress is sapping him of any real emotion or humanity; in Schumacher's own words, "after living with you for six months, I'm turning into one of your scripts." Television corrupts life.


                
This movie was released when TV was at the height of its power as a medium. But it's very prescient in anticipating some of the worst trends in both TV and digital/social media since it was made in 1976. The exploitation of a newscaster suffering a mental illness for ratings and the unseemly circus created around him play to our own times with what we see playing out on social media. Brilliantly cast and scripted. Yes, of course, it's "dated" in parts but on the money when it comes to dramatic tension and underlying messaging.


                
It's thoroughly devastating, and that's because it doesn't work on one level. While Network's wry humor is very sharp and truly sore, it's the sympathy I had for Howard Beale, Peter Finch's character, that got me. Actually, the movie's obvious flaw is that the aspect that is focused on, which is the political satirical one, is underdeveloped, or let's say that all small changes that happen don't make the story any better, instead, they made the satire less sharp, and made me less interested in the story.By contrast, the character of Beale is continuously developed, and it's character arc is painful to witness from the very beginning to the end. However, what really made me engaged despite the semi-hollow main plot are two things:the first thing is the intelligent dialogue; it should be listed in top 10 movie dialogues of all-time. It easily can trick us as the plot is very well-developed.The second thing is the characters, not only Howard Beale, but almost every character is a three-dimensional one. Specially when I was totally invested in all the characters, and how couldn't I with, maybe, the greatest cast ensemble performing the roles?
Of course, Peter Finch is great, and balances very well between his moments of wrath, and his moments of psychopathic coldness. But, c'mon, his performance is far cry from De Niro's in Taxi Driver, which is arguably the best performance in film. The performances that standout for me are William Holden's as Max Schumacher, he really deserved to win the Oscar, and Faye Dunaway's performance as Diana Christensen, which I think this is her best performance ever even better than her performance in Chinatown , and, fortunately, she took the Oscar for this role as the Best Actress in a Leading Role. Robert Duvall also, and as usual, gave a terrific performance. Needless to say, the entire cast is phenomenal!I want to say that I love Sidney Lumet direction. He always shot the conversations in his movies in a way that make us feel they actually happen in real life, and 12 Angry Men and Dog Day Afternoon are the finest examples. But in the case of Network, there are some scenes that don't need to be shot this fast, they needed a little more focus, a little more dramatic feeling. The result is some scenes that could have been more effective if they were less rushed, also, there are some acting, which is great, that seemed to be over the top. And that's just because the direction, not the acting itself, except one scene in which the acting was really hammy. Also, the ending is rushed, but it's very shocking. With that being said, Lumet established a disturbing atmosphere, that due to it, nothing in this movie would have worked.All in all, I enjoyed watching this movie that left a bitter taste in mouth, because of nothing but its accuracy which made it very relevant nowadays. And despite all its major flaws, Sidney Lumet made a satirical drama that still one of a kind.(8/10)


                
Look at the cesspool that is modern television. Who could have ever foreseen this? Screenwriter Paddy Chayefsky and director Sidney Lumet could. Way back in 1976 they produced a film which in addition to being a simply brilliant satire also served as a preview of our modern media world. Anything goes in the quest for an extra point or two in the ratings. You watch Network and you think maybe Chayefsky and Lumet pushed it a little too far, that by film's end they had gone past the point of believability. But did they really? Would what was so shocking in 1976 really be shocking at all today? Can anything really shock us anymore? Something to think about when watching the film. Or, if you don't really want to think about things like that, you can just sit back and enjoy the film. If all you want are laughs Network works on that level too. It really is a near-perfect combination of humor and smarts. Network gives you your laughs. But it gives you a brilliant story too.So Howard Beale is mad as hell and he's not going to take this anymore. That's what everybody seems to remember most about Network. Understandable as the character is so memorable and the performance from Peter Finch so unquestionably superb. But this film has so much more to offer. Just look at the cast list. William Holden, Robert Duvall, Faye Dunaway, Ned Beatty. Magnificent performances from all of them and solid support from a host of others as well. Heck, the acting in this film is so good Beatrice Straight got an Oscar for about five minutes of work. Terrific actors working from a marvelous Chayefsky script, all guided by the eminently capable hands of Lumet. Put all that together and it is no wonder Network turned out so wonderfully.At its beginning the film appears to be about Howard Beale, the old news anchor about to be fired who rather than go quietly into the night announces his plans to kill himself on-air. This proves to be quite the ratings boost so Beale is kept on the air. The further he goes down the path to madness the bigger a hit this mad prophet of the airwaves becomes. Thrilled about this is programming executive Diana Christensen, a woman laser-focused on her career and the quest for better ratings for the network. To her Howard Beale is a godsend. Howard's old friend, news division head Max Schumacher, on the other hand considers this obvious exploitation of a clearly insane man to be a tragedy. The professional conflict between Diana and Max leads to a personal relationship between the two. But is the emotionless, soulless Diana even capable of being in a relationship? Some of the movie's best moments come in the push and pull between Diana and Max, played perfectly by Dunaway and Holden. The higher-ups at the network, personified most clearly by Duvall's Frank Hackett, make it clear whose side they're on in the Diana-Max kerfuffle over Howard. Money talks and Howard Beale is making them money. This network will do anything for money. Absolutely anything to protect the bottom line. Including getting in bed with terrorists...which may prove useful later.There's a sense the film goes off the rails a bit towards the end but if it does it does so willfully and gleefully. Chayefsky and Lumet had a statement they wanted to make and boy does that statement still hit home all these years later. What a story, what performances. Genuine laughs and genuine heart. Everything works. Finch, Holden, Dunaway and Duvall are the four big stars with the meatiest parts and they're all fabulous. But you can't discount the smaller performances either, Straight earning that Oscar with such raw emotion as Max's aggrieved wife. And Beatty with one of the all-time great movie speeches which isn't even the greatest speech in this film thanks to Finch's mad as hell moment. Network has, in Howard Beale, one of film's all-time great characters. But the film has so much other great stuff going on that Howard becomes almost a sideshow. It's a film which is brimming with excellence. Quite brilliantly done.


                
Perhaps one of the most brilliant works of satire to appear since Voltaire's Candide, this film points a damning finger at the treachery of the television industry. Faye Dunaway stars in her fabulous Oscar- winning performance as Diana, a calculating TV exec who's only concern is ratings, ratings, ratings who, without any consideration, exploits a hapless news anchor suffering from a mental breakdown. The film features a variety of other stunning performances, two of which rightfully received Oscars, as a variety of excellently painted characters. While also managing to be blackly funny, this film also shows the vastly negative effects of television on the human condition, most accurately defined in one the film's many classic lines: "Television is not the truth! Television is a Goddamned amusement park!" But the true brilliance of the film is the fact that in spite of the film being sternly rooted in the 70s era, it is still relevant today - perhaps even more so as corporation conglomerates continue to gobble up all that we know. But the thing to remember is: While yes it is satire and it is far more over-the-top than real life, it carries with it a striking message. It carries with it the message that television is bad, plain and simple, a fact that now more than ever we need to be reminded of. This film very well hits the mark it aims for and while it does suffer at times from being hilariously unbelievable, this too allows it to hit it's mark. In short, this is a fine film - but be careful, it may have you screaming: "I'm mad as hell and I'm not going to take it anymore!". My rating 8/10


                
I love this movie... I'm mad as hell and I'm not going to take it anymore!! What an amazing phrase to yell out into the sky! 70s vibe... I never thought about blocking of actors until I saw this movie. The story and message are amazing... but so is the blocking! They find really interesting ways of moving actors to new positions in the middle of conversations just to mix things up, change the power play in the scene. Masterfully done really! Cinematography compositions are beautiful... If you have a big TV, DO YOURSELF A FAVOR AND WATCH IT BIG!! The monologues dished out over the airwaves are prophetic, angry, hilarious, and true. I recommend showing this movie too all kids now to help them see that they shouldn't just believe anything "the tube" tell them.


                
In a nutshell, this movie is about applying moral in-sensibilities to sensationalize mediocre stories and exploit weak individuals by over-ambitious executives to satisfy their ratings and egos. I am sure everyone must have had similar thoughts when watching one news story or the other these days but I didn't realize this had started way back then to even make a satire of a feature film.Howard Beale, a legendary news anchor who has donned the seat for a certain network for a few decades has a mental meltdown on live television after knowing that his show is going to get canceled due to poor ratings. Diana Christensen, an ambitious and dynamic executive with a pragmatic view on morals looks at this disastrous incident in a positive way. She starts to campaign, lobby, manipulate and seduce her way to get this show going all the while paying little heed to the deteriorating mental condition of Howard.Starts with a bang and that bang propels the movie for quite a bit helped by a standout performance from Faye Dunaway wimps out in the last leg as it loses steam by the end in comparison to the pace set rest of the movie. For most part, the movie has a very practical point of view on each subject it treads on.Overall, the performances are terrific and the master of screenplay Sidney Lumet had things under control. Only problem is the script tries to wander a bit to venture partially into other subjects which does not have sufficient time or content.


                
Network is about a retiring, troubled yet deranged news reporter (Peter Finch) becoming sick with the artificiality of showbiz and at the same time losing his sanity. Yet his trusted colleagues at his network don't see this as an area of concern, but rather a business opportunity. The producers exploit this reporter's state of mind to give him his own show in which he furiously preaches the flaws of society, promoting his viewers to shout of their window, 'I'm mad as hell and I'm not guna take it!'. However, the show's ratings start to falter and the network need to find some way of bringing down the show, no matter how extreme...Network reveals a shocking reality that the television business (or rather the media overall) is evil, partial and false. The peek of satire in the film is Faye Dunaway's character, Diana Christensen. She claims to be inept at everything except her work, she is engrossed in the falseness of the media which influences her own life in which she compares affairs with Vronsky and Anna in 'Anna Karenina' and sees mundane situations as a script.Finch's performance as Howard Beale was powerful and boundlessly brilliant. He acts as the messenger of truth in the film, a beacon of light in this dark abyss of lies and hypocrisy. His character is worn down by the difficulties of life driving him to derangement and shocking insanity. Finch deserved his Oscar without a doubt.Network is a bold satire of the false nature of the media whilst acting as a truly enlightening experience that is hugely ahead of its time.8.5/10


                
Well,if you want to watch a movie which will give you goose bumps,watch this. As the title goes it is about the Television Network,and it's influence.But it's not only abut the TV,it's everything we see around us,it's about this world and us 'Humans or humanoids' as it points out. It was a daring movie in the 70s,but even in 2008 it cannot be more relevant,as it will be in 2020 and so on...The corporate control of this world has always been felt,and as one of the characters points out "The world is a college of corporations, inexorably determined by the immutable bylaws of business. The world is a business".So true isn't? The dialogues are crisp,thought-provoking and loud and the lighting effects are unique. Well this and one of Sidney Lumet's best.The script and dialogues are so powerful that they alone are capable of bringing this film to the top,but what elevates the movie further is the acting.Well deserved Oscar for Peter Finch,Faye Dunaway and I am not that impressed by Beatrice Straight, whose performance is the shortest ever to win an Oscar.Robert Duvall is spot on here and so is Ned Beatty whose character makes the most important point of the filmThe best part of the movie as told before is that,the movie will be relevant as long as Humans exist.And with every passing day it will become more relevant,more liked and more darkly true.Do yourself and others a favor,watch it.


                
Network
Directed by Sidney Lumet and written by Paddy ChayefskyThis movie comes as a recommendation by James Staggs. This film comes with the reputation of being a prophetic film. It does seem eerily prescient when it comes to a ranting, raving man spouting on the ills of the world. I imagine this guy being on Fox News telling everyone how the secret elite is running things and playing on the anger and fears of the common folks. This is just a small portion of the narrative. It has a corporation taking over a news division and turning it into a tabloid circus. That sound familiar. The world we live in now seems like it came from this like the writer had a crystal ball. I know that many people have probably said that about this movie. It's very true. Now this movie is still a satire. It is a lyrical satire. The dialogue flows like poetry. There are several scenes that are two people going back and forth with their ideas about shifting the perspective of news. They find a way to play on people's emotions. It is no longer about the facts as if it ever was. It is now firmly in the camp of editorials, soothsayers and pseudoscience. It's presented as a circus. Everything becomes for profit. A man's mental well being is up for ratings. The main reason I still consider this a satire even though it reflects a lot of our times, the people are not really people in this. They are constructs of ideals. They speak in poetic flowing tones. The tete a tete between the former producer and the new producer who start to see each other is beautifully written and just sounds like music to your ears.I read somewhere that Aaron Sorkin considers this film to be a major inspiration on his writing and it shows. The Newsroom has a lot of these vocal patterns to them. They speak in a certain rhythm that is like music to your ears. The characters are over the top, almost like cartoon characters. You can enjoy it from a distance. I did enjoy it from that distance. I chuckled at the outrageous ideals and then felt that ping of uncomfortable pain that comes from knowing how true this is now. I really got some kicks from this film. It was a really well done dark comedy. It has superb performances playing caricatures and having the movie recognize this before such a thing was really in play was golden. I recommend giving this one a watch. I give it a B.


                
I was five years old when the film Network was projected in the America's Cinemas. I have heard since a long time about it and finally I found a DVD in my dead father's home. So yesterday night I watched it.
It is a really masterpiece.
Love story between woman and adult man, career desire, money, control of the masses.
After 1 hour and 28 minutes of vision you are faced with a disconcerting revelation if referred to 1976: "the whole world is governed by immutable and ruthless laws of business."
The monetary system determines the moral of the world.
You have to watch it a lot of time and at the end you will have learned all you need to know about love, money and world.


                
"I'm as mad as hell and I'm not going to take it anymore!" The scene of the soaking-wet news anchor Howard Beale still remains vivid as he storms into the station in his drenched trench coat and gray matted hair to deliver the best ranted monologue in the film, imploring and begging us in an impassioned tirade that we should not have to take it anymore as his face fills the screen in desperation and urgency. Soon enough, citizens throughout the city of whom have tuned in are yelling the mantra out of their apartment windows at the top of their voices, echoed back by only the thunder and driving rain. Inspired by the 29-year-old television news reporter Christine Chubbuck and her committing suicide during a live broadcast at her Florida station in 1974, American playwright, screenwriter and novelist Paddy Chayefsky decided to take this story of shock and morbidity and write a satirical black comedy-drama to unveil television for what it truly was amidst a post-Watergate America. The script would eventually be lauded as one of the ten greatest screenplays in the history of cinema. This time, Chayefsky's central figure in his story, directed by Sidney Lumet (12 Angry Men, Serpico, Dog Day Afternoon) would not be a young woman but an older man, of whom had probably seen far better days in the business of media. Here was a veteran news anchor, discouraged and on the verge of a mental breakdown, truly fed up with the violent crimes and homicides that surround him on a daily basis while people still passively continue to watch. Is television really to blame for all of the madness even today? Let's take a look.Beale (Peter Finch, the first actor to ever receive a posthumous Oscar) discovers that he's being put out to pasture, and he isn't the least bit happy about it. He then threatens to blow his brains out on live television, after of which he launches into an angry rant that turns out to be a huge ratings boost for the fictional UBS network. Taking full advantage of this stunt, the ambitiously determined producer Diana Christensen (Faye Dunaway) desires to turn the network on its head to develop even more outrageous programming (for example, The Mao Tse- Tung Hour for the upcoming fall season). Taking this newfound concept to unsettling extremes for her own personal gain, and when Beale's ratings seem to have topped out, she approaches the president of the news division Max Schumacher (William Holden) to "develop" the news show regarding Beale's success. Here too was a weathered news man at the top of whom had seen better days in media but, unlike Beale, remains passive to do anything about the current situations outside the confines of the station. Internally, he does not approve of Beale's manic antics on air but allows him to broadcast reluctantly. He declines the professional offer given by Diana, but not the personal one as the two then begin an affair. Schumacher decides to end Beale as the "Angry Man" format, as Christensen convinces her boss, Frank Hackett (Robert Duvall) to slot the evening news show under the entertainment division so that she may develop it. Soon after, Beale is hosting a new program called The Howard Beale Show. Ultimately the show becomes a hit and is the most highly-rated show on television and Beale, as the "mad prophet of the airwaves" finds new celebrity preaching his dire diatribes to a live audience when, on cue, chants Beale's catchphrase as one. Behind the scenes, Max and Diana's romance at first withers as the show flourishes. But in the flush of high ratings, the two ultimately find their way back to reuniting. Max decides to leave his wife (Beatrice Straight) of over twenty-five years since Diana has seduced him. But Diana's fanatical devotion to her job and emotional emptiness eventually drives Max back to his wife. Max knows that no one cared about the golden age of television anymore. People only cared about what was hot at the moment, as Beale was it, keeping the network from going under with his wild outbursts regarding present culture. Max takes Beale to meet with CCA chairman Arthur Jensen (Ned Beatty), of whom tells Beale to tone down his rampant speeches. A plot to assassinate Beale live is put into motion due to him preaching Jensen's new "evangel" regarding the dehumanization of society, which depresses the masses as ratings begin to slide. What follows is an ending as chilling as it is abrupt, as the plug is harshly pulled from Beale's professional career. Network and its message still remain as powerful today as it did then; a picture truly ahead of its time. The film does not glorify television but opens the viewer's eyes to a better understanding of what it is capable of doing if we allow it to rule our lives by the talking heads on the screen. Post viewing, many may be tempted to just toss the blasted device out into the street, seeing television as just a sleazy corporate parasite vying for our every iota of attention. But we can't look away, because we keep coming back to it just as we always have and will always continue to do so. Even forty years later, the shape, make and model of the television has been altered over time, but the message therein still remains and rings clear the more we tune in to the daily broadcasts and news specials. It's all about the ratings and numbers, of which we are and have become. Madness begets madness, as television only exemplifies what the network executives want us to see. We can get mad, but to whom will that help in bettering an already chaotic society? We can choose, however, how much truth there is behind the static and learn to think rationally and respond reasonably rather than allowing a man-made box with wires to do it for us.
In the US during the Post Watergate-Vietnam War era it seemed like much of our culture was coming apart at the fringes. If not it was definitely revealed in Television. Network may the the first movie to ever take a scathing crack at the corruption of Media mavens in TV Stations, but the theme as implicated here extends to corruption of shareholders, media moguls and the powers that be that control and manipulate them.Howard Biel, played by the legendary Peter Finch, is a washed up News anchor who has been informed his position will be terminated due to ongoing low viewer ratings. He shares an evening with an old buddy, Max Shumacher, a powerful executive from the UBS station. Together they lament the bygone glory days of TV and how they're lives have changed. Hopelessly depressed from anger and exhaustion, Howard Biel decides to announce on air to the public that he will commit suicide. The ratings practically skyrocket overnight. Mr. Biel revitalizes his waning charisma for all the wrong reasons. This is recognized by an ambitious new Program developer, Diane Christensen (Faye Dunaway). She sees this as a golden opportunity to lift UBS out of its rut and to boost ratings again. This is basically what the movie is about, written by Paddy Chayevsky. TV media will shamelessly exploit any person(s), entity or idea just for the sake of improving its stock value. Sensationalism is good whether it's negative or not. She sells her idea to the station's President, FRANK Hackett (Robert Duvall). At first Hackett, Shumacher and the other execs are appalled by lukewarm on the idea, but they later realize that any news is good news as long as it boosts ratings. This is an intelligent film that captures the essence of corporate survival with all of its backbiting, wanton ambition and calculating cruelty where people's jobs are measured in accordance with what they can bring to the financial tables. Faye Dunaway is stunning in a role she was born to play. She exhibits all the qualities of ambitious vixen: cold, calculating, gorgeous and ruthless. William Holden gives an Oscar Worthy performance as the ill-fated executive who is torn between staying with his wife and having an affair with the manipulative Christensen. Peter Finch gives a bravura performance with admirable emotional range. He was awarded the Oscar for best actor posthumously due to his untimely death just weeks before the Academy Award shoe in 1977. Each of the main characters has a moment where they display a histrionic tirade including Robert Duvall and Ned Beatty, despite his brief screen time. Lofty speeches with moralistic underpinnings are frequent throughout the plot. It's as if you are watching a Shakespeare or Ibsen play. It may be a feel a bit over the top, but it's done well and the plot never lags. Black comedies had their inception in the 1970's and I think this may be due to our country's growing cynicism and deteriorating faith in the system. But whatever the cause may be, Sidney Lumet's direction and Chayefsky's screenplay get it right for the most part. It is also true to say this film was prescient in its dismal view on society; we see many exploitative forms of entertainment today that are similar in principle as the ones shown in Network. Although this movie uses hyperbole the concept is credible. I am incredulous to the notion that a Program would collude with a Terrorist group for the sake of boosting ratings. I'm certain that couldn't fly for it would be too problematic in our country where law and order would have to intervene. After 40 years Network is still relevant and can be extrapolated to how we view TV today which can make us so mad that we can't take it anymore!


                
"The only truth you know is what you get over this tube. Right now, there is a whole... an entire generation, that never knew anything that didn't come out of this tube. This tube is the gospel, the ultimate revelation. This tube can make or break presidents, popes, prime ministers; this tube is the most awesome goddam force in the whole godless world, and woe is us if it ever falls into the hands of the wrong people." Those "wrong people" they were talking about in 1976 now own the MSMIf you don't believe you've been lied to by our politicians and the media, do a search for the following... Jekyll Island and the Federal Reserve System... Smedley D. Butler and the attempted fascist coup on FDR and the U.S. by ultra-wealthy Americans... look at any of our wars, including the false Gulf of Tonkin incident that led us into Viet Nam... the ridiculous "magic bullet" theory and the assassination of JFK... or more recently, the false Iraq tie to the 9/11 attacks, or the blatantly false weapons of mass destruction.
Inertia and greed team up for a proved to be true glimpse into the future. In 1976 Howard Beale (Peter Finch) was mad as hell that our society had degenerated into today's television schlock and awe. Righteously and correctly predicting the death of network TV, "Network" brings us through a TV executives' (William Holden) personal inside view of the industry's' epiphany about what it had already become and the up and coming but soulless executive (Faye Dunaway) is the seductively intuitive hustler to bring us down to the lowest common denominator. It's ugly, foul, TV drama silly, starkly funny (loved every scene with the Ecumenical Liberation Army!) and really hard not to feel a bit guilty for being mad as hell and not doing anything about it. Well, I guess I did years ago by stop watching network TV out of spite. Nothing is ever Must See TV... except my sports teams, and Food Network Star.


                
Watching old satirical films is often an extremely interesting experience. It can be fascinating to see how much has changed since the time it was made, and how much has stayed relevant. Despite being made almost 40 years ago, "Network" is a scary depiction of today's television, with many things similar to those originally meant as satire now present in our TV schedules.The main character of the film is Howard Beale, played brilliantly by Peter Finch, a news anchor who has a breakdown live on air after he is fired. Beale's breakdown is then exploited by the network, who keep him on the air in order to take advantage of the high ratings caused by his rant. He is then employed, following the iconic and magnificent "mad as hell" speech, as a TV preacher broadcasting his rants to the masses. Finch's performance shows us clearly that he is mentally unstable, and makes the network's actions even more atrocious. Features in Beale's show, such as the psychic who predicts the week's news, must have seemed absurd at the time, but now seem all to real.Of the other great performances in the film, my favourite is that of Faye Dunaway, who plays a ridiculous network executive. Once again, the suggestions for controversial television shows that she has may seem ridiculous at the time ("The Mao Tse-Tung Hour" would definitely have seemed to be one of the most ridiculous TV concepts ever), but would definitely fit in well in one of the cable channels we have now. Sidney Lumet has a good vision for the film, having worked extensively in television, and the sequence during Beale's speech when we see people shouting on the streets is particularly great. The script is also extremely sharp throughout, and the biting satire is witty, if not laugh-out-loud funny. It's a comedy that requires you to think, but is rewarding when you do.I do, however, have a few issues with the film. It's too long, and not enough happens to justify its 2 hour running time. The film feels like it could have been shortened a bit, and while a lot of the satire is still very current, some of it now feels slightly dated. It is still very enjoyable for the majority of that time, and you end up feeling very sorry for Howard Beale, especially when he is brought down all for the sake of the ratings.
"The first casualty of war is the truth". It's often the case that the first casualty of everything is the truth. Opinion, slant, bias: we add them to stories as soon as we hear them, even if we do so inadvertently. It's almost as if reality exists without and for us to take it in it must be processed and truncated into information that we can understand... and this is never going to be an accurate representation of the real. It's not common that a huge effort is made to resist this irresistible phenomenon and, more often than not, plenty of consciously-added changes are made. The credulous and malleable have always been receptive to facile, convenient messages and our herd mentality means that all but the most stubborn will eventually be worn down and submit to the accepted truths of their societies. This is as true today as it was before verbal communication, but the potential audience for such messages has arguably increased with the advent of new means of communication: language, the written word, the printing press, television, mass media... and the internet.Getting back to the film, it was made before the modern internet existed (its precursor, the ARPANET was only declared operational in 1975). If anything, Network is more relevant today than it was in 1976: the internet may be open to everyone (so it's not a handful of TV execs deciding what you see) but it is as much a source of disinformation as it is of information. The plethora of poorly-informed individuals shouting their opinions from the routertops is not unlike the street preaching scene from The Life of Brian. Information and freedom are great things but if you aren't circumspect and check your facts then you could be a victim of the global misinformation flu (which could mean anything from you repost some made-up story on facebook to you send a guy in Scamdonia your bank account details). Racism, prejudice and all sorts of other assorted bits and pieces are part of the make-up of each individual and these are exhibited for all to see in the opinions that they spread ("It is the spectator, and not life, that art really mirrors." - Oscar Wilde). Also from Mr Wilde: "Those who find ugly meanings in beautiful things are corrupt without being charming. This is a fault." Those who disseminate the news, whether by word of mouth, in the newspapers, on television or on the internet should consider such words before they commit thought to medium. As you see in Network, many are perfectly aware of what they are doing, and don't care, so it's more important that those on the receiving end filter the information that they imbibe carefully.Where Network is particularly relevant in modern life is how information is controlled and distributed. Internet censorship is becoming a bigger issue with each passing year. The great firewall of China may not be coming to an exchange near you any time soon, but it is worth being cautious of the various "legitimate" reasons western democracies are increasingly using to control the lines of communication. Some of these reasons are not things people can really argue for (e.g. child pornography in Australia) but it is legitimate to question the need to control the ability to communicate. Sure, pursue criminals who commit crime, but the slow erosion of the freedoms of the internet because of copyright infringement, online bullying and so on shows that the people in charge don't know what the internet is about. "Technology is neither good nor bad, nor is it neutral" (Kranzberg's First Law of Technology). The internet is what it is and can be used to control or to freely spread information. In its current state it is up to the reader to decide. Hopefully there will be no need to remake Network in future to warn about the internet as a tool solely for use by those in control.Network is a film both of its time and ahead of its time. Like Nineteen Eighty-Four, its message will always be relevant as long as we continue to communicate. Only if this ceases to happen will the film start to feel dated. Then all we're left with is a wonderfully-acted, well-written and entertaining film!


                
I've had this movie on my watchlist for a long time and recently ordered the DVD by chance and watched it. I must say it wasn't quite like I figured it would be.I'm a fan of 70s, early 80s movies, that period produced some of the best social criticism, which in my mind is very important part of movie making. A few days before Network I watched The China Syndrome which I can now say I liked a lot better than Network. They're very similar movies in many ways. Network wasn't bad, but it's so overwritten, underlining and exaggerating it didn't feel that genuine.I can see how Network may have been sort of groundbreaking when it was made. It poked it's own industry in the eye. I've always found this a bit difficult equation. The studio executives may feel purified after producing a movie like this, but it will never be 100 % genuine if it doesn't change anything and everyone knows the TV/movie industry has not redeemed itself since the 70s. On the contrary, we have much more crap coming down the tube. Only the content may not be as sugarcoated as it was back then, but it sure is sensational in a tabloid way and aimed to make profit.It's weird, eye-opening and kind of sad to watch these social commentaries from 30-40 years ago and compare them to todays world. Not much has changed really, generations seem to "figure out" the same things over and over again. Howard Beale says "there is a generation that never knew anything that didn't come out of this tube". That exact same thing was said all the way to 90's and 00's (until the web took over).Even tho this is not the most genuine of all movies, there isn't this kind of commentary anymore. There are no movies like Soylent Green (1973) which took rapid population growth into focus. We have now almost doubled since 1973 and the problem hasn't gone anywhere. We need movies like they made back then.Getting back to the movie, the casting and acting in the movie are pretty good with one minor thing to complain. Looking at William Holden in the movie, I thought he looked much older than he actually was and probably should've been. He was called "middle-aged" many times during the movie, but to me he looked to be nearing the age of 70. Only later I learned he wasn't even 60 when the movie was shot. The same thing bugged me a bit with Eastwoods Breezy. Holden looked much older than he actually was.All in all kind of fun and even sharp social criticism, but not very subtle or a 100 % hit anymore. Howard Beales gospel is nowadays all over the web and facebook statuses. Being only a toddler back when this was made I can't say how this affected the world, but it's effect may show even today.


                
I was very impressed with Paddy Chayefsky's "Americanization of Emily" and though I didn't care for this one quite as much, it was well worth the emotional effort of watching. I do mean "emotional" because following the characters' perspectives through the course of the film means opening yourself to a whole slew of contradictory feelings and ideas. It's certainly an effective satire of America's fascination with violence and the elusive value of truth, but at times the satirical elements clash with the thoroughly developed characters. In the end I didn't think the joke of having Beale (Peter Finch) killed by revolutionaries hired by the Network really paid off the investment I made in his character. I also feel the film is a bit too heavy-handed in its treatment of the whole concept of a "TV generation." It's fun to watch these actors do their work <U+0096> Bill Holden was very well cast, and the contrast between Holden and Robert Duvall utilizes the parallel between Old/New Hollywood and Old/New Media. Duvall played an impressive variety of roles in the 1970s and it's hard to compare this performance to others that he gave in his career but he was suitably cold and distant as the corporate heel with no respect for objectivity in news. Holden I thought fantastic; his work here actually compares with the best work he did in his career such as for Billy Wilder in "Sunset Boulevard." It's very difficult to play this type of character because he's a man who thinks about everything he says and obviously chooses his words carefully <U+0096> in fact this straightforward manner seems to be the key to his connection to Diana Christensen (Faye Dunaway). But as an actor you can't betray a thought process with the dialog; that makes the lines feel forced. Holden does an extraordinary job in my opinion of basically bringing intellect to the character without showing us the intellect of the actor. I can't say I've ever seen him better.Same goes for Dunaway although personally I thought her character was too superficial to be aligned very realistically with Holden's. Is she a character on his level or more like the passing parade or revolutionaries and mystics who populate her programs? Perhaps the point is that Max (Holden) is trying to find a way to be comfortable in the new media world, to have a real connection to it. Because Diana is so self-conscious perhaps he believes there's a potential for their relationship to become substantial, but he doesn't seem to let his wife (Beatrice Straight) in on this if it is the case <U+0096> he represents the relationship to her in strictly emotional terms. I think actually a lot of the film's substance as far as I can see it is found in that odd domestic confrontation. What struck me was how she insisted on his saying the words: "I'm in love with her." Words are very important to these people, but not so much to the younger generation. Being precise with your words and saying exactly what you mean is important to them. And that even goes for Arthur Jensen (Ned Beatty), who is willing to endanger the Network itself so that Beale (Finch) can spread a very specific corporate gospel.Maybe I'm speculating too widely considering I just saw it for the first time, but it seems like Chayefsky is having a bit of revenge <U+0096> a writer's lament for the "TV nation." The new generation he criticizes knows only images and don't have access to the real feelings of life that the written word could presumably bring them closer to. "Turn off your TV, right now while I'm in the middle of this sentence!" Looking back at this film now, in an age where popular film has descended to the level of 70s TV or even below, it seems like a last "hurrah" for the written word as well as the larger possibilities of film and theater where no holds are barred and nobody is even thinking about sequels or a "series." On a first viewing the only thing that kind of throws me is the mixture of serious drama with satire, producing an effect where the characters seem too real to be placed in some of the more ridiculous situations that the story puts them in. Too much time is devoted to the Communist Party/guerilla storyline, regardless of whether that element is more dated or not at this point.So, it isn't quite as consistent as "Emily" or Southern & Kubrick's "Dr. Strangelove" but it's pretty close in overall quality and it actually benefits from the drama/comedy mixture in ways that I've never really seen before. At this point after first watching it the condemnation of the "TV generation" seems too sincere and direct to satisfy my idea of the best satire. I think it's admirable to give these characters a lot of dimension for the most part, and a lot of care has gone into the performances and the dialog, but the satire seemed to me to undermine that seriousness and at the same time the seriousness itself didn't really enhance the satire.
"Network" is an extremely well-acted satire on the television industry which at times feels like it's spinning out of control. The big name cast includes Faye Dunaway, William Holden, Peter Finch, Robert Duvall, Ned Beatty, and Beatrice Straight. All give excellent performances in "Network", which is about a fictional TV network (UBS) that is far behind the three big TV networks in ratings (CBS, NBC, and ABC; long before Fox, UPS, and the WB networks hit the air). The executives at UBS try to do anything to get their network some good ratings, which includes giving their insane news anchorman (Finch) his own show. This is the movie where Finch says that famous line: "I'm as mad as hell, and I'm not gonna take this anymore!" A classic line in movie history. Finch won a posthumous Best Actor Oscar for his portrayl of the crazy newsman who cracks up during his newscasts. He's good, but I think the best performance in "Network" is turned in by Dunaway as the heartless programming executive who comes up with some of the wildest ideas in turning UBS into a hit. When Dunaway is on screen, I couldn't take my eyes off of her. She's a very strong prescene throughout this movie. She deservedly won the Best Actress Oscar for her work here. Straight ("Poltergeist"), who won the Best Supporting Actress Oscar for this movie, gives the shortest Oscar-winning performance in film history with her 5 1/2 minute appearence as Holden's scorned wife. Another Oscar went to Paddy Chayefsky's screenplay. While "Network" is strongly acted most of the time, there were moments where it felt like the movie started going over-the-top. Most of the characters in this movie spend alot of time yelling and shouting at one another and after a while it got on my nerves. This doesn't happen during every frame of its two hour length, but it happens quite often. For example, Ned Beatty's big scene. He does a great job, but the scene is so laughable because Beatty goes so overboard. Duvall goes over-the-top as well in many of his scenes. But so do Dunaway, Holden, Straight, and (of course) Finch. Despite this minor setback, "Network" is still a very good movie.
*** (out of four)


                
When I saw this movie I got scared.  It was supposed to be a satire of television in the seventies.  Instead it was a reality of television in the nineties.  UBS= the Fox network.  The World's Scariest (insert noun). Jerry Springer would be the mad profit of the airways if the BEEP had not been invented.  Fantastic movie and it may be more applicable now then it was when it was made. Next time you switch on your T.V. and you find crap like COPS on just say, I'M MAD AS HELL AND I'M NOT GOING TO TAKE IT ANYMORE! Then go rent Network.


                
In this excellent film we get to see the world through the eyes of the media corporations. It all surrounds this news caster who has a psychotic break when he is fired from his decades spanning job. He goes ranting on air, causing him to become a rating sensation that the company decides to keep on air for the sake of profits.What it really is is a comment on society and a warning that television shapes reality, making our world smaller and our lives just scripted clichs. It felt a little too much like a sermon from someone who doesn't understand that the alternative to our reality being shaped by what we see on the screen is to create our own. In a way, that was what happened to Howard Beele.Given all that, though, it was well acted and the script was not too heavy handed to make this film a classic that holds true even today, perhaps especially today. Faye Dunaway was perfect in her role of an emotionless woman who only cares about the ratings of her productions, while William Holden somehow managed to bring to the screen an exponent of decent values and responsible emotion.Bottom line: a great satire on media consuming society and a movie that you should definitely watch.


                
"We're not a respectable network. We're a whorehouse network, and we have to take whatever we can get."Network is one of those movies that just grabs you. There's no better way to describe it. It's the rare kind of intelligent movie with a point that also more than delivers the entertainment value.I don't think it's perfect, however. The story has two main connected threads, and I found the main one far more interesting than the side-plot/love story. I understand how the two aspects reflect each other and converge near the end to reinforce the point of the movie, but that doesn't change the fact that it gave me the feeling that Network was slightly uneven.Still, this movie is worth watching for a variety of reasons, including great performances by Peter Finch and Faye Dunaway, some excellent writing, and its commentary on television that's more relevant today than ever.


                
