It is the only word I can come up with to describe this masterfully savage satire, and IMHO, it's the only word that need be used.Once I had seen ALTERED STATES and read the novel, I was hungry to find out more about the late novelist/playwright/screenwriter Paddy Chayefsky, and sought out this movie. It blew me away years ago, but I find it even more stunning now. Not just because of the writing, Sidney Lumet's taut direction or the Oscar-caliber performances by everyone involved, all of which are almost beyond being lauded with superlatives.But what knocks me out is how Chayefsky seemed less to be writing from the power of his imagination, than channeling Our Times Now. As if he was capable of some form of mental time travel; able to look into the Nineties and beyond to see the coming of SURVIVOR, or Maury Povich, Jerry Springer, Bill O'Reilly and Paris Hilton. Even HE probably didn't know how he knew, but he sure as hell felt it and wrote it down for us to marvel over today.Sure, there are political and cultural analogies throughout the picture that are dated. But the core of his vision remains startlingly clear and eerily prophetic. As for Howard Beale, there is not one single "celebrity" who mirrors that character today, but maybe he is a composite of several different personalities with whom we have become all too familiar in the world of "news-fo-tainment." Or maybe he simply hasn't materialized yet. Maybe that is just how far ahead of its time NETWORK really was.After all, being "mad as hell" nowadays has so many more layers of meaning than it did nearly thirty years ago...


                
This film though not noticed enough now, is one of the great films. Peter Finch put just about everything he has into Howard Biel. In fact he died of a heart attack after the film was released and he was out promoting it. Certain films have impact, and this one still does.In a way, this is a higher budget, bigger star update of the 1950's film "A Face In The Crowd" starring Andy Griffith and Patricia Neal. Howard Biel is very much the character Lonsome Rhodes was in that film. The difference is that while the earlier film went totally off the deep end, this one stops at just the right spot. The issue Howard Biel highlights here of Foreign Money and Big Corporations and Big Government taking over the world and screwing the little person- well let's fast forward to when it happened after the movie was made.When Government decided it had to tax Senior Citizens Social Security benefits for starters as this requires some Senior Citizens as high as in their 90's to have to file income taxes. Then they are paying taxes on top of benefits they earned that were already taxed.Then in the 1990's, Howard Biel would have come in handy when NAFTA passed by a corrupt Federal Government, which had started in 1986 to offshore jobs by changing the Federal Tax Code, the working man needed someone to stand up and say "We're Mad As Hell and we're not going to take this anymore!" Black people needed it when a huge Federal Program threw thousands of blacks in jail during the 1990's too. Then when the Big Banks talked a willingly corrupt government in the 1990's into deregulating them, removing restrictions FDR put in place to prevent the system from another 1929 meltdown, we needed Biel again.Then in the 2000's, when big drug companies bribed a government into passing a drug law that made them wealthy and then allowed them to put out dangerous new drugs like "opoids" without regard with what they do to the public? Of course then 2 political parties who have disregarded any chance of term limits and have made themselves rich by sucking the taxpayers dry like kittens do their mom-ma cat?Could a real Howard Biel have really done anything about that? Unfortunately the answer is no, because the big corporations, big money, mass media and corrupt governments appear to have won since this movie was made. Even though there are 2 great films warning us this could happen, we are at a point today where a whole lot of little people are no longer counted in a system that is rigged.Yes, we should be "Mad as Hell" about it, but the out of touch media and those kittens living in a glass bubble still have not woken up as reality is being more hidden today than it was in 1976.With William Holden, Faye Dunaway, and a huge cast, Sidney Lumet brings off a classic here that even has cameos from John Chancellor and Walter Cronkite. This movie portrays things as they are. Heed the warning, and educate yourselves as to what has happened since 1976. Even today's protesters need to watch this to really understand what they are doing, and why.
#1 Best Film of 1976'Network' is Paddy Chafesky's riveting and grim tale of the sleaze surrounding the American television industry. Winner of the Academy Award for Best Original Screenplay, 'Network' is without a doubt one of the most powerful, influential and meaningful films ever made. One of the reasons 'Network' was so well received by both film critics and movie-going audiences was because it possessed a certain quality that most films unfortunately lack -- intricate and involving characters in realistic situations. 'Network' definitely makes my list of the top 10 films of the 70s, and it's an absolute shame it didn't pick up the well-deserved 'Best Picture' Oscar at the Academy Awards ceremony in 1976.The film follows a low-rated television network trying to keep it's head above water. The network, UBS, has decided to fire an aging veteran news anchor, Howard Beale (Peter Finch), in an act of desperation to boost ratings. Beale is given a two-week notice, and instead of going out with his tale between his legs, Beale announces on live television he was fired and is going to kill himself. This raises panic and chaos at UBS, until they get the memo that Beale's crazed rant just bumped the ratings significantly. The UBS execs, Diana Christensen (Faye Dunaway) and Frank Hackett (Robert Duvall) decide to give Beale his own show where he complains and screams bout the problems with the world, while Beale's best friend (William Holden) feels it's inappropriate for the network to take advantage of a mentally-ill man. Besides exploiting a mentally unstable man, the company execs also work out a weekly program with a anti-establishment African-American communist, Laureen Hobbs (Marlene Warfield) following political terrorists and their violent outbursts.The film also stars Beatrice Straight as Schumacher's boring wife, Conchetta Ferrell was an assistant working for the network and Ned Beatty who plays the sinister boss of the UBS television network who always gets what he wants.'Network' boasts one of the finest and most intricate screenplays ever written that rightfully earned Paddy Chafesky the Oscar for Best Screenplay. Sidney Lumet's directing is absolutely incendiary and the movie has an incredibly strong cast. Faye Dunaway gives what is perhaps her very best screen performance as the cutthroat Network executive, while Robert Duvall is just as brilliant as the ruthless Frank Hackett (which should have earned him an Oscar nomination, period!) Beatrice Straight is solid in her role (not quite Oscar-worthy if you ask me, though) and Marlene Warfield is just as great as the sassy pinko sistah (excuse me for that phrasing). The two performers who really steal the show however are William Holden and Peter Finch. Both nominated for Best Actor in a Leading Role at the Academy Awards in 1977, Peter Finch gives a startling and powerful performance as the 'mad-as-hell' (not to mention crazy-as-hell) Howard Beale, while William Holden gives a subtle but none-the-less outstanding performance as the conflicted Max Schumacher. It's hard to say who was better, but if I absolutely had to decide I'd choose Holden's non-Oscar-winning performance slightly over Finch's sympathy Oscar-winning performance (he still was extraordinary,m though). I honestly believe if Finch hadn't died just after the film, Holden would have taken home the Oscar gold for Best Leading Actor, both were still magnificent though. The only player in the cast that I felt wasn't that great was Ned Beatty. In a role far-deserving from an Oscar nomination (which he for some odd reason received), Beatty plays the angry little man role he always does. Besides Beatty's performance and marginal pacing problems towards the middle (you are gonna get that in any 70s film that isn't a Kubrick film), the movie is utterly perfect.I can't recommend you seeing 'Network' highly enough. If you want a carefully made motion picture that makes you think and reflect on how cutthroat our society has become (especially TV broadcasting), 'Network' is a absolute must. What are you waiting for, go out and rent 'Network'! It might just alter your perspective on things. Grade: A-MADE MY TOP 300 LIST AT #46


                
This is one of those wonderful films where everything comes together. The acting and the writing is by far the most impressive elements of this film. William Holden and Peter Finch should have both received Oscars for their performances, instead of just Peter Finch. Faye Dunaway pulls of the most dynamic and emotional characters she has ever played.The true brilliance of this film is that all elements of it fade appropriately behind the actors and their messages. The film is completely a work of storytelling and, at least for the writer, stunning clarity of message and purpose. Political films come and go but few remain in the annals of film because of their effectiveness at their own message. The cinematography, editing, sound, costume design, art direction and production design are all quite simplistic. In some scenes the film can be accused of being almost ugly. However this all lends to the back-washing of the film so as to allow the message to ring loudest. In my opinion, Sidney Lumet took this just a little too far and thus I give it a 9 instead of a 10.This is certainly a film for the history books. Every connoisseur of film should be exposed to this movie at some point in their life. If you happen to be cynical, then you will love every minute of this movie as its stark view of life in the 1970's (and onward) touches the hard of even the hardest of cynics. For those educators out there, GREAT film for classes on Media and Politics.


                
I recently rewatched this movie I've seen at least a dozen times and capture something new every time. It's a complete no holds barred hollowing out of the television industry, and, while television isn't the all looming force it once was (500 channels as opposed to around 7 including PBS and VHF and UHF at the time of this movie, depending on location), it still has much to say about the dissociation from reality that viewing things on a screen can create, especially when what you're witnessing is designed for the most craven response.Plot is quite simple: long time news anchor (Howard Beale) has breakdown after being fired and loses it on air, bigwigs (Diana Christensen) notice said breakdown brought in more ratings than ever before and nurture this tendency until a monster is created that is against their best interests ($$) and now must destroy this monster. All in the way this is portrayed is what makes it so much more.This is a deeply cynical movie, and quite prescient. A few years after this movie, the TV world was going to experience crudity on levels it had never imagined before. Morton Downey Jr. to Geraldo would usher in an age of the normalization of TV as spectacle, prurience and depravity we are very much still engaged in today. The kernel of the idea of capturing eyeballs with such content has simply been even more economically fine-tuned by other mediums, especially the Internet. Want to see beheadings, torture porn or video of people being shot to death? Sure you do. Diana predicted it. The natural progression of major character Diana's ideas are present for all to see. Only, it may not have been cynical enough in some ways. Could they have predicted reality TV? Or the endless line of meaninglessly competitive shows like Cupcake Wars? Jackass? At the beginning, it even toys with the idea of 'The Death Hour', filled with suicides and assassinations and car wrecks. We haven't seen anyone purposely killed on live TV to get ratings by a network, to my knowledge, but I doubt that is far away based on current trajectory.Not to mention the brilliant critique of business by Arthur Jensen's (Ned Beatty) epic speech to Howard Beale. We are all just a subsidiary to business interests, AS IT SHOULD BE. The richest 1% own half the world's wealth. This was not an accident or survival of the fittest in a meritocracy, this was planned from the inception.While the dialogue is brilliant, this dialogue is meant to convey ideas, not especially to capture how people really talk in various situations. It is more theatric than realistic. That brings us to probably the weakest part of the movie, the romantic aspect. It plays a parallel plot to the main one, and while it does serve to show that Diana is a 'Humanoid' in Beale's terms-seemingly human, but not really-it's also the weakest element. Hence, the lack of one star.A point must be made about Faye Dunaway. This is her greatest movie. Bonnie and Clyde may have opened the door, but this broke it down. She encapsulates the inherent cynicism and calculating nature of Diana Chirstensen (play on offspring of Christ?) with near perfection. Her sheer physical presence is something to behold as well. From her impossibly high cheekbones to her lithe figure wrapped in chic 70's elegance, she steals every scene she's in. Just do yourself a favor and don't look up her more recent pics, plastic surgery is not her friend.Will young people like this movie? Not if they want a fist bumping silly night, but if they sense they are being manipulated and want to know why, this is one place that was at ground zero.
In 1976 when this film came out, there was no cable television, no internet, no cell phones. All that existed, apart from newspapers and radio, were three or four "broadcast" television channels. Since then, technology has exploded with a cornucopia of communication devices. Which renders the story in "Network" painfully dated. And yet ...The story's theme is as valid now as it was thirty-three years ago. The theme is that the ratings business has corrupted television, because ad revenue, and therefore profit, is tied to the ratings. Programs and events then, and now, get aired if, and only if, they are likely to result in high ratings. It's all very seamy, very dishonorable, very shabby, and very relevant to today's world of ten thousand channels.Though most of the characters in "Network" end up being corrupted by television, Howard Beale (Peter Finch) is one who does not. His vision is pure. And he speaks the truth: "... television is an ... amusement park ... a circus, a carnival, a traveling troupe of ... story tellers ... jugglers, sideshow freaks ... and football players ... You're never going to get any truth from us (television) ... We lie like hell ... We deal in illusions, none of it is true. But you people ... believe the illusions ... You do whatever the tube tells you ... you even think like the tube". Worse yet, people elect their leaders based on how they look and sound, and how their words are interpreted by boob tube "pundits"."Network" is a film wherein thematic import is conveyed almost entirely through dialogue. Some of the dialogue devolves into speechifying, which may come across to viewers as preachy. Still, the film's message was highly prophetic. Except for the film's climax, everything predicted in this film has already happened. And credit should go to script writer Paddy Chayefsky for his futuristic vision.Some parts of the film seem superfluous in retrospect, like the romance between two main characters. But the film has a sense of realism, helped along by the use of technical jargon and a general absence of background music. The film's technical elements, including direction, casting, acting, editing, and cinematography, are fine.As social commentary, "Network" is one of the best films ever made, despite a dated, time-bound, story. That "there are no nations, only currency" is becoming increasingly obvious, and as Ned Beatty's arrogant character explains in a frighteningly ominous tone: "The world is a business, Mr. Beale".


                
A neighbor once recently said these words to me, "There's nothing on television on Thursday night, and I need 'something' to fill the void." These words made me feel very sad, not only for my neighbor, whose life has obviously been pathetically controlled by the medium of programmed television, but for all of us as a human race. Although I was raised as a child during the so-called "Golden Age of Television" with many happy memories of those glorious days, I no longer watch programmed television for several reasons. Instead, what I do is to check the offerings of "TCM On Demand", which may very well control part of my life in lieu of television, but, for the most part, it is much more intellectually stimulating and spiritually uplifting than recent television has been, at least in my experience.In my view, this is a movie about a culture clash between those who were a part of that "Golden Era", at least in the television news business, and those who contributed to the destruction of the medium, converting it into nothing but a garbage heap only for the sake of "mass appeal" and corporate profits. The conflict is established at the very start during the drunken conversation between Howard Beale (Peter Finch) and Max Schumacher (William Holden) and intensifies during their maddening discord with a new generation of television executives such as Diana Christensen (Faye Dunaway), Frank Hackett (Robert Duvall), and Arthur Jensen (Ned Beatty). Among the cast, the one unsung hero is Laureen Hobbs, who plays the African American militant, supposedly modeled after real life radical Angela Davis. Appearing with the very best that Hollywood could offer, Ms. Hobbs certainly holds her own, respectable place, and she is hilarious.The script by Paddy Chayefsky is nothing short of brilliant. If you don't agree with me, please read some of his powerful words, including many fascinating monologues by several different characters, in the "quotes" section of this very resourceful IMDb website. While Beatrice Straight is impressive in her record- breaking, five minute, Oscar winning diatribe, Mr. Chayefsky's dazzling talent as a writer stands as a significant contributing factor, as it does with the well- deserved Oscars by Finch and Dunaway and the Oscar nominations of Holden and Beatty. The overall success of this film is the combined result of excellent writing, an exceptional cast that could deliver the knock-out punches that this very able writer handed them, and the very skilled direction of Sidney Lumet.While Chayefsky notably captured no less than three Oscars for his writing ("Marty", "The Hospital", and this film), his life was tragically cut short at the young age of 58. The quality of his work rather than its mere quantity left a strong impact not only upon Hollywood but on that "Golden Age of Television" to which I referred earlier.Aside from the many memorable and meaningful monologues delivered by this extremely talented cast, the one brief instance that summarizes a key message of this film more than any other is when Max pours his heart out to Diana while she can't resist taking a commercial break by answering a telephone call. For me, that says it all. By the way, William Holden may not have received an Oscar for his role here, but he surely deserved one for so effectively conveying the inner turmoil of Max Schumacher at a critical juncture of his life, a very serious situation that should never be minimized in the midst of the frenzied activity that surrounds him.


                
Sidney Lumet is a Hollywood careerist whose imprint on his great corpus of work is so subtle as to be almost anonymous. Apart from being engrossingly valid and entertaining films it is hard to draw a thread between 12 Angry Men, Serpico, Equus, Network, Dog Day Afternoon and House of Games. This is a film maker who has that talent that eludes journalists the capacity to make his work look like it is without comment. And yet of course Sidney Lumet wants to tell us something all the time, he just wants to make sure he doesn't look like he is.This film is uncannily prescient. Decades before Jerry Springer and the other tragic bottoms of barrels American TV managed to reach; decades before the drama of Dan Rather's retirement and the feud with CBS and the ratings shifts before and after he left; before 'reality' television became a genre, there was Network. This is hardly a satirical look at the visceral innards of TV management. This is what today's TV would probably not hesitate to pass as a re-enactment of probable fact. Those last two words are admittedly contradictory but the literary tool of the oxymoron here, I believe, is perfectly legitimate.The story unfolds at a fourth fictitious nationwide network UBS where veteran newscaster Howard Beale competes for ratings with Walter Cronkite and the rest of the real and existing networks. The ratings keep failing and Beale is staring in the face of his retirement. His depression gives him a nervous breakdown and on live TV, a week before his last broadcast, he announces to his audience that a week later he would blow his brains out on the evening news.There's a spine-chillingly accurate telling of this scene. While he's speaking out to his live audience, the crew inside the mixer box completely miss this outburst. They're really only interested in the running order of tapes and graphic cuts and that timing is accurate to fit in with the advert breaks of the affiliates. I've been in one of those mixing rooms a few times. That's exactly how it works.Anyway Beale is being taken off the air but this is a time of changes in network management and the public's obvious interest in the spectacle of a rigid, cheerless newscaster they've known for 11 years parroting the news now gone completely insane on live TV is no reason to remove him for the new kids on the management. The old guard is represented by Max Schumacher who feels sympathy for Beale because he too is on the way out. UBS has been taken over by a new conglomerate and the heavy financial cost of the news-department needs now to be neutralised by the cuts and control of business-minded, ambitious and young Frank Hackett for whom 'the business of management is management' and news needs to fit under management.Frank Hackett is the new guard. Him and Diana Christensen. Now there are two characters for the movies. From this film everyone remembers Peter Finch playing Howard Beale 'mad as hell': that over-the-top hysteria that flirts with the limits of the audiences' psychological closure. But Robert Duvall and Faye Dunaway are also 'mad as hell'. These are the workaholic, performance-obsessed yuppies we know from every office. In the three-way scene when Hackett fires Schumacher (how well William Holden aged), Hackett's madness becomes transparent. As the prize of promotion to the corporation board is within his sight nothing would stop him: not the need to shout, to bully, even to kill.But Dunaway's Christensen is the ultimate yuppie. She is so engrossed by work that when Schumacher cannot take her obsession any more and leaves her he articulates the meaninglessness of her existence. 'There's nothing left in you that I can live with. You're one of Howard's humanoids. If I stay with you, I'll be destroyed. Like Howard Beale was destroyed. Like Laureen Hobbs was destroyed. Like everything you and the institution of television touch is destroyed. You're television incarnate, Diana: Indifferent to suffering; insensitive to joy. All of life is reduced to the common rubble of banality. War, murder, death are all the same to you as bottles of beer. And the daily business of life is a corrupt comedy. You even shatter the sensations of time and space into split seconds and instant replays. You're madness, Diana. Virulent madness. And everything you touch dies with you. But not me. Not as long as I can feel pleasure, and pain... and love.' That's the thing with this film. It's not afraid of words. It confronts the banality of television with the articulation of better cinema. Admittedly this is the world before The West Wing, 24, The Sopranos, Six Feet Under et alia.Check out Beatrice Straight's Oscar winning 5-minute performance as the scorned wife of Max Shumacher. Aided by competent writing, she brings out the complete arc of a character married for 25 years and abandoned for another woman within seconds of our first introduction: and we feel we've known her for ever.Sidney Lumet did it again.


                
"Network" is hard to describe.It's not hard to see why Sidney Lumet's acidic tirade about American news networks caused a sensation back when it was released. The famous refrain that becomes the mantra of Peter Finch's character, a news anchor who has lost his stomach for the kind of crap he's asked to spew out night after night and decides to do something about it, is "I'm mad as hell, and I'm not gonna take it anymore!" This could have been the refrain for America at large in 1976, after assassinations, a failed military conflict and political scandals had pretty much decimated any faith Americans still had in their nation. The fact that that same phrase could be a refrain for America today shows how ahead of its time and relevant this movie was and is. The story seemed outrageous then. Finch's character decides that he's going to kill himself on network television, and the network chief, played by Faye Dunaway in a blistering ball-buster performance, rather than react in horror, sees only the potential for sky-high ratings and a boost to her career. Sadly, in this age of reality television and sensationalistic journalism, the premise no longer seems very outrageous.So as a satire I think "Network" holds up expertly, but as a movie, I think it shows its age. Paddy Chayefsky, who wrote the screenplay, stages the film's action as a series of monologues and speeches, and the overall result can be a bit tedious, like a film version of an essay. The writing feels like it might work better on stage than on screen. But Sidney Lumet, who was coming off a high with "Dog Day Afternoon" the year before, happens to be a director who's always had a knack for giving stagey material a cinematic quality, so he's perfectly matched with Chayefsky. And there are no quibbles with the acting. Finch and Dunaway are fierce and get the showiest moments, but Robert Duvall and William Holden, in quieter roles, do outstanding work as well. Ned Beatty and Beatrice Straight give two of the smallest Oscar-nominated performances ever. Both each have essentially one scene, but both do quite memorable things with them, and Beatty's in particular is one of the most grotesquely fascinating cameos ever captured on film.An essential film from the 1970s whose impact is blunted now only because the film was so prophetic. How many movies can you say that about? Grade: A


                
1976 should make film-goers respect the difficult task carried out by Academy Award voters. Arguably the greatest year in U.S. cinema history fired off 'Network,' 'All the President's Men,' 'Bound for Glory,' 'Taxi Driver,' and eventual winner 'Rocky' as candidates for best picture. That 'Network' was turned down says much about the quality of film on 1976's ballot.However, it says a great deal about 'Network' that the movie won four Oscars, including three by its cast. The film was an ideal project for director Sidney Lumet, with all but one of the leading roles taken by first choice actors and barely any hitches occurring in Network's spawn. Superb performances from the entire cast and Paddy Chayefsky's bold social commentary were a match made in Heaven.Chayefsky, who earned a considerable reputation in stage, film, and television writing, coined up 'Network' as a parable on broadcasting industry trends: Nielsen ratings becoming the wherewithal for a television show's existence, television entering the hands of corporate powerbrokers, and the absolute flattening of integrity for monetary gain. Few realized at the time, however, that 'Network' would slowly transform itself into a parody of the business as it really is. Since 1976, the original playing field of three major television networks has become overcrowded with 'shock' companies like Fox and UPN, hundreds of cable and digital channels, and broadcasting sources on the Internet. Their economic power wearing thin, networks have found themselves desperate for advertising revenue, turning to 'reality' shows, trash journalism, and other venues of socially unacceptable behavior.In 1976, the economic power of television was limited mostly to CBS, ABC, and NBC. In Paddy Chayefsky's semi-fictional America, there exists a fourth network called the Union Broadcasting Systems (UBS), presided over by chairman Frank Hackett (Robert Duvall). UBS ranks fourth in virtually even realm of broadcasting, including its news division. Everything changes overnight, however, when network news anchor Howard Beale (Peter Finch) is sacked for his program's low ratings. One week before a final show, lonely widower Beale announces that he will commit suicide on the air in order to boost UBS's viewership. Needless to say, viewers who were never interested in Beale's program start tuning in and UBS gains free publicity in both newspapers and on competing stations.Jumping right on the situation is programming director Diana Christensen (Faye Dunaway), a young opportunist in search of an angle. Through the Beale fiasco, Christensen realizes that TV can be used as a magnet for the rages and vulnerabilities of average Americans, drawing viewers to their sets with outrageous fare. This, of course, means giving Beale his own show for insanity-driven rants ('a latter-day prophet') and creating a wide array of programs on terrorist groups, car crashes, executions, occultism, and sexual transgression. In no time, Christensen has UBS on par with the other three networks and takes almost full control of the company's news division from Max Schumacher (William Holden), subordinating it to a 'for profit' role.Chayefsky, not Beale, should be hailed as a social prophet. Some twenty years in advance, the playwright foresaw a television industry that provides shock treatment like jolts of insulin. Engulfed in a mad scramble for ratings and advertising dollars, television has become an instrument of dementia rather than a means of entertainment. Equally uncanny is the purchase of networks by transnational corporations that want matters told from their own viewpoint, as depicted by Arthur Jensen (Ned Beatty), the chairman of industrial giant CCA who acquires UBS for his own devices.If a film-goer hasn't seen 'Network,' he hasn't seen 1970s cinema at all. The film was snubbed for Best Picture, but still earned three acting Oscars by Finch (posthumously, the first actor to do so), Dunaway, and Beatrice Straight, who played a brief role as Max Schumacher's wife, Louise. Paddy Chayefsky received Network's fourth Oscar for best original screenplay. The film is a perfect balance, with no single element of production carrying it; 'Network' is wonderfully cohesive, from acting to directing to cinematography (Owen Roizman) to editing (Alan Heim) to the Beale theme song (Elliot Lawrence) in an otherwise music-less two hours.The film, which was jointly released by MGM and United Artists under exceptional circumstances, has been reissued in a two-disc special edition by Warner Brothers with help from Turner Entertainment Company (*whew*). Disc one contains 'Network' with optional commentary by Sidney Lumet and the theatrical trailer. The movie and trailer are presented in widescreen with Dolby-enhanced stereo; French 'dubbing' is included with English, French, and Spanish subtitles. Disc two is jam-packed with supplementary material, including a six-part documentary on the making of 'Network,' portions of a Chayefsky interview with Dinah Shore, and a Lumet interview with Robert Osborne on Turner Classic Movie's 'Private Screenings.''Network' is presented with the respect it deserves. The film's video and audio are crystal clear, while the trailer is in fairly good shape with darkness and some visible artifacts. Turner's supplementary items cover all facets of the movie-making process and bring deeper appreciation of Network's filming. Of slight disappointment is Lumet's commentary track, which doesn't go beyond what he already mentions in the documentary and 'Private Screenings' interview. This problem is easily solved by listening to the commentary track before watching the second disc. On all levels, this film is required viewing; a true classic.*** ½ out of 4


                
Imagine a world where the news is controlled by conglomerates, where bad taste is the norm, where we no longer want journalists but entertainers, where we will exploit anyone for ratings. Oh, wait, that's what happened. This movie was an omen. Watch it today and you will see that what seemed shocking and incredible, is much like many of our news networks today. We have right and left slinging mud. We have reality shows that make the news, full of disgusting interactions among people. The Jerry Springer influence is all over the place. We even have shows to create our next entertainers. Don't be surprised if in the near future we televise executions. "Network" saw the handwriting on the wall and simply put it out there. Like Capra's "Meet John Doe," this is the blood lust of the populace laid bare. It's a reflection of a nation that is so full of itself that it has become bored with the mundane and the pleasurable. This movie capitalizes on those feelings. Now we find out that huge corporations are buying up newspapers and television stations and have the blessing of the power structure in Washington. Can you say "1984." I used to think that this was conspiracy theory. Let's hope that what Faye Dunnaway is planning in this film doesn't come totally true because when news is manipulated, we lose our last bit of control of the decision makers.


                
This is one of the most cynical films of all time, with a very dark and sometimes humorous look at the banality of television and the stupidity of the public. At the same time, since it's so cynical and dark, it features some exceptionally adult dialog that even today should exclude kids from watching it. Now I do understand why such rough language was used (after all, this is a harsh "wrinkles and all" look at television), but it's a shame really as the film COULD be an excellent civics lesson to our kids--especially teens. Watching the contempt that network programmers have for intelligence and decency is an important lesson and makes this an exceptional film.Just how far a network will go for ratings is the major thrust of the film? The evening news anchorman of UBS News (a great acronym) is losing his mind. However, when he actually has a nervous breakdown and announces he's going to kill himself on the air, even the soul-less people at the network are even initially upset--that is until the ratings come in for this an the following broadcast when the same announcer uses tons of profanity. Then, instead of disavowing themselves from it, they bathe in the horrible spectacle of a person losing his hold on reality! And, in turn, this sort of crap programming results in even more controversial and pointless shows--such as one that glorifies terrorists and encourages these killers to film their exploits so they can be shown on TV! The sickest and funniest aspect of this was the business meeting the network bigwigs had with the terrorists when it was becoming obvious that these Communist Radicals were actually becoming astute Capitalists and were concerned with profits and residuals!! There's a lot more to the film than this. In particular, there is a relationship between William Holden and Faye Dunaway that is actually intended as a representation of the shallowness of the media. In other words, Holden is seduced by Miss Dunaway--just like the public is often seduced by glitz without substance or depth. This parallel story is exceptional and Dunaway received an Oscar for her wonderful part. Oddly, while Holden was also exceptional in the film, the Oscar for Best Actor was given to Peter Finch (the insane anchor man) even though he is really more of a supporting character. Both he and Holden were up for the award. Beatrice Straight received the Best Supporting Actress for her very brief appearance in the film. While she WAS excellent, she was only on screen a tiny fraction of the film. So, choosing her and Finch as Oscar recipients both seem like odd choices in hindsight. Paddy Cheyevsky, not surprisingly, also garnered an Oscar for his insightful script.All in all, while not one of the very greatest films I have seen, it certainly is a must-see for film fans and a wonderful example of cynicism and dark humor.


                
Brilliant. This film touches on all of the major controversies about media's role in a free society- the blurred lines between entertainment and news, the concentration of media and corporate ownership, the irreconcilable relationship between capitalism's demand for profit and democracy's need for free exchange of information...I showed it to my university "Politics and Media" course and they were stunned to find out that it was produced 25 years ago. The writing is obviously excellent, but the performances by the cast- Finch, Dunaway (for once, seeming to feel comfortable in a role), Holden, Duvall- are also top notch. The whole movie comes together perfectly. It's irreverent and ironic and sardonic in it's wit. Just so many layers of shrewd and valid critique. The last 10 minutes are classic- one of the best endings to a film I've seen in some time. I was, to say the least, very impressed.


                
There are two kinds of "Network" fans in the world: the Max Schumacherites and the Howard Bealists. William Holden has never looked or sounded so impressive, and there's much to be admired in his performance as the callused, romantic Max. But I happen to be in the second camp. I love Finch as an angry prophet denouncing the hypocrisies of our times, on TV, in the florid language of a 5th Avenue bodhisattva. I can't overlook Max's tendency to roll out that tired anecdote about taking a taxi to the George Washington Bridge back in the 1950s, and what a fitting way it would be to open a memoir about the Golden Days of Television -- which is the very fate he ends up consigned to. I listen to him browbeat Diana Christensen about what a creature of TV she is, and yet can't help but cringe at how easily he slides into the role of the Unfaithful Husband (and how easily he's able to talk about that irony). All this suggests to me is that Chayefsky was unable to keep the one character he most identifies with from running away from him. Beale straddles the past and the future of television: an "old man who thinks in terms of nations and peoples" yet who also recognizes that the medium has not begun to know its limits -- and sets out blindly to find them. (They turn out to lie somewhere between corporate America and the FCC.) As a self-referential visionary, he anticipates some of the more rabid talk-show hosts of our own time, a kind of left-wing Bill O'Reilly. Well, now that I think about it, that's not much of an accomplishment, though it's fun to watch. The tragedy of "Network," I guess, is that it's Diana Christensen who's ahead of them all: she's the real Sybil the Soothsayer, and when she sees the future of television, she sees Reality TV; yet as conceived by Chayefsky, she's brilliant, beautiful, and cold as a frozen dinner.


                
Network is one of the most intelligently written films I've ever seen; the characters in Chayevsky's script fight viciously, tear each other down, rant against the "isms" of society, and fall in and out of love <U+0096>always sounding authentically like the educated executives that they are.This isn't a talking-heads film, however. The plot, and the broadcasting world put on frank display, is (to use a clichéd phrase) eerily prescient of today's TV climate of corporate merges and (ridiculous) reality programming. When Faye Dunaway's ambitious and wispily beautiful programming exec, Diana Christensen, pitches an actual-footage lead-in to a drama about guerilla bank robbers to her colleagues, they balk <U+0096> but we aren't shocked. Audiences in 1976 most likely scoffed at this idea just as these characters do, but in our creatively sucked-dry world of non-scripted Fear Factors and Survivors, it sounds like a ratings magnet. And Diana is right <U+0096> it scores. The film does ride the line between the ridiculous (or satiric) when urban terrorists become producers of this show, and make demands of the TV suits with wild rants and violence, and when mad-as-hell news anchor Howard Beale (played by a thinner, edgier Peter Finch) turns his authentic one-time rant against all that is wrong with life into a production where he "faints" at the apex of his Dennis Miller-meets-TV evangelist soliloquies.Watch Network to be wowed by the language of the characters. (Strangely, the sparse voice-overs contradict the crackling intelligence of these TV-land players with dry, monotone authority.) Watch it to appreciate the acting of a generation since replaced by less impressive stars. You'll wonder if Chayevsky employed a psychic when he wrote this amazing script. The tagline "Television will never be the same!" is a prediction, two decades early, of the onslaught of dreck that has in fact transformed television into a wasteland of envelope-shoving, outlandish programming.


                
In the world that author Paddy Chayefsky created for Network, there are in fact four television networks instead of the three that people from my generation grew up with. That fourth TV network is the United Broadcasting Systems or UBS for short. They are running a very poor fourth, especially in the news division. Their Walter Cronkite is one Howard Beale who's been slipping badly in the ratings. Beale played by Peter Finch is given the axe by his good friend, the director of the news division of UBS Max Schumacher who is played by William Holden.Beale who really has nothing else in his life, left a childless widower a few years earlier, but this program. He calmly announces that he's going to kill himself on the next broadcast.That sets in motion a chain of events in the network and in the company that owns the network and the holding company that owns the company that make Howard Beale the mad prophet of the air. Programmer Faye Dunaway decides to blend news and entertainment with a series of startling ideas. What hath Network wrought? In 1976 Network was considered clever way out satire. Now there's more truth in it than one would like to believe. Now we have television networks that are devoted to nothing but news, but strive for those all important ratings with blending entertainment with news.But Chayefsky missed the boat in two respects. He did not anticipate the rise of cable television. Whereas my generation grew up with three networks period, affordable cable has multiplied the networks into the hundreds. That in itself makes the four network reality of Network outdated. And of course Mr. Chayefsky did as so many others, not anticipate the Internet where so many people now get their information and it's even a source of entertainment. Bill Holden and Peter Finch were nominated for their performances in the Best Actor category. They probably would have split the vote which is what normally happens, but for Peter Finch's demise before the Oscar voting. Sad to say that probably clinched the Oscar for him, but it was still well deserved. An honest decent man who gets caught up in machinations that end in tragedy, you don't take your eyes off Finch for one second while he's on screen.Holden is caught up in the machinations as well. He gets a midlife crisis and starts an affair with Faye Dunaway, but their differences in not only age, but general outlook on life drive them apart. Holden's left his wife Beatrice Straight for Dunaway and she got a Best Supporting Actress award for her scenes telling off Mr. Holden. It's by no means certain what Holden's future is, but it is clear he has no place in the television industry as it was constituted in 1996.Nor I doubt he would have one today in 2006. I can see Holden's character, a man now in his mid 80s being a professor emeritus of journalism at some college or even running a newsblog today. Robert Duvall, Wesley Addy, William Prince are all corporate types we find in various films about big business. The one character who stands out for me is Ned Beatty, the head of the conglomerate who bought the whole network. His scene with Peter Finch where he explains the facts of life to the now demented Howard Beale is the best in the film.Network is a great film, both entertaining and thought provoking.


                
"Network" is a prophetic film from the great Sidney Lumet, that proved its relevance every year since its release. You could use the same script for today, it hasn't aged. That's what makes "Network" one of the greatest screenplays ever written. The intelligence, the modernity of the script transcend the film, it's like the most proeminent character. So, the only decent way to start a review of "Network" is to salute at first, the brilliance of Paddy Chayefski's writing."Network" denounces the evolution of the media and the way they use their far-reaching power for every single element of our everyday lives. Television plays the same role in "Network" than the Internet today, still, most of the IMDb users are old enough to remember when Television had a greater impact. But the movie is less about the influence of TV, than the control of big corporations on our lives. The movie is an intelligent satire targeting the business world and the decisional influence of the stock-holders on the economy, therefore -indirectly- on our consumption's habits. We're not people, we're consumers, we're the tools of a system whose only goal is to guarantee advantageous returns on investment. Everything is money.And full of an acid lucidity, this statement means one essential thing : media and especially television, aren't here to entertain you, but to make sure your brain is available to receive subliminal messages of consumption, in one word: advertisement. This is the fundamental basis of TV business, as would say Howard Beale, the rest is "bullshit". Time is definitely money and TV managers are not interested in audience because they want people to learn or to be entertained, they have library and sport for that. All they want is a reasonable availability of brain to wash. Announcers rule the media world. Who are the announcers? companies. And who lead companies? Stock-holders. Quod Erat Demonstratum.Indeed, in "Network", this logic is constantly demonstrated and deconstructed through the interactions between all the characters, each one brings his or her own dimension to a sensational tragicomic farce performed before our eyes. The central character of this cynical universe is Howard Beale (Peter Finch). Beale, as a has-been performer, by simply announcing his future suicide on TV, caused a chain reaction of events which sent him straight on prime-time as "an angry prophet denouncing the hypocrisies of our times?" How? Thanks to a simple catchphrase crystallizing this anger, and supposed to be what the producer of the information program, Diana Christensen was looking for. 1976 was full of memorable movies quotes, "You talking' to me", "Yo, Adrian" and "I'm as mad as hell and I'm not gonna take this anymore" summarizing the spirit of the post-Watergate 70's.The problem for Howard Beale is that he plays his role too seriously, he really denounces the hypocrisy of the times, when in fact he indirectly serves it. Beale is here to improve the audience, Diana Christensen (Faye Dunaway) doesn't give a damn about what is said on-screen, as long as the market share and Nielsen ratings are high. Doesn't that ring a bell? Isn't this, THE logic that made TV reality shows possible? Shows where people can be humiliated or authentic sensationalist live reports depicting infidelity, diets or crimes in the most voyeuristic way ... Anything that can attract more viewers is welcome, according to Diana Christensen. She's only good at business, she admits to Max Shumacher (William Holden) her lover and Beale's best friend. She's right, she's not good when it comes to human relationships, she doesn't know how to psychologically behave. But she does know how to psychologically deal with the audience, and that puts OUR position into perspective.Our fascination for Howard Beale, is because we love nonconformist people but here's an interesting question the script asks : if an anti-establishment celebrity appears on TV or media to denounce a system, isn't this already a part of the very same hypocrisy. Isn't the simple apparition on TV or any public media for that matter, already discrediting the message of the philosophy of the speaker? The films gives us a hint, through its clever approach to the political revolutionary activists. Media appear like a corrupting force that destroys anything on its way just to serve the power of finance and stock-holders. People are aware of that, they're the tools of the system, so the only trick to keep them on TV is like a modernization of the whole "Bread, Wine and Circus Games" concept. Give them what to consume : logos, brands, pop-culture and then, when they're comfortably seated with the remote control on hand, make them feel powerful like the audience who condemned the gladiators with a thumb down. We all have this sadistic tendency to enjoy seeing other people suffer, voting for this or that candidate. People's humiliation became so banal, we're the instruments of that. TV exploits our "Shadenfreude" feeling in a viciously subtle way.Paddy Chayefeski anticipated the psychological and economical predisposition for programs like "American Idol", "Fear Factor" or "Temptation Island", the mentality exacerbated by the Internet, although Internet seems like the antidote to the poisoning effect of TV on minds. But the genius of the script doesn't rely only on this prophetic aspect : the speeches, the construction of the plot, the way each single element perfectly fits in that big corporatist puzzle, is exemplary. And the genius of the film doesn't rely only on the screenplay but also on the performances of the characters, from Holden to Dunaway and Beale, and with the extraordinary cast of supporting characters : Robert Duvall, Ned Beatty, Beatrice Straight, this film is a real acting lesson."Network" a brilliantly intelligent satire of the business world with the script as the surplus value.


                
Really this film has some of the best acting in any film have seen in my entire life. Faye Dunaway gives one of the best performances I have ever seen and really glad that she won best actress at the Oscars. I mean scene after scene she amazed me with her acting and certainly top 3 performances ever. Peter Finch is also stunning in this movie and defiantly must say that this is Robert Duvall's best performance. The writing by Paddy Chayefsky is very well done and wrote one of the best films about TV. I will say the directing is not that good, really the acting and the writing is the only good thing about this movie but they are so good makes this film a must see.


                
"Television isn't the truth...it's a amusement park filled with carnival acts, acrobats, and football players." Okay, even though I didn't get that speech right, you'll get my drift once I write this review."Network" is a movie about ratings and how executives will do anything to keep up with their ratings. Howard Beale (Peter Finch) is a reporter who is getting the boot from his good buddy and chairman of the board Max Schumacher (William Holden) after ratings from his reports go down the crapper. Beale begs to make his final farewell where an epiphany hits his head where no longer will he play by the rules and just tells the truth that people want to hear. Max is fired with Beale heading off as well until the new chairman Frank Hackett (Robert Duvall) and an new executive Diana Christensen (Faye Dunaway) try to bring back Howard after the ratings hit the roof. After Beale hits the roof with his famous "I'm as mad as hell" speech, he has his own show in Hollywood where he preaches about the truth from television, commerce, etc,.The film was often noted as a satire with Roger Ebert, years later, calling it a prophet saying that without this movie or Beale's messages that the WWF, Jerry Springer or football games wouldn't exist on television.Or in this generation: Dancing with the Stars, American Idol, Disney Channel, Fear Factor, Deal or No Deal, Are you smarter than a fifth grader?, etc.It's true! Many people, mostly Americans, often sit their asses down watching TV channel surfing than reading books, magazines and figuring out why the government hides secret, why their gas and food prices are going up, the effects on social security, thinking of monsters and bad guys as good rather than the cops and politicians who are corrupted, or information that could make those a better person rather than being a flock of sheep.Watch "Network" before you decide to flip to the next station.


                
I am not a die-hard Sidney Lumet fan. I am not a die-hard Paddy Chayefsky fan. I am not a die-hard Fay Dunaway fan. Nonetheless, I loved this movie.In my experience, I have heard quite a few complaints about this movie. I believe that these complaints are why Network is not on the Top 250 today (June 10, 2007; Network has a rating of 8.0/10 with 15,319 votes). These complaints include: -the movie is too "slow" -Chayefsky's monologues are unrealistic -the film is irrelevant today -you can't relate to such a movieWell, in this comment, I would like to dispute such complaints. I will admit that the movie is somewhat slow, but what do you expect? It is a movie about the corporate greed of the television network. It is not a "dumbed-down" Tom Cruise action movie. Besides, each scene matters to the plot. If someone tried editing this movie, they wouldn't find many parts they could edit. I find a certain intelligence in each scene.People say that Chayefsky's monologues are unrealistic. They complain that "no one talks like that in real life". I beg to differ. I can think of many times where I went on and on in a monologue to strengthen and add support to my opinion. In fact, this whole comment is a monologue, written to debate and support my opinion, much like Chayefsky's monologues in the movie.People also say that the movie is irrelevant today. This is the most outrageous complaint out of all of the complaints. This movie is more relevant today than it was in the 70s. Many very unsophisticated people gather ALL of their "information" (mostly propaganda) from the television. And the television networks today manipulate their audiences to think the way they want them to think.Lastly, people complain that you cannot "relate" to such a movie. Well, I hope you can't relate to the movie. I hope that you are not a greedy, selfish television network manager. Unfortunately, in essence, you CAN relate. People may not be television network managers, but we have all felt greed and egoism. Think about The Godfather. You may like the movie, but how are you supposed to relate to a mob boss? That's not the point. You are comparing the mob's structure with society's structure; that is how you relate.In conclusion, these complaints have no strong basis. At least rent the movie. Or, if you do not want to , check on channel TCM (Turner Classic Movies). They air Network on there at least 8 times a year (with absolutely no commercials).Watch this movie at least once. I hope you won't regret it. 9/10.


                
When the writer Paddy Chayefsky wrote this searing rebuke of the times, few directors wanted any part of it. However, Sidney Lumet an equally brilliant director, took the reigns, their combined effort was nothing short of inspirational. It's a fabulous story and one suited for the age of suspicion, mistrust and social revelation. An elegant and well respected, but aging News Anchorman, Howard Beale (Peter Finch) is told he is to be fired and replaced, decides he will commit suicide on 'Live T.V.' His best friend of thirty years, Max Schumacher (William Holden) is bothered, but not surprised as he too is told by Frank Hackett (Robert Duvall) that Schumacher's sacred News Division is to be overseen by a more profit driven department. All these changes comes at the behest of the new Corporate owner Arthur Jensen (Ned Beatty) who is changing everything because he is now receiving advice from a "Higher Power". Taking advantage of this overall shake-up is Diana Christensen (Faye Dunaway) a power hungry executive who's unscrupulous nature is matched only by her insatiable sexual appetite with anyone willing to become a stepping stone for her on her climb to the top. The movie is a superb adaption of Chayefsky's novel and with it's superior cast assures its status as a modern Classic. A Terrific Movie. ****


                
Hollywood and the television industry have long had a love-hate relationship. In the early days of television cinema bosses feared the new medium as a threat to their income, but today the relationship is a much more symbiotic one, with film studios and television networks being owned by the same conglomerates and movies forming a major part of TV schedules. Nevertheless, this close relationship has never prevented the cinema from aiming some sharp satirical barbs at the television industry; examples include "The Running Man" from the eighties and Peter Weir's brilliant "The Truman Show" from the nineties. "Network" is an earlier example of the same phenomenon.The film is about a fourth major television network, Union Broadcasting System (UBS), a fictional rival for ABC, NBC and CBS. The network is struggling with poor ratings and makes the decision to fire Howard Beale, the long-serving anchorman of its evening news programme. Beale reacts badly to this decision, suffers a nervous breakdown and threatens to commit suicide live on air. Beale's old friend Max Schumacher, President of the News Division, allows him one last appearance, but instead of the dignified apology for his suicide threat which Schumacher was hoping for, Beale launches into another outburst claiming that life is "bullshit". The ratings soar and the management of UBS decide to exploit Beale's antics, billing him as a "mad prophet".The film missed out on the "Best Picture" Oscar for 1976, losing to "Rocky", but equalled the record of A Streetcar Named Desire by winning three of the four acting awards. (Scriptwriter Paddy Chayefsky won a fourth Oscar). Beatrice Straight may have been a bit surprised to win "Best Supporting Actress" for a brief cameo role, but there can have been little surprise about "Best Actor" for Peter Finch and "Best Actress" for Faye Dunaway. Finch died before the ceremony, making him the first posthumous winner of an award. (The only other posthumous winner has been Heath Ledger, coincidentally also an Australian). In what was to be his last film, Finch gives an absolutely spellbinding performance, playing Beale as a man who is on the verge of madness and yet who has a certain integrity and clarity of vision which the other, saner, characters lack.Dunaway plays Diana Christensen, UBS's Head of Programming. Whereas Beale is a mad visionary, Diana is sane but totally lacking in vision, except perhaps where profit is concerned. She is mercenary, ruthless and utterly cynical, prepared to do anything that will boost the network's ratings. Apart from her exploitation of Beale, her major project is a series entitled "The Mao Tse-Tung Hour" featuring a violent gang of urban terrorists named the "Ecumenical Liberation Army", clearly modelled on the real-life Symbionese Liberation Army."Network" could, in fact, have won all four acting Academy Awards, and probably would have done so had William Holden, who plays Schumacher and gives another excellent performance, been nominated for "Best Supporting Actor". I think, however, that it was right that Holden had to battle it out with Finch for "Best Actor", as the role of Schumacher is as important as that of Beale. (Indeed, of the two actors it was Holden who received top billing). Schumacher is the one senior UBS executive who realises that there are more important matters in life than television ratings and is horrified by the way in which his friend, who really needs psychiatric help, is being exploited by the network. Nevertheless, Schumacher's integrity is undermined by the fact that he has left his wife to pursue an affair with Christensen, physically attractive but in all moral and emotional matters his complete opposite. Another very good acting performance comes from Robert Duvall as Christensen's equally ruthless boss Frank Hackett.The film came out at a bleak period in American history. The country had just extricated itself from a bloody, unnecessary and humiliating war in Vietnam. President Nixon had been forced to resign in disgrace over Watergate, and his replacement Gerald Ford seemed a dull, uninspiring figure. The economy was going into recession. Although 1976 marked the country's Bicentennial celebrations, many Americans felt that they had little to celebrate. The black comedy of "Network" fitted in well with this mood of national disillusionment; Beale's catchphrase "I'm as mad as hell, and I'm not going to take this anymore!" summed up how many people were feeling.The film sees the state of American television as reflecting the state of American society. A key scene comes when the disillusioned Schumacher finally decides to leave Christensen and return to his wife "You are television incarnate, Diana," he tells her, "indifferent to suffering, insensitive to joy. All of life is reduced to the common rubble of banality." In 2010, when the media have become even more relentlessly trivial than they were in 1976, those words seem as prophetic as any of Howard Beale's ranting."Network" is a more effective satire on television than "The Running Man", which suffers from falling into the trap of becoming what it is satirising and also from the casting of the wooden Arnold Schwarzenegger in the main role. I would not rate it quite as highly as "The Truman Show", which is very different in tone, being more philosophical and having an upbeat ending whereas that of "Network" is very bleak. Nevertheless, this must rank as one of the finest American films of the seventies. Chayefsky's script is sharp, witty and highly intelligent, forcing us (even more than thirty years after the film was made) to take a long, hard look at where our culture and our society are heading. Apart from Kubrick's "Dr Strangelove" this is perhaps the best black comedy to have come out of Hollywood. 9/10


                
A friend and I had a project for our Mass Communications class that was to pick a movie/book that was related to mass communication and/or an issue raised in class. My friend immediately suggested this movie, which I had never heard of. All of our other classmates immediately picked Anchorman:The Legend of Ron Burgundy. After watching this movie, Ron Burgundy needs to bow before Howard Beale, "The Original Anchorman." Even though this movie was made 33 years ago, its relevance to today's cutthroat broadcasting system is really eerie.Paddy Chayefsky's Oscar-winning screenplay was seeing the future with the most disturbing clarity. The acting was superb by all of the cast(even though I did note the abnormal shouting matches throughout the movie, ha), it was riveting to see a network and its reporters go mad with ratings and lose their humanity in order to be the #1 show on television, even if it meant killing off one of their own.Howard Beale (Peter Finch) is an aging TV anchorman for UBS who is fired, effective in two weeks, after his ratings have been steadily deteriorating. He reacts to this by sensationally announcing on live television his intent to commit suicide on air. In doing so, Beale becomes a major TV icon and one of the most valuable assets to the Communications Corporation of America (CCA), the company that is gradually taking control of UBS. As a result he is given his own show as 'the mad prophet of the air-waves'. He appears live on television every week-day evening to tell the real truth to the people of America. The program is a huge success but Beale uses his power to make startling revelations about CCA, leaving the company executives with a serious problem. Beale ultimately ends up going too far with his tirades upon discovering that the conglomerate that owns UBS will be bought out by an even larger Saudi Arabian conglomerate. Beale launches an on-screen tirade against the two corporations, encouraging the audience to telegram the White House with the message, "I'm mad as hell and I'm not going to take this any more!" in the hopes of stopping the merger. This throws the network into a state of panic due to the company's various debts making the merger necessary in order for it to survive. The execs want Beale off the air in order to salvage what the network, but the chairman of UBS wants to keep him on. The execs realize that the only way that they can get of Beale is by assassinating him on the air.Wow, what a movie. The acting and directing of this film definitely made my Mass Communications project a memorable one. Not to mention I now know what AFI's #19 Most Memorable Quote is now from. Thanks Network. :)
This movie is very relevant even in the present world. How the "network" of media manipulates news, and create news for their own rating, and how it's going to affect the society, all these matters are discussed in the film.An aged TV news anchor is fired due to his low ratings. Lost his mind and frustrated, he goes live and talks out his frustration. Though the news broadcast was interrupted, the ratings went high. The network utilizes this and plans to exploit it to the maximum. It makes a lot of changes in the lives of the people involved.The very dangerous face of media is explored in the this movie. A strong subject, very seriously made. Sidney Lumet, as usual is excellent in his direction style. The actors are terrific. This movie is one among the rare films that has five nominations in the acting category. Won 3 of them, also a very rare achievement.A must watch for all film lovers. #KiduMovie


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Network" (1976) is a superbly acted, terrifically written story about television, or more of who drives television. Television is just a businesses, this is very clear here and "Network" shows this in a satirical sometimes very funny way. How far TV would go for good ratings - the theme of this movie is ageless and is very relevant even today. If You think a channel wouldn't go so far to put another Howard Beale on air you probably never seen TV.Overall, i was involved into "Network" from start till finish. It isn't only about TV, it also shows people working there and their personal lives and how their jobs affects their lives. It doesn't go deep in that direction, but still it is very compelling story. Performances in "Network" are more then first rate - there 3 Oscar winning performances in this movie and two more - so in total 5 Oscar worthy performances. Writing was also superb as well as directing. This is a very good movie in all direction, relevant even today.


                
