I am not sure of why this movie was added to my watch-list, somehow done and found and watched it. What a waste of time. To me, this is one of the most overrated movies ever. But, at the same time I don't want to be ignorant to the people who this movie historically (or fantastically) about, may be it contains deep emphasis or aspects which a foreigner like me can't infer.Why? It is a very long movie, add a slow pace to it and finally get a tantalizing experience. This orphan boy was keen to revenge in a scene while having hug from his woman, on to kill the murderer of his heroic father, and then, somehow lost focus. First fought for the rights of mine against him, then insulted him, then jailed, then escaped. Later went into a political rival against "him". Come on! You should respect to your father's memory and take revenge... Nope.Passed the scenes, especially nonsense ones, rapidly.Finally, don't waste your time.


                
A film desperately in need of an editor...A story spanning several decades, condensed into 320 minutes (!). Set in the city of Wasseypur, India, two rival factions have been fighting each other for many years. We see how the feud began, and how it developed...Boring and, at 320 minutes, seemingly interminable to the point of being painful. Based on the story outline, the movie had potential: a gangster movie spanning several decades - quite Godfather or Goodfellas-like. However, the execution leaves a lot to be desired. Incredibly unfocused with pointless detours and sub-plots. Pretty much just drifts for all those 320 minutes.A bit (actually, a lot) of editing, and much more focusing on the main plot and the movie could have been interesting.On the plus side, the usual Bollywood nonsense of random song-and- dance scenes is kept to a minimum. In fact, no dancing, just singing. The small amount of musical interludes is also a negative in a way. When I saw how long the movie was I figured it was because it had the usual song-and-dance stuff, and I would just fast forward through that. Alas, no such luck.


                
