This movie gets a 6 from US viewers and a 5 from the top 1000 voters, yet somehow this mediocre--but for Bollywood standards great--movie is being put on an equal level to The Godfather by Indians who I assume are doing this to achieve some sort of pride in having their movie in the top 250. All you are doing is forcing IMDb to alter their algorithm and apply stricter standards (Rang De Bashanti, 3 idiots, like the stars in the sky and A Wednesday have recently removed from the list as a result of this changed algorithm), because of which great stuff like Harakiri isn't in the list. The only people you are fooling are yourselves, the rest of us are just frustrated.


                
Staring the movie convincingly with a long shot of nicely coordinated action-thriller sequence, the movie then plunges into any and all Bollywood movie's recipe, especially those which aren't shot for the global audience. After the opening credits, it's all just non-stop and hyperbolic drama of cheesy quality, overly stocked with too much dramatization. The movie toys with viewers' level of tolerance by simply telling the story of the descendants of the first character. In a way, we'll all think that the story is more fitting for a two-season running TV series than an age long movie. Furthermore, the movie dazzles me with even more irony by having the "to be continued" tag line at the inconclusive ending. The acting overall is a standard over acted work of Indian movies, nothing else to say.
Gangs of Wasseypur starts off with a bunch of guys raiding a house tearing into pieces in the year 2004. It then flashbacks to 1941, and then, 3 hours later, ends in 1990, with a "To be continued". By this time, my head was hurting like crazy, and half the theater had walked out. Now take an intelligent guess on how good the film was.I know of people who've loved the movie, but it definitely isn't the one for me, and am guessing everyone. Unless you like such dark, vulgar films with no story, stay away.Acting: 7.5/10 Story-Screenplay-Direction: 3/10 Technical Aspects: 6/10Verdict: 4.5/10Please visit sasikanth.me for more reviews :)


                
