It has been nearly 5 years since I went and saw a movie first day first show in the theatres. But such was the level of anticipation with "gangs of wasseypur" that I found myself standing in front of the ticket counter at quarter to nine. The movie, which is 160 minutes long, starts with a shoot-them-up which may be the most authentic shoot-to-kill scene in Hindi cinema. The movie tells the story of rivalries between different sects of Muslims: the butchers, Qureshis, and the Pathans, Khans and extend over a period of three generations. The story starts from the pre- independence era when the British owned the mines in Dhanbad. After independence, these mines pass on to the wealthy landlord who hires an exiled Pathan to act as his strongman. The pathan, the father of Sardar Khan (Manoj Vajpayee) has been kicked out of his village, Wasseypur, after a confrontation with the local musclemen, the Qureshis, and is now forced to work in the mines of Dhanbad. He starts becoming too big for his shoes and is bumped off by the landlord thus beginning a series of killings and counter-killings. The acting by the "star" cast is stunning with Manoj Vajpayee leading the pack in as good as a performance as "Bheeku Mahatre" in Satya. When he stares lustfully at the back side of Reema Sen (here resurrected after being in the wilderness for nearly half a dozen years), you can feel the lust as a physical thing. He is backed by a very strong ensemble cast. The real strength of the movie is its dialogues. The words, replete with the choicest of abuses, feel as if they were wiretapped. The conversation rings true to life and had me laughing at the sheer vulgarity of it. The patois is captured very faithfully. The only negative point about the movie is its length which could have been edited somewhat in the second half when the third generation takes up (like the long Godfather III, if you may). Anurag Kashyap has put his soul into the movie and that is visible from every frame of the movie. The direction is the best I have seen this year in Hindi cinema and will only increase the expectations from the second part of this opus. And that is why I am jealous of the lucky bastards at the Cannes film festival who got to see both the parts back to back. The movie ends at a tantalizing junction and the prospect of meeting with these barely lovable characters for a second outing left me salivating.


                
An epic tale about loyalty, crime, lust, treachery and vendetta. A cinematic magnum opus.Set in Dhanbaad's(Jharkhand)Village, called Wasseypur, "Gangs of Wasseypur" starts with our very own "Kyunki Saas bhi bahu thi" and goes beyond the cinematic ethics. A saga which has all the ingredients of a cult cinema like black humor, full mouthed characters, adultery, bullets,vengeance and everything you expect in a film by Anurag Kashyap.En route to end of British Raj in India, Shahid Khan, a dacoit, loots the British trains, masquerading as Sultana Daku, is shot dead by Ramadhir Singh's goon. Shahid's son, Sardar Khan, pledges to avenge his father's death and shaves his head. He becomes one of the most notorious gangsters of Wasseypur. The film reconnoiters his connections with power, politics and fraternity of crime. There is a clash between two Muslim groups Pathans and Qureshis, about their covetousness for glory and money.Manoj Bajpai gives an impeccable performance as a violent and lecherous man. It is one of the powerhouse acts, we will ever encounter. The real find of the decade is Tigmanshu Dhuila a well-known cult director (Hassil, Paan Singh Tomar, Saheb Biwi aur Gangster etc), who embodied the character as if he himself is Ramdhir Singh.Richa Chadda is believable as Sardar Khan's anxious and bold wife. Reema Sen is good as a silent and steamy concubine of Sardar Khan.Nawazuddin Siddiqui is a born thespian; he is believable as weed smoking, Amitabh's die-hard fan and black sheep of the family. We have already witnessed him in "Kahaani" and "Peepli live". I think he is one of the most underrated actors, has now got an opportunity to flaunt himself in GOW II(I saw the trailer of Part II after the credit rolled).Rest of the cast Piyush Mishra, Pankaj Tripathi, Huma Quershi(debut-She looks ravishing while persuading the theater's security guard for the second show of the movie "Trishul") and others are so authentic that you will easily relate the characters with North India (Bihar), the dialects, the dialogue delivery, the expressions are genuine.The music by Sneha Khanwalkar is down to earth, a triumph, it has the rustic soul and is very unique. One can understand the geniuses by listening the beats and lyrics. Some of them are folks sung by the locals.And after all it's Anurag Kashyap ,who can go to any length to enhance the quality of Indian Cinema. Undoubtedly it has been screened in Cannes,and people watched the entire saga (a delirious 5 Hours 20 Minutes run time) and lauded with the accolades. However, it should have been edited 20 minutes.Impatiently waiting for Part II.8.2/10


                
<U+200E>'Gangs of Wasseypur' is a visceral epic! Not the kind of regular rubbish that is churned out every now and then. Mr.Anurag Kashyap has brought us something that can be categorized with the likes of 'The Godfather'.Manoj Bajpayee is rocking and superbly supported by a fabulous Richa Chadda, Reema Sen and Piyush Mishra. And final cherry on the acting caked is Nawazzuddin as a vulnerable young lad who is basically a romantic at heart but is getting transformed into a ruthless gangster much like Michael Corleone in the Godfather series. Manoj Bajpayee's character is quite akin to much more ruthless version of Don Vito Corleone played by Marlon Brando in 'The Godfather'.By repeatingly mentioning 'The Godfather' I am not trying to take away anything from GOW. GOW is a superb film which needs to be watched by anyone and everyone who has the slightest of respect and love for films and filmmaking.Sneha Khawalker's rockingtingly superb music brings a whole new level of excitement in the film and Rajeev Ravi's cinematography is very very efficient, sprinkled with quite a few shots of sheer brilliance.All this make a nice, superbly tasty biryani and the credit can only go the masterchef Mr.Anurag Kashyap.8/10, and I'd defo recommend all my friends to go and watch this film in CINEMAS!


                
*I am not a fan of Indian film, mostly I hate it, but Gang of Wasseypur is good. It is not the typical Indian movie with lot of dancing and typical good guy as lead character.Watching Gang of Wasseypur is like watching The Godfather instead of watching Indian movies.The main core of the story is almost similar with The Godfather, but overall with the Indian aspect in it, the story is different. the writer picked real events that happened in India, and put it in the story. So there is little bit history lesson of India there, which is cool.The character is very different with the Godfather counterpart, Sardar Khan is not like Vito Corleone, he is more violence and kinda selfish, although their core story almost similar. But they are totally different character. The other filler characters is totally different.Good news , there is no dancing in this movie, but surprisingly, there is many good soundtracks in this film. They put great traditional Indian music instead the typical music in Indian movies.If you like The Godfather I think you can appreciate this Gang of Wasseypur, even if you hate Indian movies like me. This is not typical Indian movies, totally worth checking.


                
I am a great movie buff, one of the greatest around. A great proclivity for cinema I have got. I have been a sincere fan of Martin Scorsese's works, all of them. I believe that a great director can put all the elements of greatness in a movie and make it reach the epitome of cinema. He can set fire to water if there is a natural demand for it. Not the actors, but the directors have always given cinema a turnaround whenever required.Now, this guy - Anurag Kashyap, is heavily influenced by Scorsese, and may be some other directors too. Being influenced and then delivering beyond imagination is a gargantuan task, only few blessed people can do. The film style and techniques which he carries with himself are rare, almost rare in the Bollywood where some quacks in the name of cinema produce utter rubbish stuffs and beguile the audience of real dimensions of cinema. Let's quickly talk about the movie. Every dimension of cinema has been given full respect. Everyone's performance is quite commendable. The cinematography is simply amazing. The dialogues are such a bliss to any Bihari ears. Thanks to the God, I have got a pair. A great music to spice up the situations. You know, the music will remind you of Kill Bill. Music has been Tarantino's one of the greatest weapons. Tarantino has also influenced Kashyap. The direction of the movie- let's not talk about that. I have talked a lot already about the director.One thing I want to mention particularly. Many directors tried to get into gang-wars, mafia and other stories involving Bihar and U.P. But the level to which this movie takes you has never been achieved earlier. I was just flabbergasted. How could the director boil down to such intricacies? That's the job of a genius, ain't it? There were few things I did not like about the movie. The movie needed a little bit more work on editing. The narrator should have been a better one. A powerful voice was what I thought lacked. Also if the movie were little bit peaceful in the first half, it would have been a legend. Remember Taxi Driver. That calmness and that peace. And one thing particularly- it should have been released in one piece despite of any length it had got. But bad things come in twos and here is Bollywood's baddie my friend.Do not listen to what one says. Just go for it. It will satisfy the voracious you. A perfect roller-coaster ride. And those who follow the quacks I mentioned - please avoid this movie. We do not want such slumps despising something heavenly.P.S.- Do not watch this movie with your girl otherwise you will end up answering the one and only question throughout the movie. "What does that mean"?


                
Here it comes ..get set go . Boom boom boom kaboooom !! Welcome to other side of India, so rustic was the ambiance created that you wonder if it is the same India you belong to. I am going to take some time to absorb the stress. To be frank, I desperately need Yash Chopra's goody goody movie dose to clear my hangover.As with old Hollywood era, one side there were Tom Hank's feel good movies and other side were Clint Estwood's unadulterated Taxan flick. In Bollywood, we are coming up with good number of nail biting northern rural dramas (Can anyone forget Omkara or Ishqiya.. !). I personally believe these are much much better than latest trend of copying of southern OVER POWERED HERO's movies (does anyone needs Name?).When top notch direction meets with crunchy script a full blown entertainment is sure to be due. And Manoj Vajpai ..who?? (Yes yes yes fair enough.... I still remember Manoj Vajpai of Satya frame) is coming up at his own. There were others (still not able to get their names <U+F04C>), who were equally impressive. The only disappointment was editing, 20 minutes of cuts could have given GOW a Gem status. But yeah, may be that I can wish for part II. All in all, its treat to watch, if you like Spices more than Sugar ;-).


                
This is my first review of any movie.The Gang of Wasseypur movie is very well written and directed. Manoj Bajpai(Sardar Khan) acting is brilliant. This is a story of two Muslim communities i.e. Qureshi and Khan. After partition (separation of Pakistan and India), a coal mine was purchased by a Indian businessman named Tigmanshu Dhulia(Ramadhir Singh) from British Government. Ramadhir Singh hired a hit man to take care of his coal mine workers. Ramadhir Singh is a political person, he used different people to keep his influence in the Wasseypur village and he didn't mind to take someone's life, if he goes against him.I read somewhere in the previous review that the director Anurag Kashyap is the answer of Hollywood director Quentin Tarantino. I agreed with the person. Some scenes in this movie remembered me Quentin Tarantino's action flick Kill Bill.The Muslim events and festivals i.e. Eid, Marriages etc. are very well shown on the big screen.I rate this movie 8 out of 10.


                
This is a fascinating film. There are innumerable characters who you might easily forget between two scenes, but like with the legendary "McGuffins", you can subsist without knowing everything about every character. The story is set in, and is about, Bihar. The language is coarse, but beautiful, as the dialects from up there are. Manoj Bajpai is Sardar Khan who has revenge on his mind. Or so he says, for he takes a longer time ogling at women and impregnating them. If this role were an ocean, he dives into it headlong. If it were bread, he bites into it. No coincidence that his best remembered turn before now was as Bhiku Mhatre in Satya, which too was written by Anurag Kashyap. The setting is young India of the 40s, which grows into an indifferent one of the 2000s. Wasseypur is the cauldron of corruption, violence and disrespect. It is also very colourful. Richa Chadda as Naghma, Sardar Khan's wife is excellent. She gets all the great lines and she thrives on them. Nawazuddin Siddiqui, the most exciting acting talent since Irfan Khan, is the Michael Corleone to Sardar Khan's Don Corleone. He gets very few screen space, but with the promise that the next part of this epic will have him in a key role. If the music and the pace of the film can be kept so, Gangs of Wasseypur 2 is one you would check your local listings for every day.


                
The most important thing for a movie depicting real life events is the characterization. Every character has to fit in to the role he/she is given and kudos to Mr. Anurag Kashyap, he has done exactly as prescribed. The best part about the movie is that it's action and the dark comedy never seemed unreal. The flow of the movie seemed perfect for a blend of action and reality. Acting was just perfect with every actor doing justice to his/her role. Screenplay was gripping with straightforward dialogues and good characterization. The film never seemed to aberrate from its central theme.One of the most creative things about the movie was the old book styled beginning. It made the movie look more contemporary to its setting. One huge relief about the movie was that the music was well chosen and well timed. The cinematography was also perfect. The setting of the movie looked very real. Bihar/Jharkhand/Uttar Pradesh, thanks to their governance in last 15 years, have not changed much and that helped a lot to this cause.The only negative part about the movie is its language and some gory scenes nevertheless these were inevitable. A movie not advisable to sensitive viewership. A few families were seen leaving the movie theater midway after it got too much for them. Overall the movie is a good watch for them who could take these negatives as a part and parcel of the movie without which it could not have been as good as it is and a value for your money.


                
Part 1: 8.5/10The last scene perhaps defines the entire movie as "an unapologetic dance of rawness, cruelty and rustic ruthlessness"! Bullet ridden body of this character drenched in his own blood, gets up to the tunes (of Bihari pride) of 'Jiya ho Bihar ke lala' flashing a gun in his barely movable fingers. Anurag Kashayap makes a statement by having a dropped pistol being fired as a cycle rickshaw runs over its trigger! The streets of Wasseypur are violent, dark and haunting but blame (or don't!) the director, you start to like it after a while.Tracking a history of revenge and animosity, this drama is hilarious also (and really hilarious!) at appropriate intervals.Manoj Bajpayee lives another life through this movie and probably the best of what he has ever done before! It won't be surprising if the first word you speak as you walk out of the theater is of Bhojpuri!Part 2: 6.5/10Nawazuddin Siddiqui is highly impressive as Faijal and so are other characters who act like they have always been living those lives. Commendable performances and detailing! But....one misses a legendary character like Sardar Khan. You are getting introduced to a new character every 10 mins and one feels like saying 'why another character!' While GoW1 was a fresh thought and was gripping GoW 2 is repetitive. People already know that one by one they are going to die in a predictable sequence, if not now then surely in the next scene. Suspense and surprises are missing. Violent comedy of errors does not amuse anymore and inserted humour is suddenly stale. It is safe to watch GoW1 and assume that in GoW 2 Sardar Khan's sons will take his revenge in same gruesome violent ways.
Finally, a high-expectations set Bollywood movie that does not disappoint. This movie is not for the faint hearted nor is it for the lovers of nonsensical cinema. The movie is about gangwar between 2 Muslim sub-religions- Qureshi/Pathan. The movie begins with a bang and grabs you attention right from the outset. It spans over 7 decades- 1940 - 2004 holding you throughout , where some movies fail to do so in 2-3 times/decades. I do not want to dwell on the story, because its better witnessed than heard.The entire ensemble is praiseworthy; but Manoj Bajpai is top-notch. In the world of Khans, actors like Manoj and Irrfan Khan are left rewardless. Both the actresses leave a mark which is very rare these days. After Gulaal, Black Friday , Anurag Kashyap brings together yet another powerful movie.He easily remains on of the most under rated directors we have.A couple of negatives which prevented this one from getting 10/10 .. One:editing; at least 20 min could have been saved. Two: dialogues: They weren't as powerful as Once upon a time in Mumbai/Singham but still did the work. The hype has increased for part 2, hope it lives up to its predecessor. Highly recommended.
It was a difficult wait, I must admit. 8th August came excruciatingly slow. The 10:55 pm show at PVR Cinemas arrived even slower. But when Faizal came back for his sandals, I instantly gave my heart to Anurag Kashyap.Gangs of Wasseypur Part II provides a fitting closure to the epic that we saw unfold in Part I. It delivers the final punches with so much intent, that you, as the audience can only be awed. Kashyap has made this movie his own. His characters are alive on the screen, and crafted with the care of a sculptor. The land of revenge transcends into an era of war as you watch the numerous characters wax and wane with time.With this movie, Kashyap has done something which all erstwhile directors have failed to. He has taken the Western style of storytelling and applied it commercially in an Indian setting. A movie which the masses will hoot for and the critiques will clap for. A movie that rolls up Scorsese, Tarantino and Fincher into one; a movie that elicits each and every emotion from the audience. There are completely epic sequences where you just go 'F**K! ', and stare at the screen trying to absorb each and every moment.This piece of work has probably fulfilled the complete meaning of 'cinema'. It is a potpourri of emotions, a lesson in criminology and a study of human philosophies at the same time. We apparently see rampaging goons, a power struggle soiled by blood betrayal but underneath the strong currents of vengeance flows rivulets of love, companionship, trust and friendship. And FEAR. The movie is bleak, disturbing and atmospheric. The dialogues deliver a lot more than what's said. You can feel the steel inside the men who run Wasseypur, no matter whether they have a funny hairstyle or an irritating lisp.Faizal, in my opinion, has made history. While we were thinking he is this idiot pot-smoking numb nut, he somehow transformed into a conniving cobra waiting to strike. His journey from a freeloader to a crime syndicate mastermind is fascinating. We see him beheading Fajal, we see him run like a mouse and we also see him cry as a child. His character is multi layered, exactly like Sardar, and that is why he becomes so intriguing on screen. Mohsina was the real surprise for me. She slips into the role of Faizal's wife with ease, with eyes that can become ice or fire in a blink, and lips so red that can burn your desires. She is Faizal's emotional support, comforting him in times of dilemma and loving him like a mother. The couple is absolutely fantastic to watch and adds a unique flavor to the revenge saga.The background music reminded me of Scorsese, the suspense of Fincher and Mr.Quentin Tarantino is all over the place. Every Tarantino fan should clap at the epic climax of the movie. It is immaculately shot, a feast for the senses and something that Gangs of Wasseypur thoroughly deserved. The climax leads to an anti-climax where Kashyap again stamps his bloody authority. He shows how the lust for power has capability to destroy blood loyalty. He shows how, at the end of the day, all your dreams can vaporize like a mirage.I somehow feel Kashyap visualized this film as a black comedy, a film which changes a few definitions. Where love becomes a bullet through the head, friendship becomes a knife across your neck, trust becomes a cell phone speaker and death somehow means Asha Band Party. All the while, you try and make sense of this world. Do not worry if you fail, because then you are definitely at Wasseypur, whose soil carries the blood of generations and in whose womb, coiling and writhing, waits a dark force. Vengeance.P.S :- It would be a grave injustice not to mention Definite, Faizal's brother. Watch out for him, because not for nothing does the blood of Sardar flow in his veins.PPS :- I simply cannot avoid mentioning couple of scenes. When Faizal breaks his leg and when Ramadhir talks to his son, JP. Don't miss them.
Gangs of Wasseypur- 2012 Director: Anurag KashyapIts a story that spans over 7 decades and gets in depth about gang wars, crime, hatred, revenge that gets passed on from one generation to another. Movie screened at Sydney Film Festival is WORTH watching. Gangs of Wasseypur stands firmly on the grounds of Direction, Acting, Screenplay, Story-line, Cinematography, Music & off course The BEST Dialogues. Outstanding performance by Manoj Bajpayee, Richa Chaddha an Nawaz-ud-din Saddiqui. An epic tale about loyalty, crime, lust, treachery and vendetta. A cinematic magnum opus.There is no doubt that Anurag Kashyap is Bollywood's Quentin Tarantino.


                
Cool baj SN DJ s hsbhsbhzbdix is shdhsbdudbudbdudbdudbdjndnd hdbbsjzbdb


                
A revenge saga that makes us yearn for more.This was released on June 22nd and its sequel was out on Aug 8th, in the meanwhile I had a tough time to sit back and wait, coz the end climax made me wait and see what is going to happen next. its taken forward by the protagonist Sardar Khan and we move forward with him. This film is for sure an epic just coz the scale is too grand to weave a script. It spans across 60 decades from 1941 to 2004. It starts at 2004 in beginning and ends in mid 1990's and there are many references o show us the age. If radio was heard or Trishul being seen in cinemas or to Kyu Ki Saas Bhi Kabhi Bahu This is authentic and great many kudos to Rajeew Ravi the cinematographer and the production design of Wasiq Khan who brought alive the 1970's the 80's and yes even the 40's. Just an aberration here Trishul was released in 1979 while it was shown to be as 1989.Music was raw and pleasant and even philosophical like song of Ik Bagal Main, to a silly yet hilarious song like I am Hunter, Sneha Khanwalkar adds a voice to the already interestig script. The audiography is good and so is the voice of Piyush Mishra as he says the back story behind what was happening on screen. But the most interesting of all is the script itself that is driven by Sardar Khan played by Manoj Bajpai and by Ramadhir Singh played by Tigamanshu Dhulia, its their rivalry and how they deal with this. So instead of killing simply each other, they decide to tell and take "Keh Ke loonga Uski"The dialogues are witty and the violence is gruesome. All in all, its a gory depiction of a true incidents told entertainigly. Kudos to Anurag Kashyap the pioneer of great Indian Cinema for making it in this way.There is a scene in which Sardar Khan tries to open the door by smashing with his legs and hands and screaing while his aide simply opens the bolt and says "Yeh aise khulta hai" such moments are what made this revenge drama witty and hirlaious. It's sarcastic one may say as it makes a mockery too of few things, yet it's not cynical but intelligent. Manoj Bajpai might well win many Best Actor awards or at least be nominated to many. Anurag Kashyap for sure is the best director yet again and I hope he wins the elusive best director award at least this time. A 4/5 for movie that is made like an epic. There are many characters still there is a connect that keeps us glued even in a repeat watch.


                
One of the very best Hindi movie epics...epic not just in scope, but also in execution...I kinda expected it to slip into becoming a self-indulgent mess, but Kashyap is ever- reliable, never allowing himself to get the better of a tale excellently told...perfectly cast, and one of those examples where the music, song-breaks included is as relevant to the narration as are all the other events that form part of the overall tapestry....I would have preferred to watch both movies back-back, but work pressures did not allow that...so, viewing 1 and 2 separately, though 2 could not have existing without 1, I much preferred GOW2...but maybe just because I am not a fan of showy characters (like the one played by Bajpai in 1, though he was, as always, fantastic, and perhaps even outdid his last best performance)...Siddiqui is the man...both in this, as well as every other movie I've seen him in, including 'Kahaani' and 'Talaash'....I can watch GOW2 any number of times, and listen to it's musical numbers, as well as most of the background theme tracks on repeat....Strongly recommend, preferably on the big screen, with a like-minded audience....


                
This review might be biased because I am a great fan of Anurag Kashyap's movies. Having said that, I do not think people would disagree with the admiration shown. Gangs of Wasseypur is Kashyap's take on Indian godfather. If you are an international at heart, you need to know the local nuances to understand the comic timing, the intensity, the issues, the reactions of characters. However, even an unfamiliar would be taken through the streets of Wasseypur really smoothly.Sardar Khan essayed by Manoj Bajpayee, and his wife Richa Chaddha have played their part nicely. From setting up of his empire around Wasseypur to expanding his business and later on transferring the legacy to his sons, Bajpayee has eased into the character. There is no typical bollywood masala dance numbers, yet the background scores are simply apt for the story. The real plus about this movie is the way the characters get developed and mature over the course of the movie. That is something which people rarely notice yet decides the pace and the coherence of the movie. This movie is certainly one to watch, and will invariably lead one into the next part. Both the movies offer 6 hour of serious entertainment and a crash course into the old mafia raj of pre 1990 India. I rate this movie 8 out of 10 for the aforementioned credits.


                
GOW is one of the most standout Hindi movies of 2012 directed by Anurag Kashyup. The five hour long movie was released in two parts and every moment of the movie is worth watching. Pepped up with experimental music and quirky dialogues the movie is jam-packed with brilliant but not so mainstream actors. The movie is set in the Dhanbad's Wasseypur, a place rich of black diamond and plagued with rivalry between two Muslim operated gangs stretched across generations. The move beautifully captures the mafia-politician-police nexus in then Bihar, the Bollywood loving junta of Wasseypur and is loaded with songs that you will keep on humming for days. While Manoj Vajpayee's awe will keep you glued to the screen it is Nawazuddin Siddiqui who leapt across the heaven for me. The characters in the film are complex and well-developed and have nothing in common except narcissism and disregard for law. Cinematography is absolutely brilliant and the shot where the coal dust is all that is in the air you will feel as if you are sniffing it under your nostrils. When Jean-Luc Godard said that all you need to make a movie is a girl and a gun, he was probably not wrong; the movie is full of desi guns and village belles where shootouts take place at every nook and corner of the town. The screenplay is steady and doesn't break the environment it creates from the starting. This is a tale of revenge, blood-money and insanity which will leave a spot on your brain for the years to come.


                
To be honest, I've never been a fan of traditional Indian movies with the cheesy love stories and frustrating songs. This movie was a breath of fresh air. It's good to see filmmakers take a more rational and smart approach and really bring out a story in a way it's supposed to be told. There was much more art in this movie than any other Hindi movie I've seen in a really long time.I think Anurag Kashyap has really taken the trouble to create something worth appreciating in this movie and I'm looking forward to the second part.


                
Animosity is a great equalizer; the feeling doesn't discriminate between caste, religion or economic background. Two enemies are men on a mission and anything or anyone else in their way is collateral damage."Keep your friends close and your enemies closer", Sardar Khan (played by Manoj Bajpai) lives by this philosophy seeking revenge from his closest enemy Ramadhir Singh (played by Tigmanshu Dhulia), a vicious politician and chief of a large coal mafia based in the coal capital of India, Dhanbad. The movie starts with the elimination of Faisal Khan and his family in 2004 and backtracks to 1941 Wasseypur. The animosity between Sardar Khan and Ramadhir Singh dates back to the 1950's when Shahid Khan, Sardar Khan's father, who works for the coal mafia leader Ramadhir Singh is killed by him. Sardar Khan then vows not give his arch enemy an easy death but finish his strength and then his life gradually. "Teri Keh ke Loonga" is how he proclaims he will seek his revenge – To screw his life like man from the front and not stab him in the back like a coward.The rest of the movie revolves around both minor and major encounters between the two protagonists. The confrontations are both sinister and hilarious between these equally dangerous men. Anurag Kashyap has brilliantly delivered these difficult scenes with utmost simplicity that sometimes you can miss the subtle hints. Songs are well placed and in the background, Hunter & Womaniya are my personal favourites. The swearing and cuss words are never out of place and go with the local lingo.This is out & out a Manoj Bajpai movie; he is brilliant in simple scenes, from fighting and killing a muscleman in the middle of a market, to where he seduces his second wife Reema Sen while she is washing clothes. He is playful and sinister at the same time. Tigmanshu Dhulia (well known as director of the recent hit Paan Singh Tomar) as the coal mafia leader delivers an impactful performance with minimum dialogues and maximum expressions. The surprise package in this one is Richa Chadda, (Dolly from Oye Lucky! Lucky Oye), playing the character of Manoj Bajpai's first wife is as naughty and as mysterious as her husband's character, at times swearing more than him. The supporting cast is brilliant and every character is a natural from the train driver in 1941 to the silent assassin, Yadavjee, who keeps making his appearance at important junctures in the movie. The man to look out for in Gangs of Wasseypur 2 is Nawazuddin Siddiqui (the no nonsense intelligence officer Khan in Kahaani), playing the role of Sardar Khan's younger son Faisal khan leaves a mark albeit a brief role in this part. Yashpal Sharma does an unforgettable cameo as an item boy on the yesteryears song Salam-e-Isq from Muqaddar ka Sikander.I had been waiting to watch this movie after such rave reviews and finally got a chance to see it last night. Watching a movie with such high expectations a lot of times backfires like the country-made revolvers which are used by the gangsters and as they say in the movie "Katte ka pipe fat ke flower ho jaata hai". But this one was like a slow poison, gradually making its impact as it starts and so subtle that by the time you realize you are totally hooked on and attached to the characters. The climax leaves you hungry for more and I am desperate for the second part to be released.A secret: Don't walk out of the cinema hall when the credits are rolling. If you are patient and stay till the end, you will be treated to the trailer of Gangs of Wasseypur 2.


                
