Yes, its true.Scorsese and Tarantino are there in Bollywood too,Anurag Kashyap surely belongs to that class.A Movie which gives you the raw look of everything love,ambition,politics,revenge,comedy, this movie has everything in it.I was expecting another disappointment with another Bollywood movie but right from first scene this movie blew me away. The story spans last seven decades of Indian history with events taking place in mining towns of Wasseypur and Dhanbad. The tale of the cities is portrayed in the rivalry between the family of Shahid Khan,an ambitious man who loots trains in British Era by the name of Sultana Daku and Ramdahri Singh and Local Contractor turned Politician. The animosity is passed to the next generation where Sardar Khan portrayed by Manoj Bajpai,who wants to avenge his fathers death by destroying Ramdhari Singh and his family and the Qureshi's who outcast his father. Manoj Bajpai has outclassed himself. Every single actor has done his part perfectly. You will feel like you are actually living in that part of the world. Hats off to the team, they have thoroughly researched every detail and make the whole scenario looked like real. A Must Must watch for if you love quality.


                
One of the most awaited movies of the year, the first part of Gangs of Wasseypur lives up to expectations. However, the only disappointing aspect of the movie is that one has to wait for the part two of the movie to see how the story unfolds. The movie is based at Wasseypur and other surrounding areas of Dhanbad. The time-line of the movie spans from early 1940s to early 1990s. The second part of the movie is expected to span from early 1990s to mid 2000s. It's a story of Pathans Shahid Khan (played by Jaideep Ahlawat)and his son Sardar Khan (Manoj Bajpayee, Qureshis, and politician-cum-coal mine owner-cum- local don Ramadheer Singh (Tigmanshu Dhulia)and his son. The tussle between Pathans and Qureshis, and that between Shahid Khan and Sardar Khan on one side and Ramadheer Singh and his son on the other side are the highlights of the movie. In between, one also sees different facets of coal mafia, revenge, rivalries among Muslims, and even love stories too. The movie is intense, gripping, and has a fair sprinkling of cuss words one finds in Bihar and Jharkhand, where the film is based. The music of the film is another highlight, and one needs to watch the film to fully realize the relevance of songs in the film. In short: a must- watch movie for those who love hard hitting movies with great acting from all the actors.


                
Premiering at Cannes, this was one of the most anticipated movies of the year. Maybe not for the Multiplex going, entertainment seeking audience but for people who actually care for gritty cinema. I, personally, have always been a fan of Anurag Kashyap, Manoj Bajpayee as well as Piyush Mishra. So, for me this movie was like cinematic heaven, before it even started.It is a story unfolding through generations in Wasseypur, Jharkhand(erstwhile Bihar). It starts with Sahid Khan( played brilliantly by Jaideep Ahlawat), who robs trains by the pseudonym of Sultana Daku which is in fact the pseudonym of another Dacoit that lives in the village. So, on one such attempt, the original Sultana Daku kills of Sahid Khan's gang and throws him out of Wasseypur. Thus starts the rivalry of the Khans and the Qureshis. Sahid Khan moves to Dhanbad where he leaves this life of robbery behind him and starts working in a field mine. During child birth, his wife dies while he was unable to reach her in time because he wasn't informed by the authorities. The son grows up over the years and India soon wins independence. With Independence, the British abandon the mines which are soon given to a Jamindar, Ramadhir Singh. He needs Pahalwans(bouncers) to run the mines and keep the workers in control, so he hires Sahid Khan. What Ramadhir Singh did not foresee was that Sahid Khan himself wanted the throne all for himself. When Ramadhir Singh finds out, he sends Sahid for a job at Banaras where Sahid Khan is assassinated. He also tries to kill Sahid's younger brother and son but they escape. The kid grows up to be Sardar Khan( Manoj Bajpayee) whose only aim in life is revenge against Ramadhir Singh, the guy who killed his father. "Goli Nahi Maarenge Usko, Keh Ke Lenge Uski".I won't say that if i continue with the story, it'll give the movie away but the thing is every twist and turn of the story, every little detail, Anurag Kashyap wants you to explore for yourself. There are so many characters and so many stories that it becomes more of an epic than a movies. With Piyush Mishra's narration, the movie unfolds smoothly as you will keep watching dumbstruck at the crime and the 'bakaiti'. The usage of slang is in abundance. Definitely, not a movie that you can watch with your family, or even girlfriend, for that matter. Brilliant performances, a brilliant script, and wonderful direction leaves you expecting for more. Waiting for the 2nd part eagerly.
The good thing for the film was its screening in two parts. It's not that you will not like the film for 5 hours but there are a few moments when you might feel bored. Now about the film I would say that this is the only film that I can remember now, the characters of which you would bond so much. Making such a long film is a great risk and that was worth it. The story is purely based on revenge. What these 5 hours has made us feel in the end was that the revenge was truly authentic. You will bond entirely with all that hatred. Of Course we have to pick up a side with whom we sympathize. The shaking feeling was when Ramadheer singh told Faisal that the whole fighting had started due to his grandfather and he wanted to live, otherwise his grandfather might have killed him. This was the moment when I realized that he was not at all wrong in his place of thinking. But then I also realized the power of films. The director wanted us to have sympathy with the family of Manoj Vajpayee. That is one angle of showing the film. There can be a story made from the point of Ramadheer where we will sympathize with him.While watching the film I felt like I am revisiting a lot of films. There were a lot of instances when one can feel that he is watching the Indian version of godfather. Now the way this film is made defines what inspiration is. I also felt in the last 30 minutes like I was watching instances of City of God. Anurag Kashyap has properly set a standard for the Indian Directors about how to take inspiration from foreign films. When the audience sees that the starting scenes and the characters which were shown so early are linked in the end, they are hooked to the seats. They might feel amazed at that instant (also considering the fact that all these important twists and links are shown in the last 20 minutes of the film) and say that the film is amazing after leaving theater. While this is obvious for the Indian Audience who is deprived of such stories since they are used to watch senseless themes of Cocktail and many others. So, I would not say that the story or anything is so amazing, but this is what the audience of India need to start with. There is a lot more potential in filmmaking and I have no doubt that Anurag Kashyap too has that power to make films like the seventh seal. But he is bound by the mindset of our audience. I believe that he is taking his viewer's through a carefully chosen path to make them mature enough to understand films of Ingmar Bergman or Stanley Kubrick.PROS:The film has a good story along with good performances which is the first reason to watch the film. To keep the viewer engaged, the film has a lot of twists till the end. I would not consider this film in the black comedy genre but it definitely has so many instances when you will praise the director for his witticism. Coming over to the songs, I felt that the soundtrack was better in the second part. The best humoristic moment in the film was when the two goons were catching each other and their bikes went out of petrol. That moment was too hilarious. Both are standing in the queue to fill the tank. There are many instances like this which gives you authentic feel of India. The second part bagged good songs as well. The portrayal of the ladies in the family was awesome. The way that the film involved us in their daily household activities was something not usual in Indian Films. Coming to the characters, I got attached with Nawajuddin Shiddiki much more than Manoj Vajpayee. His portrayal was very close to that of Al Pacino in Godfather. All the supporting cast performed extremely well.In all, rarely in Indian cinema has this type of film been made especially with so much characters and their development.MESSAGE: "!!Revenge!!"VERDICT: "A must watch"


                
Brilliant...just brilliant. An exhilarating movie experience which demands to be seen only on big screen for its rustic visuals which takes you straight into raw and rugged heartland. Very very entertaining as well and humor keeps you to the edge of the seat throughout. At times it reminded me of Sholay on epic, comedy and entertainment level.Though not for people with faint-heart, GOW bleeds excellence in almost every frame and every scene. An epic and brutal saga spanning over decades and generations. Its epic, visceral and poetic all at the same time.Watching GOW on big screen wasn't just watching a movie but an experience. An experience which also proves Anurag Kashyag as the face of new age Indian cinema after GOW, Black Friday, Dev-d. And how can I forget the brilliant No Smoking which was quite David Lynchish. Manoj Bajpayee is impeccable and irreplaceable in his career best performance.Music is fantastic and specially how well the music have been utilized is another USP of the movie. For example the beautiful "Ik bagal mein chand hoga..ik bagal me rotiya" from Piyush Mishra. Suddenly the mood and visual of the film changes. The song reminds you of some 50-60's lullaby and how poetically it has been shot reminds you of Bimol Roy's classic "Do Beegha Zameen". So many references of the era gone by...from those colorful posters to Bachchan era..to the era of violence and lawlessness of such places..at times it feels like poetry in motion.Just magnificent...Indian cinema at its best!!


                
Anurag Kashyap's ambitious Epic Gangs of Wasseypur is a lethally long and detailed view of the life of a single gangster family and not gangs exactly. Spread across 7 decades and over three generations it tells an authentically made and wickedly enjoyable romp of violence, politics, power and sex.The film begins in the early 40s with the genesis of the gangs getting formed between the Muslim communities of the Qureshis (Butcher clan) and the Pathans. Trying to take advantage of this divide is the local contractor of coal mines Ramadheer Singh (director Tingmanshu Dhulia).As the film progresses, the three groups transition from one criminal activity to another and keep slowly increasing their enmity siding with one another. The Coal mafia point is lost midway and the criminal activities start ranging from human trafficking to even fisheries extortion. What strikes from the word go is the sheer realism of the ganglands of Bihar from nearly perfect performances of the very believable Bihar characters, to the dress sense punctuated by what is an almost unheard of in your face soundtrack made up of local Bihari hits mixed in modern sounds, this is Anurag's best in terms of art direction (maybe only bettered by his far superior Black Friday) There is so much going on in the movie that at times it's hard to enjoy all of it. The sexually crude songs playing constantly in the back ground, the numerous acts of violence (at times hard to connect) or for that matter the out and out vulgar dialogues spouted by pretty much all the characters of the film.However there is one major drawback which makes the film's narration slightly uneven and over dependent on a poorly placed cricket-like commentary to bridge the gaps. For example not much is shown or discussed of how the coal mafia operated other than the commentary and thus we get only glimpses of how the other two gangs, The Qureshi's Butcher Gang (led by Sultan) and Ramadheer Singh's sophisticated political gang, are evolving. Instead, the script chooses to spend almost incessant time on the family and life of the alpha male Sardar Khan (Manoj Bajpai) including his long drawn out romance with the Bengali immigrant Durga (a very hot Reema Sen) Sardar Khan's Feisty wife Nagma (played perfectly by Richa Chaddha) ends up having more screen space than the main antagonist Ramadheer Singh (who could have been a tour de force). In the end Ramadheer Singh comes across more as a weakling against a thug like Sardar Khan. A little hard to believe considering he's been a landlord for a long time and is a politician to boot. I guess with the film being made by Anurag Kashyap, a lot of folks will tell you that this is an awesome film which could hype-kill the movie. It is undoubtedly a masterstroke in terms of gritty depiction of the ganglands but it could easily have been a lot crisper and stayed a little true to its title.You could also give a benefit of a doubt to the script considering there is the still to be released second part which requires the side characters to take centre stage and hence so much time spent on their development.Of course, the 3 hour long film picks up in the last thirty minutes when the third generation begins to come into the fore in a godfatheresque fashion and the film ends with a perfect act of violence you would have expected a long time back. The second part of the film will be released in a couple of weeks and rest assured that those who have seen the first part will flock to see how this saga ends in what should be a definite cracker. To sum it up, don't go in expecting a master piece and you will thoroughly enjoy and even love the film. Special Mention: Try listening carefully to the songs playing in the background esp. Womaniya and Hunter – tunes which refuse to leave your head.


                
GANGS OF WASSEYPUR, Part 1The flagship Indian feature seen this year at the Florence Indian film festival, "The Gangs of Wasseypur" is a Bollywood production in the sense that it was made in Hindi (rather than one of India's other 21 official languages) with professional Bombay performers and staff, but the content, style, and conception of this new opus seems to be pointing the Bombay film industry in a new direction. Wasseypur director, Anurag Kashyap, 40, is no newcomer to tinseltown having already helmed half a dozen features there since 2000 and acted as producer or writer on many more. Among his works until now are "Black Friday", 2007, which addresses the terrorist bombings in Bombay of 1993, "Dev D", 2009, a modern reworking of a semi-sacrosanct Indian screen classic, and "The Girl in Yellow Boots" 2011, which dissects the misadventures of a girl in the Mumbai sex massage trade, all hardball films of controversial content, one way or another. He also worked on the script of Ram Gopa Varma's unflinching study of the Mumbai underworld, "Satya" in 1998, which was deemed an Indian neo-film noir and is a kind of prequel to the current rural gangland saga. With "Gangs of Wasseypur" Anurag has pushed the Bollywood envelope about as far as it will go ...Wasseypur is a small town in the Dhanbad district of the god-forsaken state of Jharkhand, also known as the Coal Capital of India, and has been described as the most violent, lawless, and fearsome place in the entire land because of the endless gang warfare going on there for over half a century. The names of real life rival dons Sabir Alam and Fahim Khan, the actual warlords of two rival mafia clans, are indelibly associated with Wasseypur where the film is set, however, while the movie characters called 'Sardar Khan' and 'Ramadhir Singh' are theoretically fictional, it is pretty danged clear that any similarity to actual persons living and dead is far from coincidental. Anurag Kashyap, who has roots in Jharkhand knows the scene there only too well and is obviously not interested in glamorizing it or gilding any lilies. He wants people to wake up to reality, to put it mildly. .Gangs is a big hit all over India but, according to The Times of India, the initial showing in Wasseyput itself was called off for fear of violence.The direction Anurag explores in Wasseypur is a total departure from normal escapist Bollywood masala into the territory of stark black realism --"Reservoir Dogistan" -- to borrow a page from the Cineblitz fan magazine satire of the picture. The Anurag analog of Tarantino's slicing off of an ear is the carving off an entire head from the body of a still squirming victim as fountains of rich red blood spurt up gloriously in a beautifully backlit set -- very cinematic if this kind of bloodletting is your cup of tea. It obviously was at Cannes where Gangs was declared a masterpiece, and maybe it is --but not for the faint of heart or the mushy sentimental Yashraj crowd. The language of the film is incidentally not exactly Hindi, but a regional variety known as Bhojpuri, which is actually Anurag's native tongue, and part of the reason that attracted him to this gory tale from the gritty Islamic coal pit belt of Jharkand province. The fact that most of the protagonists are Indian Moslems is more or less incidental, just one of the facts of life in this grisly manifresco -- Assalamu Aleikum.Another feature of this film is the utter obscenity of the language employed by the characters. The general flavor is conveyed by constant use of "motherfucker, asshole", and variations on these themes in the English subtitles, but the director assured me that much is lost in translation and that the original dialogues are far more varied and graphic -- which is apparently an important selling point in terms of shock therapy and linguistic titillation for the Indian public. A kind of documentary effect is created by the insertion of frequent dateline intertidal to help viewers keep track of events and set them up for the next assault on the senses. Actually these titles are necessary simply to keep track of who does what to whom, when and where, in this densely populated film where people keep getting knocked off every other minute and are almost interchangeable with the next corpse. Pehaps the whole thing is best summed up when one character says "In Wasseyput even the pigeons fly with one wing because they need the other one to protect their ass". Lots of catchy dialogues of this kind have made Gangs into an instant cult classic.There is also a lot of sex in the film but this is not a sexy picture. The main guy of Part I, Sardar Khan (Manoj Bajpai, the only previously well known actor in the cast) is an insatiable satyr and will screw anything that moves, merely to get his rocks off without the slightest trace of anything but rage. But don't worry -- he gets pumped full of hot lead at the Intermission (end of Part 1) with a bloody shot to the head to top it all off. An emerging new star, Nawaz Siddiqui (the relentlessly pot puffing son Faizal Khan), takes over in Part II and smokes more hash than the cocaine consumed by Al Pacino in Scarface '83 -- in fact, in terms of graphic violence and substance abuse these films are distant cousins. Or one might think, Sergio Leone with a twist of the knife in the gut and countless shots to the head. Well, the French have a name for it --"danse macabre". A film not to miss, but make sure to check heart and mind at the door and abandon all hope Ye about to pass through the portals of your local Wasseypur show.
that is what the entire bollywood industry should do - bow to this movie. all these years bollywood has been churning out me too movies with fake western wannabe characters and music and dance and I practically stopped watching this cr@p every since I was around 16.GoW shows what real authentic Indian cinema can be, what it should have been - mind bogglingly rich in colors and smell and taste and overwhelming - just like India.I think this movie surpasses City of God in artistic value and screenplay. If Slumdog got an Oscar, this should get two. But then again, the Oscar committee may not quite appreciate what is essentially a very Indian backdrop. Actually to tell the truth - North Indian, more specifically Bihari, UP flavor.But who cares. The filmfare awards committee should take back all the FF awards given out till date and hand over to GoW. No hyperbole. This movie (should) redefines Indian cinema. Nevermind the average reviews of all the paid reviewers in Indian media. They are about as intelligent as the rest of the bollywood. This movie is AWESOME.


                
It would suffice to say that Gangs of Wasseypur is a film which is in a class of its own by such a far distance from its peers from the same house, that, by the sheer fact of its existence, it manages to add a chapter to the history of that very house.However, as someone from that very land, it is difficult to stop here without rambling a bit about its beauty and force. The place of Gangs of Wasseypur and its impact on Indian cinema and filmmaking in India can only be judged fairly as time passes. However, in its content and style, Gangs of Wasseypur seems to have been cut from an entirely different cloth, of a class much superior.Gangs of Wasseypur was released theatrically in two parts. But, for all purposes, it may be considered a single film, despite the somewhat different flow of the two parts. Delving deep into the plot (which is by no means drab) isn't of much use as Gangs of Wasseypur is not about the plot, it is about the treatment. Gangs of Wasseypur is not nearly as much about the story as the storytelling. A revenge saga with political, criminal and romantic themes intertwining – the tale is gripping. But what raises Gangs of Wasseypur into the level of extraordinary is the glaring realism, brought to life by powerful performances and crisp presentation. Anurag Kashyap's talent has been on display before, but perhaps never as grandly as here. He tells the story of the lives of his commonplace protagonists in an unusual place and circumstances and is aided by an excellent soundtrack, which draws upon an array of sources and styles. Sneha Khanwalkar's soundtrack is an overflow of both creativity and hard work, and both show aplenty in the excellent output that bursts forth.Veterans like Manoj Bajpayee and Piyush Mishra are classy as expected, but the performances from relative unknowns are the icing on the cake. A special mention must be made of Nawazuddin Siddiqui. The emergence of Nawazuddin in a lead role in a mainstream film is in itself a remarkable fact in the annals of "Bollywood", for reasons unnecessary to explain. His screen presence, dialogue delivery and expressions are phenomenal and encourages in one the audacity of hoping – hoping for many more of such powerhouse performances in the years to come.The character building is magnificent, which lets one flow with the story without any jarring effects. The second part does tend to overflow with the number of characters at times, but the distinct flavour of each new element and the twists introduced thereby make it worth the trouble of tracking the complex plot.The only adverse criticism which can be made about Gangs of Wasseypur is that certain themes and parts of the film are 'inspired' by legendary mafia Classics though it must be said in the same breath that the 'adaptations' have been made with great skill and care, rendering the story a life and charm distinctly of its own. Gangs of Wasseypur's relationship with the Hindi film industry is multi-layered. On one level, it awes some of Gangs of Wasseypur's major protagonists. On another level, it is mocked. And therein lies the ultimate accomplishment of this great film. Just as evolution is about improving upon and refining what you inherited to leave behind something superior, Gangs of Wasseypur evolves from the land of Bollywood which it is born into and goes one, or maybe two, steps further.
Khoon kholega...
Madarchod ...meri amma ko bich bazar me thoka..
Nice making and concept of creative supbbbbbbbbbbbbbbb


                
Crime family saga is a cinematic sub-genre with more or less established conventions (mainly thanks to Godfather films) and it does not present comforable terrain to come up with original ideas. Anurag Kashyap and his crew securely overcome such obstacles and create a distinguished amalgam of particularism and universalism. The entire story is set in a very restricted locality (in and around Wasseypur and Dhanbad, except brief Varanasi sequences) and in specific periods of time but the themes it handles are thorougly universal in both time and space.It may be argued that violence is aestheticized to an adamant degree but it is for granted that it is never gratuitous. Each depiction of violence has its own merit in progression of the story.


                
One of best greatest gangster thriller movie of the century.Its actually the tale of place called Wasseypur a coal mine area in India.The movie tells the tale of fueds which happened in real life also.The basic thing that drives the movie is vengeance.


                
I didn't love the first part but the second part is stellar and outstanding making this one of the best most innovative films to ever have come out. The plot is detailed, absolutely stunning, doesn't wait for you to say WOW but conditions you to the furore of it's own temper. This is one outstanding documentary sort of film about GANGS OF WASSEYPUR. The acting, the action, the comedy in troubled times till the very last scene of every part was amazing. I recommend this to INDIANS. There is everything Indian about it with absolutely nothing western. I hope the director does many films, I promise to watch all of them at the movies. Thanks.


                
1st thing I want to say is that..if you are a YASH RAJ FILMS fans, then this is not for you...! This the most perfect film Bollywood has ever produced...The film goes through the lives of gangsters and goons...instead of just showing their activities(which all bollywood films does), this film takes you through the pain, sense, feeling of the lives of those gangsters. I did a really really lot of research of those Bihar gang wars and have concluded that the film tells 75% of the truth....moreover HATS HATS off to my favourite director ANURAG KASHYAP SIR for excellent cinematography (that hawk-eye view of filming !!!), filming, screenplay, story and the whole package.....and of-course to the reality in the film that he has shown... And lastly I want to say that this film changed my life...after this film released, I started watching only sensible and reality films...THANKS TO SIR A. KASHYAP...! SO PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE WATCH this film....for a life long experience...I have a lot more to say but here there is word limit....so THANK YOU...! and don't miss this one....!


                
This is a master piece. I call this new age cinema. Those who are getting bored of Yashraj and KJ movies, will definitely like GAngs of Wasseypur. Great acting by unknown actors. Each character in the movie has a different shade of human. Manoj Vajpayee is great as usual. Nawazuddin was hardly known before GoW. Timanshu was only known as good director. After watching GoW, i say he is much better actor than a director. Piyush Mishra proved why he deserves respect in the industry. Great dialogues. Teri keh ki luga,,, tumse na hoga Beta... Great Street music:: This movie is a career change for Nawazuddin, Richa, Hema Qureshi. I want to see all of them again.


                
This is what I call a real bold step towards true wholesome cinematic experience in Bollywood. Anurag Kashyap is known for his out of the box storytelling ability and he has taken this to greater Heights with Gangs. Based on real cum fictional story Gangs show you what real Bihar was few decades back. My few friends are from Bihar and while watching the film I can actually relate to their conversation. The film is all about brilliant moments and they are numerous that you wont give a damn about the story. You will feel entertained by some mind blowing dialogues which I can only say 2nd to sholay. I have seen many Sunny Deol Movies with meaningless dialogues please don't compare with them. Anurag Kashyap's hardwork shows, he has done immense research which you can experience it on the way everything is shown in detail. Bang On characterization, well timed songs, witty and funny dialogues, brilliant script and direction. This film is going to take away all filmfares this year. Strictly for adults must watch guys in theatre as I don't think Indian Govt will allow this movie to be aired on television. Don't miss it. I am eagerly waiting for its ultimate part bring it on Anurag.
Anurag, dude, U have proved that you are the gem of this Indian Film Industry, and that too from Varanasi ;) Sardar Khan, This is what a Godfather in actual India looks like, a pretty normal looking, normal living human being with all the DESIPANA instilled in him. Have always believed Manoj Bajpayee and Anurag Kashyap work like a deadly combo (REMEMBER BHIKHU MHATRE ??? ) and this movie proves it yet again. Richa Chadha : lady, what an actress you are ! Matching and sometimes overshadowing actor like Manoj Bajpayee isn't that easy but you do it with such an ease. Piyush Mishra : The role disappointed me a lot. Wanted to see more of this brilliant actor. Nawazuddin : M w8in fr that second part, where you play the protagonist, cuz I believe you can play any role after Kahaani :)Cons : 1. Length. Some people may find it tiring to digest 2.40 hrs long movie. 2. Some background songs have been recorded on a high volume, which irritates the viewers sometimes. Pros: 1. Anurag Kashyap 2. Manoj Bajpayee 3. Richa Chadha 4. Mast music


                
The time-line of the movie spans from early 1940s to early 1990s. The second part of the movie is expected to span from early 1990s to mid 2000s. It's a story of Pathans Shahid Khan (played by Jaideep Ahlawat)and his son Sardar Khan (Manoj Bajpayee, Qureshis, and politician-cum-coal mine owner-cum- local don Ramadheer Singh (Tigmanshu Dhulia)and his son. The tussle between Pathans and Qureshis, and that between Shahid Khan and Sardar Khan on one side and Ramadheer Singh and his son on the other side are the highlights of the movie. In between, one also sees different facets of coal mafia, revenge, rivalries among Muslims, and even love stories too. The movie is intense, gripping, and has a fair sprinkling of cuss words one finds in Bihar and Jharkhand, where the film is based. The music of the film is another highlight, and one needs to watch the film to fully realize the relevance of songs in the film. In short: a must- watch movie for those who love hard hitting movies with great acting from all the actors.


                
this movie is a legend in a Hindi cinema ever and will be... The movie starts with a bang and carries the charm throughout. The way each character is introduced is terrific. It is story telling at its best. From Shahid Khan to Sardar Khan to Sultan, you actually end up fearing them all - the characters are so beautifully portrayed. Manoj Bajpai is amazing as Sardar (he really got into the character) and the narration (by one of the gang members) adds a lot of flavor to the entire flow of the movie.Siddiqui's role is brief in the first part and I have a feeling he will play a major role in the remaining part of this epic. He is already looking good. Tigmanshu as Ramadheer Singh is terrific, his expressions too good.Apart from this, the movie is informative - it very subtly tells the audience all about the way Indian coal mafia has progressed over the years, the gang wars, the politics. Obviously there is a lot of slang. I have not seen a Hindi movie with so crude a language ever, absolutely not recommended for family viewing and children/teenagers.


                
If there ever was a movie that gave a real feel of the crime in Bihar without actually having to be a part of the crime itself, it is this one. This story is the sort that needs to be seen and told at the same time - and it is how Anurag Kashyap chooses to go about his job. The beauty of the movie is that there is no single hero in this movie. Each character is imperfect and yet lends to the whole that is the movie. While the language may be abrasive and the expression rustic, the movie as a whole delivers an experience. Manoj Bajpai delivers a stupendous performance as Sultan Khan, but that can be said of all the others in this movie as well. Just a warning though. This is definitely not a movie to take your kids to!


                
Someone in the Cannes Film Festival said that 'Gangs of Wasseypur puts Tarantino in a corner with its cool command of cinematically-inspired and referenced violence, ironic characters and breathless pace', how right she was. The son of Hollywood-Bollywood Anurag Kashyap has made this path breaking work of art as one of the best movies in recent times. Gangs of Wasseypur 1 had Sardar Khan i.e Manoj Bajpai all over it. Manoj Bajpai starts off saying that he won't let a hair grow on his head until he takes revenge on Ramadhir Singh for his father's assassination but later in the end of the film he himself is assassinated by Qureshi under the instruction of Ramadhir Singh. GOW 2 starts off where Danish Khan(Sardar's Eldest son) is planning to take revenge but eventually gets himself killed in the action. Meanwhile Faizal Khan was growing into a drug addict and one speech from his mother Nagma suddenly indulges him to take up weapon in one hand and keep ganja on the other. Faizal's journey from nobody to the who's who of Wasseypur is shown with the help of a three minuite speech by the narrator which somewhat fails to unfold his character properly ,but still Nawazuddin Siddique has pulled off another gem through his acting. Though an improperly portrayed character of Faizal is pulled off by Siddique with sheer genius but Durga's (Sardar Khan's second wife) son Definite definitely steals the show. Starting from the uprising of Singh-Khan feud by the assassination of Shahid Khan to the birth of a vengeful Sardar Khan- from the rise of Sardar Khan as a "face you should fear" to his assassination at the hands of Ramadhir- from the rise of Danish,Faizal,Perpendicular,Definite ,Tangent to the dramatic and stylish assassination of Ramadhir Singh , Gangs of Wasseypur series definitely had all the spice in it to be earmarked as an epic trend-setter in the history of film-making.
I have watched some of the legendary movies from Hollywood and the elements which makes them legendary is what I find with Gangs of Wasseypur. It is : 1. The honesty in depiction of a story with suitable characters and adherence to the plot. 2. Not succumbing to the temptation of attracting large family audience to earn more money. 3. Showing what is exact, without any cosmetic changes.Anurag Kashyap had to include some necessary 'entertaining' moments to hold the audience, but it didn't look a deliberate attempt and indeed mingled well with the plot. GoW talks about a revengeful attitude that percolates to many generations. There are villages in India where this attitude stays for decades as the political struggle for domination over masses continues aided by weak law and order situations.


                
Movie is excellent but doesn't reach to the level of Satya or a Company which were fantastic because of its pacing and impact which they leave on viewing it all the time...The movie is at par with Ajay Devgns Gangaajal in terms of violence and execution. Acting by all especially Nawaz and Manoj is great but the latter was much better in Satya...Manoj's best film and performance would always be in Satya and no takeaway in case of this flick...Direction and dialogues are soul of the film...The accent and brutality shown is so real that there is no flaw in this aspect at all...Overall, I went gaga over this film when I watched it for the first time and had not seen Satya... Still would say a superb movie which is different from the regular cinema that Bollywood churns our everyday...Highly Recommended!!


                
All the praise associated with the movie mainly goes to Anurag Kashyap. The story Gangs of Wasseypur has been inspired from reality scripted and told in such a way that it even comes out as an entertainer. All credit goes to the director. Anurag Kashyap is the best at least in Bollywood when it comes out to portray reality. The movie is divided in two parts but on IMDb it's merged into a single profile. It doesn't matter much; one can show his respect at same place.Tone, Script & Story: The movie portrays growth and demise of criminal groups that existed in place called Wasseypur. The movie is very nicely scripted.Direction, Screenplay, Cinematography: As discussed all the praise goes to Anurag Kashyap. The filming locations bring the story to its life.Music: A lot of local taste is added. I would term music to be 'very good'. Acting: All the actors associated do justice their roles. It's a delight to watch them.Final Verdict: You can relate, only if you belong one of such neighborhood. You can add it to your collections to have something of such places to be in your knowledge.


                
