The archetypal action film, Seven Samurai is also one of the richest works to ever be committed to celluloid. Each of its characters is extraordinarily realized; each has his or her own arc, his or her own vital part to play in the film's slow progression towards its dramatic finale. Typically, Kurosawa has put the film together using an exceeding degree of artistry; each and every shot, each action sequence, is exquisitely composed; and yet none seems contrived or out-of-place within the overall fabric of the work. Everything is beautifully conceived and in focus, both literally and figuratively.When watching Seven Samurai, movie lovers will immediately recognize that several of its key elements can be readily detected in countless similar films made during the last half-century. The audition scenes, in which several samurai are recruited for the difficult task of defending a farming town from a group of bandits, strikes a particularly familiar chord, as do those showing the samurai training the lowly villagers to fight and use weapons. Indeed, the theme of a highly experienced group of "tough guys" taking up the cause of the disenfranchised has become something of an action film cliche, portions of which echo throughout the American western, as well as its progeny (think The Dirty Dozen, The Road Warrior or even television's The A Team).But what really stands out in Seven Samurai are its characters. They run the gamut, from elder teacher to hopeful youth, stoic warrior to undisciplined brigand. Kurosawa even finds room for a youthful romance, not to mention the mix of poor and beleaguered townspeople he depicts within the setting of the town. Perhaps its no wonder the enemy bandits are virtually faceless-- there is so much conflict and passion present within the group of protagonists, the villains need not be more than a vague threat. Through it all Kurosawa never forgets who these people are and where they stand in comparison to one another. Obviously, the samurai are, for the most part, samurai, while the townspeople are merely peasants, lacking even in funds to pay their noble defenders. Kurosawa deftly illustrates these class differences by having one peasant fear horribly for the honor of his daughter, who he suspects will be lured by the wealth of the samurai; and also by giving us one samurai who is no samurai at all, but merely a peasant himself whose own farming village was in his youth destroyed by marauding warriors. The film thus wraps a a portrait of class conflict in a cloak of solidarity. The samurai unite to defend the poor peasants, but the ending is not exactly happy for them. Nor are the peasants completely honorable. We learn, for instance, that they have in the past murdered defeated samurai and looted their bodies, and it becomes apparent late in the film that their claims of poverty are perhaps not as truthful as at first seemed apparent.So why do the samurai defend them so valiantly? For honor? For love of adventure? The answer to this question is left intentionally vague; it is up to each viewer to draw his or her own conclusions. It is to the film's credit that it forces such questions upon us while never allowing them to cause the motivations of its characters to seem untrue.Modern viewers will find the action sequences of Seven Samurai to be restrained. There are, for instance, no "Gladiator" or "Braveheart" moments in which limbs are visibly hacked off, blood flies and speakers pound with booming audio. But the action is wonderfully filmed and there is some early use of slow motion to accentuate key moments. The 3 1/2 hour running time may also deter some, but I find the length to be one of the film's charms; it takes its dear sweet time in exposing its riches, and no single moment feels underdeveloped or awkward. Don't miss it.10/10
Though its biblical connotation is not the happiest one ("Seven Deadly Sins") number seven, omnipresent in our (7 days a) weekly cycles, seems to have been a lucky number in the world of cinema. Several very solid and some great movies have this number in their title, starting with gag-wise incredibly inventive Seven Chances (1925) from genius of silent era Buster Keaton, Frank Borzage's silent version of classic melodrama 7th Heaven (1927), Walt Disney's first feature-length animated movie, Snowhite and Seven Dwarfs (1940), recognized as an instant classic and remained so ever after, Stanley Donen's ear-pleasing, eye-riveting musical Seven Brides for Seven Brothers (1954), staged in western milieu, with the breathtaking barn-raising dance sequence, Ingmar Bergman's literally Death-defying, answers-to-reasons-for-human-misfortune-seeking masterpiece, Det sjunde inseglet ("The Seventh Seal") (1957), Billy Wilder's Seven Year Itch (1957), a clever and amusing first collaboration with incomparable Marilyn Monroe (a worm-up for their second, bigger if not decisive step in taboos-of-the-motion-picture-production-code-breaking, brilliant comedy Some Like It Hot (1959)), up to newer examples like David Fincher's disturbing drama Se7en (1995), one of the finest Hollywood movies of the 90's, as well as Tsui Hark's Chat Gim ("Seven Swords") (2005), a stunner in the department of action sequences from the often under-appreciated genre Wuxia, originating from Chinese literature.However, even among such illustrious examples of movie-making par excellence, one movie holds a special place, Shichinin no samurai ("Seven Samurai") (1954) from the legendary Japanese director Akira Kurosawa. This movie doesn't seem to lack anything that an avid movie consumer, in particular samurai genre admirer, might be wishing for.It is not easy to say anything new about the one of the most analyzed and scrutinized movies of the film history. Nevertheless, and despite being eventually only repeated, it shall be mentioned that movie has a simple but very engaging story - a group of peasants, representing a village, periodically stormed by gang of bandits, looting their crops and other possessions, hires several wandering ronins (masterless samurai) to help them protect the village - not without lucid observations on the possibility of social interaction between members of different classes during the almost seven centuries long feudal history (1185-1868) of Japan.Characterization is excellent, and though having clear stand-outs in samurai's true leader, Kambei (Takashi Shimura), a wise tactician of the exceptional valor, as well as in the exuberantly uncontrollable Kikuchiyo (Toshiro Mifune), messy in its appearance and blustering in its manner, yet, a peasant descendant himself, making for a perfect link between the samurai and their employers, all other samurai are memorable, as well, sporting wide variety of personality traits. In joining the village protection campaign, hired for nothing more than a regular meal for as long as providing a service, thus primarily hoping to finally fill their starving stomachs, each one of them was driven by different additional motives, whether they were challenged to test their bravery, fighting skills and tactics, seeking for excitement and recognition, trying to regain pride and glory of the past days, just reaching out for that human touch (cross-class communication, even mere courtship promising relationship) they have been deprived of, or simply interested in its noble cause.Together with true highlights in realistically choreographed battle scenes, showing all the pain and misery of excessive violence on the reverse of heroism, that even defenders cannot avoid resorting to, sadly announcing inevitable decline of the samurai and their ways exposed to new artless technology, unbecomingly dying ambushed by distant shots from the muskets, while ingloriously stuck in the village muds... it all makes for a compelling narrative.Though triumphant in their common task to protect the village, unlikely alliance between samurai and peasants is ultimately doomed to fail. In the short run, it gives expected results, but in the long run, does not stand the chance. That is so loudly, although in fact silently, expressed at the end, when peasants don't even care to join the surviving samurai in their mourning over the fallen ones, not even giving the last well deserved respect to those who have helped them withstand fierce attacks, prevail and ultimately defeat bandits, and, in doing so, most of them given their lives. Peasants simply continue with their daily chores, while surviving samurai have to leave the village, like they have never existed, sadly symbolizing their ultimate destiny: slowly but surely stepping off the future pages of the history books.Seven Samurai, the movie, is rightfully considered as the one that has redefined samurai film in its contemporary perception, and dawned almost two decades long string of successes, instantly becoming the brightest example of thus revived, uniquely provocative and entertaining sub-genre, unknown as such in the country of its origin, classified there within a broader genre, jidaigeki (a period drama, often describing events from pre-modern era of the Edo period, marking the governance of Tokugawa shogunate (1603-1868), relatively peaceful times for Japan's long history of civil wars, as opposed to gendaigeki, films treating contemporary matters), and by IMDb standards, as an action drama, occasionally historical, when based on real events.Originating in the Edo-era Far East, it has inspired equally successful, star-studded (Y. Brynner, S. McQueen, C. Bronson, J. Coburn, E. Wallach, R. Vaughn, H. Buchholz, B. Dexter) Hollywood remake, The Magnificent Seven (1960), conveniently situated in the U.S. West of 19th century, as well as three lesser sequels, Return of... (1966), Guns of... (1969), and ...Ride! (1972).


                
I discovered 16 of Kurosawa's best known films before returning to the one which is commonly thought of as his masterpiece. Seven Samurai is unlike any other grand classic ever produced. It's basic plot can be summed up in a single easy sentence, yet its refinement and execution rival any movie you've ever seen. The premise: in chaotic 16th century Japan, as marauders threaten raid villages, one village hires samurai to defend it from a group of bandits. Yet Kurosawa (also co-writer) developed these characters in a way unheard of for what might pass as an epic action film. To its astonishing credit, through all of its 207 minutes running time, Seven Samurai never falters or bores. And if the script is a marvel in itself, the acting and production design than derive from it are nothing short of superlative. It is said that Kurosawa forced the villagers (from supporting role to mere extra) to live together as a community during production and be their characters, each and every one of which he had drawn out specifically. This unusual technique gave Seven Samurai a feel of authenticity unparalleled in film history.The samurai themselves are so richly given life to in the screenplay that little more would have been needed to make them memorable characters, yet the main cast pay off at every turn, and though every one of the seven main actors give in perfect performances (never as I had feared before watching it do you confuse them, even in the chaotic battle scenes), two immortal roles have a particularly resounding effect: Takashi Shimura (Kambei Shimada), who plays the leader of the ragged band of samurai, gives his sage and venerable warrior a god-like intensity that makes the magnetic charisma of his character unquestionable. One of the easiest leaders to root for in all the history of film-making. Stealing the show however, albeit by a very thin margin, is longtime Kurosawa favorite coworker Toshiro Mifune (Kikuchiyo) as the rogue seventh, the black sheep of the herd, giving the bravura ultimate performance of a lifetime paved throughout with great roles. The story follows them and the villagers, equally nuanced and developed, through their encounter, training, eventual bonding and the big inevitable fight for survival. Unlike subsequent very successful remakes (i.e. Magnificent Seven), seven Samurai transcended excellency by having many layers (nothing or no one is white or black: everything exists in shades of gray) and thus being very real and human. Even without the menace, its interpersonal dynamics would have made it perfect human drama, subtle, balancing comedy, intensity, realism, drama and a deep philosophy with astonishing ease, yet the menace does materialize and thus Seven Samurai unleashes its violence in a series of action scenes crafted with such vision and ingenuity as has ever reached an action film (the frenetic battle scenes at the end rather evoke Saving Private Ryan in their relentlessness).In the end, what made this into solid gold was, at the core, Akira Kurosawa, who would, despite directing many further masterpieces (Throne of Blood, Yojimbo, Red Beard, Dersu Uzala, Kagemusha, Ran), would never top this one. Throughout his life, Kurosawa kept confirming his status as perhaps the greatest director ever. If so, Seven Samurai is the ultimate proof of that truth. One of the very best films ever made and personal all-time favorite.


                
Akira Kurosawa's masterpiece... The Japanese equivalent to Orson Welles' Citizen Kane.. I say it's just as good, if not even better. Not only Kurosawa's most well known film, but the most widely recognized Japanese film ever made. This movie will forever be known as a milestone in motion picture history.The story revolves around a village that has become a group of bandits' common looting and pillaging ground. The villagers cannot take this any longer and go to town to hire warriors to defend the village from the bandits. A wandering ronin, Kambei (Takashi Shimura) agrees to help them and with his help, they recruit six others that agree to take the job. The seven samurai teach the villagers how to stand up to the bandits and defend themselves. Finally, when the time comes, they engage in a fierce battle with the attacking bandits.About once in every 20 years or so we are gifted with a film that has the meaning, power, richness, and technique that The Seven Samurai has. I cannot urge anyone enough to see this film, the images are true cinematic poetry rich with so much emotion that I cannot even describe them in words. If you have never seen any of Kurosawa's works, then please see Seven Samurai... you will witness the true beauty, excellence and magic that the art form known as film is capable of.


                
Story-telling at its finest, "Seven Samurai" is a terrific film not because of a handful of memorable scenes or lines, but rather because scene-by-scene, frame-by-frame, it tells an interesting story as well as it is possible to tell it.  The story and characters are developed carefully, and everything about the movie, from the settings and props to the musical score, is done carefully and expertly.Mifune grabs the attention in most of his scenes, and Shimura's more restrained character is a nice balance.  Those two have the best parts, but all seven of the samurai are memorable characters.  The sequence of events that collects the seven together occupies the first part of the movie, and forms a perfect foundation for the rest.  A few of the villagers are also portrayed nicely, although they are naturally overshadowed when the samurai are around.The story always moves along nicely, with many ups and downs.  It has enough unpredictability to keep you interested the whole time, without ever losing its credibility.  There is plenty of action, but there is also substance behind the action to give it more significance.  The only possible drawback is the long running time (you can always split it up into two installments, but it's more satisfying if you can watch the whole story through at once), but there is little that you could cut out, even if you wanted to.  It holds your attention the entire time with a good story and great technique, not by resorting to sensational or sordid details.This movie well deserves its reputation for excellence, and is one that everyone who appreciates classic cinema will want to see and enjoy.


                
This is one of those great epic films that stands the test of time. I only saw this film for the first time in 2000, almost 50 years after it was made, and was astounded by it. It was an epic that truly told the whole story. Whereas most movies today manage to skirt around huge chunks of what would happen, this movie manages to show them all, and not in a boring way. The samurai don't even reach the village in danger until more than 30 minutes into the film, all that time being spent getting to know each of the characters and the motivation and history behind them. We get to truly learn what it takes to be a samurai, and what truly sets them apart. By the time we arrive at the village we have become attached to some of the samurai in a very personal way, respecting each of them in their own way. The rest of the movie progresses as if it were a documentary, not a fictional film, where we see each and every piece of the grand puzzle that happens in this village. I can't recommend this film enough, though I must throw a disclaimer out that if you're not a fan of epic movies with subtitles you may not be as interested. It is a 3 1/2 hour long movie! But if you can find the time to sit down and watch it, I doubt you'll be very disappointed.
Akira Kurosawa was and is considered the master of east-western film-making (in that he made his Japanese films accessible for fans of American westerns while still making the movies his country found popular), and out of the few Kurosawa movies I've had the pleasure of viewing (Hidden Fortress, Rashomon, and this) I'd have to say that while Rashomon is still my favorite, I nevertheless had a blast during this one. The story has become quite influential to filmmakers from the likes of John Sturges (The Magnificent Seven) to John Lasseter (A Bug's Life): a small village has been terrorized by bandits for far too long, amid times of civil war in the nation, and so on the advice of Grand-Dad, they decide to hire four - which soon becomes seven - samurai for the job. There's no money, just food and honor, even though the village isn't exactly pleased to have samurai back in their village. Each character is drawn and executed compellingly, though for my money Toshiro Mifune proves why he became one of Japan's most notorious film actors. His work as the brave, bold outcast of the seven is awe-inspiring practically all the way through, like the hero of a western that anyone can root for since he's a true rebel at heart within a group of men with a task at hand. Kurosawa directs his tale and main and supporting players like a grand composer, orchestrating a vivid story and extracting from great actors like Takashi Shimura (the old, wise Samurai), Ko Kimura (the disciple Samurai), Daisuke Kato (Schichiroji), and Mifune (Kikuchiyo, which isn't his real name) just the right touches of humanity, humor, tragedy, romance, and intensity. The overall intensity, by the way, isn't over-estimated; its long length (almost 3 1/2 hours) isn't distracting in the slightest since Kurosawa's editing and photography (the later helmed by Asakazu Nakai) are extraordinary. Not to compare the two films, but one thing I saw in common with Seven Samurai and a Lord of the Rings film is that, if anything else, it definitely isn't a boring experience. Along with a score by Fumio Hayasaka that gives the film just a bit more of a pulse, and a showdown that is relentless with excitement, this is one of the must-see action films for film buffs, or anyone with an serious interest in having fun with an epic.


                
In 1954, Kurosawa made foreign film history with Seven Samurai. Everything about this film is just absolutely terrific. The film lasts around 3 1/2 hours, and every minute of it is unbelievable filmmaking. Kurosawa's blend of stellar craft, captivating cinematography, ravishing art direction, and unforgettable characters makes this one of the most intelligent films ever made. The first hour is devoted to devoloping the many four-dimensional characters which inhabit the film throughout. When watching the film, the audiece cares for, trusts, mourns and ultimately believes every single attribute the characters have. Samurai set up the way that many action films are made today; films like Predator and Alien still work within it's boundaries. The battle scenes are terrific and the fast-paced editing is ground-breaking. If people have a problem with subtitles and long movies, then see this and your opinions will change. The sheer filmmaking of Kurosawa will not disappoint. Also see Yojimbo and High & Low.


                
Well, if you haven't seen Seven Samurai then you're not really  qualified to call yourself a film fan, basically. One of the most  influential movies of all time, that still holds up extremely well  nearly 50 years later.  Akira Kurosawa's epic tale of heroism and barbarism set the standard in  so many ways it's hard to imagine that any modern film does not show  its influence in some way or other. A great script, great characters,  mostly great acting, splendid cinematography and action sequences that  wrote the book about how these things should be filmed. Even now, after  so many have tried to imitate or beat it, Seven Samurai remains a  totally gripping 3.5 hour experience.  Akira Kurosawa is one of the gods of Cinema - men who seem to have been  born to make films, who have it in their blood. People like Alfred  Hitchcock, Stanley Kubrick, King Hu and Steven Spielberg, who make it  look easy... who so obviously "get it". In this pantheon, Kurosawa is  perhaps the daddy of them all, however, and Seven Samurai is one of his  finest moments.  The scale of the production is remarkable - to undertake making such an  epic in post-war Japan was a feat in itself. The cast of dozens of  inhabitants of a village specially built for the movie, the 40 bandits  and their horses, all the costumes, the armour, the weapons. Few  directors could have brought all of this together and still paid such  attention to the smallest of details in script and scene. Credit must  go to the team Kurosawa worked with too, I presume   The movie's setup became the template for many movies to follow, the  most recentl example that comes to mind being the excellent Korean  period movie MUSA (The Warrior), for example. A motley band of  characters is assembled and placed in a situation where the odds are  seemingly stacked against them, and each gets there chance to really  shine, prove themselves and become something more than a normal man.  Kurosawa's Samurai movies all share a little bit in common, which is  the depiction of the Samurai as some noble beast, different from the  common and pathetic rabble of ordinary man. In Seven Samurai the  farmers are a base lot, cowardly, selfish, vain, pathetic and  treacherous. How he found actors with such miserable looking faces is a  mystery in itself. In contrast, the Samurai embody all the qualities  that humanity would generally like to believe define it (us). Brave,  righteous, honest, strong and heroic. Toshiro Mifune's character stands  in the middle and represents this difference - perhaps meant to suggest  that mankind can strive to rise above his flaws, but mostly suggesting  to me that the common man is basically a mess and we should learn to  respect our betters. Kurosawa was definitely not a socialist, unless  I'm mis-reading him wildly.  I'm sure many out there wonder, does a 50 year old black and white  movie about Samurai really have any interest or relevance to us in the  21st century? The answer is a definite "Yes!". Seven Samurai shows us  what cinema can be, what cinema is *meant* to be. It is moving picture  as art in a way that the multiplex-fillers of today cannot possibly  claim to be. It's a film that satisfies on many different levels, and  still provides a bench mark which today's film makers could and should  use to evaluate their own contributions. True, few out there will ever  be able to claim they've made a film that rivals Seven Samurai in scope  or beauty, but this *is* what every director should aspire to! The sad  thing is, I just can't see a project like this ever coming out of the  Hollywood studio system, where art is just another commodity and  marketing is the new god


                
It is hard to know exactly where to begin when talking about a film of such utter quality.  What must be said at the start is that "The Seven Samurai" is flawless.  It's characters are brought to life by some of the finest and most committed acting I have ever seen. It is a compelling story of courage, duty, honor, respect and change.I could echo Roger Ebert's commentary, in which he noted that Kurosawa's film set the standard for the modern action film. It was he notes the first film to assemble a team of hardened men to undertake a mission.  But I say read Eberts review if you want to get his take.I have watched the film several times and what is truly amazing about "The Seven Samurai" is the way in which Kurosawa choses to tell his tale, which is, I think, truly innovative and subtle.Growing up on action fare as we have "Seven Samurai" should really hold no magic for us.  We have the formula (in many forms) before.  Countless times. However it is not old to us and magic it carries. I make the case (now anyway) that this comes largely from Kurosawa's knack,  his amazing gift, for photographic composition.  Most filmmakers today in the action genre have some flare for flashy cinematography.  We get sharp angles, dramatic poses (most favorably lighted), and fast cuts.  I guess this is to involve us in the high emotion of the situation.  But Kurosawa has patience and while I think he gave the blocking of his shots, and their composition a great deal of thought, it comes across as if he did not.  His camera moves as though it were simply following the characters through the story.  The camera work in "Seven" is so much more subtle and so much more compelling than almost any action fare today.  His camera allows, we the viewer, to be, at various times, all of the major characters in the film.Toshiro Mifune's emotional explosion at his "fellow" Samurai is probably the most obvious example of this.  He gets up and at first appears to agree with the Samurai sentiment that killing all of the villagers is a good idea, but when he turns and his anger is directed at them the scene and our place in it change.  We are no longer passive viewers watching heated exchange between two factions.  The angry Toshiro is yelling at us, looking down at us.  For we are looking up at him as his fellow samurai would see him. By the end of his out burst he angrily leaves the room but before he goes he turns slightly to look at us, but we don't see his face, for now we are looking (in one of the great shots of the film) at his feet.  The Samurai are ashamed and so are we because we identified with them at first and Kurosawa had the guts to show us that we are wrong to do so.I could go on, and on about his film, but I leave you with this, watch  it.
Shichinin no samurai is a quintessential Kurosawa movie, and probably his greatest lagniappe to the world of cinema. Shichinin no samurai is a classic example of a profound character study well complemented by some ingenious direction and breathtaking cinematography. The world of cinema owes a colossal debt to the master movie-maker and plethora of his sui generis works such as this one. The movie depicts penury with sheer brilliance and uncanny resplendence. The inexorable resolve exhibited by the destitute villagers to fight the rapacious bandits can be inspiring even to the most pessimistic. The fidelity shown by the samurai to the villagers, each hired for a bowl of rice, accentuates the very essence of humanity. The movie's slow pace and its poignant background score enriches it with a sense of melancholy, thereby making it truly mesmerizing to watch. The entire cast has performed really well, taking care of the nuances with utmost precision and incredible conviction. Kurosawa's plaintive storytelling, coupled with his subtle brilliance, makes the movie a truly ineffable experience for the viewer. PS. Though not meant for everyone, the movie is sine qua non for cineastes and avid lovers of pristine cinema. It's also a great means to get acquainted with Kurosawa's oeuvre before exploring his more personal works like Rashomon, Ikiru, Ran, etc.http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/


                
In the Sixteenth Century, in Japan, a poor village is frequently looted by armed bandits losing their crop of rice. Their patriarch Grandpa advises the villagers to hire a Ronin to defend their village. Four farmers head to town to seek out their possible protectors, but they just can offer three meals of rice per day and lodging for the samurai. They succeed in hiring the warming-hearted veteran Kambei Shimada (Takashi Shimura) that advises that they need six other samurai to protect their lands. Kambei recruits the necessary five samurai and the brave jester Kikuchiyo (Toshirô Mifune) and move to the village. After a feared reception, Kambei plots a defense strategy and the samurai start training the farmers how to defend their lands and families for the battle that approaches. In order to celebrate the milestone of 4,000 reviews in IMDb, I decided to watch again "The Seven Samurai", the most known masterpiece of Akira Kurosawa and among my Top-10 movies ever. As far as I recall, this was the first samurai movie that I have watched and it is still my favorite despite many other excellent movies. "The Seven Samurai" is a perfect movie: the story and screenplay are amazing, dividing the dramatic story in the recruitment, reception, strategy, training, harvest, romance and the final battle of the samurai in such a way that the viewer does not feel the 207 minutes running time. The direction of Akira Kurosawa is perfectionist as usual, and the choreography of the battle in the rain is extremely realistic. The acting is top-notch, highlighting Toshirô Mifune in a great shape, climbing trees, jumping and fighting in the role of a funny character. The cinematography, set decoration, costumes, lighting, everything is fantastic. In 1960, John Sturges remade this masterpiece with the western "The Magnificent Seven". My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Os 7 Samurais" ("The 7 Samurai")


                
Spoilers herein.We are all villagers through whose small world great artists pass.This is so clean, so effortless -- the originality is hard to appreciate because so much has been absorbed into the vernacular, but it still amazes.
My idea of genius is when someone can show you something you have never seen, but show it to you in such a way that you believe you knew it all along.This is a work of genius.
I had the pleasure to see this film in America sub-titled and in a Japanese theater in it's original uncut version. This movie gets better every time.The action scenes are better than anything out there today and Kurosawa-san didn't have CGI to abuse.It was incredible seeing this mismatched group of men band together to risk their lives for people they didn't really respect. Great character build-up, brilliant action, superb tension, and even some flashes of comedy. And it's one of the DEEPEST action films that ever existed.It shows the duty the samurai dedicates himself to. That whether he likes it or not, there are some things he just MUST do.3&1/2 hours long but it seemed like 1&1/2. How many films can honestly say that today? Never looked at my watch once.


                
Being a young filmmaker, I am constantly trying to discover films that can teach me how to push the boundaries of my imagination. I also need to be inspired by the power of the human spirit. Furthermore, because of my struggles in the "business" of making film, I need to constantly be reminded of the poetry of making personal films even if they are epic by theme and nature.Seven Samurai provides me with all of the above. A simple but beautiful story that contains some of the most memorable characters and character combinations I've ever seen in film. The characters are so rich that you could devote an entire movie to each of them.I sat in awe as I watched it for the first time on a digitally restored version on DVD.  Criterion did an amazing job in its restoration of the film. If you ever get a chance please watch it on DVD, which contains a section which compares the original and restored versions. They showed a scene, which lasted no longer than a minute where they had to remove 3500 particles! The difference is amazing.When I watch Mifune on screen I think immediately of Kurosawa. When I think of two of them it immediately brings to mind other great collaborations; Fellini and Mastroianni (and Masina); Bergman and Von Sydow; Scorcese and De Niro. It's rare when you have the greatest actor and director working together at their genius peak. It's almost as if the two were one leading their cinematic cavalries on film, and somehow, neither of them could have been as great on their own.I also have to comment on Kurosawa's collaboration with his cinematographer Asakazu Nakai.  Even though the film is about the outcastes of the time, their camera captures the poetic beauty of humanity and nature working together.I went to Japan last year and I am now ashamed that I didn't visit Kurosawa's grave. I am indebted to his contribution to cinema and his influence on my dream.


                
This is simply one of the most perfect films I have ever sat down to watch. This is an epic of great scale and the cinematography is awesome. The acting is dead on and even the portrayl of the peasant villagers is graphic and perfect. Akira Kurosawa is simply one of the greatest directors and autuer film-makers that has ever lived. Kurosawa's film's hit you on a level you wouldn't expect and they take you for a ride that is unforgettable. This film has great atmosphere and you get to see the absolutely astounding Toshiro Mifune, simply the greatest Japanese actor of all time. Do yourself a favor and take a rainy afternoon and sit down to watch one of the most important films in cinema history.


                
This flick has everything.  Drama.  Comedy.  Action.  It's just a really fun ride, with some depth to it.What really amazes me is that it's 3.5 hours long, and there isn't a single scene where I feel it drags.  In fact, I like "Seven Samurai" more every time I watch it.Everything about this film (the script, score, acting, directing) is perfect.I'd give it an 11 if I could, but I guess I have to give it a 10.


                
All I have to say is that I first saw this movie in an auditorium with about 150+ other first-year film students. It was required viewing for a class. I, as well as many other students I talked to then, were none too anxious to watch a 3 1/2 hour, foreign, nearly 50-year-old movie. I had only vaguely heard of Akira Kurosawa before.After the showing, I walked outside and it was like I was stuck in a daze. I didn't know what to do, I couldn't believe what I had just seen. This movie would eventually lead me to change the way I saw movies, and what constituted a great one. Now, about two years later I have seen nearly every single Kurosawa film (everyone I talked to that first saw this with me, have ALL done so, it will happen to you if you watch and enjoy this film). I have also seen this movie about ten more times, each time introducing it to someone who has never seen a Kurosawa film before. Everyone I showed it to, regardless of their movie taste, has at the least been entertained by it.
What amazes me though is how the 10th viewing of this film was just as powerful and exciting as my very first. I know no other movie I can say that of.


                
Akira Kurosawa made "Seven Samurai" because he wanted to make a real "jidai-geki," a real period-film that would present the past as meaningful, while also being an entertaining film. Kurosawa considered "Rashomon," the film rightfully credited with making the West aware of the Japanese cinema, with being neither. But in his attempt to make a truly "realistic" film, Kurosawa redefined the conflict at the heart of Japanese films. Before "Seven Samurai" this conflict was that of love versus duty, where the central character is compelled by fate to sacrifice what he loves in the name of duty. In "Seven Samurai" the focus remains on duty, yet the conflict is now between the real and the pretended. Calling yourself a samurai does not make you one, something proved time and time again in the film, from the test of skill turned deadly between Kyuzo (Seiji Miyaguchi) and the tall samurai to the first appearance of Kikuchiyo (Toshirô Mifune), with his stolen pedigree. Like Katshushiro (Ko Kimura), the youngster who wants to learn from the master, Kambei (Takashi Shimura), the audience is educated as to the true nature of the samurai.For me this film deals with the heroic, albeit in realistic terms. I have shown the film in World Literature classes, after students have read Homer's "Iliad" and as they begin reading Cervantes' "Don Quixote." Within that context, compared to the brutal arrogance of Achilles and the gentle insanity of Quixote, the heroic qualities of the seven samurai become clear. Their inspiration extends to some of the villagers. Manzo (Kamatari Fujiwara) is crazed with fear over the virtue of his daughter, Shino (Keiko Tsushima), and Rikichi (Yoshio Tsuchiya) fights to avenge the disgrace of his wife and his precipitating the death of Heihachi (Minoru Chiaki), but it is the comic Yohei (Bokuzen Hidari), who finds within himself the ability to fight, a die a tragic death, who is the true barometer for what the samurai mean to the village. But the greatest tragedy is that despite this most noble effort and the bodies buried in honor at the top of the village cemetery, this has been but a temporary union between the villagers and the samurai. When Kambei declares, "We have lost again," he redefines the battles: it was not to kill all the bandits, it was to find a true place in the world. Yet we should have already known this, for the painful truth was driven home when Kyuzo, the master swordsman, is gunned down from behind. No better proof is needed in this film of the bitter truth that the world is not fair.Mifune is the maniacal spirit of this film, as the faux-samurai Kikuchiyo, the dancing whirlwind whose emotions overwhelm everything including himself. But it is Shimura as Kambei, who embodies the mentor mentality with a minimum of effort, evoking more by rubbing his hand over his shaved head or giving a single piercing look than by any spoken dialogue. Even in a strong ensemble these performances stand out, for clearly different reasons. To fully appreciate Kurosawa's mastery in "Seven Samurai" you need to watch the film several times to better appreciate the way he constructs scenes, using contrasting images, evocative music and varying the length of cuts to affect tempo. For example, look carefully at how the early scene of the farmers searching the streets for samurai and the later sequence where Katsushiro watches Kyuzo and Kikuchiyo waiting for the bandit scouts to return to their horses. Both of these scenes are superb primers to Kurosawa's style.For years we had to put with the 160-minute version of the film that was made for export, which was actually called "The Magnificent Seven" until John Strugis's Western remake. Fortunately, "Seven Samurai" has been restored to full 208-minute glory, saved from being a lamentable cinematic tragedy on a par with "Greed," "The Magnificent Ambersons," and "Ivan the Terrible." There is a sense in which "Seven Samurai" is truly my favorite film, because it was the one that instilled in me a love of cinema, of the craft and art of movie making, of compelling me to understand intellectually how Kurosawa was skillfully manipulating my emotions. The final battle sequences, fought and filmed in a torrent of rain, exhausting characters and audience alike with its increasingly relentless tempo, is given its potency because of the human elements that have been established in all that has taken place before hand. "Seven Samurai" is a magnificent film against which the vast majority of epics pale in comparison. Not even Kurosawa scaled these heights ever again.
I really like this movie and have seen it several times, but each time I have to question why the bandits would attack a defended village. They had pillaged it before an unknown number of times and each time would have just ridden in and taken what they wanted. This time was radically different. Gone were the straightforward accesses and in place were flooded areas, stout fences, and Samauri. I would have to say the bandit leader was lacking in marbles. Why not just ride on to the next village and plunder that one? Why engage a formidable enemy and risk losing any men at all? At any rate had I been a rider I would have ridden the other way once the fighting began and not stick with an idiot who called himself the leader.


                
Let me first say: the seven samurai is a very gripping movie. There is hardly a moment in the movie that is not absolutely worth your time, which is quite a feat for a movie that is over three hours long.But the movie is not perfect. Like in most older Japanese movies the characters are almost cartoon-like, and so is their behavior. So much even that you can watch the Japanese-language version, which you should, without subtitles and still understand everything that is going on. The genius of Kurosawa gets away with it. Almost any other director would not have been able to make a serious movie in such a cartoon-style. And then there is the goofs. People switch positions when viewpoints change back and forth. People get stabbed again and again and still walk away as if tickled by a feather. How does this fit a movie in which every shot is supposed to be handcrafted? None the less, this is a wonderful movie and a landmark in movie-history. But one should see all of the movie and not just it's magic. So in my opinion The Seven Samurai is a very intense, very worthwhile movie. But it's not flawless.


                
What else can I say that hasn't already been said about this film? Nothing much but I'll still tell you my own experiences about watching this film.I had just recently become interested about Akira Kurosawa after being very impressed by some of his films: Dersu Uzala and Ran. Now when I had the chance to watch this man's most recognized work that has said to be the first modern action film, I could not let it pass by. This film was 51 years old when I watched it. Being born to this generation which grew up with fast-paced, explosive action films filled with computer effects, I shouldn't have been entertained when watching this colossal 3½ hour, slow-paced, black&white film with no computer effects at all. Despite all that this film shines bright for it is film-making at its best. If there is one film in this world that is completely flawless then it must be this one. All aspects in this film work perfectly: acting, directing, art direction, costume design, cinematography, editing, sound, everything!The Best thing about Kurosawa is the way he uses the camera to tell the story: visually stunning yet simple. Honest film-making with no tricks.If you haven't seen this film and have intentions on seeing it, then you are an idiot. Sorry but this film is larger than life and you just can't die without seeing it or you shall always feel that you have missed something grand.(Note: this last paragraph is only directed to fellow film-fanatics)


                
Let's see what this movie didn't have going for it to this middle-aged American. 1. It's in black-and-white 2. It's in Japanese 3. It takes place in a 16th century Japanese farming village 4. It's subtitled...and 5. It's 207 minutes long And it's just about the best movie I've ever seen...the time flew by.  I didn't want it to end.  Kurisawa has made a masterpiece I can't recommend highly enough.


                
"There are people who criticize my work and say it is not realistic. But I feel that merely copying the outward appearance of the world would not result in anything real -- that is only copying. I think that to find what is real one must look very closely at one's world, to search for those things that contribute to this reality which one feels under the surface. The novels of Dostoevsky, Tolstoy and Turgenev show us what these things are. To be an artist means to search for, find, and look at these things; to be an artist means never to avert one's eyes." (Akira Kurosawa)Writing about Kurosawa has always been a challenge for me. He's one of the greatest cinematic Gods, and is the guru of Japanese film for many of us. How can one describe his 'magnum opus', the greatest of all and the first actual samurai-picture. Seven Samurai is a grand, epic fresco about life and death, victory and defeat, glory and the loss of it; one can see that Kurosawa was infatuated by the very same themes, the greatest playwright of all, William Shakespeare was. Dealing with his own culture's taboos characterized Kurosawa's entire work but he drilled down deeper, neglecting historical or cultural limitations. He drilled down to pure emotion, to humanity and the depth of it.In the early 1950's Japanese films came to Europe for the first time, and its masters were instantly renowned for their unique style. French critic and film theorist, Andre Bazin wrote that the appreciation towards these films might just be first-time flush and fascination for exotic culture. But after he had seen about twenty Japanese films, he was sure it wasn't just that. There was something more. In 1954, when Akira Kurosawa had just finished his most ambitious film, European audiences and critics were thrilled once again. This was something completely new and, different from everything they had admired about Japanese cinema, for which we can give the credit to Mizoguchi's lyricism. Akira Kurosawa made a Japanese western; the very first samurai-film. It had the same elements American westerns did, and Seven Samurai can easily be compared with the finest films by John Ford.'Samurai' comes from the word; 'to serve', and samurais were servants. They were a class of their own in feudal Japan, and not until the end of the 17th century was the class removed. Even that samurais were servants they were part of the upper-class; they were used, not only to serve but, also to smash small peasant revolts. Samurais even had the right to kill a man who acted disrespectfully towards a representative of the samurai-class. Sometimes, due to boredom and poverty, samurais had to take smaller jobs without gaining much money, and this is exactly what happens in Kurosawa's Seven Samurai. But still the samurais do their job out of solidarity, with heart and talent.A group of bandits terrorize a small farmers' village due to which the village hires seven samurais to protect them. Through hard work and precise strategies the samurais, together with the peasants, overthrow the forty bandits and villagers can grow rice in peace once again. The storyline resembles various westerns, for instance John Ford's Stagecoach (1939), but there is something more in Seven Samurai. The beauty of the simple plot has something that great novels by Dostoevsky have. This Japanese fresco is wider, more complex and manifold. To this simple story Kurosawa has added depth and beauty through brilliant details which usually are the things that make the films by him so great. In the midst of the grand fighting sequences Kurosawa has placed scenes which offer several humanely interesting and understanding characteristics of life and human nature. He offers lyric flashes of the beauty of nature and love; a flowing river, crying men, a woman throwing herself into a burning house because she has lost her glory, and the sparking love between one samurai and a farmer's girl. These kind of emotional scenes, Kurosawa often seals with rain. The cleansing, but also melancholy, rain.After the violent final sequence, where the samurais and the farmers have to kill the last 13 bandits, the film returns to its calm rhythm. Four of the samurais have died, and the last three look at the farmers planting rice. The samurais didn't win the war, they lost; they got their rice and were unemployed once again. Life won the war, and the fearful peace-loving farmers got the reward; not the warlike but helpful samurais.There is so much to say about this timeless masterpiece which is impossible to process in one thousand words. Seven Samurai is a beautiful film about humanity and the depth of it. It's a complex and life-enhancing fresco. A gorgeous tale of the human nature and solidarity. Just as John Ford, so did Kurosawa portray brave men but to him bravery wasn't all glory and fame; in Seven Samurai we see men crying, talking about emotions and what's on their minds. This was an unconventional theme for Japan and it proves how much more humane Seven Samurai is compared to western masterpieces. This should not be interpreted as an insult towards westerns or John Ford, not at all, he was one of Kurosawa's biggest influences -- and bravery was never a shallow or simple theme for Ford either. Kurosawa's social and political ideologies are not hard to see but overall the lyricism and beauty of the ending indicate that humanism is the greatest ideal of all for him. I feel that it is only fair to end this review the way it started, by quoting the master himself."An action film can only be an action film. But how wonderful it is if it can also depict the human nature. It has been my dream ever since I was a co-director. For ten years I've wanted to deal with the ancient drama from this new perspective." (Akira Kurosawa)
A village is constantly attacked by well armed bandits. One day after an attack they seek the wisdom of an elder who tells them they cannot afford weapons, but they can find men with weapons, samurai, who will fight for them, if they find samurai who are in down on their luck and wondering where their next meal will come from. They find a very experienced samurai with a good heart who agrees to recruit their party for them. He selects five genuine samurai and one who is suspect but the seven return to the village to protect it from the forty plus bandits.If you could only watch one film in your lifetime, this one is it. Yes that's a pretty bold statement, but it's true. Akira Kurosawa's Seven Samurai is a must see for any film fan. Kurosawa brought so many elements together for this film that it is on such a grand an epic scale.Each samurai has their own arc to them, from being the experienced warrior to a young hopeful. Kurosawa takes his time to develop each character on his/her own terms and it works wonderfully. The film is extremely long and the epic battler doesn't take place till the final part of the film, but here we get to know our Seven Samurai, all of them, very well. We care for each, not wanting them to die in the heat of the battle, for a film to be able to do this for one character is great, but for seven....is extraordinary.Samurai is a dazzlingly technical achievement for it's time and to this day outshines most "epic" movies we see today. It has beautiful cinematography and art direction. Kurosawa has a keen eye and uses it well in this film.Samurai has one of if not the most amazing battle put to screen. The samurai turn the village into a fortress and use the surroundings to their help. The battle is so massive it spawns roughly 30 some odd minutes. The climatic battle itself goes through every rock that mother nature throws it's way, from the cold dirty rain to the hot dry day. It has influenced all the films we see today, The Return of The King, The Magnificent Seven, Narnia. Please don't see this film expecting BRAVEHEART, because there will be no limbs flying off the screen. But the action is beautifully filmed and shows early use of slow-motion.Samurai packs an emotional punch at the end, as it shows how the samurai are honorable, we have been on this journey with them since their beginning to their end and we cannot help but feel sorrow for the ones lost in the battle. We feel sorrow for the Samurai because in the end they get nothing, yes the village is safe and the enemy is gone, but the only thing the samurai get is a loss in numbers.Samurai is a landmark film that has it's place in history as one of the greatest. For those that can't comprehend it, think of it as Japan's Citizen Kane....only better. For a film that has inspired so many and given us so much, there is only praise to be said. For if it were not for this film, we may not be where we are today in cinema.


                
