I gave this film a 2/10.  It was saved from 1/10 status sheerly by the fact that it *was* an inspiration to so many movies than came after it (and redefined the American Western).  The best way to think of this movie, though, is as the Japanese Citizen Kane: classic, original, and vastly overrated.  I am sorry to say this about the work of such a great director. I thought Rashômon was amazing.  But this . . . well . . . not.First and foremost, the film cannot justify its almost comically absurd length.  I don't shy away from long movies as long as there are sufficient plot and character development to keep me interested.  The plot here is so straightforward it's kind of embarassing.  The characters themselves are little more than paper cutouts with little no emotional lives whatsoever.  I challenge ANYBODY reading this to find me one person who was actually moved by the Shino love subplot, or the subplot where Mifune's character is exposed as the son of a farmer.  Nobody cares, but why should we?  None of this has any impact on the story anyhow.  In fact, the "personal" sequences of the film serve as little else besides filler between action sequences.I couldn't even get behind the few characters that actually were given breathing space in the film: the villagers.  They were all whiny, crotchety, needy, and generally a pain in the arse for 3 hours.  While this is indeed a theme of the film, it's frustrating because I need SOMEONE to sympathize with here, if for no other reason that to relieve the mind numbing boredom this film induces.Technically, this film is great, but it has no soul.  Thus, all the technique goes to waste.  I'm happy this was made because there are so many works derivative of it that I love (especially King's Dark Tower novels). But I have *no* desire to ever see this again, and I would advise anyone else considering it to stay away.


                
They should change the title of this to "long, pointless, and boring." Seven Samurai has no redeeming value whatsoever.Even the subtitles sucked.  In fact, they were the absolute worse I've ever seen.  Half the dialogue either wasn't translated or was white or white and therefore unreadable!  This made the plot hard to follow; fortunately, there wasn't much to follow.  A five year old could guess the conclusion after the first 10 minutes!A lot of people say there is incredible depth in 7 samurai.  They must be on crack.  The characters on incredibly shallow.  We learn nothing about anyone in the movie.  You'd think in three hours one could probe the characters minds - find out why they act as they do, but nope, once a character is introduced their developement stops.Then their are the inane sub-plots that go nowhere.  Please!  If you are going to introduce a plot device, have it go somewhere.  In real life, everything isn't meaningful, but this isn't real life - it is a movie.  If I wanted to see pointless stuff happening, I could look out my window!It is said that the Brigand's helmet inspired Darth Vader's.  If that's true, then the dumb "comic" guy must have inspired Jar-Jar (that is not a good thing).  At least Lucas had an excuse for including a dumb character - Phantom Menace was a kids movie.  Akira had no business doing so in Seven Samurai.So why does this movie have such a high rating?  I attribute it primarily to the fact that everyone is afraid to you they didn't like a "classic."  If people stopped thinking like drones, maybe we could come to realize that some "classics" really aren't very good.  Just because a film is old & very known, doesn't mean it is great.In conclusion, Seven Samurai is terrible.  It is juvenille, lacks depth or character developement, and, in general, is highly overrated.


                
Much has been said here about why would anyone bother reviewing a film they didn't like. I almost didn't. But then I thought about the emperor's new clothes. Somebody's got to cry "Foul!"And "Foul" it was. Mind you, this is only my opinion. I respect your right to fall in with the majority who evidently think this film is the Cat's Pajamas. I did give it a 2 because it does have some good lines. And, after all, Shakespeare did say "The play's the thing." The story is a good story, though it too is not believable. We want to believe that hard-bitten professionals in any field of endeavor beneath it all have a heart of gold. And we might have too, had any of the character been believable. Not a one. I wanted to call it "overacting", but alas, it was just bad acting. Should I mention "whiney-face"? Could an actual person have carried that expression around permanently?There were those who suggested that detractors didn't like the film because it was "old" or in "black and white". I watched this ponderous film last night because I thought I should. I was prepared to be enthralled. James Coburn said he watched this film 12 times in 12 days. That was enough for me. By the time the film was mercifully over, I wondered who had been holding a gun to his head for those 12 days.I like old. I like black and white. I don't like bad. I especially don't like bad that so many have told me is good. So after I watched this last night, tonight I watched Jean Simmons in "Home Before Dark". Made in 1958 (only 4 years newer) and also in black and white. A ways into the movie, I suddenly realized that these two films could be compared on a basic filmmaking level. Jean Simmons can actually act. In fact, all of the supporting cast can act, too. The characters were believable. Maybe not in an actual sense but at least in the sense of "suspended disbelief". Can't do that with Seven Samurai. Much has been said of the fine score of Seven. No. Other than tribal drums, nothing seemed to fit. Just the opposite for Home. It had a score that really fit what was going on on the screen at the time.I could go on, but my rant is assuaged and I'm too tired to write more.For those of you who have not seen the film, the following is for you: DON'T WASTE YOUR TIME. EVERYBODY ELSE IS WRONG.


                
Seven Samurai, hired by the farmers in a village to protect them, set up a plan to fight a bunch of bandits. Each time the bandits attack, they open the village gate to let a few men in, then close the gate and kill them. So the bandits just keep on charging into the trap everyday and finally lose the battle. Are the bandits idiots? Who would believe this? There's absolutely no depiction on the bandits' side, which makes The Magnificent Seven a better film to watch.


                
*Spoilers included*I've seen this movie on just about everyone's top 100 list. IMDb's voter's gave it a ranking of 7! So I decided to see what all the hubbub was about. For the life of me, I still don't know! The movie is slow and boring; the acting is truly awful (with a couple of exceptions); and most of the (lame) action doesn't come until the end of this overlong borefest. I watched the restored 206 minute version, so maybe this was part of the problem. Although I'm not sure an edited version would have been any better. All this hokum about this being the greatest action/adventure movie of all time should not be believed!! It's not even close! I only give it 2/10. There is one good scene in the movie where the samurai tricks the villagers by ringing the warning bell. That was pretty funny.
...that's the sound of all the drones droning on about how great this movies is and how the cinematography is so wonderful and the story is so beautiful and the meaning of it all so sublime.Malarky. This wouldn't be more than a mediocre western starring some Hollywood third-rater if it wasn't shot in Japan and filled with guys and swords instead of cowboys and pistols.Anyone who thinks this movie is 1/4 the film that Unforgiven or The Good, the Bad and the Ugly is doesn't know beans.For that matter, this so-called masterpiece isn't even the guy's best movie. Ran is 1000 times better, making it somewhat watchable.If you're interested in oriental films, try these:Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon Hero The House of Flying DaggersAll are much better than this trip.e


                
