I've been on a Toho binge for a while now and for the most part the films have been enjoyable, especially those by Kurosawa. The earlier films were dark, bleak and unsettling viewing and therefore going into Seven Samurai I was of two minds. First I expected more of the same, in both quality and tone but then on the flipside at time of writing this is ranked as the 19th highest rated movie on IMDB which is incredible.My expectations were that it would be good, but that's about it. Seeing Takashi Shimura in the credits also confirmed my logic that this was going to at least be an entertaining three and a half hours.I was mistaken, Seven Samurai is not good............it's outstanding.Wonderfully crafted, perfectly scored, incredibly choreographed, well acted and beautifully written this is well deserving of it's high place and I would consider it nothing short of a masterpiece.If you check out my IMDB rating distribution it's very clear to see that getting anything higher than an eight is a rarity, this deserves it on so many levels.I didn't expect this level of quality further as generally I don't tend to agree with titles in the IMDB top 250, this however I do I thoroughly unconditionally agree.A masterpiece and essential viewing, I don't even need to give the premise of the movie in this review and must simply stress that this is film making mastery at its finest.The Good:Takashi ShimuraVery well shot for its timePerfectly craftedThe Bad:Nothing springs to mindThings I Learnt From This Movie:Akira Kurosawas should be a household name, not Bruckheimer or Bay!I'll put money down now that none of the remakes or movies heavily influenced by Seven Samurai comes close in quality


                
The great Akira Kurosawa's epic action masterpiece "Seven Samurai" is an entertaining and thoughtful war epic set in 19th century Japan. Replete with colorful well-realized characters, and sensitively portrayed social and class analysis, Kurosawa's film entertains on all levels. Although not as visually engaging as many of Kurosawa's later efforts, Seven Samurai's cinematography is still masterful, and well above most contemporary films.A farmer overhears some bandits talking about raiding his village as soon as the next harvest is ready and approaches an older Samurai master who is on the verge of retirement for help. The elder Samurai, recognizing the humility of the request and the dignity of the proposed work, takes up the cause and begins recruiting others for the defense of the village. He recruits five Samurai and takes on a young apprentice and a drunken, angry would-be Samurai avenger (Toshirô Mifune ... Kikuchiyo) as the sixth and seventh members of his newly established militia. The Samurai live among the villagers for most of a growing season, teaching them defense and discipline. In turn, the villagers - as fearful of the Samurai as they are in awe of them, hide away their daughters and some of their stores. As the inevitable crisis ensues, these two widely disparate classes of people learn to live and fight together to defend their homes and their crops.Kurosawa's film is as much social realism as it is martial historic fantasy. Their is also a steady supply of humor and an entertaining romance - both of which are relatively rare in this genre. In summary, Seven Samurai is one of those rare works of art which takes on a vast scope and sustains it with apparent facility.Highly recommended.


                
One of favourite movies of all time is The Magnificent Seven and when this has been mentioned from time to time i have been asked if i had seen the film that it was based on - Seven Samurai , so i finally decided to give it the Valleyjohn Treatment thanks to a request from one of my Myspace friends and i can only thank that person for persuading me to watch this memorable movie. Akira Kurosawa's epic tale concerns honor and duty during a time when the old traditional order is breaking down. The film opens with master samurai Kambei posing as a monk to save a kidnapped farmer's child. Impressed by his selflessness and bravery, a group of farmers begs him to defend their terrorised village from bandits. Kambei agrees, although there is no material gain or honor to be had in the endeavour. Soon he attracts a pair of followers: a young samurai named Katsushiro who quickly becomes Kambei's disciple, and boisterous Kikuchiyo , who poses as a samurai but is later revealed to be the son of a farmer. Kambei assembles four other samurais, including Kyuzo , a master swordsman, to round out the group. Together they consolidate the village's defences and shape the villagers into a militia, while the bandits loom menacingly nearby. Soon raids and counter-raids build to a final bloody heart-wrenching battle.I'm not a big fan of old black and white movies . I used to watch many as a kid but as i have got older i have found i have not really got the patience for them. Because of that , Seven Samurai was always going to be a difficult film for me to watch. Not because of it's content but because of the length - Three hours and nine minutes! So to stop me drifting i decided i would watch the movie in two parts and because of that decision i really enjoyed this epic movie. You can see many comparisons with the Magnificent seven . The Samurai all have distinctive characters and you can see the comparison to the Yul Brynner and Robert Vaughn roles from the 1960 film but despite the comparison's they are very different movies. Seven Samurai is a far more brutal movie than the Western version but it also has some very poignant moments. None more so than the very last scene where the surviving Samurai are standing at the gravesides of their fallen comrades.The performance from Takashi Shimura ( Kambei the samurai leader ) and Toshiro Mifune ( the crazy Samurai) are very memorable and at times i completely forgot i was watching a film that was made 54 years ago.Although film purist's will rate this higher than the John Sturges remake i still prefer the Cowboy v Mexican version but i grew up watching that film so that is to be expected.Seven Samurai is definitely going to be one of those films that will be embedded on my brain for the rest of my life and the split viewing was well worth it in the end.I will leave you with the thoughts of Kikuchiyo - "What do you think of farmers? You think they're saints? Hah! They're foxy beasts! They say, "We've got no rice, we've no wheat. We've got nothing!" But they have! They have everything! Dig under the floors! Or search the barns! You'll find plenty! Beans, salt, rice, sake! Look in the valleys, they've got hidden warehouses! They pose as saints but are full of lies! If they smell a battle, they hunt the defeated! They're nothing but stingy, greedy, blubbering, foxy, and mean!"Nothing changes does it!
While this movie is probably the most widely recognized film of the director Kurosawa, it isn't my personal favorite--though it's close. But considering how many wonderful films he made and how this movie sparked the Magnificent Seven films, its impact and importance can't be ignored. And I would have to say that it deserves all the attention--it's just too bad that other films like YOJIMBO, SANJURO and THE BAD SLEEP WELL just haven't gotten all the attention this film has. Actually, it['s strange that I am getting around to reviewing this film now--as I have seen it several times and thought I'd already reviewed it.The film begins in the feudal period in Japan in a small town that is being terrorized by a gang. These thugs periodically come to strip the people of what little they have as well as their dignity--much like locusts. Eventually, the gang's demands are so extreme that it appears they have no choice but to fight back when they next return--otherwise they face starvation. The problem is that these are simple peasants and they haven't got a prayer against Ronin (i.e., samurai who have no master). Eventually, townspeople get the idea to bring in some of their own Ronin to fight against the evil gang. At this point, the film concentrates on the seven men--who they are, their motivations, etc. It is here that the film really excels. In fact, probably the least exciting portion of the film is the eventual battle between the forces.An excellent character study and a film with so much to love--great acting, direction and a dandy and exciting script.


                
Like probably everyone else who haven't seen this movie, I also had huge expectations on it. This is one of those movies which I was ashamed of not seeing, as it's still a classic in the history of motion pictures and the one of Akira Kurosawa's films that is described as "a must-see" for every movie freak there is. Having an 8.8/10 rating and standing on the mighty 9th place at IMDb's Top 250 movies of all time -list it's pretty hard to watch it without having those huge expectations. The movie tells a story about a village which is constantly attacked and robbed by bandits. The village's eldest wise man suggests that the villagers should hire samurais, respected warriors, to defend the village, so some of the villagers leave their home to find samurais for the job. It doesn't take so much time until they find the ones, and these samurais form the group of the seven samurais, who each have their own personalities and ways of interacting.First of all, you really have to relate to the time when the movie was produced. It's nothing near the movies these days, it's completely different, obviously. I've watched a lot of Japanese movies in the past and this is no exception when it comes to this certain style of this specific tension seen from the screen. I wouldn't say it's boring, but it's somehow tedious. I mean, the movie requires this certain mood for the viewer, so you can't really watch it like any other film. The tempo is slow and sometimes the scenes seem like they're too lengthened, which needs a lot of concentration and nerves, yet it's all worth it after all. The tempo of "Shichinin no samurai" has this nice way of speeding up towards the end, so it gets faster and faster all the time, though there are some of those slow scenes between. I can't really describe those scenes in any other way than "slow", as it's really hard to explain it after all. Over three hours of one movie is always pretty heavy, no matter what the movie itself was. This is a heavy movie, but that doesn't mean it wouldn't be worth watching. The music is these dark and gloomy orchestrations, which really fit in the main theme of the movie so well and though it doesn't include relaxed or soothing compositions it still is overall a great experience, composed by Fumio Hayasaka it builds up tension in a flowing way and it's sort of adapted in the exactly right places. It definitely has that 50's feel to it, but it's still original.One thing that immediately crosses your mind when the movie progresses itself is how incredibly well it's made considering when it is actually made. If you look at the 50's, there weren't any computers so CGI was obviously out of question. This basically means that everything you see on the screen is actually the real deal, everything that moves actually moves and everything that happens actually happens. This is what you have to pay attention to when you're watching the movie, as then you finally realise why it truly was such a big hit back then and why it immediately formed itself as a classic. A born legend some could say. The cinematography compliments the whole credibility the film offers for the viewer. It is a little bit different than Japanese cinematography nowadays, but there's still that same feeling and emotion. To me as a fan of Japanese cinematography "Shichinin no samurai" didn't disappoint me; Wide endless landscapes, those beautiful boundless hills and lands, it's honestly always a treat for you. Japanese also tend to use so much more still shots than any other nation and that is one of the things that form that certain well-known feeling and emotion.When you really relate to the time the directing doesn't disappoint you either. It's no wonder people have been buzzing about this film for ages as it is indeed Akira Kurosawa's masterpiece, a real specimen of skill. The thing that surprised me though was that the role performances can actually be compared to role performances these days, in Japanese films that is. The acting in this movie still has that certain anger, that somehow believable incredibility, that Japanese original way of acting, which also can not be compared to any other nation. Japanese films live in their own time and hopefully that'll always be the case, as when you're bored of Hollywood you can always change to a different perspective; The Japanese perspective."Shichinin no samurai" is timeless. It doesn't matter if you'd watch it even after 100 years from its release, it's a movie everyone should see, though it does require certain age from the viewer. This is not a movie for children after all as it's pretty violent too. Having huge expectations on a movie always gets me so stressed and to be really honest I thought the movie would have been better. But as a person in my 20's what can you really expect from a movie made in the 50's? It's like eating the same cereals years after years and then suddenly changing to porridge with sugar and milk in it. It's like drinking a long drink and then changing to whiskey. The difference gap is just so huge. "Shichinin no samurai" is a brilliant film if you can relate to the time, though it is pretty long-winded it does get better after a few days when you've seen it. You don't really "get it" at first, but just give yourself some time to repeat the events occurred in the movie and soon you see yourself perceiving the whole meaning of the movie, what's it all about and what it tries to tell you, the whole purpose of it. Magnificent indeed.


                
I must admit that when I realized I had to sit through 3 and 1/2 hours of subtitles, I was a bit taken aback. Nevertheless, the investment was well worth the time. The story, so involving, the characters, so well defined, and the emotions and energy, so refreshing, that the movie flows gracefully. You forget that you are reading subtitles, you forget the the movie is 50 years old. You forget that it is in black and white. Subtly, but assuredly, the viewer has become a villager, nervous and anxious for what comes next.I don't know if this movie is my 5th favorite of all time (where this movie ranked at the time of my review), however it is extremely powerful, unique, moving and memorable of movies that rarely cross the fine line between excellence, and unbelieavable.I heartily recommend this movie. Make a lot of popcorn.


                
Akira Kurosawa's film 'Seven Samurai' is another one of those films that most people recognize as one of the greatest ever, without ever even seeing the film first; just solely based on its reputation. Admittedly, I was one of those people, so I was delighted to find that, when finally seeing this film, I finally have the experience to back up my opinion.'Seven Samurai', written and directed by Kurosawa, tells the tale of a small village in Japan in the 1600's that is plagued by bandits who take their food supply, not leaving enough for the villagers to survive on. When they discover that the bandits will strike again after their rice crop is harvested, they decide to take the few possessions they own and employ samurai to defend the village. Seven samurai are eventually recruited, and they help the villagers learn to defend themselves, while dealing with clashing values, traditions and perceptions.My synopsis of the plot does not begin to do justice to this incredible story. Kurosawa spins a rich and intertwining tale that is at times dramatic, and at others, hilariously funny. While I have no idea who 90% of the actors are, Kurosawa's 'muse', I was thrilled to see Toshiro Mifune playing a samurai who is a loose cannon and all around nutcase. Having seen Mifune in only serious roles, most notably in Kurosawa's 'High and Low' it was a very entertaining surprise. In terms of the film itself, Kurosawa's direction is nearly flawless. Despite its three and a half hour run time, the pacing was perfect and there were no points where the film lagged. While the film is about samurai, and the perception of the general public in recent decades may have changed since the 1950's, 'Seven Samurai' is mostly story and not a lot of hard action (of course, look at the decade we're also dealing with), although there was one really slick fight scene when Kurosawa filmed a shot in slow motion that made me howl. There is really no comparing the remake of this film, 'The Magnificent Seven' because while the story is similar, just about everything else is different. However, after watching 'The Magnificent Seven', then 'Seven Samurai' (both for the first time, on the same night) I was struck by how much more emotional I was during several scenes in 'Seven Samurai' than their equivalent scenes in the former film. Both in terms of dramatic acting and dialogue, and the respectful and beautiful framing of shots by Kurosawa, 'Seven Samurai' packed a much bigger emotional wallop for me.Every time I watch a film off of the IMDb 250 or the AFI 100, I take an admittedly ridiculous amount of time to examine its merit in its place on the list, or whether it deserves to be on the list at all. Obviously, the films closest to #1 get the most scrutiny, and 'Seven Samurai' was the only film in top 20 that I hadn't yet seen. While I don't agree with several of the films in the top 10 being placed ahead of my personal favorite film, 'Citizen Kane', after seeing 'Seven Samurai' I believe it should solidly be placed exactly where it is. It is a groundbreaking film that stands up fifty years later. Whether or not you have seen the film, try to catch it on the Criterion DVD <U+0096> I have seen clips of the film before, and unfortunately the prints were damaged and scratched. The Criterion transfer is absolutely gorgeous, so seek it out.--Shelly


                
Watching this film for over 3 hours, I felt excited every step of the way. I thought the situation was interesting, the characters were interesting, the acting was spectacular, and the action to be very intelligently crafted. But I felt there were some small problems, as well. The characters' names were rarely spoken, so it became easier to mix some of the characters up as the film progressed. Especially, I thought two of the samurai looked very like each other (and the person with whom I was watching this film had the same problem, so it's not just me).Also, I don't think this film belongs within the top ten of anyone's list. It is very well directed and executed, but it has no profundity. After I was done watching it, I put it away, went to my room, and thought very little about it. A great film leads to pondering. I think Kurosawa's _Rashomon_ and, even moreso, _Ran_ contained a lot more depth. Also, Japan has produced many, many very thoughtful and powerful animated films such as _Princess Mononoke_ and _Grave of the Fireflies_. _The Seven Samurai_ is a great film, but I would hesitate to call it a masterpiece.


                
I hesitated checking out the Japanese epic samurai drama Seven Samurai because I made the mistake to watch Kurosawa Akira's Ran a few years ago which turned out to be stiff, predictable and overlong and didn't live up to its excellent reputation. I'm relieved to realize that Seven Samurai indeed deserves the praise it gets. Ironically, it's not the best movie of the year, not even the best Japanese film of that year which was Honda Ishiro's groundbreaking Godzilla which shows how great movies were back in those days. Still, Seven Samurai is a timeless classic whose plot, duels and characters have been copied in numerous films such as The Magnificent Seven.The first thing I liked about the movie is its atmosphere. It has a quite gloomy touch as the fearful peasants and seven brave samurai have to be constantly prepared for the raids of an elevated number of ruthless bandits. As opposed to Hollywood movies, one never knows who is going to survive the next attack which builds up quite a lot of despair and tension until the very end. This atmosphere is perfectly supported by the sinister black and white cinematography and the simplistic yet fitting soundtrack.The settings are also carefully chosen. The village has a raw and simple charm but can turn from a little piece of paradise into a muddy hell rather quickly. It's definitely a very difficult battlefield. The romantic scenes in the fields of flowers in the middle section are contrasted by the torrential rain during the epic final battle that ends the movie on a high note.The characters are fascinating and fleshed out. Each of the seven samurai has different character traits. The most impressive ones are the aged leader Kambei with his strong moral compass, the hopeless young romantic Katsushiro and the savage outsider Kikuchiyo. Even the villagers are quite unique. The elder miller and village patriarch Gisaku who refuses to evacuate, the hotheaded Rikichi who hides a sad secret and the emotional farmer's daughter Shino are only some of these fascinating characters.The acting performances make the characters even better. Shimura Takashi's performance as intellectual leader is absolutely believable and one can understand why the other characters follow his commands despite risking their lives. Mifune Toshiro is brilliant as tough guy with a soft core who constantly tries to improve his reputation which leads to some brutal, desperate but also humorous scenes not unlike Eli Wallach's performance as Tuco in the iconic The Good, The Bad and The Ugly. On the other side, Miyaguchi Seiji contrasts the young and emotional characters with his performance as calm, disciplined and serious swordsman. The actors and actresses aren't only convincing on their own but complement one another perfectly. Their diversity is a strength in this film.The directing has to be pointed out as well. Despite its colossal length, the movie never felt boring because it found the right balance between the main plot and numerous efficient side stories that add depth to the different characters. The camera work is calm and precise and on a much higher level than contemporary action movies with shaky cameras. On the other side, the use of wipes to change between scenes gives the movie a more fluid pace at times. The mixture of calm cinematographic techniques and a few more dynamic elements is perfectly balanced.In the end, I have only positive things to say about this movie. If you like action films, this groundbreaking film is an iconic milestone. If you prefer dramas, you will find plenty of it in the complex relationships between the different characters. If you like period films, this movie brings the life in sixteenth century Japan to life in a brilliant way. Seven Samurai is a movie that anybody who truly likes cinema should watch at least once in his lifetime.


                
Akira Kurosawa's jidai-geki epic 'Seven Samurai' can be counted among the greatest of all battle movies - a majestic tale of heroism, sacrifice and death, that remains unmatched, even today. Set in 1587, it follows the story of a village of farmers that hire seven master-less samurai to combat bandits who will return after the harvest to steal their crops. The displaced samurai - seven sword-swinging, bow-and-arrow footmen of varied courage and personality - put aside class differences in order to defend the village that has been the unfortunate target of the gang of marauding bandits for a long time. The first half where the lead samurai gathers his troops and journeys to the village, is fascinating, full of vigor and life. But the second half - where the samurai train the peasant villagers to fight and then take on the bandit horde, resisting wave after wave of horseback assaults with sword and rifle in the driving rain, the bandits battering against the improvised fortifications, trading deaths until the last rifle shot and sword-slash - is one of the most thrilling sustained passages of action cinema ever.On that simple framework and familiar storyline, director Akira Kurosawa plasters a wealth of rich detail, which brilliantly illuminates his characters and the kind of action in which they are involved. We feel the warfare so intensely because of his mastery of staging and editing the violence. But we also feel the film because the characters are so strong, especially the seven samurai themselves: heroes in the truest sense, but also convincingly idiosyncratic and human. The film's three and a half hour length is more than justified by the intricate character development of both the samurai and the villagers, as both groups let go of class biases to accomplish their mutual goal of fortifying the village. The legendary Takashi Shimura as the ageing, and oddly charismatic leader and Toshirô Mifune as the arrogant ronin looking to outdo his compatriots lead a superb cast, and Kurosawa's kinetic camera keeps the adventure sizzling with energy and wit from start to finish. By the climactic showdowns against the bandits, a palpable anxiety is present due to the great affinity the audience feels for the characters.Rich in detail, vivid in characterization and leisurely in exposition, Seven Samurai is bravura filmmaking. Akira Kurosawa synthesizes the traditions of the samurai narrative and the American western to create an intimate epic with deeply felt ground-level consequences. While doing so, he deflates the myth of the noble samurai without actually debunking it and sends a dark thrill through his audience with a touch of sensuous physical reality.


                
If you haven't watched this movie; then you have watched nothing. This is a movie which contains every spice in it. Old is Gold. This movie is about how few men come together. They reignite their minds and soul. Got to know the true meaning of being samurai. On the journey helps other people, become a team. Fights for justice. A must watch movie. This movie touches your heart and soul. You can not wait to watch it again and again. Samurai's work only for handful of rice to eat because they understand that farmers can not pay them much. Even some times they share the food with poor farmers; which is really sentimental.Many characters die in "Seven Samurai," but violence and action are not the point of the movie. It is more about duty and social roles. The samurai at the end have lost four of their seven, yet there are no complaints, because that is the samurai's lot. The villagers do not much want the samurai around once the bandits are gone, because armed men are a threat to order. That is the nature of society. The samurai who fell in love with the local girl is used significantly in the composition of the final shots. First he is seen with his colleagues. Then with the girl. Then in an uncommitted place not with the samurai, but somehow of them.


                
Seven Samurai is a great action movie. It has the plot of all of our modern team action flicks such as The Avengers, Ocean's Eleven and MacGruber (just the top of my head). The heroes are a team that slowly forms during the first half of the film and the second part of the film is some form of a "heist" movie with the planning of traps and strategies, with some very intense action scenes between the "graceful" samurai and the bandits. The samurai are really the stars of the show: interesting and fleshed out characters that you really love during the course of the film. The relationships between the characters are also interesting. It's true that this film is quite daunting: black and white, quite long (you can see it in two times, there is an intermission even though it has a bigger emotional impact if you stay with the samurai for the whole film straight) and subtitled. But the trip is worth it, you will not forget this classic ode to the ancient and legendary samurai.


                
The file is story of seven samurai that help weak farmers against bandits attacks for a intangible reason. No one knows why does some of those samurais come to the group.There is a myth in Iranian's folklore myths has named "Chor_oghli". "Chor_oghli" is a hero in "Azerbayjan" (a Province of Iran), for first time when he familiarized with gun as a new killer weapon that could hurt from a distance, he said: "This is beginning of cowardice age." In this nice story all of 4 samurai were killed by GUN and in my opinion it is The most important point in "Seven Samurai" story. they were very skilled swordsmen, but they hadn't any idea about gun.For these samurais morality and power are important Together.


                
Given carte blanche after the worldwide successes of  *Rashomon*  and *Ikiru*, Akira Kurosawa embarked on creating what amounted to a new national epic -- *Seven Samurai*.  In the process, he changed movies forever.You know the story even if you've never seen the movie:  the citizens of a rural village, weary of being harassed by a local gang of bandits, recruit a rag-tag group of seven samurai warriors to help defend their homes.  The only pay the farmers can offer to the samurai is three squares a day.  Just the right inducement for these adventurers, led by Takashi Shimura as the wise leader, and Kurosawa regular Toshiro Mifune as a wanna-be samurai whose antecedents were farmers.The story doesn't amount to much, but Kurosawa more than compensates for this lack of complexity by creating about 10 interesting characters and by setting a whole new standard for action scenes in the cinema.  Therefore, the 3.5-hour length of the movie certainly isn't a handicap, unless good drama and well-choreographed action are too much for your CGI-conditioned brain.Which brings me to a point:  I tend to read a dozen or so IMDb reviews of a film before I add my own comments for this website, and I did so with *Seven Samurai*.  It was rather disheartening to keep reading, over and over, even from those who LIKED the movie, that it's  "pretty good for a black & white movie".  Or, "pretty good for an old movie".  Or, "pretty good for a foreign movie".  Uh, yeah.  *Seven Samurai*  is pretty good, OK?  Even if it's an old, black & white foreign movie.  What's with the xenophobia and the complete lack of appreciation for film history?  I'm glad that everyone has found this masterpiece  "good enough"  for today's standards, but in the meantime let me offer a tip:  it's the recent, Hollywood movies -- in color -- that tend to suck.  OK?  *Seven Samurai*  needs no apologies for being black & white, Japanese, and old.


                
The Seven Samurai is one of the best movies to come out of Asia ever. This well directed grandfather of Samurai movies is one of the most influential films of all time. Without the Seven Samurai there is no Magnificent Seven. Without the Magnificent Seven there is no Dirty Dozen. Without the Dirty Dozen there is no Sylvester Stallone or Arnold Schwarzenegger. This movie is only slighty undone by it's length. And for those who can't tolerate either black and white movies or subtitles this could be rough. Great acting on the part of the all actors and one of the best screenplays in film history. Akira Kurosawa is truly a master of his art.


                
It started boring for me after that it was very good. ohh god I have to write more to complate this review because I want to compate the tasks i have.


                
The duo between Kurosawa and Mifune works in quite literally every film they've made together, but Seven Samurai ranks not only on top of the movies made by those two iconic people, but in my opinion on top of every list named 'Greatest Movie of all time'. This movie is a work of art, with Kurosawa being able to tell an absolutely engaging story that will hook you for every single second throughout the 3h30m run-time.Every single frame feels like a picture that could be hung up somewhere and would be considered a beautiful shot, a piece of art.This movie is a once-in-a-lifetime experience to watch and will, with the exception of Akira Kurosawas other works, never be matched.


                
I had always heard about it and finally I recovered this incredible film, nothing to say, the voices are all true, if you love cinema you will not be able to not love this film


                
Wanting to find the original, come to the place and enjoy as a true fan, you first enjoy something interesting, also unknown :(
Reviewing classics is like reviewing the invention of the wheel. The most important thing is that the invention has overgrown its inventor and has become much more than "just another wheel" or probably the beginning of something great.
Seven Samurai was my first movie from the filmography of this wonderful japanese director and I can say only one bad thing about - it's long. Unbearably long. Don't take this the wrong way, I like when the movie pushes boundaries of running time and shows you the greatest story that you enjoy watching every second. Gone with the wind. Ben-Hur. Lawrence of Arabia. Even the silent ones, Dr. Mabuse and Die Nibelungen (which both are over 4 hours) have got that something that glues you to your seat until the very end. It's the story. The story that doesn't allow you to leave for a second. Sadly it's not the case with Seven Samurai. Maybe because the story itself isn't that exciting and the plot is very simple so you can easily skip some scenes, delete an hour of running time and it will be perfect. A masterpiece. And again, don't take this the wrong way, this movie is a masterpiece. The characters (especially Kikuchiyo), music, cinematography, editing, locations; everything was superb. Except for the fact that you could easily fall asleep starting 35 min mark running time.
A must watch for true fans of cinema as an art.


                
Movie Review: "Seven Samurai" (1954)Coming out of a deeply-depressive picture "Ikiru" (1952), leading actor Takashi Shimura (1905-1982) and director Akira Kurosawa (1910-1998) conceive the highest production budget from Toho Studio Company, Japan at that time to not only produce a masterful entertaining movie, even more in its 160-Minute International Editorial by the contractual final-cut-approved director for nevertheless timid first screenings at Venice Film Festival in its 15th edition between August 22nd to September 7th 1954."Seven Samurai" becomes one of the rare movies that must go with any audience of any age, any sex or a generation-gap-defying motion picture achievement in terms of its flawless use of cinematography as visual story-telling tool with pin-pointing and over-laying defiance sound design in stellar atmospheric black and white image system in the ocassional use of slow-motion shot, especially in samurai sword duels, inevitable tense in suspense, when only an Alfred Hitchcock (1899-1980) picture is able to match out the brilliance in visual composition of this arguably most accomplished picture of Akria Kurosawa's peaking career as director at age 43.When the motion pictures only misstep becomes to generate far too many versions of "Seven Samurai", on a competitive market of taking time to watch, with ranging running times from 150 up to 207 Minutes, which is believed to be the initial director's cut to encounter on. Furthermore production design are as researched as can, a pure bliss to witness on calm to receive on holiday afternoon watch toward dinner time, when supporting actor Toshiro Mifune (1920-1997) steals every scene he encounters as character of Kikuchiyo; futhermore put in proporties as additionally-dressed and ultra-long samurai-sword armed imposter of a samurai warrior, who never served a master in his life to nevertheless be the one, who beats the decisive battles with skill and wisdom to win spiritually as physically for samurai-hiring rural villagers against fierce imperalistic anarchy-indulging bandits in times of civil war after a collapsing Feudal system raging through Japanese 16th century. © 2018 Felix Alexander Dausend
(Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
Seven Samurai is one of those few films that smells like true cinema. You catch a whiff of it and you straight away find out that you're on the right track. Even people who for some incomprehensible reason don't understand what the power of cinema is, feel draw to these film or its Hollywood sequel, The Magnificent seven. In short, a movie that that is worth paying many to watch. Akira Kurosawa is its director. Admirer of John Ford's films, The Seven Samurai clearly reflects that influence. You can see in the sense of adventure that's ever present through the film. The story is set in Japan, in the era of Samurai, long time ago. A group of poor and ragged peasants live in a village that is often raid by bandits. As the situations is unlikely to improve, the decide to hire some samurais<U+0085>And that's how the story begin. On the side, we have violence, love, betrayal and all the stuff you'd expect to find in one of the best films ever. If you don fall in love with cinema after watching this film, I reckon you'll never will.


                
I haven't seen any of Akira Kurosawa's other films, but I hear that this is his best, so maybe that's a good place to start(and maybe not). From the very first frame I was captivated by this film, and very interested in it. Then after about five minutes of watching, I realized how slow it was moving; "Fine," I thought, "it'll probably pick up later on". But it didn't. The film stays in the same uncompromisingly slow pace for the entire runtime which is about three hours(more or less, depending on which cut/version you see). That's OK, don't get me wrong, but it brings the movie down. The film is epic, and truly astounding. It's a shame that it's so long and slow. The plot is great. The acting is very good, and great in some cases(for the most part, actually). The film contains a multitude of interesting, well-developed characters... but maybe that's part of the problem; there are too many of them. By the end of the film, I found myself being able to keep up with who was who, and as the credits came on, I couldn't really remember any of the names(though that may have something to do with them being in Japanese). The film has plenty of good dialog, though several of the characters spout lines that sound like they come from fortune cookies, but given just a little thought, they are quite profound. The film is called the first actual action film, due to the use of many plot points that have later ended up being clichés. The film has so much going for it, but at the end, I found myself barely paying attention. Maybe the film is too long for its own good... maybe I have a too short attention spam to fully enjoy the film(which is said to be a masterpiece, which I definitely won't argue with)... I don't know. In the end, after carefully going over all of the pros and cons of the film, I find myself rating it a nearly perfect 9/10. Too many low points to it to merit a perfect 10, but far too many high points to rate it any lower, even if I didn't particularly care for the last part of the movie(which probably has more to do with my attention spam than the content of that part of the movie). The cinematography is excellent. The film is very, very well-done overall, but seems a little too long and slow, and is hurt(in any other part of the world) by the very obvious Japanese culture/nature of the film, which is a little hard to accept, especially for us Westerners. It is a great film, though, and I can't argue with its placement on the top 250 best films of all time here on IMDb(it's #5 as I'm writing this). As a final note; to anyone out there who want to see the movie but are worried about violent content: everything is only implied. Much like Hitchcock, Kurosawa obviously realized the effect of only implying violence, and as a result, most people can watch the film. Most people will probably enjoy (at least) parts of it, but I fear few will watch the whole thing through. Since I barely did so myself, I can't really say anything to keep you watching all the way through to the end; but I will say that the film is visually impressive, contains some great acting, some humane and credible characters that the audience will be able to sympathize and identify with. I recommend the film to just about anyone who is interested in watching it. However, if there are action/Samurai fans out there, craving for fight scenes and Katana action, I will say this; Look elsewhere. This has very little of such, and what there is, is only implied. Watch this movie, but watch it for the drama, not the hope of fight scenes. 9/10


                
(NOTE: Due to it's extremely high place in the Top 250 I'll just keep this brief)The Seven Samurai always took me a long time to watch because of the long runtime. It was one of the foreign language films I wanted to see because of the overall praise around this.The plot of this film is simple: A defenseless village under attack by bandits hire Seven Samurai to defend them. This plot I know has been copied numerous times with movies like The Magnificent Seven and spoofed in Three Amigos.As far as films made in the 1950's go this one is the best I have seen. Calling this the 13th Best film ever made is overrating it. As far as films go if you have the time I suggest you watch it


                
SEVEN SAMURAI is a requested view; this is the movie where Hollywood got one-upped by Akira Kurosawa, a Japenese director who had earned himself international respect after 1950's Rashomon. The movie tells the story of a village under attack by merciless bandits, in despair they hire seven samurais to protect them - its a classic plot, but never before 1954 had any Western movie appeared with an ensemble of heroes, and at well three hours' runtime it has time to tell rich characterizations. The film speaks to the defeated people of 1954, who regarded the Americans as much as the villagers regards both the bandits and the super-powered samurais. And the action scenes changed the ways of cinema, before Sam Peckinpah he uses slow-motion and before Sergio Leone he remembers the importance of of establishing a character's place within the frame before a fight. A Must-See in cinema history.


                
