They live in the suburbs, therefore they are losers.That is the sum total of the wisdom imparted by this dreary, pointless and joyless satire of middle-class America, circa 1998. The amazing thing about the film is that the filmmakers (and apparently many in the audience) think this film is bursting with original ideas and deep insights. When in reality, this is a tired retread of antiestablishment cliches from the sixties. The only difference is that films as diverse as DIVORCE AMERICAN STYLE to THE PRESIDENT'S ANALYST to THE GUIDE FOR THE MARRIED MAN to I LOVE YOU, ALICE B. TOKLAS knew how to instill the material with pathos, despair and anger and still show a flair for the wickedly funny and bitingly satirical. AMERICAN BEAUTY is a mean, bitter and shallow examination of people who are mean, bitter and shallow. While those films were daring and fresh, BEAUTY is stale and dirty.Kevin Spacey plays the overworked, under appreciated middle-class corporate drone who drops out of the rat race due to a severe case of the middle-age crazies. Unfortunately, he may be out of the race, but he remains a rat. As played with smarmy snugness by Spacey, the character of Lester Burnham seeks, not inner peace, but self gratification. After resorting to blackmail to get his corporate freedom, he spends his newfound leisure time lusting after his teenaged daughter's cheerleader friend, berating his wife, experimenting with drugs and just generally being obnoxious. Spacey's much praised performance is largely without nuance or heart; a less sympathetic depiction of an "everyman" would be hard to come by.Despite the film's supposed antiestablishment slant and vaguely pro-drugs attitude, the film hardly embraces liberalism. The film is not only antifeminist, but anti-woman as well, portraying Lester's wife (played by the otherwise wonderful Annette Benning) as a shrieking, materialistic shrike. (How dare she find capitalism and the suburbs to her liking!) The other women are mere sex objects. And despite the fact that several of the filmmakers are openly gay, the film is condescendingly homophobic as well: The gay guys next door are used as a joke and when a villain is needed for the finale, out trots the neighborhood closet case.Good satire says "This is us, aren't we something!" Bad satire says "This is them, aren't they pathetic!" AMERICAN BEAUTY goes beyond bad satire. The filmmakers make no attempt to conceal their contempt for the American middle class, a group they obviously view with no respect, no sympathy or even a shred of affection. They do, however, seem to respect their moviegoing dollars.The film's tagline was "Look closer!" A bold invitation, considering just how little clothes this emperor is wearing.


                
Dreamworks did one hell of a job rolling out the red carpet for this bloated, self-important saga, making everyone feel it was the "movie to see" this fall. Well, I don't mind blatant promotion if it points me toward something worthwhile, but this was such a stinker that I walked out in the middle of it (and I NEVER walk out on movies!). I later heard the details of the ending from a friend and could only be doubly grateful that I walked out when I did.The acting is uniformly hollow and grating. I squirmed in embarrassment for Annette Bening, a fine actress forced to embody one of the shrillest and most blatantly misogynistic caricatures of womanhood/motherhood ever put on the screen. Thora Birch as the daughter is evidently the most recent graduate of the Winona Ryder "sneering and sulking as a form of character delineation" school of acting. But even she looks like a Meryl Streep next to Mena Suvari as the teenage Lolita of the piece, who is so boring and unappealing that the notion of anyone falling in love with her is absurd. Wes Bentley as the kid next door is just plain weird, like an outcast from a David Lynch movie - which wouldn't be so bad except that we're supposed to take him seriously. Chris Cooper as his militaristic and overbearing father does his best with the role, but it's every bit as obvious (and odious) a caricature as Bening's. The only actor who comes out looking even halfway decent is Kevin Spacey - not because he's so wonderful, but simply because he has the good sense to underplay his part and search for the laughs wherever he can find them. Indeed, when he's being drolly amusing, the movie is passably entertaining (like in the scene where he tells off his boss, or when he applies for work at a fast-food restaurant). But he gets zero support from the rest of the cast, and so even his talents are wasted, as there's just no one believable for him to play off of.  And even his humor is wasted, since the film, instead of being a black comedy (which might - emphasize MIGHT - have worked), so wants to be taken seriously as an Important Statement. But since everything in it is either a cliché or a stereotype, how can it be taken seriously?And it's so derivative! It's like the producers said, "Ok, let's cross The Ice Storm with Lolita and The Truman Show, throw in bits and pieces from Fearless and War of the Roses, some of the feel of The Graduate, and give the whole thing a look straight out of Blue Velvet." It's ridiculous! Every situation and idea in here has been done far better somewhere else - heck, any run of the mill made for TV family crisis melodrama is better than this schlock. I can't emphasize this enough: THIS MOVIE IS TERRIBLE! An insult to all mature, thinking and feeling people.What's WRONG with all of you out there?! Snap out of it! Seeing the reception this film has been getting, I feel like I'm in Invasion of the Body Snatchers, and I'm the last one who has not been taken over by the pods. And you know what? It's starting to get lonely.


                
Don't get me wrong I did not hate this film. But to bracket in the top 10 of all time and to mention it in the same breath as Star Wars, Shawshank Redemption etc is a pathetic travesty. Where do I start?Spoilers The Film is about a middle aged drug taker running around after a girl young enough to be his grand daughter, a couple constantly arguing non stop, a teenage daughter who doesn't get on with her parents etc etc - all of which you'll find in any episode of any second rate soap opera. i don't hear people raving about "the message" in them.It's the old 'Dead Poets Society' all over again. People trying to impress others by pretending to enjoy the 'deep hidden meaning' behind the film. Statistically, that can't be true. In reality we live in a world where the public are so stupid they chase pediatricians out of their home because they get the word muddled up with paedophiles. That many people are not that clever.I appreciate I have never been to America, so have little idea whether that reflects US reality, but in England (and maybe everywhere else) it doesn't wash at all.I just don't see "so much beauty everywhere I look". Where I go, I see muggings, assaults, filthy run down council estates that haven't had the rubbish collected for 6 months, and trains not fit for rodents and this is in one of the most popular cities in the world.Like Pulp Fiction, this film assumes we have an insatible desire for drug and sex storylines. OK some people do, but lots don't. I also happened to find the daughter more attractive than her friend. The rest of the cast, admittedly excellent actors, were an incredibly weird group of people, and the tough ex army bloke who hates gays and then turns out to be one? Do me a favour. So to the stereotypical teenage blonde girl.I'll admit to not always being clever enough to find meanings in films, but then I am one of the few people who really couldn't care less whether a film has a hidden message or not. I want to turn my brain off when I sit down to watch a film. I just want a beginning, middle and end.I wouldn't be able to tell you the entire meaning behind Shawshank Redemption, The Great Escape or any of the other great films there are. I just wish others would admit the same instead of trying to show off by pretending to understand and by making a lot more of films than what the writer intends. Exactly the same way people do with poetry. After all, this was a storyline that almost everyone would have encountered in their life.I dread to think what these sort of people would make of me if they scrutinised my every move. Despite all of that, as I said the film was ok and had nothing majorly wrong with it. Just don't expect it to be anywhere near the standard of any others in the IMDB top 10.4or5 out of 10.
*May Contain Spoilers*Critics be damned - American Beauty has got to be one of the most despicable depictions of male, mid-life crisis that has ever been filmed.If Kevin Spacey's character, Lester Burnham, was supposed to actually represent an average, 42 year-old, American male in mid-life crisis, then I believe that our society, in general, is in even more trouble than I had originally thought. Burnham was, basically, nothing but a big, self-centered baby.I was truly astounded to see just how utterly slimy that Burnham was in his day-to-day dealings with other people. For starters, to terminate his employment at the advertising firm, Burnham actually stooped to threatening his boss with blackmail and exposing him as a homosexual, even though the guy wasn't even a homosexual, at all.Lester Burnham, a low-life, pedophilliac bugger, who lusted like a grunting pig after 16 year-old girls, deserved the crappy job that he chose for himself at MacDonalds. Being a crummy, little burger-flipper was so him.Even though I don't condone cold-blooded murder, I certainly felt no remorse for Burnham when he was gunned down by Frank Fits. In a sense, he bloody-well had it coming.One can only shudder to think of how many other people's lives that Burnham would have eventually contaminated had he continued to remain alive. At the rate that he was going I'm sure that he would have inevitably resorted to exposing himself in public, or molesting very young children, or something as equally vile as that.I find it very-very peculiar, indeed, that American Beauty actually struck such a unanimously positive chord with a vast number of the movie-going public. I guess that these many viewers must've strongly identified with the screwed-up characters and off-kilter situations that were presented in this movie. I surely didn't feel that way. All-in-all, I certainly saw nothing in American Beauty that even slightly resembled that of "beauty" (above or below the surface). It was all looking pretty ugly to me.What more can I say?


                
I found myself checking my watch at the 25 minute point (and a couple of more times during the film). The various story lines of the main characters (Lester, Carolyn, Jane, Angela) searching for their identities just seem to drag on until a tragic chain of events brings things to a close. I felt I'd seen most of the themes explored (written) better in other movies (Hurley Burley comes to mind). Perhaps the difficulty was trying to have too many threads.The acting was excellent. Chris Cooper really grabbed the screen as the all American military man raging against a morally declining world which he cannot save/help despite has vain efforts. There are some funny moments; there was gentle laughter here and there, but I got the feeling the audience couldn't decide whether to laugh, wince or squirm. When the film ended the audience exited in dead silence (last time I remember an audience this quiet was after Saving Private Ryan).


                
By reading the comments that have been posted on and about this movie, one would assume going in to expect, perhaps, a new "Citizen Kane," "The Godfather," "Braveheart," some type of new form of film that would inspire. Rather, it is merely a new director's attempt to run mainstream film noir by using contemporary debates.The film is centered around the character played by Spacey as a management level, middle-aged man, working his way through a mid-life crisis.  His wife, Bening, is focused completely on her job and gives and takes everything within the family.  Rounding out the family is a teenager who seems to be a normal teenager by today's standards; moody, unstable and on drugs.The film follows one year of theirs lives and the interactions, which are lengthy and very withdrawn.  It seems that Bening read the script the morning of filming and her mind was elsewhere.  Spacey plays his role well; unfortunately the role is written poorly and gives off a horrible sense of his having to adapt to this throughout the movie.To judge this film as "one of the year's best" is extremely narrow minded. It seems that every film totes a "thumbs-up" on their trailers but few live up to these prophecies; this is no exception.  American Beauty is rather Ugly.


                
This movie is about a bunch of mental misfits and whiny cry babies who think that if they are not totally happy then they have the absolute right to act in anyway they want no matter the damage it does to others. The main characters all behave in vulgar ways that are not acceptable in any circles I am familiar with.With a couple of exceptions, the characters are written and performed as caricatures with Annette Benings' portrayal being cartoonish. None of the main characters are likeable in the least and I wouldn't be interested in spending any appreciable amount of time with any of them.In addition to the above complaints, there is the kiddie porn aspect. Kevin Spacey's character lusts after a high school girl. The actress may be of age but certainly doesn't look it. The actress playing his daughter does a topless scene and she (the actress) was only 16 when the movie was being shot.
Hollywood has made great strides here to advance the anti-family agenda. The most sympathetic characters in order are 1.the gay couple 2. the daughter of the dysfunctional family 3. the family man, who hasn't been invested in his family for 20 years and suddenly chucks everything so he can work out to get in shape to impress a teenager and smoke pot 4. the boy next door who secretly tapes everything and everyone and makes a tidy sum selling pot.The least sympathetic characters are the Marine Colonel who is shown as a brutish, self-loathing gay and the wife of the man in midlife crisis who is shown as a cartoonish real estate broker.This movie stinks to high heaven. I rated it a 2 only because it had a couple of funny lines that made me laugh before I started disliking it.


                
I will always remember American beauty to be one of the most overrated films i have ever seen. i perfect example of how to win an academy award through aggressive marketing, and totally undeserving. It claims to be a black comedy, but it isnt funny (try fight club instead) and is basically dead boring. It is provocative (if that's what you call 'bending the conventions' as many reviewers mentioned), but this doesn't make it a good story - it makes it seem ridiculous. Kevin Spacey as usual is brilliant, making the best of an awful story, and Annette Bening is totally excessive. The other actors are nothing to write home about, except the boy next door (forget the actors name) who has some screen presence, but his character seems to confuse this. All in all, overrated garbage. You want provocative, black comedy questioning social values? Fight Club. Its a definitive class above


                
I went to bed after seeing this film with a rather confused feeling: I was unsure as to whether to assess the film from a purely intellectual point of view, or from a more mundane attitude, that is, to judge it for what it was rather than what it might have purported to be. Or perhaps I just thought I had missed something as it just did not seem to be worthy of five Oscars, or even one if you push me. I mean, what do you have? A rather ordinary family living a rather ordinary if disfunctional life with a rather hysterical mother/wife failing as both, who could not sell a pair of socks in a street-market, let alone real estate; added to which we have an even more disfunctional family as new neighbours with a son who makes a lot of money selling dope and filming anything and anybody and a father who is a right jerk. Most of the dialogues sounded wooden; there was no naturalness; it all came out very much too rehearsed.I fear the myth-making Hollywood tradition has fed us pseudo-intellectual interpretations or reading between the lines in that great endeavour to create a cult movie; but this time it just does not come off; this film is a howler; only the most naïve could possibly swallow the supposed greatness to be found here.Whether this film could possibly be indicative of normal American family situations (which would mean that the USA is very sick indeed) or whether real people out there can really identify with such characters and situations (which would also indicate the same thing), is totally beyond me.A message to those who organise the Oscar charade: if there are not enough good pictures to give Oscars for, leave them void instead of showering them on films which are just not worthy of them. American Beauty is a beauty: it has kidded a whole lot of people. But remember, you can't fool all the people all the time; you can only fool some of the people some of the time.Having said that, I might just run down a few of the commentaries for this film; I never do so before writing my little piece for any film.


                
I reserved my opinion as to whether Saving Private Ryan got cheated out of Best Picture until I saw American Beauty. Now I can absolutely say that they did.I was about halfway through this movie and wondered if it would be over soon. A sure sign it has some serious problems. I just don't understand what the fuss was about! Sure it had a couple of good moments, but overall it was barely mediocre.


                
It is a sad day when a film like American Beauty wins an Oscar for Best Picture (although the Academy hardly ever chooses the absolute best film of the year anymore), and is currently 3rd on a list (IMDB Top 250) with Casablanca, Citizen Kane, Dr. Strangelove and so many other truly great films behind it.  As far as the Academy goes, they can be forgiven because 1999 was such a poor year for good films.  The Matrix, Election, Fight Club, The Sixth Sense, and maybe one or two others deserved attention.  Since it had the hype, and an amazing actor in Kevin Spacey, winning over the above-mentioned films was easy.  As far as the IMDB voters go, they (we) can be forgiven for pretty much the same reason.  Films today suck.  There are exceptions, as with everything, but when a mediocre film like American Beauty gets raves like it has, you know something is wrong.  The script was the worst part of this movie.  Colonel Fitts and all three females were caricatures and made me cringe anytime any of them did ANYTHING!  Kevin Spacey was great as usual - I would love to see this character in a good film.  Wes Bentley proved himself a very good actor, but didn't have much to work with.  And talk about predictable!  What's up with telling us Lester's going to die in a year?  As soon as I saw the guns in Fitt's house, I knew he would kill him.  As soon as we understood Fitts was a homophobe, I knew why he would kill him.  (That scene where he watches through the obscured window belonged on a bad sitcom)  As soon as Angela ran her mouth about sleeping with the photographer to get a job, I knew she was a virgin.  There were so many scenes that were laughable (not funny, but so bad I had to laugh).  Extreme amateur writing.  Not that I could do any better, but hey, I'm an amateur too.  Admittedly I usually figure out the mysteries 10 minutes in, and so most films bore me.  But this one insulted me.  It looked worth a rental from the trailer (mainly because of Spacey), but I finally gave in and paid to see it at a theater just before the Oscars so I could compare all of the nominees.  Mistake.Another reviewer said that anyone who rated this poorly missed out.  Well, if missing out means liking amateurish scripts, then I'll gladly "miss out" the rest of my life.  I urge all of you to watch this again and compare it to an Oscar winner from the 40s through the 70s (The Apartment, Annie Hall, On the Waterfront all immediately come to mind).  Doesn't belong anywhere in the neighborhood of any of these.


                
Spacey, as usual, is brilliant. But when he is off the screen, this degenerates into stupidly violent farce.  This movie is more representative of Hollywood's religious adherence to atheistic cynicism than any I have ever seen.  Bening's character is way too inconsistent.  Most of the younger characters are over-selfish hedonists.  All in all, even the incomparable Spacey couldn't save this movie from its fixation on easy potshots.  This is the #3 movie of all time?  Try the number 3000.


                
Maybe it's because I'm a Londoner,#That I love London Tow...#Sorry. Maybe it's because I'm a Londoner that I hated American Beauty. Maybe I'm not as in tune with America as Sam Mendes obviously is. Maybe the film was too clever for me and its nuances and subtleties passed me by. Maybe the script was finely crafted and not hollow and cold. Maybe the story makes perfect sense and the resolutions were a natural conclusion for each character, rather than seeming non-sensical. Maybe the performances were truly great and Award deserving and not bland and lifeless.Or maybe it's really a lot of guff and you've all been conned.


                
Although I am usually a fan of most movies that don't put too much emphasis on action or special effects, and instead try to tell a story, I have to admit that I, quite simply, find American Beauty the most meaningless movie I have ever seen.I think the only fact that kept me awake through the whole thing was that it had won a few Oscars, and I wanted to know what the hype was about.Although well acted, the movie seems to present us with characters whom, at least I, find completely distant, and impossible to relate to.As far as I am concerned, the only redeeming quality of this movie is a somewhat humorous line by Kevin Spacey about his characters job.I just want to know what I'm missing.  because I must be missing something. Thousands of people can't have found this movie astonishing for no reason at all.


                
I belong to the small group that dislike the movie. I really do not understand the enthusiastic reviews. OK, the performances were not bad, but Kevin Spacey made better movies and Annette Bening can not give more to her part. But the story, how many times have we seen such a one!!! Some jokes, a few funny scenes, attempt at psychological profile. There was only a bittersweet taste I felt when I left the cinema.


                
This was a terrible film about terrible characters who regret their terrible lives.  It was unoriginal with hardly any worthy content. Spacey: Whaaa! My life sucks.  I'm gonna beat myself up and get a job at a fast food restaurant! Gosh that sounds really interesting.  And what an ending! Whew! Blew me away.  Everyone's got a homosexual/homocidal side to them, don't they? Gosh, i can relate.


                
I it all the attention films get that suddenly seem to make one rise above the others? After seeing the American Beauty I have no idea what makes it seem so great and to me it seems it was a lot of hulabaloo over nothing. Acting was good, but definitely not Oscar-worthy. My first impulsive opinion of the movie was that it was weird, if anything, but if it pictured what the American society these days, so be it (hopefully not!) This movie didn't offer anything new, really. Well, could be I missed the point...but it is always just a matter of opinion.


                
This movie did not meet any of my expectations.  I waited for the film to get better, but it continued pointlessly down this path of unrealistically combining exaggerations of America's moral circumstance.  I suppose that my major objection was that when the characters perform their misdeeds, they do them spitefully, not simply with disregard like we see in our real-life neighbourhoods.I never laughed, I never cried, I just waited for something real to happen. I believe if this movie was a truly great work of art that it would have reached more of us.I guess there are times when a movie's message can justify a little obscenity.  This film had way too little message for what I saw.  Though I was not one of them, folks leave this one early.


                
So this is what great cinema is nowadays? It's sad that moviegoers are so accustomed to crap that they hail American Beauty as a masterpiece.  I don't even want to get into it. Todd Solondz and Harmony Korine are making great films...this is just  some screenwriters wishful thinking. I used to grow and sell weed and that part of the story was totally bogus.  One dimensional homosexuals and homophobes. It felt like Annette Bening's character was written just to make Kevin Spacey feel superior. Good acting, but the rest of the film unworthy of all the praise it has received.


                
I am not able to understand why this movie got so high grade.It is just another ordinary movie with great actors acting in it.Obviously the scenary did not deserve to be the Oscar winner.The plot is so standard, there is no any sudden events in this movie except for the death of the main hero which is known as dead in the beginning. I was boring more than once during the watching.One thing that is saving this movie is the great playing of all actors, and particulary Kevin Spacey and Annette Bening.


                
why? why are people impressed with this movie? i honestly can't say.what i do know is that this movie has been carefully engineered to seem like it's making some smart critique of american life, when in fact it's really really careful not to offend even the most conservative viewers.kevin spacey commences an amazing rebellion. he quits his job! he smokes a joint! he buys an old car! he even - be still my heart - gets a job flipping burgers. basically his rebellion is to turn into a junior high student.at least he gets to have some fun with his character. the wife, annette bening, is nothing but a caricature. and i do mean nothing - except a few minutes in the end when she's worked into the contrived "surprise ending", which also amounts to nothing.to make a long story short, this really is a waste of money. the people who were impressed with this should rent some GOOD movies to remind them that just because it has good actors in it, and no fart jokes, that doesn't make it a "classic". and the first movie those people should see is "sunset boulevard".in my book, the number of good movies from dreamworks so far stays at zero. all of their productions have been either spielberg movies or box-office wannabes. now they're branching out into oscar wannabes as well. i think they should start making movies instead of god damned products.


                
Perhaps I am dating myself, which at 28 is rapidly becoming easy to do, but I can remember a time in movie history when 17-year-old actresses were not required to appear as partially nude nymphettes in order to tantalize the audience, and the hero of a movie was honorable.  "That's the point; there are no heros in this movie" is what some might argue, but I disagree. We were supposed to find Lester's cynicism and disdain amusing, like a child's tantrum. And our ethical hero acted chivalrously after all: after he had seduced his daughter's 16-year-old so-called friend (or she him), he chose not to take advantage of her merely because she admitted to being a virgin. Annette Bening's character, however, was quite believable and though she was painfully neurotic, at least she felt a sense of responsibility for keeping things together--even if superficially so. This movie did resort to a few cliches, like the gay homophobic ex-Marine, and the timing of the final seduction scene--pan to crying, vulnerable nymphette; enter Lester the Molester. OK, it's time now to get off my soapbox. It just saddens me to see how popular this movie is, and that the audiences want more.


                
Everyone seems to think this is some stunning expose of the American middle class, but all the characters are standard movie types.  You have the middle-aged couple going through their mid-life crises about their marriage and their jobs, the angsty teenagers, the military man, etc.  I found it pretentious--trying to pass itself off as something with depth.


                
How this film was even nominated for any Oscars much less actually won them is beyond me.  Well, no it isn't.  Kevin Spacey is a brilliant actor.  His body of work speaks for itself.  They could put him in a two-hour, big-screen adaptation of the lamest 70s sitcom and it would be great.  He's like Anthony Hopkins and many others who have saved mediocre and even awful films from oblivion by the sheer force of their presence and their ability to create involving characters from nothing.  The showing of AB at the Oscars shows yet again that the Academy and the rest of America have little in common.The main problem with this film is that it is one giant cliche - and not even a very original or entertaining one.  The Academy has developed this huge soft spot for films that pander to certain sacred cattle and this is certainly one of them.  Saving Private Ryan was another.I left this film with the stark realization that I hadn't seen anything in it that was done better in "The Ref".  In fact, Spacey played pretty much the same character in both and the basic premise was almost too similar.The film had its directorial moments but it was clearly a first attempt by a director who shows a great deal of promise but still has a long way to go. Apart from Spacey's character, the rest of the cast were dreary cardboard figures - the shrewish, philandering wife, the troubled teenage daughter, the self-absorbed bad-boy love interest, the right-wing, homophobic neighbor, the corrupt and immoral business associates...  give me a break. 
Bottom line:  Mr. Spacey deserved better, the audience deserved better and the Academy should have known better.


                
American Beauty really is a bad film.  How could it have beaten The Sixth Sense (in a bad year)?  I keep thinking of The Emperor's New Clothes - and I feel like the little boy.  There was a time when great films won Oscars - and many great films didn't.  "American Beauty" is a travesty that will not be remembered; that it has won so many Oscars simply brings the whole organisation into disrepute.


                
