Oh my gosh, I forgot how great this movie is. Kevin Spacey nailed his character with remarkable performance. Camera work is amazing and it shows everyday problems in marriage and society. Ending is perfect and the movie deserved all the praise and Oscar.


                
The American Beauty is a movie about - you guessed it - beauty. And not only are we talking about appearance, but also the beauty of the simplest things in life. As the main character says, "Today is the first day of the rest of your life". And you'll know it full well when you reach the end of this masterpiece.The movie was released in 1999 and directed by Sam Mendes. Kevin Spacey, embodied into Lester Burnham, tells a story about a middle-aged father trying to sort his life out. And his unbalanced in life wife Carolyn and anxious, misunderstood daughter Jane are really not helping him out. Each of them have their flaws and seeing them struggling to straighten things out is a true pleasure to watch.Now, right off the bat I want to say I've loved the movie. Seeing the plot unravel and the characters change in meaningful ways is frankly astonishing. Kevin Spacey, Annette Bening (as Carolyn) and Wes Bentley (as Ricky, a creepy neighbour next door) really outdid themselves in this one. At first they caused me to cringe horribly (obviously as intended). But later on with their engaging performances we realize how endearing and relatable these people are. Discovering their complex (or sometimes the simplest) views on life really warms a viewer's heart.The movie was quite funny and I've lol'd a few times. The tone is mostly light - the audience can relax and enjoy a good film. What we also need to talk about is the soundtrack, which absolutely appealed to me. The music really gave the atmosphere of the movie a nice touch. And last thing, the dialogues were top notch, mainly the ones between Lester and Carolyn. The asparagus scene genuinely amazed me and it's definitely gonna stay on my mind for some time.In conclusion, the filmmaker was successful in his role - making me self-reflect and have a good time. The charming characters and their complex stories are truly worth a rewatch. American Beauty is certainly a title I'll come back to.


                
I just decided to watch this old movie for the first time, since I heard it was a classic. This is one of the few movies where I had water in my eyes. The story was very powerful, the drama was powerful, everything was powerful. "There's so much beauty in the world, I feel like I can't take it." I do not this see anything wrong with it, it was a simply a great movie to watch. Highly recommend it.


                
A movie brilliantly disguised as an entertaining sitcom-ish family drama that takes every opportunity to establish the characters' individual story lines to the point in which the plot has expanded to twice the scope it had in the beginning. Every character feels like grounded people with their own arcs by the end and it's surprising how detailed they become. The comedic undertone slowly becomes more unsettling as the events spiral to the extremes.Kevin Spacey, Anette Bening and Chris Cooper all give great performances in this movie that help make their characters more sympathetic while still with questionable acts.The trailer makes the movie seem like a generic 90s American family comedy where the focus is in Kevin Spacey but that couldn't be further from the truth.It's a great subversion of the ideal American family taken to an extreme in which it could go any direction. And that it does.


                
It makes no sense that the people at the Academy awarded this movie the Oscar. Since when have they awarded great movies best picture? Maybe this is the beginning of a new Academy without the corruption that has ruled for so long.It was brilliant in every sense of the word, and should not be missed. Special mention must also be made to the excellent direction,  and superb acting from the entire cast.


                
I loved the acting and the under laying messaging. There are so many layers and emotions acted in such a splendid way. The Oscar nomination are well deserved I advice you to see this movie, Its one of those classics that you cant miss.I could really relay to Lester Burnham and his questions to what's important in life.
American Beauty is an exploration of midlife crisis and the illusion of a 'normal' family. Lester Burnham (Spacey), his highly strung wife Carolyn (Bening) and resentful daughter Jane (Birch) each struggle to find a sense of purpose to their lives as the facade of their happy home deteriorates. The story follows Lester on a journey to turn his life around after meeting his daughter's provocative friend Angela (Suvari). His lust for the teenage girl inspires a new lust for youth which he captures by discarding all of adult life's responsibilities in an attempt to re-live his youth. As he quits his respectable job, takes on a position flipping burgers in a fast food joint, and starts smoking pot he finally gets the object of his desire <U+0096> but was it really what he was looking for? Kevin Spacey's performance as the world-weary and rebellious Burnham is magnificent. The honesty which Lester gives off while everything around him radiates artificiality is astonishingly powerful - aided in no small way by Sam Mendes' use of lighting and colour which is remarkable. Visually, every shot is a work of art, a portrait of discomfort. You can really feel the unease as the camera takes you on a journey through the Burnham household, furbished in blue-greys and white <U+0096> not so much as a fork out of place - mixed with the stark contrast of red roses. In short, an absolutely breath-taking film, American Beauty is shocking yet humbling, sad yet tranquil and ultimately beautiful.


                
As a high school film teacher, I appreciate the honesty of American BEAUTY. It digs underneath the surface, asking us to "look deeper." My students have reflected that this is among the best films this semester, accurately portraying the realities of their lives and the adults in them. The much maligned "voice over" works for this "post-modern" generation, accustomed to the vagaries of story. Kevin Spacey seems perfect back narrating his life, explaining his own downfall and, ironically, his "uplift." Also, the two teenage characters, forced to behave like adults, cast adrift by distracted parents, show the pressures we live under, the pressures to "fit-in" and connect with the mainstream culture around us at any and all cost. Great film for students and parents alike . . .


                
American Beauty, released in 1999 and starring Kevin Spacey, Annette Bening, Thora Birch, Wes Bentley, and Mena Suvari, couldn't be ordinary if it tried. The movie is a deep, wonderful, and penetrating film that will leave the viewer not only questioning their life, but American society as a whole. The movie hits on many key points ranging from conformity in society to individual perception, and really hits home the concept of social disillusionment. The tag line of this movie is "Look Closer", which is exactly what American Beauty does with its portrayal of the Burnham and Fitz families. On the surface both families appear to be well-off and happy, but in reality they are struggling greatly with what they want and what they think will make them fit into society. For example, Colonel Fitz on the surface despises homosexuals because he believes that they are not conforming to society's view on marriage, however, in reality he is upset that he cannot break the bonds of social conformism and be gay himself. The truth is, the only happy people in the movie or those who are able to break from society's rules and live their lives according to their own perceptions<U+0085>unfortunately for most, they reap the consequences society deals to those who are unwilling to bend. Ricky Fitz is sent to a mental institution and ostracized by society because he does not keep the society's view on beauty. And Lester Burnham, though finally able to embrace happiness after waking from his twenty year coma, is killed. American Beauty combines not only great acting and directing, but also includes the audience by asking many questions that will make them stop and evaluate their own lives.


                
This has to possibly be one of the greatest.....screenplays of all time. That's right, screenplays. I didn't much care for the movie itself, but I had an edge: before ever seeing the movie, or knowing who the actors in the main roles were, I read the screenplay by Alan Ball - and fell in love. The way it was written, the sheer POETRY of the words, made me want to just sit there and read for the rest of my life. I could physically see the action happening in my head, without even knowing who played the characters, and every single word was just as impactful (if not more) than if I had seen it on the big screen.This is an overall EXCELLENTLY written movie, with an incredible plot line and especially the twisted ending. The music also helps to bring out the true emotions of the film, utilizing every millisecond of the instrumental power provided by the excellent composing skills of Thomas Newman to intensify the raw power of emotion this film possesses. I love the script, I ADORE the soundtrack, and I highly recommend this to anyone who has ever listened to any of Thomas Newman's work, or seen any of Alan Ball's scripts.


                
I view the characters in this film much as I view the characters in John Steinbeck's 'Of Mice and Men'. Each character in the book has their dreams, their goals, whether simple or fancy, they are dreams and most of them know deep down that they will never get there, but in order to lift themselves from the reality they are in, they need something to look forward to. In each character is a desire to be somewhere else, and in each character there is a major flaw, a weakness. In creating characters like these, Steinbeck has given each character redeeming features in such a way, that however hard you try, you cannot pick out a villain. Each and every character is a 'good guy', but each has their flaws that lead them to tragedy, and that is an excellent dynamic. In American Beauty, Lester, Janie, Angela, Carolyn, Ricky and Frank are all made out to be bad guys in some way or other, but each have their dreams, each have their flaws and they are all led to tragedy in one way or another because of them. Oh, and each are 'ordinary'. Its this Characterisation that really makes the film, aside from the cracking cinematography, acting, direction and ball-busting script. I would be very surprised if Alan Ball's inspiration was not partly because of Steinbeck. As you can see, I love this film.


                
Sam Mendes does a great job showing the troubles and problems a teenager might go through during their high school career. I'd have to say that this movie was more based around the father's life and his problems with it. Mendes really portrays well what a troubled father ready to give it all up might do to get things to go his way. The creepy neighbor boy was a bit far fetched but added the third part of the story that i believe it needed. The use of roses was amazing and were perfect for the times they were used. the cast for this was a perfect selection. Kevin Spacey played a perfect role as the miserable father/husband. Thora Birch was the best choice for a wanna popular dark teenager. Overall this was a great movie to watch and one worth its time.


                
About 20 years ago a great film was made. It was American Beauty- the acting, the writing, the direction. My Gosh - I still get goosebumps throughout this film. Spacey is a great actor despite his dark unfortunate past. I still watch this film on repeat.


                
American Beauty is a romantic comedy that doesn't suck, which is a nice break. It follows a man stuck in an unhealthy relationship with his wife and eventually falls in love with his 16-year-old daughter's best friend. It's an unconventional love story, and it's done beautifully. The plot is great. It's presented in a very comedic way and it's actually very funny. It's interesting and realistic, which is a little surprising, but nothing ever felt out of place. The subplot is also very good, and while I think we've all seen it before I think that it was the more relatable and serious of both plots, which created a really nice balance of both fun and seriousness.The characters are quite good too. You have a good idea of who they are, and they aren't horribly far-fetched either. All of them were flawed people, but not so flawed and that they were obviously fake. A lot of them, especially Kevin Spacey's character, were very likable as well. Like I already said, the movie is very funny. But all the humor is done in a very natural way. During character conversations they might say something funny, but it's part of the conversation and further develops their character as well as furthers the conversation, so it exists as more than just a joke. Overall American Beauty is fantastic. The plot and subplot are very good, the characters are great, and it's incredibly funny without feeling forced. In the end I wouldn't hesitate to recommend this movie, so long as you're willing to be wowed.


                
I've had an account for close to 2 years now and after watching this film I felt the need to write my first review. To sum up 'American Beauty' in one word would be near impossible, Kevin Spacey's portrayal as the sick to death suburban husband and father who's desperately trying to figure out when and where it all went wrong is undoubtedly Oscar worthy on it's own merits, but as we all know Spacey always brings something to the table that others can't offer.He takes us through a journey of mid-life self discovery and is able to accomplish what many forty-something ordinary..unhappy, bored with life husbands and fathers cannot, he's the feeling in your gut, he's the voice in the back of your head, telling you to do it, do what would end the misery and open yourself to the beauty of the world.To watch this film for the first time 15 years after it's release and it still have an effect on the viewer says a lot for the film itself, it is becoming increasingly difficult for anything pre-2000 to stay relevant, especially in this modern mess of a world but 'American Beauty' delves into both adolescent and adult life with the tag line '...look closer' being so subtle yet so pertinent.Coming into a review it is incredibly important to remain objective, but of course if one is writing passionately it may appear subjective, reading a lot of negative reviews about 'American Beauty' it appears one of the main critical points made is that the film is full of cliché's, or is described as one big cliché. It's not hard to see where these opinions come from but it's important to realise that not all great films need to be bursting with taboo matters and subjects, sometimes the simpler stories are the most eye opening...'American Beauty' along side 'Fight Club' in my opinion is one of the most life affirming films that I have had the pleasure of watching, teaching that there's so much beauty in the world, in places and things you would never even think to look twice at, you've just got to be ready, and willing to be in that place, where you've not nothing to lose.To reiterate, 'American Beauty' cannot be summed up in one word, you just have look closer, if you're ready.


                
I was honestly amazed at how beautiful this movie came out and have been trying to find a movie similar in feel but all fall very short. This movie is simply extremely unique and makes the viewers really see the different perspectives of lives that cross each other. It is chaos in the most beautiful way. I didn't expect the plot to be ever so entertaining. Every shot was honestly beautiful and the soundtrack is heavenly; so well put together and I honestly recommend for any type of view who enjoy movies which make you think. Even to a certain degree did I feel that we were living through the characters and it just generally had something to say on the nature of man.


                
You may read the little summary on the film up above and look at the movie poster and make assumptions about this movie, but the description is misleading. I know it was for me because when I finally watched the movie I was pleasantly surprised. This is one of those few movies that you will remember what you were doing while you watched it. The main point of the movie is not directly tied to the description up above - it is something that you will figure out for yourself..if you watch the movie. American Beauty is a breed of movie all its own, and should be watched with care- however silly that sounds. Overall, just watch it. Kevin Spacey's narration is perfect for this movie and he really adds to his character.


                
From the start of Sam Mendes' film we are aware of the ending. It still comes as a bittersweet surprise. The film opens with a shot of the protagonist's street and eventually into his house. The protagonist is Lester Burnham played by an incredible Kevin Spacey. In these opening shots we see his wife and her co-ordinated garden and footwear and their "better homes"esque house. From this it sounds like a glorification of the American dream.The truth is the complete opposite as it smashes it. The opening song is entitled "Dead Already" from the films' apt soundtrack. Lester's groggy state is changed drastically when he first sees his daughter's ethereal friend Angela. He subsequently becomes infatuated with her. The film is so great because it presents so many different themes which intertwine like the plot of a Tarantino film. The themes represent all the characters as neither heroes nor villains but victims of society and excessive materialism. It is a darkly hilarious satire which clearly has taken inspiration from George Orwell's novel "1984" and David Lynch's 1986 film "Blue Velvet". The cinematography by the masterful veteran Conrad Hall contains some of the most beautiful (it's thrown in on purpose) use of colour in film. It massively juxtaposes the brilliant yet unnerving reality of Alan Ball's witty and bleak script. Lester goes on a journey to rediscover himself and subsequently leaves his job as an advertising executive and applies for a job in fast food. He begins a strict work-out regime (apart from occasionally smoking drugs). He also buys his childhood dream car. He continues with this adolescent demeanor until he eventually appeals enough to Angela. Now this is where the film could have ended poorly, of course I won't ruin it for you. All that can be said is that the whole film is an exploration into the definition of beauty in our current society which is eventually found by Lester.The characters are treated with delicacy as the story revolves around them all searching for something intangible. The film is so effective as a satire because it neither supports nor condemns any of the characters. It presents them and their lives objectively. In many ways Lester's representation is similar to Travis Bickle in "Taxi Driver" (1976). Inasmuch as both films contain a character study not analysis and leave enough ambiguity to morally agree or disagree with both characters. In a nutshell "American Beauty" is the best movie of the 90's and the best of Spacey's illustrious career. Need I say more!
Well worth seeing, especially if you're a Kevin Spacey fan. Different than I expected, but fantastic. A lot of character development through out, where as I was expecting most to be focused on Spacey, a lot was spent on all characters which makes the movie all the better. You will not be disappointed if you decide to watch this movie. Very complex character interactions. Some odd/creepy parts but I think that it gives the movie its interesting touch and willingness to cross some lines made it unique. Along with Spacey, Chris Cooper also does a fantastic job and plays his typical character as a strict military man. Annette Benning also was fantastic. Great movie.


                
I saw an early screening of this phenomenal movie and it blew me away. There are laugh-till-you cry moments, especially as Kevin Spacey goes through the early stages of his midlife crisis. But the harshness and exquisite tenderness of life in all its glory are never far from the center of the story. Anyone with a family will be able to relate to the film.


                
It happens very rarely. You meet people in life who leave you with a lingering sense of familiarity. People, who no matter what they are, leave you with a sense of having asked a few questions; questions you have been wanting to ask yourself for a long time but have been putting it away simply because you don't want to face them. That's what happens when you start understanding the characters of `American Beauty'. It's like looking at the mirror and seeing someone you don't want to see, you don't want to know.This film is an acknowledgement of our times; the pain and the curses that it brings<U+0085>and the hope that it still instills in individual inspite of it. The story begins in a slow, casual narrative with a kind of indifference that makes it extremely tragic. But then as you zoom in to the lives of the characters you sense the dormant passions, the fears, the hope. Sam Mendes has done an excellent job in scattering a handful of characters in a plot where they are caught in the ebb and flow of life. Even if they run, they don't go very far, and finally come back to where they started. The background music complements the sensitive slowness of the film in a manner that is quite soulful. The camera acts almost like a silent observer and its role is, to have no role in the story. It just documents actions, reactions, emotions and feelings. In the noninterference of these other ingredients of film making, what gains poignance is the story, the plot, the lives of the characters. All the character in this film, the father, the mother, the daughter, her friend, the daughter's boyfriend, his father, his mother the neighbours <U+0085> all of them are all caught in a society which has sapped their spirits in some way making them dysfunctional pieces of life. Life, which leaves no purpose, no meaning. It is a simple rambling on of mundane existence which one seldom questions. Yet one cant blame the society because what makes a society is the people. And one can't blame the people either. They are caught in such a black hole in time, which refuses to acknowledge them, as individuals with their individual preferences, which they can't live with, can't live without! The loveless marriage of Kevin Spacey, the stage of his life determining his need for a sensuous relationship if not a fruitful one, his life drifting away in front of him like he never belonged, his wife's new lover, his unhappy job situation, his lust for his daughter's friend are not connected events yet they have a bearing on each other leaving him no room for escape. Yet he tries to be an understanding father, a compromising husband, a faithful employee. He tries but fails. He is a guy I have seen next door, you have seen next door. He could be anywhere, but only in a time like this, when individualism has brought with it the bane of isolation. You empathize with him and wonder, `Haven't I ever felt this way?' And then when you see this man changing<U+0085>slowly but steadily transforming himself to what he would really like to be, you feel happy for him. He is beginning to understand his space in this world and Kevin Spacey does a wonderful job of portraying that transformation in the character. He has got into the character like it was he. The collage of the other characters brings out the fears, the insecurities, and the confusions that we live with. Annette Bennings' portrayal of the frustrated wife is absolutely fantastic. The character lives through her emotional outbursts, her rigorous routine life, her crippled relationship with her husband, and her unsatisfied professional life with such amazing chaos and yet it is so simple actually. It is so natural! Her internal traumas are well portrayed by the actress and you feel sorry for her even when you know she might have had a way out of the tragic situation she is in. Thora Birch is the absolute teenager. Caught between socially accepted concepts and her own self which does not fit in there, like any other teenager anywhere in the world in times like these she wonders whether she is a freak! Allison Janning and Chris Cooper are stunning in their short roles. They portray the senselessness of a system that breeds self-denial as part of societal ethics, some cope with it some take shelter in letting their minds wander. They are like two sides of a coin, so different from each other in dealing with truth yet so similar in what they are running away from.Wes Butler as Ricky is perhaps the only one among the characters who has retained his sanity. His ability to see beauty in small, inane things surface so gently through the chaos in the film that one suddenly realizes what one is missing. It questions our inability to fathom darkness and touch light, our insufficiency to deal with our schizophrenic selves caught up in the mess of societal paradigms. He retains his individuality by being a part of a system that is rotting. In fact by helping the system to rot. His dealing in drugs thus becomes symbolic of a person who is helping a dying system die. He is abnormal. He does not fit in; perhaps that is his way of not conforming. But the most poignant part of the film is the end. When you see Lester's entire life pass through a haze of the present, you feel so completely awed at what beauty life actually holds for every one of us. As the glorious days of his childhood, the loving days of his marriage, his daughter float across his mind, and you hear him say how full of gratitude he is for all the wonder and beauty life actually has to offer, you just sit there in that balcony seat and shut your eyes for a second to glance into your soul. You wonder, `Why did all that laughter have to die?'


                
The beauty is one of the most important themes, which has been often explored in songs, poetries and plays. They would transmit different kind of emotions, as they still capture the audience attention. The songs about beauty describe the desperate pursuit of it, in the darkest moments through the most miserable places. The singers would express their emotions in the saddest way, which is often filled with poetic rhymes and touching musical notes. In the poetries, the authors express their feelings with difficulties, when they would find something touching. In the plays, the main characters often act long monologues and soliloquies, to express their feelings and most of the time their doubts. Especially when they would try to move on, by facing unexpected tragic moments. Some plays would end in bad way, which the main characters die only after, they have found something precious that they have been looking for. Others would end in good way, which the main characters live in the peaceful places, where they express their happiness through a long final monologue. After Sam Mendes has directed some plays, he seems interested to explore the theme about beauty. Especially after he read the script written by Alan Ball, which has been offered by Steven Spielberg who saw a potential in Sam Mendes. In 1999 came out American Beauty by Sam Mendes, with Kevin Spacey, Annette Bening, Thora Birch, Wes Bentley, Chris Cooper and Mena Suvari. The movie's plot: Lester Burnham is a depressed 42 years old man who is unsatisfied with his job, he has also difficulties to talk with his wife Carolyn and his daughter Jane. But since Lester falls in love with Angela Hayes, who is Jane's best friend, he starts to change his life. Carolyn and Jane change their lives as well, until an unexpected conclusion would happen. The movie from the beginning to the end, is filled with mise-en-scènes to create images to look like paintings. These mise-en-scènes are helped by the lightnings to make the scenes more atmospheric, especially when the main characters express their emotions in the specific moments. All the actors played characters who have in common, that they are searching for something important in the course of the story. Kevin Spacey was excellent as Lester Burnham, who initially was excluded like he is not as important as Carolyn and Jane. Until Lester would meet Angela Hayes to change his life, as he starts to do sport to get physically fit, he quits his job to find another one and befriends with the new neighbor Ricky Fitts who would give Lester pots to smoke. Annette Bening did a well done performance as Carolyn Burnham, who tries to be as successful as her real estate competitor Buddy Kane. Then Carolyn would have an affair with Buddy, to have found the success she has been looking for. Thora Birch was really good as Jane Burnham, who would initially act like her friend Angela Hayes. But since Jane falls in love with the neighbor Ricky Fitts, she would be herself to not imitate anymore the behavior of Angela. Wes Bentley did a well done performance as Ricky Fitts, who once he meets Lester and Jane Burnham, he would show both of them a way to find something they missed. Since Lester starts to smoke pots, thanks to Ricky, Lester would kind of live again the youth he missed. Jane would initially not trust Ricky, by looking him with bad eyes. Until she finds a way to be confident with him, as they would have a relationship to be close with each other. Then Chris Cooper was excellent as Colonel Frank Fitts, who would be initially seen as a restricted and homophobic character to not express any emotions. As he would often hit his son Ricky for a foolish discipline, until something would change him to be more emotional and less restricted. Finally Mena Suvari was also excellent as Angela Hayes, who would be seen as an avoided teenage girl. Especially when she tells stories on the time where she had sex with a lot of men, until it would be find out she is a girl who wants to be just a popular teenager. The script was elaborated to see how the story would be developed, from the beginning to the end by creating a workable narration. The score by Thomas Newman creates the emotions needed, to make the scenes poetic and atmospheric. As the tracks of the score are compatible with the most important scenes, by making them unforgettable and emotional. American Beauty is one of the best Sam Mendes' movies, it is also one of the best movies of the 90s.


                
American beauty is a very original movie that captures the deprivations of modern day society, it invites us to the tale of Lester Burnham who is trapped in the borders of his small world.The movie shines when Lester actually starts his character development, we see him bending the rules in his life and how it actually enlightens him(In my perspective).As you see Lester you can reflect to your own mediocrity of living.He goes to the point where he is no longer a victim of manipulation, and he is free and joyful.In the end his character grows even more when he realizes the true values he has in his life, and also the ending was like the cherry on top of this twisted dessert.I'd definitely recommend this movie to you, if you are in to watching a movie that will give you a greater understanding, but if you don't want to bore yourself with a very patient movie like this one, you should go and watch some action movies.


                
You can probably count on your fingers the number of successful above-average films that have been made about surburban life. ("Lolita" is one. "No Down Payment" is not.) Excluding the ones in which the house is taken over by a gang of rapist thugees or whatnot. There used to be a genre called suburban literature (John Cheever, etc.) but whatever visual potential the milieu of No Problem Drive may have had was drained by TV serials.Here, on the other hand, is a movie about exactly that kind of dull life, centered about mortgages and SUVs, that succeeds in almost all respects, from comic (the first half) to dramatic (the last half).I found it touching when it was released and figured, well, one viewing was enough, but seeing it again has only deepened my respect for the film and the people behind it.Truth, goodness, and beauty -- such rarely found commodities among the wisteria and the rose bushes and the asphalt driveways and the dinner china from Hitler's table. The dinner china from HITLER'S TABLE? Yes, it's true. The Marine colonel (Chris Cooper) who moves in next door to the Burnhams (Kevin Spacey and Annette Bening) has such a platter locked up with the guns in his display cabinet. You can't tell what it is just by looking at it. You have to turn it over. On the bottom there is no sign of the manufacturer, just a small, simple Swastika.The whole story is kind of about that. When you turn the pretty glistening object over -- well, you'd better not.The performances are uniformly good. Kevin Spacey is outstanding. And Chris Cooper as the counterfeit colonel is especially good in a strictly dramatic role, with his military haircut and his traitorous rheumy eyes. I don't know why they had to make him a Marine though. Never in history has there been a gay marine. Well, except maybe for Ed Wood, who landed under fire on Pacific beaches during the big war while wearing a pair of panties under his uniform. But technically even he was a transvestite. Why couldn't they have put him in the Navy? All those months at sea? And no women? Cooper may turn out to be an abusive father, a homosexual, and a murderer, but you feel sorry for the guy anyway when he has to come to terms with himself. In fact there isn't a soul in this movie for whom you don't feel at least some pity. That's a feat in itself. A movie with no one-dimensional heavies. Only one gunshot fired in anger -- and off screen. And only two sex scenes -- one comic and the other unfulfilled.The story is well written and well photographed. (Lots of memorable tag lines.) One of those empty plastic little bags that junk food is carried in, dancing around in a breeze, with its chorus of tannin-colored fall leaves.Not that it doesn't have its weaknesses. What movie is perfect? The transition from comedy to drama is deftly handled but some of the character development seems rather abrupt and over-edited. Mena Suvari, as the empty-headed narcissistic 17-year-old is told she is "ordinary" by a boy her age. She calls him a psycho freak and storms out of the room, "weirded out." She's correct in calling him freaky. I don't believe he blinks once in the entire movie. But, okay, so someone she despises has told her she's ugly and ordinary. She's angry and dismissive. And yet the next time we see her (in a romantic moonlit living room with Spacey) her eyes are watering and she has undergone an epiphany. "I can't stand being ordinary," she tells Spacey before yielding her virginity to him, or trying to. Spacey has his own epiphany when he finds out she's unsullied. He has visions of roses, of majestic vistas, of San Quentin.And I guess I can't see why the movie sets us up for having Bening murder Spacey and then turning the task over to someone else. And maybe the overhead shot after the killing looks a little like "Taxi Driver." And I suppose having the narration by a dead man reminds one of "Sunset Boulevard." And the final voice-over by Spacey, about how the last second of life lasts forever and consists of memories of boyhood and husbandhood and fatherhood are a little corny. Granted some of the characters are hackneyed and all are overdrawn, but consider how unpromising the material was to begin with, as if Mozart had written a particularly difficult sonata to be played on partly filled wine glasses. But that's minor stuff. This is a good movie. Lots of pop songs from the early 70s if you're into that.
Please don't get this movie confused with another 1999 movie, "American Pie", which was a funny but rather crude movie about horny teenagers all trying to get laid."American Beauty" is about real life, about dysfunctional families who don't realize why they are crazy. Until Lester (Kevin Spacey) figures it out. Quits his job, quits pretending he is something he is not, and learns to really begin to deal with life. There are lots of laughs, but also lots of drama.Make no mistake, this is a movie about Lester's life and death. "American Beauty" has the courage to look at "us". It does so through the eyes of Lester Burnham who tells you at the beginning that he will be dead within the year. Interesting concept!!There are several other stories in the movie, but they are there only as they relate to Lester's. In some spots, it would be easy to walk out of the movie because of where you think it may be going. But stay, watch the whole thing, see how it all fits together and I think you'll agree it is a rare movie among all the special-effect, mega blockbuster that seems to be turned out like beanie babies. Although this one is totally different, the way its messages come through may remind you of movies like "Fargo" and "A Simple Plan". If you didn't think those were fine movies, skip this one.Kevin Spacey gives an award-quality performance. Most middle-aged men will quickly identify with his character. But turn the roles around and women should just as easily identify.The reason I say this movie is not for youngsters is because they have not lived enough to comprehend and identify with the characters. But the sex and language are not nearly as bad as some mainstream movies. There is nudity, and graphic discussion of sex acts and body parts among teenagers in this movie, but it probably was necessary within the overall context. I give it 9 of 10, a must-see for any adult who enjoys examining his or her situation in life.2009 edit: I have watched this movie several more times and have enjoyed it as much as I did on the first viewing.2014 edit: I upgraded to Blu-Ray for this movie, it is worth it.


                
