The Terminator (1984) is a masterpiece, the best sci-fi action classics horror movie that started all the Terminator movies. This is Schwarzenegger's best movie and my personal favorite action film. I love this film to death it is my childhood film I grew up with it. Arnold Schwarzenegger was The Terminator T-800 Model 101 indestructible killing machine cyborg. This movie is brilliant, it has brilliant story, brilliant plot, excellent additional cast, brilliant director and writers, good special effects, it is mixed with sci-fi, action and horror. This movie deals with the war that was set in the future but the battle will be fought in the present. It deals with paradox travel trough time."It can't be bargained with. It can't be reasoned with. It doesn't feel pity, or remorse, or fear. And it absolutely will not stop... ever, until you are dead! "This is the perfect action film of all time and still even today over 30 years it is a cult classic. The plot and the script provides excellent dialogues. Why it is brilliant? Imagine someone did something in the future and didn't know about it and becomes a primal target for extermination from a killer cyborg from the future now in the present. That is brilliant and excellent idea and story.Two naked men appear in different locations in los Angeles trough flash blue light and electricity they were both set in time from the year 2029 to the present year 1984. One is a human the other is an indestructible cyborg reprogramed to find and kill Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton) the woman whose unborn son will become humanity's only hope in the future war against the machines. The other men is a human being a soldier from the future who has to find Sarah Connor and protect her at all cost. That's the basically plot for this film.James Cameron writes and directs this film with his than wife Gale Anne Hurd who also produced this film and they both does that brilliantly. The script with the story provides a perfect action entertainment trough whole film.Brad Fiedel does a wonderful music theme for The Terminator character and action sequences, car chases and does a drama in which Sarah and Kyle have sex together in the motel room. That's how John was later in the sequel born. Great music score for the film. I love the soundtracks from this film: Photoplay 
 and Burnin' in the Third Degree by Tryanglz.Arnold Schwarzenegger was at the top of his career. This movie bring his career at top of the action stars. Arnold is excellent and he performs excellent and acts brilliant as The Terminator. At one time his agent pursued Schwarzenegger to play the action hero, but Schwarzenegger wasn't interested to be an action hero he was interested to be The Terminator and he played brilliantly well and believable enough. Before Sarah Connor was a tough bad-ass gun guerilla squad in the sequels, here she was a scared victim. A beautiful young woman who was a waitress at the diner and was just a human being leaving a teenage normal life in Los Angeles. Linda Hamilton is the only Sarah Connor no else can replace her. She is beautiful and smart and it is my favorite Linda Hamilton movie. She acts very realistic, brilliant and perfectly as the scared victim. Linda Hamilton is the best of the film.Michael Biehn is the only Sgt. Kyle Reese no one else is or can replace him. He is excellent and brilliant I still prefer Corporal Dwayne Hicks but Kyle Reese is my favorite character from Michael Biehn he is a perfect action hero. I love Kyle Reese because he doesn't kill any human being. Lance Henriksen from Aliens and Hard Target is in here and he plays Detective Hal Vukovich and he is very good and realistic as the detective.Paul Winfield is Lieutenant Ed Traxler first he doesn't believe Kyle Reese story but later he witness it him self. I wish there wouldn't be deleted scene in which Kyle and Sarah finds Traxler dying and he gives Kyle a gun. This movie has ton's of action: You see a lot of automatic weapons, shotguns and handguns used in this film and they are used well. You have a car chase between The Terminator and Kyle Reese with Sarah and both men are shooting at each other. Terminator has a stolen Police car and Kyle fires his shotgun and hits twice the Terminator once in the eye. The Terminator than crashes with the car in the wall. In the next scene you see Terminator's eye bloody. You have a great car chase by the end of the film Terminator with truck tries to kill Sarah but Kyle put's a pipe bomb in the truck and you see a huge explosion the truck explodes great special effect. Terminator shoot's with an IMI Uzi in Tech Noir night club. Killing bunch of people in which Kyle stops him with a shotgun. Terminator crash with the car in the police station and kills almost 19 cops.When we see The Terminator been all burned out without flesh with only been endoskeleton covered with steel with his red eyes glowing that is scary when he chases Sarah is scary when I was 6 years old I screamed when I saw that skeleton cyborg attacking Kyle and Sarah. The Terminator is a 1984 American science-fiction action film directed by James Cameron.10/10 Bad-Ass Seal Of Approval The Terminator is a masterpiece a science fiction action horror film, a film I love to death and it is my personal favorite Schwarzenegger film. This is Schwarzenegger's best film with Predator and Terminator 2: Judgment Day I highly recommend those three films.


                
Rarely has a film so frightened an audience as "The Terminator." After its release in 1984, the extremely low-budget sci-fi actioner broke box office records, and gave audiences something more to fear. Through the years, there have been stories of nature's beasts, of creatures from another world, and so on and so forth. "Jaws" was terrifying because it seemed so possible. And if "Jaws" is terrifying, "The Terminator" is horrific. The realization of this hit-man machine dawned on everyone watching the film. In a time of exceeding technology, how long will it be before man is overtaken by the very things he created? And that is what is particularly scary about a film like "The Terminator." In "The Terminator," Arnold plays a cyborg, Cyberdyne system model 101, a T800, whatever that means. He has been sent back in time to assassinate the soon-to-be-mother of the future world leader, John Connor (who battles the machines in the future and leads an uprising). If Connor is killed, then there will be no one to oppose the machines of the future, and they will triumph. This would be pretty bad. So the future John Connor has sent a protector back in time, to help save his mother. Kyle Reese (Michael Biehn) tells Sarah Connor (Linda Hamilton) about the machine that is trying to kill her. "It can't be bargained with, it can't feel pain or mercy, and it will stop at absolutely nothing until you are dead!" Talk about a bad day.The Terminator hunts them down time after time, including the famous police station scene, where Arnie says, "I'll be back," and returns moments later, crashing through the wall in a car. He then takes on a whole squad of cops, but don't worry, Sarah and Reese escape slightly unscathed.There are countless classic scenes in "The Terminator." You will see them spoofed your entire life. From the image of the Terminator, to the lines they speak, to the scenes they act out. Everything is spoofed. And the film is worthy of its fame.On the special edition "T2" DVD (the second one), there is an on-set documentary for the making of the "Terminator 2" 3-D ride at Universal Studios. As the camera moves around, it shows Cameron detailing what he wants in this scene. Some guy suggests something else, and Cameron gets a tone. "No, no, that won't work. You do it like this - we come off here, he walks around..." etc. The point is, he's a perfectionist, and a demanding director. Some directors are a bit too easy, and don't really care where their films are going. But James Cameron seems to have a clear vision of what he wants, and he goes around making sure it gets done exactly the way he wants it to be done. And it shows in his work. It's hard to find any mistakes in a James Cameron film. And it's even harder to find plot holes.Some people say "Terminator 2 - Judgment Day" is better than the original. It's hard to choose, because the two films are very different. I view "The Terminator" as more of a deep, intellectually-consuming, dark thriller. I view "Judgment Day" as an action film, with a more or less recycled plot. (The plot is still good, but it's still the same, too.) It's hard to choose a favorite because they are so different. On "T2" the budget is ten times larger, probably even more than that. But if you want a horror/thriller, "The Terminator" is better for you. If you want special-effects and a really fun time, see "T2." They're both excellent films."The Terminator" is a great movie. It is one of my favorites; it is terrifying, horrifying, and 100 % entertaining. And unlike a lot of other cheap actioners out there, "The Terminator" has some thought put into its plot, and that is what separates it from the rest of its kind.
The Terminator is one of those films that no matter if you've seen it or not, you've heard of it, heck you know at least one or two lines without seeing it! This is the movie that blasted then new comer's Arnold Schwartzeneggerr's career, made James Cameron a name in Hollywood, and gave new meaning to a possible dark future that gave us nightmares. I remember the first time I saw this movie, I was just 8 years old and my dad of course walks in saying to cover my eyes at every "bad" scene with violence or nudity, needless to say about 70% of the movie he covered my eyes. Finally I got to see it with my mom and I was in love, this wasn't just an action movie, though it is one of the best, it had a story. To think this was all based upon just a quick nightmare that James Cameron had, he didn't have much money, but he had a good script, a great crew on his side to make one of cinema's greatest movies of all time.Two men appear in Los Angeles in separate locations, manifesting in sudden, blinding flash-storms of electricity. One is heavily muscular; the other man, slim and wiry. The mysterious muscular man obtains weapons and begins hunting down all women named "Sarah Connor", using a phone book to track his targets. He successfully kills the first two of the three listed women. When he attempts to kill the last Sarah Connor, he is stopped by the other man, Kyle Reese who has been sent back in time to protect her. While hiding in a parking garage, Reese explains that the man hunting Sarah is actually a cyborg assassin called a "Terminator", built by Skynet, an artificial intelligence network created by Cyberdyne Systems. In the near future, Reese explains, Skynet gained self-awareness, initiated a global takeover of military hardware, and launched a nuclear war against humanity. Skynet ordered that a scant number of humans were to be kept alive in order to be used as slave labor. John Connor, Sarah's son, rallied the few remaining humans and led a resistance movement against the machines. After a grinding campaign, the human resistance was on the verge of victory; in a last-ditch effort, Skynet sent the Terminator back in time to kill Sarah before John was born, preventing the resistance from ever being founded and allowing the machines to win by default. Reese volunteered to follow the Terminator back in time to protect Sarah; after his use of the time transportation equipment, it was to be destroyed by the resistance in order to prevent further Terminators from going back in time. The Terminator feels no pain, has no emotions, and will stop at nothing to accomplish its mission.The Terminator is personally one of my favorite movies of all time, I think because this movie really is something special. Yeah, the effects are very 80's, but for the time and even to this day, I think the special effects are much better than the CGI crud we get in today's cinema. This has everything: action, romance, horror, sci-fi, and even some dark humor. The reason why Arnold's "I'll be back" is so famous is not just because of his accent, but because you knew that something bad was coming. Kyle Reese's "Come with me if you want to live" is classic as well. If you haven't seen The Terminator, I highly recommend this movie, it's an incredible one that is sure to deliver entertainment to the fullest. This is one of the greatest movies of all time and I'm sure that you will not be disappointed, if you are, get a CAT scan.10/10


                
Is there a better person to play a cyborg than Arnold?  For this movie he was a massively built oak tree of a man.  His strange accent makes for a perfect callous robotic sounding killing machine.  It's almost like his voice is a computer read out ( which I guess it is in one sense ). Terminator is one of those films that started something huge.  People didn't realize it at the time, but the careers of Arnold, Cameron and perhaps even guys like Micahel Biehn, Lance Henriksen and even Bill Paxton were substantially started because of this film.  And Cameron must have liked working with them so much that he gave all of them substantial roles in his next film ( Aliens ).As we all know what the story is, I'll just tell you a bit about what is so fascinating about it.  First I have to mention Michael Biehn.  He has the real starring role.  He is the character that has to explain everything to the audience.  He has to explain this complicated story so that we know what is happening and why.  It is not an easy job to do something like that and still come off looking all right.  But Biehn is simply awesome in this film. A microcosm of his performance can be seen when Sara bites him.  Biehn ( Kyle Reese ) replies " Terminator's don't feel pain.  I do.  Don't do that again. "  That is such a great line delivered with the perfect expression, the perfect tone and the perfect timing.  Biehn is perfect for the role.This is also the first film that I saw as a youngster that ever warned me of the dangers of nuclear war and of the rapid advancements of machinery. Perhaps I was too young and naive to fully understand all that James Cameron was trying to say, but now that I am older, I can honestly say that the two Terminators are perfect anti nuke films.  And they are so passionate with what they have to say.  I like it when a film has something to say.  I enjoy being entertained in the process but if you can manage both then you have a masterpiece.  This is a masterpiece.Finally. there are two other reasons to enjoy this film.  One, this is the first film where "I'll be back" was spoken.  Now it is part of Arnolds vernacular.  Secondly, Bill Paxton is in it.  And he adds spark to any film that he's in.  Especially here, as the idiot punk leader that really gets the hell beat out of him, he has some great lines.A great film.


                
The Terminator is one of the best action movies of all time in my opinion. It doesn't set a single foot wrong and it also kicked off a wonderful saga. Without this, there would be no Terminator 2. Think about that. As such, this movie is fondly remembered by many people and it has been the subject of many quotes and spoofs over the years. Why doesn't it set a foot wrong? It is thrilling, almost always entertaining and filled with insane explosions, which more or less makes a good action movie. But 'The Terminator' stands head and shoulders above the rest of it's genre, because of it's well thought-out plot, splendid acting and an eerily memorable music score which gives you a reason to watch the credits at the end.Now to analysing why the plot is so well-thought out. Well, for one thing, the concept of preventing or setting in stone the future by going back in time was one which wasn't really explored in those days. By exploring it, the Terminator was offering something different, something which has inspired films such as Back to the Future (read the plot synopsis for that film, there are a few similarities). The notion of the final battle of a future war being fought in 'our present', not in the future, between one member of opposing sides, in this case a man and a machine, is also an intriguing one and sets the stage for an exciting battle royale.I'll run down the plot while I'm here. Sarah Connor, a young woman in her 20's, is the protagonist of the film and our two from the future, Kyle Reese and the Terminator, revolve around her. Reese, who is a battle-hardened soldier who has led a hard life in the wasteland which is the future, must protect Sarah, while the Terminator, an unstoppable cyborg, must kill her, in order to kill her unborn son, the leader of the future resistance.All of this leads to some thrilling action scenes and insane explosions, topped off by music scores which add to the tension and excitement. The movie purrs into action quickly, but really kicks off at a disco, where Reese and the Terminator have a shootout, resulting in a city-wide drive-by chase involving the police which doesn't really let up until Reese and Sarah are arrested. During the lull in the chase scene, Reese tells Sarah about himself, the Terminator and their general predicament, which is fairly realistic. The next action scene is the infamous police station massacre which everyone seems to talk about whenever they discuss this movie. I can understand why, too. The Terminator pretty much kills every cop in his path with the greatest of ease, either with the AK-47, his shotgun, or both. He also ends up cutting the power and setting the station on fire, again adding to the tension and excitement. The last action scene which, like the one in T2, is a chase which leads to a final showdown in a building. It is a slight letdown, but it is still an intense scene. I will refrain from spoiling the ending, as this is too good a movie to be spoiled.All of the acting fits the bill perfectly. As in T2, there is not a single bad performance to be found. Michael Biehn delivers a remarkably intense performance as Kyle Reese, acting like a typical human would in his situation. He displays his range of emotions at the right times, from passionate to worried to unyielding. It is a wonder that his only other major movie is 'Aliens' and that he is starring in stuff like 'Clockstoppers' these days. Linda Hamilton again does well as Sarah Connor, displaying an innocent woman who shows over the course of the film why she is John Connor's mother, displaying previously unheralded steel at the crunch. The support cast isn't too bad either (Dr. Silberman makes his first appearance). But again, the best performance in the film belongs to the bad guy, in this case, Arnold Schwarzenegger. He acts like a killing machine should; incredibly cold, sterile, soulless and unyielding. His facial expression never changes throughout the film and his physical appearance makes him slightly more imposing and intimidating than the Liquid Terminator. He also commences his famous one-liners which have been the subject of many a spoof, including (no, especially) "I'll be back." This is undoubtedly his best performance, even though it is not his only good one.I will compliment all involved on making a movie which still manages to look good despite having a low budget. I've seen pretty bad-looking movies with fairly high budgets (read: Scooby-Doo), but never good-looking movies with low budgets.In the end, The Terminator is a masterful action movie which laid the groundwork for the equally brilliant Terminator 2. If you asked me whether I preferred The Terminator or T2, I would say T2 because I am more familiar with it, otherwise, these two would be on a level footing. If you haven't seen this movie and are an action movie fan, then see it immediately. You won't be disappointed. Trust me.5/5 stars


                
Many people look back at the films of James Cameron and suggest that the smaller, the budget, the tighter the limitations, the better the end product. Films like Avatar, Titanic and True Lies had huge budgets and drew in even bigger box office but many still yearn for the Cameron that gave us The Terminator and Aliens which were huge movies but packed a far bigger punch artistically. My feelings all these years on are that Cameron has earned the right to make those huge movies but i have to admit to preferring his earlier body of work. The Terminator is a nightmarish, time travelling science fiction film told at a breakneck pace and delivered with confidence and style. The film has a very gritty, underground look to it and does a great job of telling its story amid the frenetic action. There is also a huge slice of horror and suspense thrown in, an impression that has diminished in the years since it's release due to inferior sequels. Viewed as a standalone piece however, The Terminator is fine piece of work from a director with a very clear vision.Everyone knows that The Terminator is the film that gave us Arnold Schwarzenegger but when i look back at the film, it has heart and its the Michael Biehn character, Kyle Reese, that provides it Artistically speaking,Cameron might be well advised that less is more.


                
Terminator is an extremely low budget movie. In fact, just about everything used in it didn't cost much at all, but it is a very effective movie. Back in the '70's and 80's, movies could be very low budget, but still be great(think of John Carpenter's Halloween).The Terminator is a story about how nuclear war causes the end to mankind and the end result could be the start of an even greater tragedy than the war its self. The entire message of The Terminator is an anti nuclear war message.Many people think that a few parts in the beginning of the movie are just some random things thrown in. I can understand why, but these seemingly random scenes actually do have a lot to do with the story.Arnold does a great job as the cyborg who is programmed to kill without mercy or remorse. For those who don't know, this is the movie where the line "I'll be back" was spoken. The other actors do a good job in this. Linda Hamilton made a great choice doing this movie and she really improved her career through it(the movie she made before this was the horrible Children Of The Corn).This is better than Terminator 2(which is still great by the way), because this movie has more of a story and is more involved. I would recommend watching this movie at any time, it is very well paced and never gets boring, and if you have the time, watch T2 right after this.


                
I've reviewed this classic movie before, but now I'm gonna review the DVD. To start, I must say that although they had their rationale for deleting the "terminated" scenes, as they were called, I think they definitely should have left that one scene in where Sarah Connor calls her mom and tells her to hide in the cabin, and where she finds the listing of Cyberdyne Corp. in the phone book. This scene established Sarah as one who is willing to try to take matters into her hands to stop a nuclear war and a horrible future. She talks to Reese about getting rid of Cyberdyne and they get into an arguement about whether or not that is a mission objective and Reese ends up chasing Sarah into a wooded area. I think the beauty of the woods, flowers and waterfalls was important too, because Reese starts crying and saying how all of this is destroyed, and the future is nothing but blackened, charred ruins littered with the skulls of attempted human genocide. What a terrific, powerful scene. I adore Michael Biehn, and I didn't realize what a great actor (and crier) he is!!! Maybe the other "terminated" scenes were okay to delete, although they were all delightful. The one where Sarah practices her "wholesome waitress" routine was cute. The one where she talks about Disneyland and hot dogs might have seemed silly, but it really brought home how foreign our world is to Reese, as did the crying scene. The tickling scene might have seemed silly to the editor, but I thought it really made a point: after all the violence and bleakness Reese lived through, to be with the woman he's always loved and idolized, to lay in a cozy warm bed with her experiencing the simple joys of life for the first time (I still wonder if Sarah devirginized him, since he said he'd "never" had any special someone in his life) seemed to bring everything into perspective. The scene where you discover that the factory was Cyberdyne Systems was important too, but I'll let these scenes slide. I really think they should consider releasing a TERMINATOR with the scene in the wooded area included. Nevertheless, I still consider this film as one of my favorite sci-fi films, and my favorite James Cameron film. I still admire who he infuses humanity with action and adrenaline, and the missing scenes were wonderful.


                
The Terminator simply has to be my number 1 favourite movie of all time. When the first time I saw the film I fell in love with it about 15 years ago. The truly original idea of the story-line is amazing about a cyborg is sent from the future on a deadly mission. He has to kill Sarah Connor, a young woman whose life will have a great significance in years to come. Sarah has only one protector - Kyle Reese - also sent from the future. The Terminator uses his exceptional intelligence and strength to find Sarah. The movie was emotionally & psychologically thrilling and made so dark & sinister that give the tensive mood for the film. A well made for 80's film and I was surprised when I heard that it made with a budget of $6.4 million because it looks more expensive e.g. the nuclear war in Los Angeles 2029. I loved every second of it and the best scenes are:1. When the terminator killed Ginger & her boyfriend.2. Shootout at the nightclub (A classic scene in film history).3. Self surgery on his wrist & eye.4. Shootout at the police station.5. When the terminator was driving the lorry.6. When he unexpectedly rose from the fire as an endoskeleton after that it was a nail biting experience to the end.The line "I'll be back" is simply the best quote for any film because the audience never expected his position of coming back. Although it is on the IMDb top 250 but it should have been No 1 top place because I have never seen a better movie than this. I've seen it about 100 times and I'm still not fed up. The Terminator gave me the passion about films and my verdict is 1000, 000/10. It's nearly about 25 years old and people still watch it. The 80's was the best decade for movies e.g. An American Werewolf in London, Gremlins, A Nightmare in Elm Street & Predator, the list is endless. Anyway no matter whatever happens there will never be a better film than The Terminator.
This is one of the great movies of the 80s in MY collection that I think about all the time.This is the one that started it all! Arnold is excellent in it! Linda Hamilton was great! Michael Biehn was very good as the good guy! Paul Winfield was good! Lance Hendrickson played a different character! In their short roles Bill Paxton and Brian Thompson were cool! Look for Dick Miller! The acting by the cast is very good! The action scenes are very exciting with lots of gun fire and the special effects are awesome! The music is great! Out of the three Terminator films it is hard to decide which is the best but this one is damn good! In fact its one of the best movies ever! I strongly recommend anyone who loves Arnold and the other cast members I mentioned and especially if you love action, sci-fi, or even horror movies to not rent but buy this classic! I recommend The Terminator!Movie Nuttball's NOTES:There is one scene that I really like in the Terminator! It is when Sarah Connor is at the dance club. What I love about it is the song and the excellent slow motion camera. Its when Sarah drops something, she goes to pick it up and while she is bending over The Terminator comes walking through the dance floor! Its a classic moment!Bill Paxton has been a part of three huge franchises! Being The Terminator as The Punk Leader, Aliens as Pvt. W. Hudson, and Predator 2 as Jerry Lambert! Lance Hendrickson has had a similar way of being in epics like Paxton being in The Terminator as Detective Vukovich, in Aliens as Bishop, Alien 3 as Bishop II, and as Charles Weyland in the upcoming 2004 movie Alien vs. Predator! Hendrickson, believe it or not was the original choice to play The Terminator! It is so amazing about this!By Paxton and Hendrickson being in these films and that Alien Vs. Predator is finally going to invade the theaters in 2004 could it be that this has happened for a reason? The reason possibly being this: In the great Dark Horse comic books there are many editions of Alien Vs. Predator and a edition of Alien vs. Predator vs. The Terminator! What I am saying is could this mean that Alien vs. Predator vs. The Terminator will be made into a huge motion picture or a Alien vs. The Terminator or even a Predator vs. The Terminator movie in the future? Its just a thought but what if? I am sure some writers and/or directors have talked about these subjects! I am also sure big fans of these films and of The Terminator would love to watch these icons battle it out!
Raise your hand if you've seen The Terminator.Okay.So, people of Earth, how many of you recall the last time you caught Arnold's breakout performance?Who were you with? Were you conveyed by carriage or dirigible?Put your hand down if you can't remember.I only ask because revisiting's worthwhile.This was my first time watching the movie, so my Dad and I instant-streamed T1 via Netflix. And it's glorious, lemme tell ya.Soon as Arnold starts killing innocent people, my Dad says, "I don't remember him being the bad guy."We realize he's never seen the first installment before. He only thinks he remembers. And I bet that's the case for many folks not raising their hand.It's been thirty years since release, but it holds up like you wouldn't believe.Seriously. The Terminator's a smart movie.Every character is watertight. Prominent or minor the acting's often what retains the captivation in between gunplay and chase scenes.The cops are Traxler and Vukovich, played by Paul Winfield and Lance Henriksen (a.k.a. Bishop from Aliens), and have a humorous dynamic. Sarah's roommate, Bess Motta as Ginger, is the sexy bouncy type, and her boyfriend's a well-meaning dummy. Kyle Reese (played by Michael Biehn) is withdrawn and serious.How about Linda Hamilton as Sarah Connor? She's such an ass-kicking delight, her likeness is still utilized twenty-four years later in Fox's Terminator: The Sarah Connor Chronicles. The show ran for two seasons and stars the pinnacle of underrated actresses, Lena Headey.Talk about a crowning accolade for Hamilton's performance.As a standalone, the story is very good and there's almost no need for a sequel. Although the ending lends itself to continuation, it's not necessary.The movie's greatest weakness is the same mistake made by other science fiction films like Escape from New York and Event Horizon; meaning a drastic underestimation in regards to the timeframe. The scenes that take place in the future are supposed to be set in 2029. I don't think laser ammunition, synthetic skin cells and advanced artificial intelligence are around the corner.Oh. And there's time travel.But this is a silly topic of discussion, because the plot's 'self-contained'; the rules allotted to the story's universe are adequate enough. An artificial intelligence develops in 1997 that learns at an exponential rate, making allowances for the suspension of disbelief.The irony is, the film unfolds a lot like a horror movie.For now, all I'll say is that The Terminator is a classic must-see film in the same manner The Great Gatsby's a must-read novel.Those without a hand in the air should stop reading here, because the rest of the review will contain spoiler-heavy analysis.Nuance abounds in this movie, and it's illustrative of the intelligence packed into every detail. Much of what occurs resonates thematically with the overall narrative.For example, the recording on the girls' answering machine states, "machines need love to," which obviously foreshadows Sarah's eventual encounter with the Terminator. It's also ironically commenting on the relationship between man and machine, and the eventual fate of humanity.Another detail akin to this is the name of the club where the Terminator finally locates Sarah. The name is Tech-Noir; which is a touch of self-referential humor. The filmmaking resonates with noir themes, and the subject matter's heavily rooted in science fiction.It's self-contained because of the limits established by the timeframe. In 1984, a Terminator would indeed have to look through the phone book for every 'Sarah Connor' and kill them off to ensure its mission's accomplished. It also establishes conceivable distance between the protagonist and the pursuing threat.The audience can accept humanity's resistance to obliteration against seemingly insurmountable odds when considering ideas like utilizing dogs to detect terminators.As for the special effects, most hold up quite nicely. And there shouldn't be any problem for a sophisticated viewer, given the context in which it's made. There is obvious use of green screen on set, and some devolved CGI, but for the most part everything's on the up-and-up.Okay, let's dive in.Timeline A is the history Reese returns from, which includes all events up until 2029. Timeline B is the realm in which the film unfolds, Earth in 1984.Presumably, the John Connor of Timeline A didn't descend from Kyle Reese and Sarah Connor, right? A terminator didn't arrive in Timeframe A's 1984 to attempt the same assassination?I'm assuming Timeframe A becomes separate from reality and Timeframe B will continue to unfold into an altered future.There appears to be no residual effects from the changing of history yet. No chaos or collapse; which is nice.I wonder if the sequel will cover the issue of reconnecting the loop; specifically, when history B reaches 2029, even if there's no such thing as terminators, will Reese have to travel back in time to impregnate Sarah again?Anyway, the reason I say it unfolds like a horror movie is the impending doom that's constant throughout. Sarah encounters terrifying scrapes with death around every turn. Consider the odds constantly stacked against her.After escaping the police station and literally everyone dies, Reese blasts the membrane off the Terminator's metal skeleton and dies to blow its legs off.Yet its torso continues to crawl after Sarah and is only crushed by the pneumatic press as his fingers claw at her face.The protagonist's terror is stretched to the utter limit, time and time again.For those of you still holding an arm in the air, feel free to lower it now.If nothing else you burnt some calories today, and learned two things about yourself.1. You're easily manipulated. And<U+0085> 2. You have exquisite taste in movie reviews.
The 1984 classic, an astounding production. One of Cameron's early works, and yet one of his best. The ultimate thing that puts this film on a whole another level above so many other flops is the awesome blend of realism and atmosphere. When I first saw it as a kid, it just felt so real to me. And now, ten years later,t that feeling hasn't left me. Using his camera in a way only he can do, Cameron instills a sense of dread in every scene, something good old Arnold did quite well.Michael Biehn and Linda Hamilton also did extraordinarily so, just putting the right amount of emotional touches to their performances. Its an involving film throughout that never fails to hit hard, even in light of some terrible and CGI loaded sequels. And who could forget the score, which only added to the already excellent tension. My favorite scene? No doubt, in a disturbing way, the scene where the T-101 is repairing itself, and the lighting is just so perfect gives off a feeling of absolute fear. Or perhaps the scene in the club where Reese first engages the Terminator, either way ingenious and unforgettable moments in film history.A classic in every way.
This quintessential marker of the decade may be modest in terms of its budget. But it's certainly epic in terms of its ideas. A piece of action-packed "tech stuff" on the surface, "The Terminator" comes a very long way from simply being a stylish noiresque chase movie with some time travel elements thrown in to spice it up. Because, first and foremost, this stuff is thoroughly rich in meaning. In essence, it's a superbly told tale of a lone warrior on a doomed mission who is given only a fleeting moment to share with the only one of his life. While desperately trying to protect her and everything human in human beings from forces so overwhelmingly destructive that they seem to be on par with the will of the gods in Greek tragedies. And the powerful background, permeated with a sense of impending fate, against which this drama is unfolding, apart from helping to deliver a serious and convincing message, somewhat unexpectedly turns it into one of the most poignant and poetic love stories – where love conquers time and space and the moment becomes eternal. So this picture should be named among very few actually substantial and emotional fables produced by the department of mainstream entertainment – as it sets off on an infinite journey far beyond the confines of a genre <U+0085> and beyond the infinite.


                
I don't know if The Terminator is the best sci-fi/action film ever made by anyone, but if it's not...then I don't know what is.I have seen this movie several dozen times since the age of 4, and it just gets better every time. It does have a special place in my heart, so I'll try and be as objective as possible in my review.The plot is not as complicated as it seems. A man from the future is sent to 1984 Los Angeles to protect the mother of the unborn man who will lead the human race in resistance to the machines, who have also sent back a "terminator" to kill this woman, named Sarah Conner.What makes this movie so much fun to watch is the fact that it starts going from frame one and doesn't stop until the very end. We first see the terminator come back, kill some punks (Bill Paxon is one of them!) rob a gun store, and proceed to kill everyone in the phone book who has the name Sarah Conner. In the meantime, the man is sent back, chased by the police, steals a shotgun and some homeless guy's clothes, and then looks for Sarah Conner. And when we first see Sarah, she is a fumbling waitress...not "the mother of the future".When the terminator, the man (named Kyle Reese), and Sarah Conner all come together, we are treated to one of the paramount action scenes of all time. All three people in the same location and the slow-motion and cheesy 80's music starts up. At this point, anyone who is watching the movie for the first time has no idea who's on who's side. Then the terminator targets Sarah and Kyle interrupts the slow motion with gunfire. After that is a short but effective shoot-out (Uzi 9mm absolutely MUST be used in every 80's action movie), then a vehicle chase while Kyle lays down the exposition.The thing that makes this movie so effective is the antagonist...the terminator. He is shot several times, thrown through a window, hit by a car...and he keeps on going. And I'm sure everyone (even some who have not see the movie) knows the famous line "I'll be back", which is said just before the terminator "visits the police station", if you know what I mean. At this point, Sarah and Kyle are at the police station, so they're safe, right? "There's thirty cops in this building", so they must be safe. Wrong. Five minutes later, everyone is dead and the building is burning to the ground...and the terminator keeps on going.James Cameron's directing is outstanding, especially considering the $6,400,000 budget and the primitive yet effective special effects, which deserve special mention. The effects in this movie are, in parts, better than anything that can be done by today's cgi. Sure, there's many parts which are out-dated as hell, but there's still certain effects that look real enough to believe. The gas truck exploding at the end was a miniature actually exploding, not some fake cgi crap done on a computer. The metal terminator skeleton at the end is real, not a cgi effect (but the stop-motion scenes look AWFUL).Considering the budget in relation to what was accomplished in this film, it's truly a remarkable effort that could probably not have been pulled off by anybody other than James Cameron. Add a script that is commonly used as a teaching tool for upcoming screenwriters and you have a spectacular film.The only bad thing about this movie is that after watching it today, it makes you sad that nobody working today can make anything as good.
The people who say Judgement Day is better than The Terminator are wrong. This is soooo good there's no topping it. I liked the entire trilogy a lot, but there's no comparing to this first one. It's a brainless action film, but it's not entirely brainless. Excellent world building makes it fascinating to explore, and begs for the two sequels.Even though it is sort of over the top in all of the action, it's just a really fun movie to see. Greatest pure action movie ever. Period.And Arnold is better as the bad guy. Just sayin'.


                
A great science-fiction film with a compelling story. James Cameron does a good job interweaving a science-fiction narrative with other elements. The movie is considered an independent film with a low budget, but it feels much more than that. The animation for the time is actually done quite well, especially for being a low budgeted film. Linda Hamilton does a great job in the film. She doesn't over act her lines and the end of the film I felt she really outshone in the factory and leaving John her message. Michael Biehn also does a great performance and Arnold Schwarzenegger does a good job, he may of had very few lines but his physical acting is very well done. Schwarzenegger did a good job at portraying a cyborg with use of movements. The dream sequences in the film that go back and forth between the future and the present is amazing, gives it more of a chilling sense knowing that their future is full of hardship and turmoil. Overall this film is amazing and for being 30 years old, is still going to stand the test of time.
This is a true 80s classic and I personally like it more than T2 (even though T2 is also amazing) The action sequences are awesome and Sarah Conner is pretty hot.


                
I don't know how it gets any better. I have watched this film many times and still love it, still feel the tension in the situation, the terror.Its just about perfect. the acting is great, michael biehn especially. The bad guy is bad, there's no mercy in there. Like many Cameron films, the dialogue brings out real characters, and the relationship between the Sarah and kyle feels genuine. The way the film unfolds is constantly gripping. The soundtrack really emphasises the desperate struggle.And most of all the whole movie does justice to the plot, and the plot is absolutely watertight. Like the best science fiction films, it leaves you thinking about it, it leaves you agog at the possibility of it, and it doesn't have any holes - the downfall of Terminator 2 in my opinion, which doesn't make any sense from a plot point of view given Terminator.10 out of 10 - the effects may date but they don't make a movie. Brilliant.


                
$100million or more may have been spent to make the much celebrated sequel, but this, the original, stays longest in my mind, and I suspect a good many other people's too.For all the hype about T2, that film simply does not have the narrative drive which is on show here. Fusing the concept of time travel with the theme of assassination, James Cameron's picture has echoes of such classics as Day of the Jackal; the extra twist here of course is that the Terminator would appear to be indestructible. It's as though Steve Austin (TV's Bionic Man) had transformed into Mr Hyde.By creating a tightly written thriller, with an almost claustrophobic sense of tension to it, Cameron proved right at the start of his career he does not need a mega budget to make a great film. Indeed, it's significant to note that the two finest pictures of Cameron's career, critically at least, The Terminator and Aliens, are also the two films with the smallest budgets.T2, Titanic and Avatar have reaped over $4 billion, but hand on heart, can anyone honestly claim those pictures, in regard to writing, direction, and a compelling storyline come anywhere close to the tension and sense of drama which he manages to evoke here in less than a couple of hours? I seriously doubt it.


                
The Terminator, created after another one of James Cameron's reaccuring dreams (Abyss was another one.)  A true beginning in sci-fi movies.  As Schwarzenegger said to his friend when he was picked to play the part as the Terminator, "they want me to play as some robot from the future in this weird sci-fi movie." His friend said, "take it." Schwarzenegger is perfect as the Terminator, merciless, no fear, no love, no pity, no remorse, no emotions.  None could have pulled it off as well as he did.  Even his eyes showed no emotion with still showing true evil. Michael Beign is just the opposite.  A man sent from the future to stop this machine.  He plays his part as perfect as Schwarzenegger plays his.  A perfect cast of characters for an all star movie! Plenty of action, story line, plot, character interaction, love story, and romance.  Everything is tied into this movie that possibly could be, making it a 3 star movie.  Only drawback is it's a little dragged out at parts and gets slightly boring from time to time but it's so minor that one would have to think about it to care. A truly awesome movie.


                
Fantastic film! my favourite film of the 80s along with Robert Zemeckis Back to the future. One of Arnold's first films as a professional Actor, and his most memorable role. With James Cameron directing, this is definitely my favourite film of his by far. Most people think that Terminator 2 is even better than this one. But for me, this beats it every time. I love Terminator 2, but i thought that it dragged out a lot longer than this film. This film was the perfect amount of time for a film to be running without getting boring. And leaves tension all the way. I used to be inspired by The Terminator when i was younger, and I'm pretty sure it was my favourite film at one point. Arnold Schwarzeneggar does such an amazing job as the Terminator, it's unbelievable. I know James Cameron tried to make him look cooler as the guardian in Terminator 2, but in this film to me is as cool as you can get. With supporting acts of Linda Hamilton (Sarah Conner) and Michael Biehn (Kyle Reese) the whole film is a complete blow-out! Schwarzeneggar was perfect for the role of The Terminator, with the size that he is, the one thing i didn't like with Terminator 2, is that he was the half the size he was in the first one. I know it was 7 years after the first one, and he had stopped bodybuilding, but still i think he should have been the same size as in the first one for playing a Terminator. With Terminator 2, it had a clever concept, and is probably the most well though out Terminator movie of them all, with Robert Patric playing a new style of Terminator. I think the first one if slightly better because it was Cameron's original idea for a film, and plus i think if you are playing a Terminator you need to be a considerably big and intimidating size like Arnold was.


                
"The Terminator" is one of the most popular movies that was made back in the mid-80s, and it has been well-remembered by critics and audiences alike. Everyone has seen this movies and knows it quite well as much as its famous sequel "Terminator 2: Judgment Day." I don't know if I had anything new to say about this movie because everyone already knows well about "The Terminator" and why its so darn good about it. This movie was directed by James Cameron who would go on to make the second "Terminator" movie along with the second "Alien" movie, "The Abyss," "True Lies," "Titanic," and now "Avatar." I know that Cameron considered this movie to be his first film because his previous film "Piranha II: The Spawning," was going to be but some random people of the movie took over and wasn't like the way the Cameron envision it. So he just ignores that movie and considers "The Terminator" as his first film because he had more control than he had with the second "Piranha" movie. The movie stars Arnold Schwarzenegger as the Terminator, which it was his first time to play a villain and he really does a fascinating job to not only he embodied the character, but making it such a memorable role. He is the Terminator. Michael Biehn was also great as Kyle Reese along side with Linda Hamilton as John Connor's mother Sarah. The movie really does go at a really good pace, and it does keep you on the edge of your seat. The music by Brad Fiedel is one of the greatest scores that has ever been heard in this kind of movie with the use of synthesizer, and featuring the famous "Terminator Theme." The special effects in this movie are really good in this movie, especially with the design of the Terminator by the great Stan Winston. The effects are no "Terminator 2," but they are still really good before there was any CGI as what most filmmakers are using by today's special effects. The story is really well told and very effective as the premise goes along without any subplots or any of that mumble jumble. All it is that one is really trying to protect Sarah Connor, while the other to terminate and that is all you need for a story like this. "The Terminator" is a classic movie of the 80s that mixes with action, horror, and science fiction. If you haven't seen this movie, check it out! I give this movie a 10 out of 10.


                
This movie blew me away when I first saw it in the theater in 1984. It was futuristic and intense with a good action movie cast and, of course, Arnold. Look for Lance Henrickson, Paul Winfield and even Bill Paxton in an early role as punk #1.It's a sci fi classic now, and it set the bar the countless movies that came after it. If you line this movie up with Halloween, The Warriors, The Thing, Alien and a few others from the late '70s to the mid '80s, you have what amounts to a latter day golden age of science fiction/action/horror films.If you're a fan, you've seen this movie countless times. If you haven't seen it, see it now. It's definitely better than the sequels.


                
*Possible Spoilers*The fact that James Cameron's low budget 1984 breakthrough film, The Terminator is an undisputed classic of 80's cinema and cinema in general is just that, undisputed. It is however, one of a handful of first films that may be bettered by its sequel, in this case Cameron's 1991 epic, big budget follow up, Terminator 2: Judgement Day. For me the second film had always been my favourite of the two (I try to ignore the rest) but on re- watching the original recently I have a renewed love of the film. It's grittiness and dark tone, devoid of humour is very refreshing in this sanitised PG-13 age of Hollywood that we now live in. Arnold Schwarzenegger is unrelentingly menacing as the titular killer cyborg from the future and it's a stunningly well paced film. It's very much a product of the 80's with its garish fashion and big hair but that's in no way a bad thing as it's setting is very much an integral part of the plot. T2 is grander, more epic and still near flawless but I fear it suffers from too much exposure if there can be such a thing. It's been on TV a million times and released more times on various home video formats than almost any other film and is maybe a little too much in the public lexicon to be viewed outside of itself and it's own reputation. The original has a lower budget feel that gives it an almost indie quality that has done it no such harm. Set over the course of two days and nights there is a greater sense of intimacy with the first film and a dark tone that's very film noir (or should that be Tech Noir?). Schwarzenegger, in only his second major role, has only a handful of lines but commands the screen with a presence that sets him apart as one of cinemas truly frightening villains. When you consider that both OJ Simpson and Lance Henriksen had been considered for the role prior to the Austrian Oak it's lucky that Cameron made such an inspired casting decision and it would be interesting to peer into an alternate universe and see what the other two actors would have brought to the role. Linda Hamilton shines as Sarah Connor, the T-800's timid, shell-shocked target and by film's end it's great to see her transition into something that more closely resembles (at least mentally) T2's ripped killing machine mom. Michael Biehn also gives a superb, understated performance as the battle-weary human soldier sent back to protect Sarah. The sense of impending doom he conveys whilst never straying from his mission adds immensely to the film's pre-post-apocalyptic theme. There are many great plot devices and technical flourishes that I could mention such as the idea that Kyle is the father of the man that sent him back to the past in the first place, a mind bending temporal causality loop that gives food for thought and debate. On the technical front the cinematography, iconic score and soundtrack and tight editing are all first rate. One particular scene representative of these aspects so finely melded by Cameron's deft hand is the scene where Sarah and the Terminator first meet. As the cyborg walks through the Tech Noir nightclub and approaches the table where Sarah sits waiting for the arrival of the LAPD, the film shifts into a dreamlike slow motion as Sarah knocks a bottle onto the floor, bends down to pick it up just long enough for the T-800 to miss her as he passes. The 80's rock music is now muffled by the dilation of time as the score comes in, Sarah gets up and sees not the cyborg but Kyle staring at her from across the bar oblivious to the fact that her hunter has now doubled back and is about to see her. Just as the slo-mo tension reaches a climax Kyle sees what Sarah hasn't as she lifts her gaze to the machine as he pulls out a gun, Kyle does the same and we kick back into real-time and all hell breaks loose. This level of tension is maintained for the film's duration and marks it as one of cinema's most efficient thrillers. We've since seen what Cameron can do with huge budgets and established effects houses and there's no denying that he's more than made his mark on the movie world. However, one can't help but think that ever since he declared himself King of the World, his films, quality wise at least, have diminished. I still lean towards T2 as the more personally fulfilling entertainment spectacle of the two films but back in 1984 with very real limitations made worse by on-set woes, problems with studio heads and the lack of any prior reputation, Cameron made best of what he had and that estimated $6.4 million budget was stretched further than anyone could have imagined. He ended up giving us a classic film of such quality that it made sure that the audience, like the Terminator himself, would indeed be back.


                
Based on the writings of science fiction author Harlan Ellison, James Cameron's dark vision of the future was a launching pad for several careers in Hollywood. Arnold Schwarzenegger was at the height of his career and appearance in 1984, so his size and musculature made him the perfect choice to play the killing machine from the future. Linda Hamilton became a star after a somewhat lackluster career by portraying Sarah Connor, a role she reprises in T2: Judgment Day. Micheal Biehn, a heretofore minor character actor, gained overnight popularity as Kyle Reese and went on to film other action films, including Navy Seals and Aliens. Even Lance Henriksen can claim a large amount of his success on his role as Det. Hal Vukovich, and both Bill Paxton and Brian Thompson were seen early in their careers thanks to their brief but memorable roles as the punks who first confront the Terminator.While the special effects were not what we would expect to see now, for 1984 they were exceptional. The mechanical movements of Arnold were timed and precise, and the skeletal movements of the Terminator at the end of the film are matched with his character. There are some disparities in the plot, but those are the normal disparities that come with any time travel story. The action, once we get past the initial introduction of characters, is fast. Even when the action slows, the plot moves forward with a consistency rarely seen in action films, and the on-going development of the characters is well written and acted. Its popularity is apparent, since it has spawned no less that three sequels which manage to cover every question, including how John Conner got the scars across his face. Rated R for sex, language, and violence, older teens will probably not find the solitary scene between Sarah and Kyle too embarrassing, and the younger kids should be in bed. Definitely a collectible for any good collector.


                
