I am a big Coen brothers fan. I like a lot of their movies, and I love Miller's Crossing and Fargo. But this movie? It just sucked. There's no point to it. The ending is stupid.Yeah the killer is scary as hell. Yeah the dialog is curt and funny, and the hero is brave and resourceful. Yeah his wife is believable, in an unbelievable role. (She played Maggie Smith's maid in Gosford Park -- the small drama in that movie turned on her lovely performance. And lord, what a face.) Should there be a point to a movie? Course not. Dirty Mary and Crazy Larry, and The Vanishing Point are two of my faves. Should there be a story? Course not -- The Sword of Doom is another of my faves. But don't pretend to have a point, then have none.And I think we've found the limit of Tommy Lee Jones' abilities. He was awful talkative for a Texas Sheriff. Not courageous, not worldly, not likable, even.So the Coen brothers make a movie, and it gets into the top 100 at IMDb. Big surprise. When I first saw Fargo in the theater, one viewer laughed for almost the entire movie, and laughed especially hard during the most brutal scenes. As though he got it, and we apparently did not. Well, that is the apparent charm of the Coen brothers for many -- you either get it or you don't -- and this one, I didn't get.Especially the ending. Give me a break.
Killers everywhere and the FBI not to be seen. Drugs everywhere and the DEA only mentioned in the background and never to be seen.The local police say to the guy being chased to look after himself and let him go. Not a single policeman to "stake out" or "follow" the guy with the money. This is after the mass killing at the start of the movie and several more after this. Gee wiz the police must have more to do than worry about solving crime. What rubbish.The worst plot aspect of this film is the guy who gets the money is portrayed as smart, a real outdoors man. Yet to get lost with the cash he stays in his home town, then moves to the local city and finally heads to the family home - and of course - oh so obvious - his mother in law tells the bad guys where he is going.Surely a smart outdoors hunter would know that the best way to get lost fast would be to go to New York or Paris and then disappear.Could go on for hours about the poor story line and plot faults, but you got to see this for yourself to realize it is typical Coen Brothers where reality is forgotten and fantasy ensues.
after watching the Oscar, (we know the results )it appears that this movie came out to be number one of the year.. So I decided to watch it! thinking that this is a good movie.. but it wasn't that good.. I am somehow disappointed, I wonder how this movie has made up to the top.. did the brothers paid the judge or some sort of thing to make it to the top? just like in this movie.."I give you 100$ for that shirt" the movie was quite captivating, first section was fill of new things, (new way of killing we don't see on movies) but after an hour.. it gets bored.. and it ends weirdly... I m giving 3 because the backgrounds are beautiful and the acting was quite good! but beside that.. the run time of this movie is too long and it goes to nowhere after watching this movie, I felt that if i didn't watch it.. wait.. i will give it a 2 after all...
In brief, the Coen Brothers are among the most overrated filmmakers alive today. Nearly every single movie they make, contains no real ending or payoff for the audience. (Exception: "Fargo") No, I'm not talking about a happy ending or one that is typical Hollywood. I'm talking about no ending.Their stories usually start out well, but their strengths as filmmakers are not in the actual storytelling, or script. It's in their style and the "look" of their movies. But all style and no substance is not great film-making. Which was obvious from their first highly overrated movie, "Blood Simple." This movie typifies that. As another reviewer here wrote, this is a glorified B movie, with self-indulgent pretentiousness. I've said this since at least "Barton Fink" but probably even before then: The Coen Brothers are masturbatory filmmakers. They make movies for themselves, what pleases them, and don't give a crap about their audiences. It's clear they don't care whether we have "cartharsis," or closure at the end of their movies. And there frequently are no arcs in their characters, or the story itself.In this movie, the killer remains the killer... he never changes. The Josh Brolin character never changes... he just runs till he's killed. The Sheriff never changes... he's a philosophically "sad" guy who decides to retire after seeing all the blood and mayhem during the story. No arc for this guy.I never read the book, so I don't know if the story is "flawed" in the first place. But this movie is very flawed, and it's a total joke that it won an Oscar for Best Picture. This is ludicrous. (Probably what happened was the other nominated films split votes, so this one squeaked to the win.)Besides no arcs, here are some more flaws: We never learn or understand who the Mexicans are, or why they're chasing the money. Presumably there are 2 factions of Mexicans, one buying and one selling the drugs, when the deal went down. We learn that an Anglo businessman is behind something here (either the buyer or seller, probably the buyer), but he hires Woody Harrelson to track down the money. So why is there a contingent of Mexicans after the money too? Makes no sense.The drugs also disappear from the flatbed truck at some point, so where do they go? Who got them? If the Mexicans, then why would they still be after the money? And if the Anglo businessman got them (via his 2 business guys that Javier Bardem kills), then why is HE after the money?Ludicrous, totally ludicrous. The story makes no real sense. Furthermore, who is Javier Bardem? And why is he after the money? How does he even know about the money? Who hired him, if anyone? You want story logic, don't expect it from this movie!Speaking of no story logic, gotta mention this last one, the scene between Bardem and Harrelson in the hotel. So Bardem is after the money, yet he shows up to speak to Harrelson (and eventually kill him). Why? He says he knows where Brolin is, so why doesn't he just go to where Brolin is? By not doing so, Brolin then gets away. Sure, Bardem is a psychopathic killer -- after all, everyone says so -- but only in his pursuit of the money. He doesn't go out of his way to kill people... only in pursuing the money. Yet he does go out of his way here, with the Harrelson character. Lame lame lame. What a horrible story this was.You want to see a good thriller? Rent something else. You want to see a "cool" style with good cinematography, but don't care about story AT ALL? Then this will do.
in what small town would a deputy or officer turn his back on some mass murderer just because he's got handcuffs on and has been instructed to sit his ass on a bench? In coenbrothersville USA, where people are beneath contempt. I mean the coens didn't invent stupid ass characters that only serve to move along the plot at some tricky juncture. it would have been better not to even bother with the whole opening section of jolly Javier being arrested out in the sticks, Er, desert, with beacoup de shots of the desert before that. oh but then how would the film have reached the running time of 122 minutes one asks. exactly.when will all these sheep writers and directors move beyond the silence of the lambs thing with the now completely stock character of the darkly charismatic psychopathic killer. the coen bros put a new spin on it: this one has bad hair. he has "principles" which are really aesthetic principles. I am so weary of "stylish" killers. also the whole Friday the 13th sorta thing, I mean it's not that exaggerated here but nonetheless the boogie man seems to be indestructible. less through some supernatural prowess than by his safety in relying on the stupidity of the rest of the little lambs, Er, people, in the film. there might have been at least one other character in the movie with some common sense. Even watching Fargo you get the sense that the spirit of the film doesn't want to admit the existence of a person like the Frances macdormand character. Why did the tommy lee bones guy have to be such a dimwit. I can understand the misanthropic point of view but it makes for an unsatisfying movie. Better to have someone like Frances then kill her off than to just give us this portrait of the world as cat and mouse where it's only possible to respect the cat. TIRESOME CRAP
I've read thru lots of the comments and reviews. Believe me I 'get' this movie.A movie that doesn't follow Hollywood 'formula' can be very good. But this movie was pointless. And yes, I understand part of the appeal is there is no point, but so what. That doesn't entertain me at all.They had to include the Bell character to have any character have any development.I like movies that are entertaining on face value, and have a subtext and/or character arc that allow you to think and see some value and depth to the movie. This movie was entertaining at face value until the end. When it was over I was thinking back trying to figure out some hidden meanings, or something I have missed, and it wasn't there. Or at least make it so it doesn't break the suspension of disbelief and leave me sitting thinking what the hell? Javier Bardem was good. The only Oscar that was deserved. It makes me realize how much the academy is about politics and not inspired movie making.
Really had high hopes for this film. Greatly enjoyed the acting, pacing, filming, etc.Then the ending (or lack thereof). Felt like I completely wasted my money.Yes, it captures the era quite well. Yes, the cinematography was nice. Yes, the suspense was real and compelling. But you need an ending to a film. Even if you're an "artist." Period.Maybe they'll go back and actually finish this film at some point. Would be nice.Until then, a disappointment.
I don't know what film that all the high scoring reviewers (and it seems the academy voters) watched but it certainly wasn't the one I have seen, twice.Why did I go twice to a film I have rated so low? I had to go a second time because I thought I must have missed some basic bit of explanation the first time round. Turns out I didn't.This film probably warrants a score of about 6 due to some high strong performances and the general quality of film-making, but these are wasted as the story has huge holes and the ending is just nonsense.Those people clogging up the bulletin boards trying to explain how there is some deeper meaning are running themselves in circles creating whole chunks of backstory and assumptions that just aren't provided in the movie.It is the emperors new clothes in a movie, if you claim to see the invisible overcoat that just isn't there then maybe you need to look again.


                
I really hated "No Country for Old Men." I had put off seeing it because it didn't look like it was going to be very good, but I was eventually taken in by all the rave reviews and the high rating on IMDb. Not only was it not very good, it was much worse than my worst expectations.I had expected a lot of brutal violence and it delivered on that point. What I hadn't expected was that it was going to be so mindlessly boring.There is only a minimal plot. The characters are all one-dimensional and nobody is likable. There are multiple plot holes, some which defy all logic. And I don't understand how anybody could be happy with the ending, which does not resolve anything that happened before it.I don't always agree with film critics or popular taste in movies but "No Country for Old Men" sets a new standard. If I hadn't seen the horrible Lindsey Lohan movie, "I Know Who Killed Me," this would have been the worst movie I had seen all year.


                
I've been walking around with a huge question mark over my head since seeing "No Country for Old Men" about a month ago, and I've felt so alone in my immediate circle of friends -- almost afraid to voice my opposition to the overwhelming tsunami of critical praise that has washed over this film.I consider myself an educated film-goer, I have a college degree, and I'm in my mid-40s. I should also say that "Fargo" is my favorite movie EVER, and I love the Coen Brothers. I'm from Wisconsin, so I get their whole Minnesota perspective -- that quirky sensibility plays well with me. So when I walked out of the theater completely disappointed and confused, it rocked me to my Coen-loving core.All I can say is that I agree with many of the less-than-stellar posts here. I think for me it probably boiled down to two major problem areas: I didn't really get the message/point, and I found myself not caring about any of the characters. I really wanted to like the film, and it just didn't work for me. Endastory.


                
I'm sorry but this comment is a spoiler as there really is not much to tell. Will anybody who rated this movie over a 4 please email me and let men know what I missed in the 2 hrs that went by. Yes Javier plays a brilliant role of a psychotic killer but other then that what else is going on. I would truly like to see the genius of this movie that won so many awards and that has a rating of 8.5. Psycho guy, Javier, walking around killing people with what I can only assume is an old scuba tank. Brolin, finds a drug deal gone bad takes the money and the gets chased by men who want it back. And then Tommy on the other hand, chasing both of them, while trying to tell a non existent story. Oh I almost forgot, the ending, WOW, where was it? Let's see 2hrs down to five sentences. OK so what did I miss that had to be prolonged into two whole boring hours of very incredibly annoying and tedious dialogs and scenes, like watching grass grow. Waste of two hours unless you bring a your grandma's knitting gear.
Great cinematography, great acting, great build up of tension & suspense and then......nothing, absolutely nothing!! I'm a fan of most of the Coen brothers work and this was a film I had high hopes for but unfortunately I found it to be one of their worst! Don't be fooled by the reviewers who are proclaiming this movie carries some important philosophical 'message', the so called 'message' contained in this film should be nothing new to anyone who has any interest in books or cinema...or for that matter, life. Real life teaches the lesson far better than any overly contrived film can. If it didn't take itself so seriously (this movie thinks it's way more important than it actually is) and had just stopped trying to be so annoyingly 'profound' and concentrated on the plot then I would have enjoyed it so much more.There is ¾ of a good movie here but the last ¼ of the film is spent practically preaching to the audience and that is unforgivable in my opinion after what has come prior to that.NCFOM has left me bewildered at the critical acclaim it has received although there are a few professional reviewers who will at least stand up for themselves and call this movie for what it is, a potentially great movie let down by a poor closing act! If this has stuck as closely to the book as some suggest then I'd say it was a book that should never have been made into a film in the first place...at the very least it needed some tweaks to the narrative progression in the last ¼ and a totally new denouement. If I was to rate this movie without the final quarter I'd probably give it 10 stars but since I felt like I'd spent 2 hours in the cinema without any kind of worthwhile closure to the story I believe watching the movie was almost totally pointless. It's a bit like cruelly dangling a carrot in front a donkey only to get to your destination and not actually give the tired donkey the carrot.Sadly the movie as a whole just doesn't work for me!


                
The acting was well done but the plot is simply too obtuse. A guy finds a bunch of money and another guy (psychotic killer hired by persons unknown) is chasing him down. Along the way the hillbilly bumpkin sheriff (and amateur philosopher) is tryinh to find both. The psychotic dude kills a bunch of people along the way, never finds the money and gets away. At least I think he gets away. Who knows/ The movie ends with the now retired sheriff eating breakfast at his kitchen table. Overall it was a waste of time and a movie I will never watch again.
The Coen Brothers did so excellent and unforgettable films, so talented and rich of vision. But now and since many years they also suffer the tea-bag syndrome (if you use the same tea-bag over and over again ... you know). NO LAND is full of carefully designed, marinaded pictures built around a great void. So far so good. The pity starts when something like that gets 8 nominations for an Oscar. Is this a conspiracy? Or is there nothing better around?


                
I understand how people can find this film amusing. I have to admit I was riveted for nearly the entirety of the film. The movie was directed very well, had a wonderful plot, and superb acting. However, the ending rates among some of the worst movie endings I have had the tragic opportunity to watch. There was no ending to this film. I looked at the screen wondering why I had just wasted two hours of my life to get nothing. I would understand if it was just me, I do expect a great deal from the Cohen brothers, but the entire theater stared at the screen with the same blank look as me. I want the ending that visually stunning movie deserved.


                
I watch a lot of movies and enjoy the sophisticated ones just as the simple ones and I consider myself a fan of the Cohen brothers. Also, this movie has great acting and cinematography. It's extremely violent and was probably born to show evil. However, myself, my partner and several others (perhaps most people) in the cinema did not understand the movie. I really don't understand the message and the screenplay by itself is insufficient to deliver joy to the viewer.We really did not enjoy the movie. It ends abruptly without leaving a message and we felt like we deserve our money back...


                
wow! that was so agonizing. i kept thinking it would eventually get better and had to keep defending my choice to see it by reiterating IMDb's rating of it to my husband. he (28-yr old) was falling asleep during a matinée showing of NCFOM. i read most of the rave reviews given about this movie and just can't understand these insane people. i guess these advocates are into movies that are insufferably boring w/ a nonsensical plot that makes the suprano's ending seem satisfying and complete. if you find yourself in this category, then this cinematic masterpiece is for you. we not only want our money back, but deserve the 122 minutes of wasted time returned to us.


                
If you wish to see a psychopathic monomaniacal killer with a peculiar choice of weapons dispatch his victims in a totally cold blooded way without a trace of humanity, then you might enjoy this film. I went because I enjoyed Tommy Lee Jones in "The Fugitive" and he has been reprising that role ever since. I did not like "The 3 Burials of Esqui-somebody, and I did not like this film where he simply coasted and accomplished absolutely nothing. As the sheriff, he did not solve a single crime, did not make a single arrest, and never came to a face-off with the killer. In the end, a pointless tale. Big drug deals gone bad, and big money gone astray corrupt everyone they touch. We know. What else is new. I cannot recommend this film. I have ordered Cormac McCarthy's book of the same title as I am curious whether Hollywood script writers made major alterations in the story. Hollywood script writers are presently on strike. Based on recent movies I have seen, they should just all be fired and a whole new generation of writers given a try. They surely can do no worse.
That truly was one of the most boring films of all times! No story, no beginning, no ending, absolutely nothing to show. If that was the best film of the year, to won 4 Oscars, I'll go and shoot my self! There were so many other films that were greater than this one "american gangster" for example, but.......are they after the money, or what? they probably think, "lets vote for a movie that is terrible, so we can make it a blockbuster, cause the other ones are already are, so everyone can be happy", well don't bother with this one! waste of money and time! You can spend your time and money on something truly worthy. I still cannot understand the reason why this film got 4 Oscars, for what? acting, directing, filming, everything was awful. But they had to give something to someone, and probably that was to the higher bidder, well this is not ebay!


                
There is nothing wrong with the acting in this movie. Indeed all the performers give strong characterisations. Visually at times it is splendid and the small cameo performances such as the two kids on their bikes fascinated with the guy's bone sticking out of his arm and handing him a shirt he uses as a sling. Scenes of an injured dog on the plains are heart breaking. There are some gruesome scenes unbearable to watch but that rarely worries me. I do think it becomes over done though. Shock and shlock! But in the end its a very over rated empty vessel. It is totally confusing, convoluted and incoherent. Either the film is badly edited and we end usp with a disconnected mess or the directors are trying to be too clever for their boots. Obviously audiences liked it but for this movie goer it was very unsatisfying and hardly worthy of an Oscar. Still if the Academy can over look a masterpieve like Broke Back Mountain and give it to a dud like Crash, what can one expect?. Another woeful unsatisfying move by two over rated movie makers. A cop out ending.


                
Well this is my first review. It will be really short. The plot is simple and very common. Javier Bardem is really great, besides playing a psycho-cliché role. There are scenes that are just to fill in some time (the woman in the pool, the car accident at the very end). The end is illogical, no point in making a 'different end' where the bad guy lives. Everybody get's killed except Tommy Lee, who's part is poor. I'm not being able to find out why this movie worth 4 Oscars. It has a plot that has been filmed and produced 50 times a year since the past 50 years. There's no elements of surprise, and some twists made all of the sudden (for example, they show you how everyone gets killed except for the main character Josh Brolin) That was my opinion. Regards.
This movie changed my life. Ah the blood, the gore, the random executions... what can a viewer ask for more. I just could not wait for that psycho killer to shoot another man. And that old sheriff... he delivers such clever philosophic thoughts there. I will treasure them for the rest of my life.And I also like the accurate depiction of Mexicans: nearly every Mexican in this movie is either a drug dealer or a hired gun; well there is also the other type of Mexican, i.e. street guitarists in sombreros. Then, I did not know that Mexico had hospitals, but strangely we can't see any Mexican doctors; could it be because they are too busy with their other job as drug dealers? And the reality factor is great too: the psycho killer is free to move around Texas killing men by the dozens without ever encountering a police roadblock. He also finds a clever use for this compressed-air pistol, which also seems to give no backlash at all when used to shoot out key locks from doors... think of the great work those engineers must have done to bend the laws of physics that way.Seriously, the things that this movie has taught me, are: 1) Oscar prizes mean nothing.2) most people think "if it won an Oscar, it MUST be good" 3) Some people find amusing to watch other people being slaughtered and have no objection at all to that. That's what scares me the most.I give this movie two stars for the good acting and filming, but otherwise it is just another step in the planned de-humanization of the western people.I am really, really sorry that I wasted my 7 euros on this.
This film is not one I would sit through if I were not voting on it, and it is a film that I truly regret watching. There are memorable moments of psychopathic cruelty portrayed here that I never needed in my memory. I don't ever want to see a snuff film, and I don't ever need to see viable facsimiles of them. (And NO, memorable does not mean it is a good film, it just means that film images are very potent.) My father is a huge fan of westerns and of Tommy Lee Jones, hated this film. He watches most films multiple times and will not watch this again.This film IS completely relevant in terms of history, border wars, drug wars, illegal immigration, and the impotence of our law enforcement to deal with ingrained attitudes of immorality and an insane level of escalation.The acting is why I gave this a 2 instead of 1(awful): Javier Bardem is not a supporting player, he is a lead - he causes all the action throughout the film, and he DID deserve any acting award for his excellent, nuanced portrayal of the gradual degradation of this disturbed individual. Excellent lamb-like performance by Kelly Macdonald in a thankless role. (I love her. She starred in "Gosford Park." But come on... we have hundreds of brilliant American stage actresses who could have done this supporting role.) Josh Brolin does a great job with a well-scripted role of an ethically bankrupt everyday "hero." Tommy Lee Jones does what he can with a very impotent role. It had to be a star of his gravitas to make anything memorable of that role.But relevance and accuracy are not enough to make something "art." Nihilism is no answer, and it certainly is NOT entertainment. Folks - with all the power and potential of this medium, is this really the best we can do? Imitate the worst of humanity?Not Debatable: RECORD low numbers watching of the Oscars this year; even with all the additional news/publicity &the hype about the writers's strike potentially canceling it. Debatable: This film and the morally blank and hope-deficient films of this year are directly accountable for the lack of interest in the Oscars or film in general. Of course something else that turns people off the Oscars is this kind of "positioning" a lead actor as a supporting actor to help ensure that he wins the supporting award.


                
I have used IMDb as a reference and benchmark for films for a while now. I never registered, nor posted, nor any such thing.....until this film. That's right, I went out of my way to register and go through the whole authentication nonsense just to second the title of this thread. W. T. F. I watched this movie because some nutters decided to rate this film so highly it featured in the top 250 movies of all time.....my goodness me do a whole pile of voters...and film makers...and film investors, not to mention actors, need to get some real social skills, go meet some people and find out what the world is really like cos this film is the biggest pile of mammoth dung I have seen since AI. No offence intended to anyone: Im speaking generically, not personally. Pointless movie. Poorly shot in places - I can see where they were trying to be clever, but it just wasn't. Some interesting attempts at what i will now call 'movie jazz' (filming around the main event rather than the main event itself, bit like jazz musicians hitting the offkey note rather than on), but it was so haphazardly done, with too many incidental nobodies that it BARELY held itself together. And the bad guy? PLEEASE! he was pathetically overly-intensified (and not event that intense anyway). Were we all supposed to be scared by his personal honour system? Or his methods? Or the fact that all the hit men in the film (well, all two of them) were 'superhunters' that could find you in minutes if your granny crapped in a trailer park 50 years ago? PLEASE! Some parts of the film were just SO terribly implausible (within the framework presented ie modern world, not some alien land with sci-fi options) that it was impossible to want to get behind any of the cast, good or bad, because none of them did anything worth relating to or agreeing with! (I don't want an answer to this, so don't give one - but WHOSE IDEA was the whole 'stick the suitcase through the ventilation shaft' scene? what an unjustifiable load of nonsense...what exactly was that meant to achieve?) What a lot of twaddle. I have only EVER seen 3 films that I didn't want to watch to the end - and this was one. And Im not a 'coen hater' or a 'coen lover' - im a film lover, and this one just doesn't deserve any lovin'. The ONLY points it gets from me are for the way it was made - as with the vast majority of modern scripts the script was TERRIBLE...not just bad, but TERRIBLE! Every scene seemed to be making some sort of poor effort at 'clever' one-liner types of pregnant humour, but they were so amateur and so thinly veiled that I can only presume EVERYONE involved was a juvenile film buff who is so under-developed socially that they couldn't spot the thinness of it all as they were making it. I will be shaking my head over this film for years to come...
I want that 2 hours of my life back.Written and directed by the venerable Coen brothers, who have done some fantastic movies in the past including 'O Brother, Where Art Thou', 'Fargo', 'Miller's Crossing' and 'Raising Arizona', this time they clearly just ran out of gas. The movie could have been great if they cut out 30 minutes of useless boredom and wrote an ending for it.This movie is like the date from hell... It will start out great, great conversation, food and wine, then she'll let you screw her, but right before you climax she'll get out of bed, steal the last beer from your fridge, kick your dog, and leave you with your pecker in your hand thinking "WTF just happened"?!? Don't waste your time, not even on DVD.


                
