This Movie had great potential as being one of the great classic movies of all time. We were wrapped up in it from the beginning to the credits, but it did not end.I'm trying to figure out why there was a sheriff Bell character, as he didn't add anything to the story except one-liners.Don't get me wrong. Tommy Lee Jones' work was simply great. As was Brolin's, Bardem's, and all the others, I believed the character. But in the end, the sheriff had no affect on the storyline at all.And Woody Harrelson's character didn't add much. His purpose must have been to give Chigurh a reason to kill Stephen Root's character. Which makes you think, "so what?" We already knew this guy was nuts.The time allotted to that (killing Harrelson and Root) could have been used to end the movie.When the credits started scrolling, I said "what???". It just left ya hanging.After a few moments, I lamely justified it in my mind by speculating that there must be a part 2, a sequel, where Sheriff Wells brings a fitting end to the movie.
hi, first I want to state that I am a resident of the Netherlands, so please forgive me for any inaccurate sentences or whatever...the thing I want to state here is....this movie is a big hype. its not worth the Oscar, because the story in the big lines is just boring and not innovative at all.maybe it all looks nice, because the coen bros have got a nice reputation and they all shot it with nice atmospheric effects...of course, there are some nice scenes, which make you holding your breath as if you were one of the partakers in the movie. praise for that! but on the general side, this movie is not worth the big hype it receives right now.gimme back that Oscar!!! if you like the coen bros, you better just keep on watching your copy of 'FARGO' over and over again, that movie is worth much more the while...Fargo at least has an interesting story and a challenging plot for many of us...None such in NCFOM ... its just like a nice violent roadmovie I guess, but I expected a lot more from this...Maybe in the current field of dull and uninspired big feat movie releases NCFOM might look like something new and spectacular.But most probably we still have to wait some more before the next movie arrives that really blows our minds....
This movie was one of the most disappointing movies I have ever seen.I fully expected an outstanding story given the reviews, both from critics and from viewers. And, up until the final reel I was not let down. Then we get to the final reel...The protagonist is killed off screen - did the woman in the pool set him up? And was that her floating in the pool? Did his wife get off with her life? We never heard a gun shot, nor would we expect to I suppose, with the silencer - but we just don't know. The equivalent of Frances McDormand's character from Fargo (Tommy Lee Jones' character here) just quits at the end with some lame conversation concerning a dream he had. And the killer is hit by a car in some contrived deus ex machina, but still manages to walk away, albeit with wounds that are a bit more tricky to self-treat than shotgun pellets in the backside. Whatever happened to the Mexicans? Was the money in the vent at the end? Was that how the killer eluded Tommy Lee Jones? And did the killer end up delivering the money to the gas station owner (the one who correctly called "Heads" in the first reel)? All these questions, and no explanation. I'm sure someone will say that this is a sign of a good movie with artistic twists. But to them I say, this is too much! Even Short Cuts had an overall sense of conclusion, even if no single story line really ended. There's just too many unanswered questions and too many loose ends to have ended the way the Coen brothers wrote this! Again, I expected much, and got much for about 90% of the movie. However, the ending was so bad that I went home severely, ultimately, terribly, disappointed.
I'm an absolute fan of the Coen brothers, and think that they represent one of the most imaginative and artistically different movie-making partnerships in the recent decades. The true brilliance of "The big Lebowski", "Barton Fink", "Fargo", "Miller's crossing" or their debut "Blood simple", shows the way to creativity without compromise. On their latest effort "No country for old man" I think they lost that path, the same way as with the misfired "Raising Arizona", and compromises with the film industry, which brought them Oscar nominations and subsequent Best picture award, are sadly evident in this film. The Coen seal is there but it's broken in several places and that ruined the originality of their trade mark approach.To begin with everything that is wrong with this film, I have to point out, first and foremost, the gaping plot holes that brought the entire story down. Forget the convenient randomness of Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem), entering the town of all places, just by the motel where Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin) is hiding the money, so his transponder can start beeping, the movie holds pretty well up to the point where Moss figures why he is being pinpointed each time by Chigurh, and from that point spirals straight down.First we can't figure why Moss doesn't destroy the transmitter once he realized that this is the reason why he is always found by Chigurh, and especially when he realizes that Chigurh is in the hotel, and that he can pin point the room where Moss is hiding, by following the signal. OK, maybe Moss wants to be found, and have a show down with his pursuer, but than why does he sit right in front of the door, the killer is going to enter, especially knowing that Chigurh turned the hallway lights off. Maybe to have a better shot at him - not likely, and even than, as Moss shoots through the door Chigurh is supposedly standing in front of, just as he blew away the lock with his cattle gun, Chigurh escapes unharmed and is wounded later on in the street. Also, the Woody Harrelson character Carson Wells, is totally undeveloped and surplus in the film. Earlier in the movie we see that he is supposed to be some kind of a specialist in handling extremely dangerous nut jobs like Chigurh, and is paid accordingly, but Chigurgh killed him just as easily as the old man driving the car, at the beginning of the movie!? Than it's never explained how does Wells, find Moss in the Mexican hospital? What tricks and abilities did he use for such intelligence work, being later on, came up behind and shoot as an unsuspecting bozo by Chigurh? Also, back at the high-rise building of the businessman who hired Wells, Chigurh bursts in to find the businessman talking to someone from "accounting" and shoots the businessman in the face. How in the world did he, pass through the entire building with cattle gun along with the gas tank and a shotgun? Nobody bothered to show us.But the film really falls apart at the denouement point where we expect a show down between Moss and Chigurh, at the end, where Moss is supposed to send away his wife with the money so he'll be able to freely track Chigurh down. After the scene where Moss is talking to a girl by the pool, it appears like a significant part is cut away from the movie with several key scenes missing! Next, we see sheriff Bell driving along and seeing Mexicans getting out of the motel, Moss being shot,and we don't have a first clue what happened and how? Mexicans supposedly found Moss through his mother in law, but than again, how did they know where to wait for Moss's wife and her mother? How does Chigurh appear in a motel room where Moss have been shoot, and why doesn't he kill sheriff Bell, he's killing everybody else, so why not him? And at the last point where the film might have been partially redeemed, the point where Chigurh gets hit by another car, passing through the intersection, and where he should have been killed by an act of strange, absurd chance, that would bring a twist to the end of this film, he walks away to emptiness from which he came in at the beginning. So that summons it up, lots of empty spaces, (including a pointless Tommy Lee Jones monologue at the very end), in a movie that might have been great if the Coens didn't look for industry seal of approval, and the lack of the same gave their previous films so much charm. 4/10
Like others have said, I was swayed by the ultra-high rating this garnered. It stars about 300 actors that I respect, and the Coen Bros - well, say no more!! But when it was all over, my wife and I were asking ourselves if our time might have been better spent re-grouting the bathroom tile.The four stars I gave it were primarily due to Tommy Lee Jones, who does a better job on his worst day (i.e., this film) than on most actors' best. He's done this role several times before, and simply added a "burnt-out and tired" twist to it. Some of the down-home good ol' boy banter was fun.But aside from that...I don't mind letting reality slide if I'm watching movies like Star Trek, or Dracula, but I got the impression that this wasn't intended to be based on the supernatural. What was this gas tank that the murderer was carrying around? It managed to blow holes through deadbolts without his hand twitching. I'm no physicist, but most people should have a vague grasp of the "equal and opposite reaction" principle.And while I understand that he had that nifty Radio Shack transponder, it did nothing but beep. But somehow it managed to bring him right to the correct hotel. And even without the transponder, he magically divined that Llewelyn Moss went to Mexico.Woody Harrelson shared the same clairvoyance, as he was able to walk to where Moss tossed the money and figure out where he threw it. Agent Fox Mulder would have been impressed.And as clever as Llewelyn Moss was, you'd think that once he found the transponder in the money, he might - you know - toss it out the window? Maybe on top of a moving truck? Nah - that would be cheating. And when the killer is standing on the other side of the door, he cleverly remains directly in the obvious line of fire. The only thing he didn't do was to yell, "I'm right here!" I can only explain all of the high ratings on the fact that the Coen Brothers did the film, and they obviously can't do any wrong. If I didn't like the movie, it must be that I didn't understand it, and I'll be damned if I'll let the world know that I don't have the necessary depth to appreciate this obvious masterpiece.
Too many loose ends ruined what would otherwise have been good work. Note that I am normally a Coen brothers fan, but I'll have to go back to "Raising Arizona" to see them at their best. There's a lot in the film that was good: suspense level incredible, action more than sufficient, photography and mood great, especially the desert scenes, dialogue like we expect from the Coens, great acting from all, even Tommy Lee Jones in his essentially useless role. But, a story without a solid conclusion, especially a story as emotionally gripping as this one, isn't box-office ready. You'll feel let down like I did, and like thousands of others did. Thank God I only paid matinée admission.
The Coen brothers could poop on the screen and there are people who would regard it as genius. The movie had some potential, but it wasn't even completed. I guess they just woke up and said, "I don't feel like finishing this... just tell them we're done... our name alone is enough to sell this as a whole movie". Well, some of us noticed. I would like to see this thing completed someday, as it started out good, had some decent acting, and the cinematography was bland and washed out like "The Mist" and "Delores Claiborne". What ever happened to Technicolor? Tommy Lee Jones must be Barnaby Jones' older brother that never used sunscreen, because he looks like he died of old age several decades before they invented enbalming fluid... it is no wonder that his character didn't actually do anything but show up after everything was over. The main "bad guy" really didn't have much to do except "act" unemotional. He was "The Terminator" only more robotic. The ending didn't suck; there was no ending. The Coens just quit.


                
Okay, I'm just gonna go ahead and get the good stuff out of the way. Solid acting, great story line, and lots and lots of suspense. For the first 3/5 of the movie, I was more than ready to give this a solid 10/10 rating. I think just about everyone will agree with me when I say it was a pretty solid movie for at least the first half.BUT THEEENNNN.....The movie went from really good to REALLY bad really quick. When I say this, I don't mean that the acting started sucking or the budget was cut. THIS is what I mean. You know that guy that accidentally found that case of money? That guy we were rooting for the whole time? That guy that we all just sat down for two straight hours to watch fight the odds of survival and use quick thinking and strategy to avoid the bad guys and get his wife safely out of harm's way? Yeah, he died. Oh, and his wife died too. Yeah and maybe I'm not appreciating it for what it is. Maybe I'm not seeing the bigger picture. But they didn't even have AUDACITY to kill them on camera! That's right. They didn't die trying to defend themselves in one last final fight for the right to live. They got killed off camera like background characters that nobody cared for. Only we DID. Do you think I spent two hours watching this guy beat the odds just so the cameras could cut to something else for a while and then cut back to his dead body for less than 5 seconds and then never even show THAT again? Imagine Stranger Things being canceled midway through a season. Imagine someone dangling a big juicy steak in front of your face and then setting it on fire until nothing remained but ashes. That's what it felt like. And here's the thing about the wife. We don't even see a body. Hell, we don't even hear a gunshot. It's only implied that she's dead. Oh and here's one last pointless detail. At the very end of the movie when the bad guy's driving away, somebody slams into him. No, this wasn't karma coming to claim what was obviously rightfully his. This was the writer saying "This ending is too boring, we need to spice things up a bit with a random crash scene that doesn't add to the plot whatsoever." And if you feel like refuting that, listen to this. The bad guy doesn't die. He's only injured, and the scene ends with him walking off with a broken arm held in a shirt that's really not gonna do much for him. What did that do? RIP arm? I guess now at least he won't be able to carry that big ol' air tank thing for a while.I'm guessing you already watched the movie and are just here to see why I hate it so much. But if you just so happen to have read this spoiler comment beforehand, please do yourself a favor and skip the heartache.
I must say, the build up, the tension and the story were all going sooo well, I was gripped and looking forward to the finale, up to where point Sheriff Bell (Tommy Lee Jones) went to see an old guy with lots of cats, it was one of the best movies I've seen for a long time.It had everything; the characters were getting stronger, intrigue was growing, tension was growing, and then the whole thing just fizzled out.No satisfactory conclusion, too many unanswered questions, in all, I wouldn't recommend this film as you will feel totally let down by the ending.4/10
A strong cast can't disguise that the script fails to finish what starts out as a promising setup: a blue-collar worker stumbles on a huge stash of money that belongs to someone else. The owners want it back, creating a great game of cat and mouse with deliciously tense moments. But about halfway through the film, the plot goes off the rails. The dialog takes bizarre tangents and aspires to be profound. Characters are introduced and developed, only to be forgotten or killed off. The viewer is left scratching his head.And Tommy Lee Jones, one of the most promising characters, never enters the action. In fact he could have been cut from the film altogether, and it wouldn't have made a whit of difference to the story. Altogether, "No Country" is deeply unsatisfying.It's as if the Coen brothers set out to make a tightly scripted thriller, then handed the reins to David Lynch halfway through, who makes a cryptic mess of the remainder, leaving the final chapter unresolved.The blame, I feel, must fall on the source material. Author Cormac McCarthy's books are known for introducing fascinating characters and setting up wicked complications, then failing to resolve them. (Try reading "All the Pretty Horses") It's a shame, as the Coen brothers are among my favorite directors. I just wish they had chosen a different book to bring to the screen.


                
Before I start i almost feel i should warn you that i am going to give the ending away, but don't worry because there isn't one! It is worth pointing out that this is not a fault of the film makers but 'Cormac McCarthy' the author of the book. But for the sake of this review i will refer to the film.Bottom line of this film is that it has so much potential in having a profound resolution, but fails due to that fact that the counterintuitive ending just leaves everything un-concluded. There is no real resolutions to any of the problems that are developed throughout the film, except the fact that 'sometimes in life things don't work out'. Which is all very well, and indeed a good message to get across to the world, but you don't need a full feature length film to explain this obvious fact of life! One scene from the film would have been enough to explain this and then it could move on to something bigger and better like a conclusion or a real ending. I heard this from a friend after i objected to the ending of the film: 'Oh i think its really clever - besides you just expect everything to conclude because you have been socially conditioned that way' Well, what ever he meant by that it, i can see how that may be true to some extent but that doesn't justify a cock-in-the-arse ending. Take this for an example if i go to MacDonalds i go there to buy a burger, and i expect it to be in a certain condition regardless of whether in reality its just homogenised shite that i only really like due to 'social conditioning'. Moreover what i don't expect is that when the cashier or chef gives me the burger it is half cooked (just enough so that the germs are killed), do i? No, of course not, should it be presented to me in this state and then excuse is given 'oh you are just socially conditioned to expect to be cooked the way it always has been previously', even from a friend, i would be entitled by this fatuous statement to ram it up his arse where it probably came from in the first place. Most people are like 'oh its really clever' and i know for a fact half of them just say that because they don't understand that the point of the end of the film is that there is no point. I would go as far as underlining the key message of the film - a lack of meaning or point to anything or in other-words 'Nihilism'. The film makes it clear throughout with all its coin tosses, stumbling upon treasure, right-place-right-time wrong-place-wrong-time circumstances that the unforeseen circumstances are all by chance with no guidance by any higher authority just chance and human will. Of course this all fails miserable except for the 'evil' protagonist who succeeds (or so we are left to think). To me i think 'yeah i know the point is that there is no meaning, but i have wiped less meaning on to a piece of paper - its more satisfying too' The film is thought provoking at best and thought destroying at worst. See it if you want to be left at the end going 'What? What? What? Is that it? i mean yeah i get it but... Come on!?'Good points: *Good use of music *Keeps you interested (but so does any good con-artist) *Good acting *Philosophical undertonesBad Points: *Good interesting story ruined by (lack of) ending.I gave it a four out of ten because regardless of 'social conditioning' i expect my burgers to be cooked when i buy one.
I believe the Academy must have been on drugs when they voted this the best picture. They might have been dead on right about the other awards handed to the supporting actor and director, but come on the ending alone should have taking this film out of the running. The Coehns did not hold a candle to any of their other films with this one. I even watched it twice to see if I missed something but no it was just as bad the second time. Origanally I thought that the DVD skipped and left out a huge part at the end, but I was wrong it just stopped.I agree with some of the other comments made, that the actors and actress did a great job and the scenery was great. I am very cautious now going to see a movie because it won a Academy Award.


                
This is good film with nice settings, story, acting and character development. It goes wrong when it tries to be too philosophical and preachy, especially from the Tommy Lee Johns character. Also the ending is terrible. It nicely builds up the characters of the good and bad guy then suddenly the good guy dies which is completely unnecessary. This part is similar to unexplained ending with the bad guy. I don't know what meaning of these are and I don't want to know. I am sure in the Caan film festival they can give a million explanations for weird evens like this. Would have been a fantastic film if it just delivered what a film is supposed to do instead of complicating things unnecessary.
This film had some interesting and exciting moments - but should never have been an Oscar winner. There are simply too many silly happenings or in a lot of cases no happenings at all. Overall, there are three main characters in this film i.e., Chigurh(the killer played by Javier Bardem))Moss (the red-neck who steals the money- played by Josh Brolin) and Ed Tom Bell (The Sheriff - played by Tommy Lee Jones). It starts with the psycho killer (Chigurh) being arrested and handcuffed by a young policeman. The policeman takes him to the police station, sits him down on a chair, and then foolishly turns his back on him and makes a telephone call. The killer with amazing dexterity and all the skills of an expert Escapologist manages to contort his body so that his hands and handcuffs are not behind his back anymore but in front of his stomach. The policeman is then garroted with great aplomb by Chiqurh. The killer (who is trying to locate a bag with $2 million dollars in it stolen by Moss the red-neck) then goes on to kill many other people and to blow out door locks with either a cattle stun gun which is powered by a large oxygen cylinder, or a rifle with the biggest silencer you will ever see. Surely, therefore, someone will soon spot this madman and his oxygen cylinder and inform the army of police, who you assume by now must be hunting him. But No - because incredibly the only person looking for him is Sheriff Ed Tom Bell who spends most of his time delivering long rambling monologues or reading newspapers. So of course the Sheriff never finds Chiqurh and because he is getting old and despairing of the modern world, retires. In the meantime, the other main character Moss (played by Josh Brolin)had stumbled upon an ill-fated drug deal and finds many dead bodies. One of the gang is still only just alive and asks for water but Moss cannot help him. Moss eventually finds a case with 2 million dollars inside it. Hence the reason Chiqurh is looking for him. He takes said case and goes back to his wife, they eventually go to bed but for some strange reason he gets up in the middle of the night and returns to the scene of the drug massacre carrying a bottle of water,presumably for the injured drug dealer who by now must be dead anyway. A rather daft thing to do. The film rambles on with a brief appearance from Woody Harrelson who wears a large hat but does nothing else. This film has it's moments and is not a complete disaster but, overall, it is confusing and rather silly with a truly appalling ending.
There are three actors that bring class to a great film or a not so great film. Morgan Freeman, Michael Cain and Tommy Lee Jones. There is only one reason I liked this overrated film and that is Tommy Lee Jones. He is better on his worst day's then most actors are on their best. I admire directors who challenge their audience by putting away the spoons but on this journey the fabulous Coan Brothers ask just a little to much of us. I haven't seen so much supernatural clairvoyance since the sixth sense. And the actors were constantly doing things that were beyond stupid. Bringing water to a man several hours later that obviously had only a few moments to live? I adored Fargo and Oh Brother. The Coens are very talented . But on this journey I had to keep asking myself did I miss something? In closing I will sum up by lifting a quot from another review I think is brilliant. "NO WAY is this academy award material. Stupid man stumbles on $2 million. Psychopath somehow finds out about it and wants it. Chase ensues -. Old sheriff, a day late and a dollar short, retires. The End." I give Old Country For Old Men 4 stars only because of Mr Tommy Lee Jones.


                
When I saw the trailer, I was really enthusiastic about "No Country for Old Men". It seemed to be that sort of film I like the most, a combination of a good old western movie and a modern, psychological thriller.The story gets exciting immediately after the beginning, and immediately it pulles you in it's spell. Lot's of things happen and even there are only a few characters, the movie gets a fast speed. But as the movie is thrilling at the beginning, it gets annoying in the second halftime. The same things happen again and again just in a little different way exactly how there are some illogical incidents that will bewilder you.I didn't't like the bad guy at all but got all my symphaty for the good one and I think the personification of good and evil was just too obviously. The showdown was one of the worst I've ever seen, they couldn't have made it worst. The whole atmosphere was destroyed after, everything that was done by the main character was for nothing...There are lot's of additional points that I could criticize, but that wouldn't be possible without any spoilers.I do not recommend to watch "No Country for Old Men", it's just a waste of time.


                
I went to see this movie with great expectations, but alas I must have been reading about another movie......Sure, the first 3/4 of it was great fun & enthralling, in fact I would rate that as an 8 - but the last 1/4 totally destroyed the expectations, hence the final vote of 4. It seems that most people have omitted to judge the movie in its entirety & I have to warn people that the current high rating is not warranted. In fact the whole cinema let out a sigh of disbelief when the credits came on at the end & a couple behind us conveyed similar feelings to us. Maybe the actors, director, producer, other movie staff have a lot of relatives voting on this one, who knows ?? Anyway, do yourself a favor, don't waste your money at the movies & if you're curious, just watch the DVD when it comes out.


                
More semi-entertaining hokum from the Coen Brothers. It's quite curious that the mass killings by a sophisticated serial killer only garners the attention of one hick small-town sheriff and his staff. What happened to the FBI? Yes the DEA is mentioned but we never see them. What happened to all the media coverage? The serial killers picture would probably have made the national news and he should have been on the FBI's 10 most wanted list but we see none of that. Yes I know it's supposed to be 1980 but still the pursuit of this fugitive would have been a big story. The reason why the Coens don't show that is because they've created a totally unrealistic character that exists totally in their specious imagination. In real life there would have been hundreds of law enforcement agents tracking this guy but we never get a sense of that in this laughable scenario.Although the story is supposed to be 25 years before our own time, the killer seems more like a specially trained Matt Damon CIA agent straight out of the Bourne Identity. He's so good that he knows how to create the perfect diversion to obtain the proper drugs and has the medical training to remove a bullet from his leg. He almost seems like a superman, gunning down anyone who comes into his path without a whimper from law enforcement. What's more he always seems to know how to find anybody he plans on eliminating. We also never completely understand his motives for killing the many innocent people he comes across. Is he simply a thrill killer who enjoys terrorizing the public at large? We never really learn anything about his past history. Usually there's a discussion amongst law enforcement officials detailing a killer's background--we never get a sense of that during this movie.Just as we must have a Superman for an antagonist, we must also have a Superman for a protagonist. Josh Brolin, a welder who lives in a trailer park, seems like the perfect match for the evil Chigurh. Brolin's 'Llewelyn Moss' shows absolutely no fear taking $2 million from Mexicans, mostly all massacred at a crime scene. But suddenly, he has a pang of conscience which propels him back to the crime scene with a gallon of water to help one of the dying drug dealers. The average person would have called the police had they come upon such a scene; if he was amoral (as he is initially depicted), then he certainly wouldn't have been so stupid to return to the scene and put himself in such jeopardy. When he does return to the scene of the slaughter, suddenly he's a superman again, eluding a truck full of drug dealers shooting at him, swimming in the rapids and fending off a vicious dog who swims after him in the river. Then he devises this incredible plan where he stuffs the $2 million bucks in a ventilator shaft at the motel, has the drug dealers occupy his motel room (didn't they also have a transponder and would have discovered the bag in the shaft?) and has the serial killer eliminate the drug dealers and evades being eliminated himself.Meanwhile, Tommie Lee Jones, our hick sheriff as well as all the other stereotypical Texans depicted in this film, seem powerless against this maniacal killer. One gets the impression that just about all ordinary folk who lived in the South in 1980 are a bunch of dumb yokels. To be fair, the Coens also depict their hired killers as dumb yokels too. Woody Harrelson suddenly comes out of nowhere, is presented as some fantastic hired killer who's going to track down the serial killer and within half an hour, ends up the killer's hostage in a hotel room and is blown away (not before however he just happens to be strolling along the bridge near the US-Mexican Border and just happens to glance downward and discovers the bag full of money! What a coincidence!)The Coens' view of life is basically nihilistic and pessimistic. What they're saying here is that evil is stronger than those with a moral compass and that we live in a universe where we have no control over random events (even the serial killer is almost killed himself in a random car accident at the end of the film). Sure, bad things sometimes happen to good people but those who have a moral purpose in this world are not ineffectual pushovers (as depicted by a character like the Sheriff who basically concedes that he will be the serial killer's next victim and that he is powerless to stop him). When the deck is stacked as it is here in this movie, evil is the clear winner. But in reality, it's not so easy for the bad guys to walk away without being brought to the bar of justice. The Coens are trying to say that we are only observers here--that sometimes men are powerless in the face of evil. There is nothing profound about their observations; and their strategy is dishonest because their antagonist is way too smart for his opponents. When the opponents are nothing but a bunch of stereotypical hicks and losers of every stripe, it's easy to understand why the bad guy walks away with nothing more than a broken arm carefully held in place by a self-constructed sling.
Was it any good? Well if you have to ask then the answer is probably no, and I have watched it and I am still asking myself was it any good.The individual elements were great.Actors on top form. Check. Original plot, packed with social commentary and subtext. Check. Music score to create atmosphere. Check.In theory it should have been great.But was I entertained??? The answer is NO.If there is a duller action/thriller movie out there then I have yet to see it.I honestly think that this movie will be like most Oscar nominated movies, lauded for its cinematography and pathos, yet instantly forgettable. When you look back and remember the best films of 2008 this one will have faded into the mists of time.


                
I'll be brief on this one. A typical example of the present-day trend to focus on gratuitous violence dished out with a tasteless watery semi-philosophical sauce which aims at conveying a vague ethical message. Others have pointed out that I didn't get the humor of it all. Well, apart from all the excessive visual violence, I particularly remember one scene where the psycho leaves the house of yet another victim whom he has obviously just slaughtered and casually looks down at the sole of his shoe to see if there are no bloodstains on it. Humor? Funny? I think not. Sam Peckinpah would have made this movie in his usual detached way. The fact that the Cohen brothers favor the same kind of meaningless violence but nevertheless try to add a vague form of moral concern is not only revolting but also extremely hypocritical.
After a promising first two thirds that seemed to be building up towards a gripping climax, the final third of the movie goes off at something of a tangent and gets mired in tiresome pretentiousness and pseudo-intellectual pondering and posturing.Various 'whys and wherefores' are left unexplained, and far from delivering a "heart-stopping final moment" as the DVD cover blurb claims, the movie ends very abruptly with one of the main characters sitting at his breakfast table, droning on about some dream he's had.In my opinion the 8+ overall rating here greatly flatters this movie, and I can only put such a high score down at least in part to many voters experiencing an "emperor's new clothes" moment along the lines of "Coen Brothers = widely regarded as 'serious film-makers' = must be good then - even though really it degenerated into nebulous twaddle".


                
The thing is, I get what this film is saying. I get the message. I can read the expressions on Tommy Lee Jones increasingly craggy face. I get that he looks lost. I get that a Josh Brolin who finds a million pounds which belongs to gangsters is playing with fire as he tries to run with it which most of the film dwells on. I get that the contractor pursuing him is a psycho with twisted principles. The film has brilliantly executed moments of tension. The acting is delightfully subtle and passive except for, justifiably, Javier, who plays the psychotic pursuer with such frightening menace that whenever he appears on screen, you will shiver with dread at what he will do next. So why am I giving this 4/10? Simple. The ending was unsatisfying. I get the message of the film. Fine. I value a good ending to a story. If an ending does not satisfy me, morally, I take away a couple of marks. If an ending is too pretentious, I take away even more marks. If you are not fussed with endings, then you will enjoy the film. However, I do not understand why this is rated as Oscar worthy (regardless of what I think of the ending). Its technically accomplished but ultimately shallow save for some great moments of tension. But for a Coen Brothers film this is a major disappointment.


                
We all are turned on when we watch "graphic" violence, aren't we? Blood on the walls, holes in the head, tough men darning their own wounds Rambo-like are graphic or not? Who knows. But here's another flick with the usual omnipotent killer going around America killing at will and finding out where his victims are thanks to a 6th sense or maybe a radio device that apparently beeps at 100 yards and still allows him to find the target in the immensity of Texas. Terminator had more verisimilitude. But who cares? You got the madman killing scores, and a couple of directors very good at creating suspense and at dropping cinematic stunts and unusual narrative tricks to make you wow! Maybe it is thanks to this will to be different (see, or better don't see, how the main character dies, for instance) that we don't have to stand the overused time overlaps in Tarantino's fashion or same-fact-from-different-point-of-view narrative like Inarritu docet. Instead, as pauses in the relish of this bloodbath, we are offered some pointless tirades by old men that are probably meant to be deep and worth a prize for screenplay. High class rubbish: is this the best American cinema can offer nowadays?
An overly long film with a disjointed story.On its good points: the film is excellently directed. It has an absorbing pace, somewhat reminiscent of Sergio Leone's "Once Upon A Time In The West".The film is also brilliantly acted. Javier Bardem he main villain of the piece is a particularly chilling figure.Where it fails is in the story. Themes include such issues as: moral duty, fate, evil and old age. These are presented in a variety of disparate threads, and weaved into a bag that doesn't really hold together. The ultimate result is pretentious. Whether the film makers intended it or not, the overall message is one of nihilism and cynicism. It is neither profound, thought provoking, nor entertaining.


                
"was this a Q. Tarantino movie?" I asked my girlfriend roughly halfway into the movie. I had seen enough blood and technical details about a rather new and clean way to kill people (also good to open doors actually), that I couldn't anymore place this as a Coen brother movie. in fact the Cohen brothers' last movies had been so bad that I was expecting something just plain bad, but this movie was a bad movie with a lot of blood, so i thought maybe it's Tarantino.no it is the Coen brothers, scratching the bottom of an exhausted creative barrel. Fargo gone Texas, but with a pinch of Tarantino. a crazy killer, an old sheriff, the usual gallery of immortal heroes or antiheroes.there is in American movies , this idea about people , or at least some of them, that basically you can shoot them, you can beat them, you can crash them, and they still stand. last man standing, bleeding, with bones sticking from their bodies, it doesn't matter: they still stand up, say something tough and off they go.they don't cry , they don't shout, no! they are real men! they stand up and go. like on Lost, the TV series, concussion after concussion, punch after punch, bullet after bullet.i wonder, don't they ever get tired of this life? and movie people, don't they ever get tired?clearly there is never enough violence, shootings and killing and bleeding; because this movie has plenty. Yes, it's beautifully shot, yes the landscapes borrowed from mother nature are beautiful, and grand, but these are the Coen brothers, they are pretty good at what they do, technically. what is missing is that sense of uniqueness , of unseen, of unprecedented, of originality that we tasted so many times in the earlier movies that made us love the brothers.Read my reviews on http://benmovies.blogspot.com
