Days after seeing it, I am still haunted by No Country for Old Men. There is just something so effectual and uncompromising about it, that mere words will only begin to skim the surface of the cinematic excellence on display.At its most simplistic, the film is a game of cat and mouse. The mouse here is Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin), a hunter who stumbles upon two million in cash after a drug deal gone wrong, and takes it thinking nothing of it. He tries to cover his tracks, but ends up letting the group looking for the money, figure out his identity. The cat is Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem), a hit-man hired to find Moss and the money. But Chigurh is unconventional at best; he also happens to be bordering on mentally insane. And another man, a law man this time, Sheriff Bell (Tommy Lee Jones), is on the trail of both men as they criss-cross around Texas.Right up until its dénouement, the film is simply brilliant. Taut and thrilling, it blows right through the majority of its two hour runtime with ease. Even during moments of slowing down, the film stays right on track and never feels like it has run its course. It engages even when it appears that nothing is happening. The Coen Brothers truly crafted what appears at first glance to be a masterpiece, even if it is their first real shot at something that is not indelibly and inarguably their own. Even without reading Cormac McCarthy's novel, I know that the Coens have done it justice, even with their bitterly twisted and dark sense of humour scattered throughout the film.But all of that comes to a standstill as the film concludes. The last twenty or so minutes feel like hours as the film wraps itself up, and it almost feels like these scenes belong to another movie entirely (one that borders on being pretentious and monotonous). I realize now that McCarthy's novel probably ends the same way, but it does not help provide closure to the fact that the movie is so break-neck paced right up until this happens. Its brilliance is shattered by what looks to be a series of tattered events thrown together to provide closure for all of the characters, alive or dead, and for its audience. It speaks volumes to the film's title, but it just does not feel satisfying compared to the rest of what we saw. Even with its enigmatic devices at play, I still cannot come to terms with how the film closes. It does haunt, and in a way, it may prove to be a significantly stronger ending as time rolls on. But as it stands now, it just feels weak.What is also a bit of a surprise, and only seems to appear as the film concludes, is the music. It is not so obvious at first, but the majority of the film is audibly shown with just the sounds the characters make and no background music to speak of. This element is brilliantly used, as it helps intensify every situation and makes the film downright terrifying in some cases. It just helps truly make the film come together, and only helps establish the quick pacing even more so. It was definitely a surprise, and one that will probably help the lasting impact of the film become even stronger.The lush and bloodsoaked visuals also help to define the film. Despite the film taking place mainly in deserted areas, or the desert itself, the camera manages to capture just the right essence of what the writing and acting is conveying. The isolation and the terror almost become characters themselves through these visuals, and are sure to be recognized as the award season rolls in.The film's acting is also very well done. Brolin anchors the film and even when it is just the audience reacting to his attempts at saving his life, he manages to deliver the best performance of his career. He breathes life into Moss, and truly brings a sense of pathos to the character. We feel for him and his greedy mistake, and as he develops into a man unwilling to go down without a fight, he only manages to up the ante for himself countlessly. Jones, as the law man stuck on the fringe of every event, also does very well for himself. Most of his work is simply delivering dialogue, but it is delivered in such a fashionable sense that you feel like he is speaking to the bigger picture of things, and not just himself. I would have liked a bit more development in his character, but what little there is helps his performance greatly.Supporting turns from Woody Harrelson and Kelly Macdonald are also done well, but are overshadowed by the main cast by both Brolin and Jones.And even more of an overcast is Bardem as the ruthless Chigurh. He absolutely nails this character down to his very bones. If anyone is merely toying with the idea of seeing the film, it should be specifically for Bardem. His performance is calculating and plagued with petrifying silence. When he chooses to talk, his words sound like they are being given by the essence of evil. This is a man with a plan, but it is one that only belongs to him. His enigmatic presence is developed throughout the film, and never once does it feel particularly appropriate to understand where this menace comes from. Watching him on screen is a jolt to the heart, and will go down as one of the best performances of the decade. His terrible hair only helps to make his character that more scary and formidable.No Country for Old Men is one of the best pictures of the year, even if it is flawed. Its brilliance and lasting impact with leave you haunted.8.5/10.


                
Sometimes I'll work an overnight graveyard shift (like last night), and then stay up the next day making it about twenty hours straight without sleep. I'll usually catch a second wind around two o'clock in the afternoon, so figured that would be perfect to see this film with a 2:20 start time. Now I know I was fully awake for the entire movie, but when it ended, I had to question myself as to what I'd missed. With this movie's shooting star flight path to #23 on the IMDb as I write this, I thought for sure that something must have eluded me or gone completely over my head. And then I heard the comment from another theater viewer as the screen went dark - "Is it over?" At least I had company.But here's the thing. I can't really disagree with a lot of the reviewers on this board gushing the praises of this picture. The performances were riveting, the tension was unnerving, and there were scenes that come out of nowhere to knock you clear out of your seat. The character of Anton Chigurh is so unrelentingly evil that he comes off like an Earth based version of the Terminator. However when all is said and done, the randomness of the final act that brings the story to a close (other than Tommy Lee Jones' dream narration), leaves the fate of Chigurh entirely unresolved. OK, so maybe real life is like that sometimes, but something MUST have happened to Chigurh after he walked away with the bone sticking out of his arm. But in this case, it's just not interesting to consider the possible alternate endings when the REAL film doesn't even give you just one.It's too bad too, because I'm a Coen Brothers fan from "Fargo", "The Big Lebowski", "O Brother Where Art Thou", and the brilliant "Miller's Crossing". They've shown themselves to be competent writers and story tellers and each of their films grab you and they don't let go until the end. This one let's you go, and you wind up saying 'I'm not ready yet'. For what it's worth, I like to think that Llewelyn's wife won the coin toss.
IMDb Top 250: 123 If you read the user reviews for this film, the majority are either 1's or 10's. No Country for Old Men is a very love/hate film. You either get it, or it sucks.Following a man who finds $2 million dollars, the man who wants to find him, and the men who want to find the second man, there are many stories told with different frames of mind. A survivalist, a cold blooded killer, and the level-headed lawman who finds it hard living in that day and age. The plot has issues, like how the killer can always find his man. You have to put pieces together and make assumptions.No Country for Old Men is beautiful. Gorgeous long shots of the Texan land are a treat. The first act is breathtaking.I can't lie, it was hard to understand the accents. But the dialogue is clever, with a several laughs, helpful for such a serious film. There's practically no music, and in the odd case it exists you don't even know it.Javier Bardem is terrifying as the psychotic Anton Chiguarh. His spaced-out face and weird hair make his presence unnerving, as well as his iconic cattle gun. Very deserving of his Oscar.Then there's the ending, so spoilers from here. I hated the end, and thus the film, when I first saw it. But now I realize that the point is, like the tagline, there are no clean getaways. Sometimes the bad guys do get away, sometimes the hero does die. That differentiates No Country for Old Men from the vast majority. While the very end is anti-climatic, if you can accept something different, you'll come to appreciate the ending.No Country for Old Men is excellent. A great technical film, beautiful and brutal with great performances and an ending not seen very often awaits. I can't say it's the Best Picture, as I liked There Will Be Blood better, but a very worthy candidate. Have an open mind. 8.3/10
I have seen a LOT of the negative reviewers here spouting comments about the movie that are inaccurate. i.e... that Josh Brolin played an officer... he did not. that Bardem's character had no motivation... um, he was hired to track down the money that was involved in the drug transaction. That we are not shown the people behind the drug deal.... um, who cares, that's not what the movie is about. that people in Texas don't talk/act like that... I live in Texas and have spent a lot of time in FAR west Texas and I can tell you, 28 years ago, that is pretty darned close to how it was... that Moss missed the deer at the beginning.... no, he wounded it and was following it's trail when he came across the pit bull that he then followed it's back trail to the "o.k. corral." ( and let's see any of you even hit that target from what looked to be at least 150 yards). that there were no police looking for this "serial killer".... several times Bell or some other person mentioned the FBI going out to the scene several times...other lawmen he came in contact with obviously knew about all of the killings showing that the news had been circulated and people were looking for this guy.Bottom line, if you pay attention you will understand a lot more of the movie and enjoy it more as well.Brolin did a great job with his character. There were a couple of "why would he do that" moments that are more the fault of holding true to the book than anything else (like returning to the desert with water for a man who is almost certainly dead already). However, he was very believable... and I liked how he was killed off screen. It was more surprising that way rather than having a build up of anticipation and knowing what is about to happen.Bardem was brilliant and his character was great. People say why did he do this or why did he do that.... bottom line, he was insane. He was delusional. He has his own rules and he does abide by them. Crazy people don't fit the mold of normal logic and/or morals. In the book he even turns the money over to a third party at the end... A) proving that he did in fact get the money (for you nay-sayers) and B) showing that since he took the job he would finish it.. even though he could have kept the money... he had agreed to bring it to it's owner.And Tommy Lee was great for the part he needed to play. His ruminations are there to get us into his head as the book did... that is something that never transmits to a screenplay very well. However, it was fun thinking after the movie about what he meant... was he talking about his own death?.... did he feel Bardem would come after him? did the dream about losing money mean that he lost something valuable in not being able to protect the Mosses from death? Nobody knows for sure, maybe not even the author.... these are things that make a movie good people. And sometimes the bad guy wins... in life even more than in the movies. Deal with it.Overall I gave an 8 because of some of the original plot problems from the book. The acting was great, the cinematography was great, the audio was of course great, and the story is great.It is a 4 of 5 on the Gargamel Scale. Bringing 1 for acting, 1 for car chases, 1 for explosions/gunfire, and 1 for story. It misses the 1 for nudity which would have been out of place in this movie... and given the great amount of gunfire/explosions and wonderful acting.... I'll boost it to a 4.5... there ya go.
When I first watched this movie I liked all but one scene which I found took from the movie. I watch the movie unlike most on here that rated Al 1 with zero expectations and was very much so enjoying it until the scene that I hate. I just rewatched the movie now and still can't believe that scene maybe even more so now. And so I feel compelled to write a review. Even searching now I see that even critics criticize this scene for single-handedly ruining the movie.Basically the movie is a showdown between a psycho killer and an average but crafty southern ex vet. They do a very good job executing this to the point where you are literally on the edge of your seat for some parts. Javier Bardem helps this by playing his part masterfully. All actors in this film were good but he takes it to a new level. I'm gonna even call his character one of the best villains in any movie. Now since all of that is perfectly fine just picture when you see a whole movie building up a showdown just to find out that the main character or Good Guy character was gunned down off camera by random Mexicans in a gunfight that they don't even show in the film.It's honestly the worst thing I've ever seen happen to a movie. Talking over with friends they said it actually comes up often in lists such as biggest Wtf moments in movies and that it's the Coen brothers messing with the audience but I think it's much more than that. It seriously ruined this movie. I'm still giving it an 8 for it having my attention up to that point and the actors did amazing jobs. But from that scene on I seriously am not even engaged in the movie.Am I alone on this one?
"No Country for Old Men" was a turn in the Coens' filmography that they hadn't went down since "Fargo", a (relatively) serious crime drama.The Coen brothers have a long-standing reputation for their off beat, sometimes hilarious dialogue and characters, as well as crafting intricate plots that fall into the rear view as the story and all of its zaniness progresses, i.e. "The Big Lebowski". However, "No Country for Old Men" is quite a reach different than the rest of their discography. A western, set in 1980 and based on a Cormac McCarthy novel, that follows Josh Brolin's character Llewelyn after he happens upon a not-yet-discovered crime scene and a case full of unclaimed money. Once the money's proprietor finds this out, Llewelyn is tailed voraciously by Javier Bardem's Anton Chigurh, this plot line is what comprises the majority of the film, in company with Tommy Lee Jones' seemingly slow moving pursuit into the events.In Chigurh's first moments, we see him escape arrest and commit murder - both in perhaps the coldest ways possible. From this point on, he is on a manhunt without a lot of the urgency. Chigurh follows leads, plans his following actions, even takes steps without making a single sound or uttering a single word. He isn't accompanied with any music, he isn't given any background, and we don't see him answer to anyone. Chigurh almost seems like a man out of a different world, someone just here visiting to do a job, he doesn't look to be held down by earthly restrictions, and it is abundantly clear that no matter where Llewelyn (or anyone else) goes, he is never safe from him. These characteristics are bound together wonderfully and effortlessly by Javier Bardem.Thankfully enough, Bardem is balanced out by a great protagonist performance by Josh Brolin (one of his best) and the character who acts more as a storyteller and backdrop for the world these characters live in than actual engaged plot-driven character, Tommy Lee Jones. Jones, by far, gets the smallest screen time of the three leads but his moments, his words, are some of the most memorable in the entire film. In his performance we believe we are listening to tales told by a man who has been lucky enough to tell them."No Country for Old Men" is a quiet film, a slow film. It doesn't say too much, try too hard, or hit anyone over the head with anything they don't need. "No Country" begs you to feel the created atmosphere, the pauses given by the characters after they're done speaking or while they're listening to perhaps their last moments. There's no soundtrack playing us through scenes, there's no spike in the music when there would be in any other movie, there's just silence. Shots of the surroundings, and there aren't too many, shown by the great Roger Deakins who delivers award caliber work once again by showing western emptiness and making it look beautiful, and our characters and the words that they speak. "No Country" is a better movie if you read it between the lines. Much of the dialogue shouldn't be taken on face value, Chigurh makes this obvious by deconstructing everything that anyone ever gets to say to him. The Coen brothers crafted a screenplay that was smart enough, small enough, to let us infer messages just as the characters do instead of filling minutes with exposition, as it would hurt this story to do. While there are oft moments of humor sprinkled throughout and used sparingly, the tone is held consistently and paced brilliantly by the Coens in their lone western."No Country for Old Men" is a unique film, with the Coens that comes to be expected, but it's not their usual brand of unique that they find a way to craft time and again with the zany characters and laughable situations. "No Country" breaks rules, it tells us a story and acts as if it were inconsequential, as if it were another of Jones' characters' tales. It grips us in a pursuit and takes us down with a ear to the ground to listen, and in that, it's a success, but that's not really what "No Country" is about.While watching Llewelyn and Chigurh scheme and plot their way around the empty Texan landscape in various hotels and deserted roads accounted for some of the most suspenseful cinema since, perhaps, Hitchcock, "No Country" is a bit deeper than a normal cat and mouse movie (like "Heat"). It's unpredictable, it's subdued, and it's just telling you a story, albeit a bitter one and grounded one - with some Coen brothers touches of humor and superb pacing, acting, editing, and storytelling along the way.
"No Country for Old Men" is the Coen Bros' adaptation of the Cormac McCarthy novel from almost 10 years ago. This film won 4 Academy Awards, including Best Picture, and while I have doubts I would say this is my favorite film of the year and not "There Will Be Blood", there is no denying that "No Country for Old Men" is among the finest the year 2007 had to offer. The movie runs for slightly over 2 hours, with credits, and takes us into the world of Llewelyn Moss who finds a huge amount of money. For almost the entire movie, he is on the run from contract killer Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem, Oscar winner) with Tommy Lee Jones playing Ed tom Bell, a sheriff who, on the other hand, is trying to help Moss and catch Chigurh. Woody Harrelson and Kelly McDonald play important characters too.It has always been the Coens' strength to include characters in their movies who may be minor, but are still very memorable. Their recent movie "Inside Llewyn Davis", my favorite from the brothers, is a great example of that, but this film here is as well. Garret Dilahunt playing a sheriff's assistant was as fun to watch as Kathy Lamkin's one-minute, one-scene character: "We can't give out no information." This scene actually gave out a nice piece of information on Chigurh. I don't think he let her live because there was somebody else when we hear the noise of somebody flushing the toilet. He is not scared of attracting attention in other scenes by killing several people in the same location. I think he was impressed by how much of a professional the woman was, even in the face of such a dangerous man like him, so she did not even have to go through his coin toss procedure. Actually, Chigurh and women is a chapter interesting enough to write a full article about on its own. For example, he offered Carla Jean the chance to live at the end, even if he promised Llewelyn otherwise. And then there is that "You married into it." scene of course.In general, this film is packed with tense, brilliantly atmospheric material from start to finish, be it the dog chase scene, the scene when we see Chigurh turn out the lights in the hallway as he knew Moss would see him, the scene with Chigurh and Bell almost facing each other or the final monologue by Tommy Lee Jones' character. I have heard about interpretations Chigurh and Bell are actually the same person. There are some indicators that it may be true, especially the face-off I just mentioned, but who knows. In general, my personal perception is still that it is not the case. That's entirely subjective though. In any case, the Coen's created one of the most memorable villains in film history here (with the help of McCarthy, of course). The way they used Chigurh's coin as a depiction of luck and fate was simply brilliant and it's very telling that, while Chigurh was always in charge with human enemies following him (he killed most of these), he picked the wrong side of the coin in the end apparently when something completely unexpected happens. But this is what luck and fate is all about. You cannot influence it. Great last scene with Bardem's character for sure. I am truly curious what happens to him next. This scene also makes for a nice parallel with Moss' scene earlier when he pays a lot of money for the jacket (being the somewhat good guy) and Chigurh gets the shirt for free (being the bad guy). Life's not fair. Neither is this movie. But it's very outstanding and a great achievement of filmmaking. Highly recommended.
No Country for Old Men (2007): Dir: Ethan Coen, Joel Coen / Cast: Tommy Lee Jones, Javier Bardem, Josh Brolin, Kelly McDonald, Woody Harrelson: Another winner from directors Joel and Ethan Coen tackling the change in society. In this case a Sheriff played by Tommy Lee Jones questions the latest string of murders. Josh Brolin plays a hunter who stumbles upon a case full of cash and numerous bodies. His treasure leads to extreme consequences that will cost him. Javier Bardem plays an unusual killer, blasting door locks and asking bizarre questions often contained within a coin toss. Kelly McDonald plays Brolin's wife as fearful yet strong in the face of adversary, which renders a questionable and harsh finale. Woody Harrelson plays a cocky bounty hunter attempting to track down Bardem. The Coen brothers are notorious for bizarre plot ideas, having made such great films as Blood Simple and The Big Lebowski. Jones as the Sheriff transcends a sense of dread and hopelessness as he comes close but not close enough. However, Bardem steals the film as the memorable villain whose methods are odd. The ending can be seen as either symbolic or just a cop out solution in terms of Bardem's placement. It presents a strong view regarding violence and its everlasting presence and the corrupt nature of society. Title represents its strain on weary souls seeking refuge. Score: 8 / 10


                
Sheriff Ed Tom Bell (Tommy Lee Jones) laments the bygone peaceful times of his father and grandfather. Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem) is a weird killer with a compressed air pistol. Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin) comes across a drug deal gone wrong in the desert. The bad guys killed each other leaving the drugs behind. Llewelyn recovers a suitcase full of cash. He doesn't even tell his wife Carla Jean Moss (Kelly Macdonald) at first. He returns to the desert that night, and is shot by the criminals. They have his car and he expects them to come after him. He sends his wife away while he tries to hide the $2 million. Chigurh is brought in to track down the money and promptly kills the drug criminals who hired him. Sheriff Bell and deputy Wendell (Garret Dillahunt) investigates. The cartel hires Carson Wells (Woody Harrelson) to stop Chigurh and get back the money.Javier Bardem creates a memorable villain. The Coen brothers have brilliant eyes for such uniqueness. They are also great movie makers. Their movies are always well put together. Every scene is something interesting. And the actors are in great hands with such well-drawn compelling characters. The brothers have done it again.


                
I enjoyed this movie well enough to see it twice in theater and later bought the DVD. It is gritty and nothing about it is boring. Anton Chigurh is the most memorable character in this movie by far. As much as I enjoy this movie there are some annoying details that stand out to me as inaccurate. As impressive and creepy as using a captive bolt gun to kill people was, I really can't see anyone carrying one around for that purpose considering it's bulk and the attention it would attract. When Llewelyn Moss is chased into then back out of the river by the pit bull, he gets back on dry land and realized that he can't outrun the dog. He draws a Colt 1911a1 .45 to shoot the dog but first frantically scrambles to clear the water from the barrel, apparently to avoid bursting the barrel and rendering the handgun useless. This drill is totally unnecessary since whatever little water remains in the barrel will not cause any issues. I know this from experience and I really have to roll my eyes when I see this. The rifle Llewelyn Moss is using for antelope hunting has a laminated stock and the scope has a matte black finish, very rarely would you see a laminated stock on anything but a custom rifle in 1980. Matte black scopes on sporting rifles weren't common until years later. Moss also buys a Chinese copy of a Winchester model 97 shotgun which definitely wasn't available in '80. A Remington 870, Winchester 1200, or Mossberg 500 or some others would have been a better period correct choice. When he discovers the drug deal gone bad shootout scene he liberates a H&K SP89 pistol which was not available until at least 1989. I was an 18 year old gun nut in 1980 so I caught these things right off. Really, this movie has too many goofs and you have to wonder how so many of them went un-noticed or un-corrected. I gave the movie an 8 because of these and other obvious goofs. Destpite this, it is still a very powerful, suspenseful, and violent movie that I still enjoy and will continue to.
Javier Bardem is wonderfully creepy as Anton Chigurh; the most sinister villain to hit the screen. Tommy Lee Jones portrays a somewhat old-timer cop who, despite his best efforts, discovers he no longer belongs in a time where criminals like Anton Chigurh roam free. Anton is so evil, Tommy Lee Jones has a hard time dealing with it head on. What he first thought to be a normal criminal investigation turned into a frightening, violent game of cat and mouse between Anton Chigurh and Llewelyn Davis. Josh Brolin who played Llewelyn, finds a large quantity of money in the desert while he's out hunting. Unfortunately for him, that pile of cash belonged to a very high profile individual who practically summons the most badass hit-man, Anton Chigurh, to recover the lost goods. This is an almost certain death wish for anyway in the crosshairs of Antoine.
The Coen brothers are just good at making these slow paced crime/thriller films. They sure proved it with the movie "Fargo" and they proved it again in this one. I just really enjoy the Coen brothers distinct trademarks and elements they put into their films and I enjoyed this one for it as well. In a way watching this film sort of reminded me of the film Chan-wook Park film "Sympathy for Mr. Vengeance". Not all that much when it comes to the story but the direction and vibe of it while just about entirely having it's own thing going. Maybe it's the cat and mouse aspect of this film. The Coen brothers trademark of adding slightly odd or even awkward characters in their film works this time around as well. And their choice of casting is fantastic. Especially Javier Bardem who puts on his performance of a lifetime and will probably be known for this role for a very long time. He is basically the show stealer in this film and despite the scary nature of his character I was anxious to see what his character would do next. Javier plays this hit-man that goes around killing people with a air gun to track down where the money went from a drug cartel and goes about his business in a very intimidating and menacing manner. While having some messed up sets of principles. In fact he sort of reminded me of the villain Two-Face from the Batman franchise, but that is mainly do to the coin scenes in this film. And because he is the most unrealistic character in this film when it comes to his killing spree while not putting hardly any effort to cover up his tracks. The Coen brothers trademark of adding a bit of dark, uncomfortable or awkward humor is still present in this film. Overall this is another great installment from the Coen brothers and film lovers should most definitely check this one out. The ending however is abrupt, in fact it doesn't seem to really have a ending and seemed to wrap it up after the climax a bit too quickly but that is only a small gripe. And I don't like it when the guy that has a conscious and tries to do the right thing ends up getting screwed over in a film but that maybe to add to the realism.8.6/10
No Country For Old Men is a fantastic movie with a terrific and unusual story line,an outstanding cast and terrific characters.You'll probably notice from start to finish that Javier Bardem is a fantastic actor,he played his character,Anton Chigurh,brilliantly for the entire movie,he;s extremely creepy,but thats what makes him so brilliant,and he completely deserved the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor and this movie deserved Best Picture mainly because of his performance,but Tommy Lee Jones and Josh Brolin also did a great job,and the Coen Brothers deserve a lot of praise.A lot of crime and drama occurs when Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin) accidentally stumbles upon a drug deal that involves more than two million dollars,and Anton (Javier Bardem) will do whatever he can find and murder him.


                
In the Coen brothers' beautifully terse and achingly intense No Country For Old Men, we learn very early on that a drug deal has gone wrong on the eerily flat plains of southern Texas, leaving no surivors and only a briefcase full of money. Through the stolid eyes of Josh Brolin, who delivers an effortless performance as the overconfindent Llewelyn Moss, we see the aftermath of this carnage and we also see a desperate man with a mountain of debt snatch something he does not fully comprehend, as much as he likes to pretend he does. Tightly raut scenes of almost morbid silence such as this one fascinate almost as much as Javier Bardem's nightmare-inducing turn as psychopathic hit-man Anton Chigurgh, who is sent to retrieve the drug money by any means necessary, but all he needs is his trusty cattlegun friend-o. Any lesser movie would seemingly desolve into cat and mouse territory here with shoot outs and standoffs galore, but nothing is ever quite what it seems in this bleak but mesmerizing country, as Tommy Lee Jones shows up as a soon to be retired sheriff, and commands the screen by pumping the drama with morality and reality, not just lead.


                
Almost everyone but my wife has seen this movie. I love Josh Brolin in this - he projects an air of invincibility - but, of course is overcome by the ultimate bad ass - Anton. The weapons choice is great - using the bolt gun shows that Anton has no more respect for the poor souls he dispatches than he would for a helpless animal. Anton's sense of morals (amorals) is chilling - "I promised your husband that I would kill you." (So naturally I cannot go back on my word.)and"You don't have to do this!" - the words of the desperate about to be victim before every psychopathic killer who is about to do them in. Of course they have to do it - that's what makes them psychopaths. And Anton says "They all say that." He's right & it never convinces the killer to do otherwise. I'd like to see one where the killer said "You know? You are right - go ahead & leave." Now that would be a surprise.Needless to say, I loved the movie (Probably 2nd or 3rd time I have seen it.) The Coen Brothers are great - very quirky - amazing. I am surprised that "No Country" won as many Academy Awards as it did - it does not espouse the usual far left liberal bull, nor does it glorify the gay life style - those are the prevailing themes in the movies that Hollywood loves. Finally Tommy Lee Jones is at his best in the role of the Sheriff. Many funny irreverent lines - makes a little fun of his deputy. One of his best roles.If you are OK with the violence, this is a must see. DonB


                
Masterpiece - "the most outstanding work of a creative artist or craftsman"...Although this film is creepy, intellectual, offbeat, deliberately divisive, artistically adventurous, engaging, and decisively dreamlike, it is not a masterpiece or anywhere near the Brothers best film. That be Miller's Crossing (1990), possibly their true masterpiece.This is an always interesting character study where the villain is undoubtedly worthy of clinical deconstruction and is awe inspiring and captivating, but the movie is needlessly confusing and constructed by design to be an unsettling, relentless non linear expose of the despair and disappointment in the devolving descent of the human condition.However, it may be too layered and too unclear for it to be ultimately satisfying. It delivers some home spun prose about the inner mind of straight and stalwart people caught in this web of modern criminal behavior that pushes the oldsters off the cliff, but not before some sadistic torture.There are some darkly funny and cynical quotable lines one expects from the Coen's and when this movie works it presents some new and fresh carnage that raises the hackles and chills the spine. It is a Neo-Noir of nihilistic novelty that is very good, but can be a frustrating and an overall disappointment if one is expecting this film to be a classic. It is more like classic Coen's than a classic movie.


                
Every time the Coen brothers come out with a movie I am blown away. This one is a little more Hollywood and mainstream but it still has the very solid writing and direction skill of the Coens. All the actors did a very good job and the story line was original.This movie is about a man who while hunting one day comes upon a bunch of vehicles parked in the desert. As he approachers the vehicles he notices there is dead bodies in them. He searches around the vehciles and finds a big bag full of money along with a bunch of guns. He takes the money and the guns and hides them little to his knowledge a hit-man is already on his way to retrieve the money back from the man.This movie is another great film by the Coens I don't think they will ever fail. Probably one of the best if not the best movie of 2008 give this one a watch people.


                
This movie is well made....well acted....well scripted. Has an interesting story, and just about everything going for it. It presents us to Anton Chigurh, (Javier Bardem) a man who appears to have no conscience....He is like a simple killing machine. You want someone rubbed out..?? then this is your man. But don't upset him, and don't play "toss the coin" with him. He kills like he is robotic. Without feeling. He is Hannibal Lecter ..without the brain. For a movie that is steeped in blood, it has many funny lines. Tommy Lee Jones (the sheriff) is the only one who seems to sense...law and order are fading fast. Its the year 1980 and drugs have become a massive industry, but too many amateurs mean lots of stuff ups. Josh Brolin stumbles apon a "deal gone wrong", and helps himself to a satchel containing 2 million dollars. He is a Vietnam Vet., but thats not going to make much difference when Chigurh is hired to get the money. The pace here is good...always interesting always entertaining. For all its good points,No Country for Old Men always leaves me cold. Perhaps its the depressing reality that Chirgurh is free to go on killing who he feels like. And Sherrifs like the Tommy Lee Jones character feel "overmatched" (which they most definitely are). In the end, all is bleak and dark. Dealing in drugs and lawlessness appears to have won. Michael Clayton and There will be Blood could have won the best picture Oscar in 2007. They didn't...this movie did...and thats fair enough.
I've always liked Tommy Lee. I think he's a hunk. Any movie he's in is going to be worth watching. But when I was watching No Country, I kept thinking I was watching The Three Burials of Melquiades Estrada again. Same scenery...same outfits. All we needed was a couple of gallons of antifreeze.But still, the movie has its merits. The bad guy just keeps coming..like the Yul Brynner robot in West World. Made me want to install steel doors on my house. The back and forth in time thing was a bit confusing at times..I could have used a little more directness. Sometimes, I just don't like working at watching a movie. Just tell me the story. I've already done enough thinking by the end of the week.Woody did a good job in his character too, although his part was too short. I totally forgot what a dumb hick he was on Cheers and how scary he was in that Natural Born Killers thing. I wish he would make more movies where he's on the right side of the law. This is a good movie for boomers. Don't take the kids or grandma. The kids would alternate between boredom and terror. Grandma would get confused and need more meds.
'No Country for Old Men' does stay true to the tagline. We see midway through the film when Moss pays 500 dollar to buy a jacket to 'get away'. We see later on that Chigurh pays a large sum to a boy for his shirt after a possibly fatal accident. Being a fan of the Coens's movies, I was looking forward to this one. 'No Country for Old Men' is one of the darkest and most visceral films of the Coen brothers. One could argue that it has a lot more gore than 'Fargo'. However, this is no slasher flick with pointless excessive violence. It sticks to the main story without too many deviations (though some characters are pointless e.g. Carson Wells). It's got the Coen humour (which I very much enjoy) but I find it hard to compare to their other works. The use of camera-work and lack of colour and background score is effective. Actually it's pretty much got the ingredients of a great Coen movie. There are some brilliant performances. Javier Bardem is really menacing as Chigurh. The actor totally owns that character. I wonder why his role was recognized as supporting when the plot pretty much revolved around him. Kelly MacDonald brings a fresh contribution. The actress makes you forget her British origin and does full justice to the Texan Carla Jean Moss. Josh Brolin too gets a meaty role and the actor does an adequate job. Sadly, Tommy Lee Jones fails to impress and Woody Harrelson barely has a role of substance. Some of the dialogues are repetitive. To put it in one sentence, 'No Country for Old Men' is a dark unconventional movie about violence, murder, greed, escape, and destiny.
"Lebowski" began with a tumbleweed blowing across a desert. It went where the wind took it, its fate entirely dependent on how the breeze blows. The essence of film noir is in this idea of cosmic (in)determinism, our everyman heroes trapped in a noir plot, buffeted by chance, hopelessly battling against a conspiratorial, wholly indifferent universe.With "Lebowski" the Coens transplanted noir fate to the life of a lazy bum. Whilst someone like Sarah Connor battles fate in "The Terminator", or Bogart battles his way out of a cosmically convoluted plot in "The Big Sleep", Jeffery Lebowski was content to simply lets it all wash over him. All these variables, they don't bother him. He's a tumbleweed in a noir web, practising inaction, pacifism and happy acceptance. In short, he's just too damn lazy to care about the events revolving all around him. The Dude just abides. "No Country" also begins with a barren dessert, and also rehashes themes found in virtually every Coen flick. Here, a guy called Llewelyn Moss stumbles across a bag of money. He takes it, leaving behind a bleeding gang member. Later that night he feels guilty and decides to take a bottle of water out to the wounded man. Ironically, it's this act of kindness which gets Moss in trouble. The rest of the film is one long cat and mouse chase sequence, akin to "The Terminator", in which Moss runs from a psychopathic killer called Chigurh. Like "The Terminator", Chigurh symbolises the inevitability of death (or rather, the cold, indifferent weight of the universe). Death being that one fate which we are all resigned to. Observe how Chigurh kills his prey with a cattle gun, urging them to "be still" whilst he blows off their heads. This is mirrored to Moss firing at antelope with his hunting rifle, urging them to "be still" before he shoots. Both hunter and hunted are killers, but only one is successful. Moss misses his antelope. The notion of a cattle gun also dehumanises Chigurh's prey. To Chigurh, Man is a mere animal which he has no moral qualms slaughtering.The film ends with a Sheriff (Tommy Lee Jones) no longer wanting to be part of this ugly world of men. To do so, he says, would put his soul at hazard. His answer is to retire. To stop trying, a defeatist stance which runs across the Coen's filmography (Barton Fink mocks socially conscious artists, all their films express the futility of planning and "A Serious Man" finds futility even in serious thought etc). A clock ticks away during this scene. The clock is a cinematic symbol long linked with death (it's also present when Chigurh kills the wife). And yet, though the clock is present throughout the scene, a green tree looms over the Sheriff's shoulder. This symbolic Tree of Life appeared earlier in the film as a dead Mexican's other tree of choice. Dual choices appear throughout the film. Two options, two rooms, two trees etc.The Sheriff's then articulates two dreams. The first dream is "all about money". That dream is the film we've just witnessed, and conveys the Sheriff's belief that he's failed as a law enforcer. The second dream is about his father lighting a fire in the night to starve off the cold. This is symbolic of man fending off nature by providing his own light."No Country" is a slick and stylish film, with enough mysticism to make it feel grand, but at it's core it's no different to any other noir essays on determinism. The Coens have their Sheriff do the same thing as every tragic noir hero, embracing defeatism and giving up trying. While "The Lebowski" was an original take on noir, "No Country" seems content to just wallow in the bleakness. Which is fine. But it makes you frustrated that the Coens don't do or try something more. Thematically the film comes across as no more than Clint Eastwood's "High Plains Drifter" or "PaleRider", so what we're responding to is, as always, only that Coen brothers style.Compare this to some modern neo-noirs like "Femme Fatale" and the "Terminator" movies, both of which actively challenge this idea of noir fate (though both are still mostly formalist games rather than genuine, socially progressive noirs). Yes, man is subject to chance, but De Palma's film argues that art empowers man, imbuing him with godhood, whilst Cameron's argues that the future can be dependent on us, that man can conquer his own mistakes (genetic, technological etc).So the problem with "No Country" is that it isn't sincere as a film dealing with the bleakness. It's a kind of trite existentialism. The Coens are never sincere as artists and only clever as stylists. Here they don't really deal with the darkness, it is merely an excuse to serve up Gothic violence.Incidentally, "No Country's" climax presents the flip-side to "Fargo's". Both Jerry Lundegaard and Llewelyn Moss meet their dooms at a motel. At this point the Coens ditch their elegant cameras and go for shaky, pseudo-documentary realism. Afterwards, in both films, a Sheriff comments on the "darkness" of the world. In "Fargo", Frances McDormand comments on Jerry's doom, whilst here, Tommy Lee Jones comments on Moss' death. Frances ultimately has a very positive, snuggly view of the world, whilst Tommy has a more negative, fatalistic view. Significantly, Frances character, like all successful Coen heroes, is a bit of a short sighted idiot. Throughout the Coen's filmography, it's the Forrest Gumps of the world who escape Chigurh. 8/10 – Slick, stylish, superficial.
One common thread running through roasts of this film is that it betrays viewers out of a satisfying ending. Critics moan about the supposed trite nature of the plot, which for them only boils down to glamorized bloodlust. There is nearly an equal amount of rah-rah rhetoric.This film disappoints or confuses shallow movie-goers while wowing sycophants because of who America is in 2007/2008. We are divided between those who refuse to find ingenuity in anything unconventional on the one hand, and those who gush with joy over any social critique on the other.Ironically, the movie itself reflects precisely those fears and frustrations, as well as our culture's celebration of egotistical courage and insanity.Tommy Lee is the embodiment of the fears of a dying generation that is overwhelmed by the deluge of changes taking place in the world, mostly criminal in kind. His ultimate resignation reflects the threadbare nature of those who have become so paralyzed by the futility of doing good in today's world that they succumb to their desperation and bow out. He is of the generation that is flummoxed by the ambiguous nature of morality in our present culture. He spends plenty of scenes commenting on brutal events in 1980 and how perplexing they are. The viewer is supposed to agree, feel dazed themselves, and to imagine how much worse things must be now. Does he have his regrets about not engaging the wickedness? Of course. But he sees that it would be as silly as putting Sugar Ray Robinson while suffering from diabetes and Alzheimer's, who is said to have once "embodied the essence of the sweet science", in the ring with the ear-biting thug Mike Tyson at his violent peak. The sheriff is factually outmatched and knows it, Whereas his Uncle, because of his hubris, ran head-on into destruction. In fact, every victim in this film seems to be taken by surprise by the tidal wave of unscrupulousness that pummels them. Though ashamed, this sheriff is more self-actualized than any idealists. One dark side of our culture is seen in the blind greed of the hero. We're supposed to ask ourselves why we hope he gets away with it, why we desire that he beat the insane villain in a showdown. Unreflective Americans don't. They just want Brodin to kill the "bad guy" and get away with the money. Doesn't it matter that it's drug money? The one-dimensional person is being criticized for his double-standards, which the Coens know they will be employing upon viewing this. Why are most of the angry critics of this film so betrayed by an off-screen resolution of such a questionable hero? Instead of wondering about our feelings of betrayal, the spiritual bankruptcy of our society consumes us. We are merely angered that we didn't at least get to see him go down with a fight. But note that our hero is a Viet Nam vet. He represents a generation of idealists who end up hospitalized and cheated out of their stand off. Though skillful and tough as hell, the spirit of the Viet Nam soldier was ultimately crushed, because he never got to face an identifiable enemy. We made them bleed a little in Nam, but the ghost-like enemy just stitched itself back up. So we lost our focus, became disorganized and intoxicated. Harrelson's character is similar, yet at another level. He's no underdog VN Vet. He represents the hubris of shrewd underworld gophers entangled by greed. He and those who hired him get what they deserve: a brief introduction, moment of fame, speedy trials & executions.The psychotic killer in the movie simply reflects what our country and culture is trying to process at present. He is 9/11, every tsunami, earthquake, hurricane, the L.A. riots, and an amalgam of Jeffrey Dahmer, Ted Bundy and the Iceman all balled up into one.He's insane, it seems. But is his killing indiscriminate? Or is there some perverted rhyme and reason to it? He reminds me of the grim reaper, who comes and goes, exacting judgment on those who dare toy with <U+0096> or even moralize over - the forces empowering him. Insane, wrathful, yet determined destruction is what he embodies. Why stand in the path of a tornado? You'd have to be colossally dumb, have your own death wish or simply be self-righteous, proud and angry yourself to do so. Which is why most of those who meet him bite it.Still, one reaps what one sows. The motto the villain lives by punishes him all the same: freak car accident. But evil, although slowed by injury, somehow feels unstoppable in today's world. The villain meanders off. What chief device does ruthlessness use to distract witnesses? Bribery. Blinded by their greed, two boys in one scene no longer care about what they've witnessed or what it might mean. They are shown tugging on a hundred dollar bill.The Coens show us these uncomfortable truths about ourselves and about our violent, greedy society in a crisp, harsh way. The set feels and looks beautifully gritty, the characters are believably dumb, greedy, proud, violent and exhausted. It's an interesting movie that relies much on Hitchcock-style suspense and cinematography.The only reason I'd give it an 8+ instead of a nine or ten is that I am annoyed when street shoot-outs do not attract attention. A number of car crashes and gunfights are lengthy enough to have drawn some kind of crowd but don't, whereas when necessary (rag in gas tank in front of pharmacy), they do. Aside from these insignificant annoyances, the content and tension in this film is well-placed enough so that anyone in their right mind would be able to see what this film is saying, why it is almost "important" and how it received the accolades that it did.
No Country For Old Men. It's a near perfect western thriller gone somewhat wrong in the end. Hero a hunter himself finds a bag full of money from a crime scene but then gets hunted down by a crazy lunatic killer. Adding other dimensions there is aging sheriff trying to help hero without his knowledge. The movie starts and flows like a clean water with edgy characters, tricky situations and some clever ideas. Then when you are all set for bang-bang climax, movie takes a different route, plot becomes ambiguous, motives become unclear and our hero is out of the story just like that. If you are not overly miffed by the deviation in last half an hour, then you would be attracted to this like an iron to magnet because of its crazy characters, witty dialogs, haunting atmosphere and chilling silence.


                
Opinions do look to be sharply divided on this typically interesting effort for the Coen brothers. Some hail it a masterpiece, others don't see the appeal at all. While this viewer doesn't quite fit into the former camp, he will say that it's one of the more unconventional examples of crime fiction that one is likely to see. It's much more of a character piece than anything, with some grisly scenes of violence here and there. Based on the novel by Cormac McCarthy, it centres around three characters, one being a poor hunter named Llewelyn Moss (Josh Brolin), who one day stumbles into the aftermath of some drug deal gone horribly wrong. He finds $2 million on the scene and impulsively decides to keep the money for himself, while a mysterious, creepy, sadistic stranger named Anton Chigurh (Javier Bardem) tracks him down, porting a unique pressurized air weapon. Somewhat involved is a weary Texas sheriff, Ed Tom Bell (Tommy Lee Jones), who's unsettled by what he sees as the changing times. Now, granted, what's going to test the patience of some of the viewers are some of the monologues; this isn't for people who want a straightforward story and who are turned off by philosophical musings. One can hardly fail to notice how low key most of this narrative is; even in the more intense scenes there's never really a sense of urgency. On the plus side, what we do get are some excellent character moments from the solid star trio of Brolin, Bardem, and Jones. The supporting cast is equally impressive - Woody Harrelson, Kelly Macdonald, Garret Dillahunt, Tess Harper, Barry Corbin, Stephen Root, and Beth Grant. The Coens work with some of their reliable prior collaborators such as composer Carter Burwell and cinematographer Roger Deakins. All things considered, "No Country for Old Men" may not be to all tastes, and does require some patience on the part of the viewer. It also doesn't resolve itself in the way one might expect for this genre, and might prove to be less than satisfactory in this regard for some of those watching. There's one fantastic confrontation near the end, but the film closes, curiously enough, after a monologue by Bell about a dream he's had. How much or how little all of this works will be up to the individual viewer. In any event, the actors are all fantastic, especially Bardem, and they make the journey worthwhile. Eight out of 10.


                
The second cinematic outing from directing duo Joel and Ethan Coen, No Country For Old Men is a finely polished, ultra-violent Western-thriller that, despite a slow- burning pace full of extended monologues and seemingly random interludes, rewards patient viewers with edge-of- your-seat thrills, stunning cinematography and top-class acting, especially from Javier Bardem as the ruthless sociopathic hit-man, whose very presence in each scene will scare the living daylights out of each viewer. The underrated Josh Brolin is impressive as the Vietnam veteran who stumbles across a drug deal gone murderously wrong, while Tommy Lee Jones is exceptional as the policeman who overviews the case in its bloody entirety. Maybe not worthy of all the awards it received (particularly Best Picture/Director), but an intoxicating affair overall.


                
