This is a vivid and exciting police procedural with powerful characterisations, I would recommend anyone to watch it. However, I would caution them carefully that the drama is extremely one-sided in favour of women. Nearly all the women have hearts of gold and all the men without exception are weak, vacillating, wicked, greedy wretches who barely qualify to be called human. It's pretty standard women-produced material, nothing new, believe me. They have been pumping this kind of anti-men propaganda out now for a generation, until men feel thoroughly got at. All we want is just a few images of human male decency: a young man caring for a baby, for example, or showing a young woman across a road, or helping out an old lady in the street, or even just making a cup of tea at home like a regular, ordinary bloke who wouldn't hurt a fly but who works most of the time and makes no fuss. That's all we want, just a balanced production. But for decades yet, we'll never see it: all men are evil or weak or vacillating and we must be told. But don't worry, it's a riveting drama show and well worth watching.


                
This incongruously titled series spread over 6 episodes on the BBC was great for the first four of them but dipped in standard for the last two.Set in hard-as-nails Yorkshire, hard-as-nails detective turned police sergeant Sarah Lancashire appears as a one-woman nemesis of all crime on her patch. However even this superwoman in blue carries baggage, the death by suicide of her daughter after the latter endures a rape and then the pregnancy of her attacker's child. A divorcée, sharing her house with her grown-up sister, she is also bringing up her daughter's child in her home. Just then a series of unfortunate events occur that even Lemony Snicket couldn't have envisaged, including the release of the aforementioned rapist, the kidnap (and rape) of a wealthy local business-owner's daughter and later the brutal murder of Lancashire's young female protégé on the force, all of them inextricably connected. In the background are her complex relationships with her daughter's brattish young son, her ex-husband to whom she goes for comfort sex, her son, who has a lingering resentment over her preference for the dead daughter and her co- resident sister, who acts as her conscience and support, especially with the young boy.I found the first four episodes to be compulsive viewing concentrating as they did on the kidnapping and Lancashire's closing in on her daughter's rapist, not realising that he had a crucial and ever larger part in the kidnapping and its aftermath. As the body-count builds up there's a thrilling climax as she tracks down her quarry at the same time rescuing the young girl in a heart-poundingly tense scene. And for me, that's where it should have ended, but two more episodes of sub-Eastenders standard melodrama follow as she recovers from injury, struggles to re-adapt to working with her incompetent and mildly corrupt superiors on the force and sees her relationship with her grandson go off the rails. Although a second exciting climax is built up as she has to effect another rescue from the rapist / murderer where she at least is afforded some violent revenge of her own, for me it was an inconclusive and contrived drawing-out of what had been till then a gripping thriller.As for the acting, it's all about Sarah Lancashire. I thought she was underwhelming in "The Paradise", her last TV role, false and mannered, but here she's great. All the other characters and all the action revolves around her and she pulls off a powerhouse performance. All in all, this was a superior BBC crime drama only let down by going on two episodes too long and trying to reheat a soufflé.


                
There's nothing revolutionary about 'Happy Valley': it's a conventional crime drama, about troubled families, the weak and the wicked, and a tough middle-aged policewoman (although a female lead is at least a change from the usual script). It also depends on a coincidence - a protagonist in the central crime happens to have history with the lead investigator, which adds to the personal drama, albeit in a somewhat unlikely fashion. But Sarah Lancashire is good in the lead role, and the character development is excellent: the series doesn't go out of its way to make us like the characters, but it does make us understand them, and the writing is consistently believable and occasionally revelatory. It's a very solid piece of television; but it's a shame that crime seems to be the only subject that qualifies for drama in prime-time, even when it's as well done as this.


                
"Happy Valley" is testament to many things in today's television world _ the planetary difference between British and American TV drama, an example of the qualitative advantages of a short series, and the all too often limitations and frustrations of the phenomenon of a series-long story arc. The bare bones of this series, and thus this single storyline, are that a rapist who assaulted the late daughter of veteran cop Catherine Cawood (Sarah Lancashire) and impregnated the girl with the child that Cawood herself must now raise is back on the streets to wreak havoc. Cawood not only faces the vexations of her dangerous job but also the challenges of raising a little boy who has sad, alarming behavioral problems at school that have Cawood wondering in her darkest moments if he is somehow infected with the same strain of destructiveness possessed by his criminal father. The child has been told his father is dead. The parallel storyline, which will eventually merge with this primary theme, has a mousy bookkeeper (Steve Pemberton), upset that he can't get a raise that would let him send his daughter to a fine private school, setting in motion the kidnapping of his boss's daughter to raise enough money for his own child's schooling. There is no arguing with the quality of the acting here, right across the board. Lancashire is brilliant as the cop-grandma, ricocheting around emotional highs and lows with stunning intensity. James Norton, as the rapist and man who drove Cawood's daughter to suicide, and not incidentally as the father of Cawood's beloved grandchild, is superb as the demented Tommy Lee Royce. Norton does what any great actor hopes to do when playing any character that on paper is almost completely unsympathetic _ he makes us understand the humanity of the person, and what made him that way. Pemberton is absolutely striking as the weak little bookkeeper who drags down the world around him and then blames everyone else for the catastrophe. At times, we can see his reasoning and are pulled into this world of strange logic, which makes his performance all the more compelling and wondrous. George Costigan, as Pemberton's boss, has built a resume of so many fine character etchings that it is nigh-on impossible to know where the real actor lies. He's magnificent _ again. Many, many plaudits, too for fellow cast members Charlie Murphy, Siobhan Finneran, Shane Zaza and Joe Armstrong. Amazing examples, all, of the deep, deep pool of fabulous British actors who put the rest of the world to shame. The writing is top-notch and dovetails brilliantly with the sumptuous cinematography, perfectly drained of brightness and suggesting in itself the presence of happiness once, but not now. The problem with this first season of the series is that the twin story lines must be stretched too thin to cover all six episodes. For example, it just does not seem plausible that Cawood would not treat the situation better when the bookkeeper shows up on the steps of her police station; he's got to get away, or story over. Nor does it make much sense when she allows her little grandson to go out by himself when she realizes the rapist _ the child's father, her violent nemesis _ is out there on the loose, roaming around. So drawn into the story will you be that you'll find yourself shouting at the tube, "What are you doing _ can't you see?" This is both a nod to the incredible effectiveness of the cast and the production as a whole, and a condemnation of it. It's not unlikely that awards will flood this show, especially as pertains to the acting, and that the series will gain a loyal following. But my sense is that over coffee, in a quiet corner, the writers and actors give a sigh and grapple with making the mechanics of that single story arc believable. Overriding that is that the story and the series are dark and as often as not disturbing and depressing. "Happy Days," at its best and at its worst, is a prime example of art doing what it is supposed to do _ provoking thought and debate.


                
This program is consistently shocking and gasp-inducing. frequent moments of hands in front of the eyes horror, and that's just the overacting by most of the cast with Lancashire leading the way. Time and again she seems to throw down the gauntlet. in a "beat that lads" sort of way. In the first series, she seems to sob in every scene making us wonder how many boxes of tissues were used in the making of this. Somehow, you just can't wait to see what's next. I thought it would be quite a great move if cast of "Line of Duty", the anti-corruption police drama, could be brought in to investigate the actions of this crew. However, since the actor George Costigan appears in both shows it will remain only a dream. There are some pretty odd sub-plots going on too, all with beautiful views of the Calder Valley


                
"Happy Valley" is a well developed drama, set in a calm town in Yorkshire and with convincing and with, sometimes, bizarre characters. In fact, an apparently uneventful location, turns out to be a perilous place for its inhabitants as a kidnapping and several killings occur. Suspense and drama created by these events are intertwined with the personal lives of characters: past strongly comes back to the present and the only way to get through is to confront it. The main character, Sgt Cawood, is a generous but, at the same time, tough policewoman, when needed. Yet sometimes her manners toward criminals seem unrealistic and even silly. Likewise the relationship with her sister. I also found the character of the accountant of the Nevison Corporation kind of goofy, and the physical features of the actor contributed to make this feeling even stronger. However, generally speaking, it's a good series as it catches the attention of the public and each episode the curiosity about the ending grows stronger.


                
Loved this Series about a botched kidnap attempt - Great acting by the lead roles
Set in Yorkshire and the cinematography captures the grit of North England 
Sarah Lancashire deserves special mention for her role as a police Sargent who handles family issues and her job.
Series 1 was first class - Looking forward to Series 2.
As with so many British performances, the acting, for the most part, is excellent. I've only watched season one, but I found the interrelated story lines very captivating. I have to remove stars, though, because the brutality of the crimes is horrific, which is not bad, in and of itself. What's bad is that the retribution is insufficient for the brutality of suffered by the victims and loved ones of the victims.
