Dangal: This overrated masterpiece? lol. 9 years ago we had a much better, a brilliant and progressive Chakde India. And now we have a regressive tale of a dominant male who physically tortures his daughters, turns them into sons, chooses their career without asking what they want to be which is exactly opposite of the great message given by 3 idiots, steals their childhood and youth and turns them into slaves against their wishes to fulfill a personal ambition? Meh. It is a no-risk same old story with just an average to good performance by Aamir. Nothing great. Anybody could have played Mahavir Singh Phogat. Eating cakes and going to gym isn't great acting. Lol.
Yes, this is about girl power in the precise sense of muscle power. But is it about girl power? I mean the two daughters of a man who wanted boys do what is perceived as a boy sport to win for their loser father who was unable to reach the top spot. If the father would have had boys, there would be no girl power. If they would have failed, the story would have been precisely the same, yet no motivational girl power despite all the time and energy invested. So it's about women acting in accordance with the will of a man to satisfy the man. I failed to see the feminism.


                
The real-life protagonist of this movie is a vegetarian, yet, in the movie, AK represents him as as a patronizer of chicken and eggs for his daughters, allegedly, for their protein content, never mind that it has been proved in study after study that plant-based protein is superior since it has none of the negative health effects which accompany animal protein. Also, animals are kept in filthy conditions and killed so they can be consumed. Terrible, hateful movie towards animals.Terrible, hateful movie towards children as well - children are not here to fulfill their parents' thwarted wishes and desires, but AK had no qualms making a virtue of this perversion of parenting.


                
Aamir and Disney will destroy Indian culture with this movie. They try to push feminism into India. In first 38 minutes, father forced his daughter to fight with boys, eat meat, and cut their hear short. Everything against Indian culture. Great culture. Very subtle, subtle destroying of India. After this movie Aamir with Disney can play in some gay Indian blockbuster. I was fan of Three idiots, Lagan, but after this movie Aamir is not my hero anymore. Father in movie is sincere, but Aamir is not. Aamir became rascal. Shame on you Disney. Shame.
yes i voted 1 out of 10 for this movie and maybe i'm the only idiot to do so but hear me out.Dangal shows the struggle of Geeta Phogat an real life girl who was born in 80's and those of us who were know how difficult it was for a girl to compete with men due to our social stigmas.The achievement of Geeta Phogat and how she reached there was no less of a miracle than what was shown in the movie with dramatized scenes to spice it all up. That was the biggest mistake of Amir Khan, i believe that for the real life Geeta Phogat the struggles must have been something that we cannot even imagine and how she won the gold becoming the first Indian woman ever to do so and her story as it happened without any changes whatsoever has to be told to the world because she deserves that respect, instead of the artificiality that was shown in the movie. It would have deserved the Oscar if they would have replicated the exact and perfectly copied fight from the original fight which was historic for Indian women wrestlers,just like they did in "Miracle" the movie about Ice Hockey. Or at least have a alternate version of the movie and re-release it before Oscars,so that Amir Khan can win the first Oscar too for India just like her Pahalwan did in real life. Comments anyone...


                
I saw this Movie "Dangal" Yesterday and feel disappointed the way it turned out. Aamir Khan played the role of Mahavir Singh Phogat, a former wrestler. The starting scene of the Movie is just added to show Aamir body and it was unnecessary, it gives you initial setback to your Movie expectation. The first half of Dangal is OK and as expected, Young girls did fabulous job. The film's second half is pathetic with all lacklustre drama. Movie loses its focus in second half from Geeta turned her attention to fame, which leads tension between her father and her. I was a big fan of Aamir Khan earlier but first his PK and now Dangal proved he is not the same actor as we used to know him earlier. However PK story line, Acting was pathetic but this Movie has a great story line, excellent trailer to build up the atmosphere but when i watched Director looked clueless. Now a days everybody is busy making good trailer to fool audience, by the time people realize the movie is good or bad movie already declare hit. Reviewers are paid to give 4- 5 Star rating.
This movie is nothing compared to other movies under this rating. There are better. Movies than this which are of lower ratings.


                
Aamir Khan's movie composes the real-life figure of Mahavir Singh, a champion wrestler turned pot bellied clerk who secured his sporting legacy with a rethink on realising his daughters Geeta and Babita had more fight in them than any male heir might have. As with most of this Khan's crowd pleasers, it's acutely attuned to wider realities: beyond the mat, the Singhs encounter superstition, child brides and institutional slackness, each sidebar reflecting a social struggle. However with the Amir Khan's recent intolerant remarks had left a deep scar with Indian audience. However, an open minded Indian would still want to see the movie and laud the content of the movie.


                
dangal is about a selfish & sadistic man who failed to reach his golden medal on his time so he tortures his daughters and turned them into sons to reach his personal ambition !! it's about a regressive dominant male who physically tortures his daughters , makes them slaves against their wishes , steals their childhood & youth and didn't even bather himself to sit as a father with his daughters for 5 min to tell them that what he's doing is good for them ..that's because he really never think what bad or good for them he only has his ambition , his goal & will do anything to reach it.And then he steal the limelight of the deserving girl's victory in the end PROVING that MEN WILL ALWAYS BE ABOVE WOMEN & WILL BE APPRECIATED MORE.A twisted massage sent by this movie even that they try to hide it by the marriage scene when there friend envy them on there father who want to make them important by making them slaves to his ambition not like her father who marry her in that age !!!! LOL ..that's so stupid because he exactly did the same here only mahavier obsessed of his medal & her father with marrying his daughter both choose there daughters life bath & didn't ask them , didn't treat them as humans had there choice.Other scene make me so mad of this movie which is the lecture scene before the last match when he sat with geta and tell her to win for every woman and prove to all whose treat women not equal to men that women can do anything !!!!! are you laughing at me or yourself ???!!! Mahavier never believe in Geta as a daughter but as a son , when she is in the academy & decided to back look like as a woman even she had won on him but when she get back from home she loses every match after that, & when she leave that though of caring about herself and cut her hair back & started to became a boy again And under mahavier coaching she finally won the medal!!!!!!!!you just proved the other wise by the way.. That massage of #Chak De India (2007) & #Mary Kom (2014) No Way to match here.. i'm sorry , can't buy it ..The real MORAL of the story here , if you think your daughters are equal to boys and can do what boys can do even if they don't want to ,just torture them ,cut their hairs and make them look like boys ,treat them like boys and force them to do what you want just to prove that they are equal to boys . WHAT A TWISTED VIEW ON FEMINISM!!!!strongly not recommended i wish if i can get back my 2 hours that i wasted in that sadistic movie


                
Dangal: This overrated masterpiece? lol. 9 years ago we had a much better, a brilliant and progressive Chakde India. And now we have a regressive tale of a dominant male who physically tortures his daughters, turns them into sons, chooses their career without asking what they want to be which is exactly opposite of the great message given by 3 idiots, steals their childhood and youth and turns them into slaves against their wishes to fulfill a personal ambition? Meh. It is a no-risk same old story with just an average to good performance by Aamir. Nothing great. Anybody could have played Mahavir Singh Phogat. Eating cakes and going to gym isn't great acting. Lol.Are you planning to rewatch any Indian movies? Could you watch Chakde India, Swades, My Name Is Khan, Dilse.. ,Devdas, Veer Zara or Om Shanti Om? I hope you liked Fan which has a magnificent double lead performances like in Stephen King's Misery and Martin Scorsese's King of Comedy; and Raees which is like Indian Narcos where the lead character dies for the crime he didn't commit. You will also love Chakde over Dangal, Dilse.. over Rang De Basanti, Swades over Pk and Taare zameen par, My Name Is Khan which is as classic as Forrest Gump and Rainman over 3 idiots. You should check out DON series for some good action and psychological thrill. There are martial art techniques like WING CHUN, TRAPPING, KRAV MAGA in Don series. Extremely realistic fights. If you have watched The Notebook, you will love Jab Tak Hai Jaan over it and Om Shanti Om over La La Land. Paheli is a fantasy with women empowerment which is like a live action Disney-Pixar movie. Phir Bhi Dil Hai Hindustani is a comedy satire on media and journalism and politics which was way ahead of its time and similarly Oh Darling Yeh Hai India which is on Netflix is the first bizarre musical thriller and a parody movie of Bollywood, Maya Memsaab is a adaptation of the classic Madam Bovary and a researchgate paper is written analyzing the implications of western influence on Indian women titled "Colonization of Madam Bovary: Hindi cinema's Maya Memsaab".You will love others like Dilwale Dulhaniya Le Jaayenge, Kuch Kuch Hota Hai, Josh, Kabhi Haan Kabhi Na, Rab Ne Bana Di Jodi, Dear Zindagi, Kal Ho Na Ho(you will love this over Fault in our Stars, A Walk to remember). Asoka is a wonderful historical fiction and also a biopic on a 250 BC ruler. You will enjoy it because it was actually made keeping international audiences in mind but unfortunately Lagaan got selected for Oscar nomination instead because of bias. The lead performance in DARR is an actual realistic portrayal of a disturbed obsessed person in love. It is a great psychological thriller and doesn't become a parody like Robert Deniro's Cape Fear. You must absolutely watch Baazigar and Anjaam. You will love the laugh in Baazigar, it is more reminiscent of the Joker and Anjaam is a true blue psychopath movie with no scope of rooting for the lead character. Like American Psycho. You didn't know Ra.One is an cross- cultural Indian superhero movie with an advanced futuristic virtual reality technology which is not explained similar to technologies in the Black Mirror show and musical dance numbers? The chase scene of Captain America Civil War seems to be inspired from Ra.one, Also Electro's look in Amazing spiderman 2 and Adam Sandler's Pixels ripped off Ra.One...you will find many pop culture beauties like very different and realistic VFX and H.A.R.T which is like Ironman's arc reactor. And sense of humour is similar to Deadpool's. It is better than its Enthiraan and Krrish counterparts, with a futuristic advanced virtual reality technnology that goes haywire. I think you should give them a chance rather than being biased towards specific film makers and actors. You talked about how you love feelings- driven, light hearted, hangout movies. You should watch Jab Harry Met Sejal. It is made in the style of European slice of life romcoms. Like the Before Trilogy. Have a great Diwali!
