Mahavir Singh Phogat teaches his two daughters to be international wrestling players of India! This is a simple and impressive story. And they finally defeat UK on the wrestling match. 
I think this is India's 'Yip Man'! This kind of nationalism is healthy and is beneficial to all audiences without background considerations. The film length is also accurate. Growing courses of protagonists need 160 minutes. And emotional responses to their tragic mistakes are well described by the talented actors in detail. Audiences can fully engage in this film. 
A lot of Asian audiences have bias against Indian films that their films are just dances and songs for two hours or more, however there is the perfect construction of story with minimalist use of songs and musics. 
This quality is higher than any Japanese films of today! Indian filmmakers should keep this high quality of film content! It is competitive to Hollywood films. At the end of the film, it is full of enlightenment, the most important thing in life is not 'thing' but it is a human relationship with emotion. If you are true to your families' goodness and emotion, you'll find the best solution of your problem. Even though you fail in this way, your family relationship will only be enhanced as the result of your effort and sincereness. This what this film tells you! 
Thank you!
I saw this with my family in a theatre. Awesome experience. This is why i love Aamir khan movies. Proud to be an Aamir khan fan. Aamir's acting, effort n most importantly his passion is what makes his cinema so damn unique. First thing Dangal has going for it is Aamir khan. First off the acting was amazing. Aamir khan gave arguably the best performance of his career playing Phogat. He is the best actor in bollywood. Period. He shocked me by his transformation. I myself being a gym trainer knows the effort which goes in such kinda transformation. Without Aamir I don't think this movie could have achieved what it has. Sakshi Tanwar gave a great performance as his wife. The daughters Fatima n Sanya gave lovely performances. The  child actors were good too. The music was good. The direction by Tiwari was the best of 2016. This movie was never boring and full credit shud go to the director. The cinematography gave you a feeling as if what you are watching is real. The village was captured well. Overall you don't have to like wrestling or know wrestling to appreciate this movie. Its a wonderful movie. The movie is written very well. Superb screenplay n crispy editing.


                
Director Mr. Nitesh Tiwari work is so brilliant that after few minutes, you just forget that you are watching film. You simply start witnessing the journey of Phogat's family. Makers are so confident that they have even given credit for story idea to Divya Rao, which reflects their honesty. She is not in writing team but gets her due credit. There are four writers, Director himself, Piyush Gupta, Shreyas Jain and Nikhil Mehrotra and their work is fantastic. Screenplay is seamless and very balanced with much needed freshness. Film starts with glimpse of Mahavir Singh Phogat's passion for wrestling, while watching and challenging another district level arrogant winner, while commentary comes over on them which is fresh. When that person gets defeated he says 'Tumne district level pehlawan ko haraya hai' Then Mahavir Singh replies ' Tension mat le, tum national level champion se hare ho'. Words may be a bit different but meaning was same. Which gives strong idea that what level of dialogues you are going to listen and they have maintained the graph. Dialogues just nourish your senses, inducing correct emotions. A simple scene where protagonist massages feet of his sleeping daughter, clearly reflects that he is just not a ruthless coach but a caring father too. Girls curse their father in front of their friend who is getting married, then that girl emotional words about her feeling towards their caring father is very cute, emotional and enough to make girls realize that what they are taking for granted. Best part of this film is it's continues ascending graph in every aspect. First half is cute, funny with subtle dose of emotions. Second half takes this graph to the horizon. Full of emotions, either it is of defeat, victory or relations. Another major plus point is the way they have shown wrestling. I dint know a bit of it but I enjoyed all wrestling matches like it was my favorite game and that is major chunk of film. Hats off to the team behind wresting choreography .Though you have basic idea of film happenings but still they kept you engrossed by presentation. Climax comes with a very strong message that one can train you but only you have to implement the techniques, which makes you true winner and enriches self confident. Performance makes you thunderstruck. Words can not justify or compliment, Amir Khan's performance as Mahavir Singh Phogat. Zaira Waseem as younger Geeta is brilliant. She is so good that when Fatima Sana Sheikh takes over as grown up Geeta, you miss younger one but soon Fatima proves that she has taken the graph far ahead. Same happens with younger Babita played by Suhani Bhatnagar and grown up by Sanya Malhotra. Skashi Tanwar as wife of Mahavir Singh is very good. Girish Kulkarni , who had played coach is superb, you do hate his character but love his performance. Actor, who played younger cousin of Geeta and even grown up one, both actors are cute and endearing. Kudos to casting director Mukesh Chhabra and team. Music by Pritam and lyrics by Amitabh Bhattacharya, are integral part of this film. Without any formulated track you just enjoy every song and your eyes get mois in one too.


                
Just came home after watching the premier show. It really is a masterpiece! A compelling narrative based on a true story. Add stellar acting performances and humor. Pour in cinematography, location, songs & meaningful lyrics. Voila! Everything amazingly fits together in a single string. Truly clean entertainment. In all sense of the word. Worth watching with family. A good movie should entertain. A great movie must connect. And connect, it did. I could almost feel as if I were there, throughout. The plot development is deep, and engaging. Did I mention the child actors, especially the one portraying Geeta? Outstanding performance by all. In a nutshell, my time & resources spent were fully worth. And Aamir Khan! Boy, he never disappoints. =)


                
Excellent movie. Stellar performance by Aamir Khan. Movie of the year. The girls - kids and the grown ups portrayed their role very well. Special mention should be given to Nitesh Tiwari - the director. Music by Pritam is good. The cinematography is nice. The story telling is superb. Overall very nice movie. Watch this movie for Aamir Khan. Hands down to Aamir. His role as Mahavir Singh Phogat will be marked as one of his best. This film will come as one of the best sports films based on the life of coach after Chak De and Iqbal. I strongly recommend this film. Wish other actors think like how Aamir Khan thinks. He is brilliant actor. That makes him special and perfectionist. My rating 10/10.


                
Story: 9/10 A Very True inspiring story of former wrestler champion Mahavir Singh Phogat whose dream is to win a gold medal for India in wrestling. But he fails to achieve that, then He avow that his son will do it. However, he got disappointed when his wife gives birth to four daughters.Music: 9/10 Amazing, Very touching background. Greatly Synced Title track will give you goosebumpsDirection: 9/10 Nitesh Tiwari achieved what he wanted, Got a new name, One of the best directors of Bollywood.Acting: Aamir Khan: 10/10 This time as a father, He will amaze you in every scene. His acting skills are deeply great. Whenever I watch Aamir's movies, I feel his acting. He loves acting and entertaining the world since He came to the Film Industry.Fatima Sana Shaikh: 9/10 Sometimes I still watch Chachi 420, because I love Kamal Hassan. And Fatima Sana Shaikh was the little girl in Chachi 420. Seriously I have seen her after Chachi 420. And after Dangal she will go so far.Aamir Khan and the two lead actress are the best cast roles in a long time, but overall cast done an amazing job.Dangal is humorous and Inspirational Journey.


                
Mahavir Singh Phogat is a former champion wrestler. He is married to Shobha Kaur. Phogat's dream is to win a gold medal for India in wrestling. He is unable to do this. He promises that his son will do what he couldn't do. However, although he loves them dearly, Phogat is disappointed when Shobha gives birth to four daughters. He does not believe girls can wrestle well. However, when two of his daughters, Geeta and Babita, come home after beating up two boys, Phogat realises how wrong he has been and begins to train his daughters in wrestling. The film is the story of how Phogat trained his daughters to become professional wrestlers.


                
I got the privilege to watch this film earlier than the India release as I happen to live in North America. Thank you Disney! Now, what to say about 'Dangal'? It's not a typical Bollywood film, yet it is easily the best Bollywood film ever, even in terms of every, so called, Bollywood masala trick. The incredible storytelling, based on true events, every small detailing, amazing cast, the message it had without being preachy or pretentious but still powerful-there was not one single boring moment in the movie-well, probably one, if you are too picky!,though it is nearly three hours! Kudos to the director! And what to say about Aamir khan? Though he did not have any dramatic moment in the movie (those belong to the girls, who were fabulous by the way), he is not the charming usual boy next door, sexy or cheeky person(the traits which are generally associated with Aamir Khan); rather he is a brute, has a tummy for the majority length of the movie-yet you will not be able to keep him off your mind, even after the movie ends, and easily the best Aamir khan performance ever (and yes, I have seen every Aamir khan film, each a million time).
It's conceivable that a wrestling movie might have you on the edge of your seat, but who'd have thought it would bring tears to your eyes. Dangal does both in large doses. Right from the opening scenes through to the awesome climax, this is one movie that will keep you glued to the screen. I can't remember the last 3 hour movie (nearly) where absolutely nobody took a toilet break apart from in the intermission.Everything about the movie is superb from the cinematography through to the script writing. The movie is superbly directed and there are so many stellar acting performances that it would be unfair to single anyone out.One thing about sports movies is that the action can often seem staged, but the fight sequences in this movie are superbly done and brilliantly filmed.Everyone knows an AK movie is going to be great, and this definitely doesn't disappoint.A must watch.


                
I watched the movie on Day 1 Amazing Movie Superb Acting by My Perfectionist Amer Khan Dialogue Delivery Script Direction Acting by the Girls is just amazing. Best Movie of the Year.From the beginning and till the end of the Movie I was on the Edge of my seat. Funny moments and the dialogue timings are just perfect which makes you laugh louder the whole audience was laughing. And the Emotional moments were just perfect. Beautifully written Lines and perfectly acted by the girls. You will fall in love with the movie. It's a perfect New Year and Christmas Gift for the audience. The Whole family should go to watch the movie of the Year.


                
What a staunch paunch and what a strong punch!?!? That's what Dangal is. Simple, true, gritty, raw, real and determined.Before coming to the name under whose name the film opens, let's first salute the actual person on who this is based on. Hats off Mr Phogat for being such an awesome person and father. Someone who saw the germ of gems within the girl child and didn't live in the fiefdom of monomaniaThe portrayals by each character that adorned the screen were meaningful and said it all. Even the eye movements and glances from Sakshi Tanwar replaced the unwarranted dialogue that would have taken its place. All four girls depicting geeta and babita in both age brackets have done a tremendous job considering that they were untrained and this is not just one chick flick wherein just emotions would help them carry off a portrayal. This required both the mental as well as the physical strength and stamina and very importantly perseverance. In the earlier years Zaira took the cake, ate it as well as relished it in her depiction. We have all by now seen KWK and heard the story of how Fatima and Sanya hid their injuries to be a part of the project and not be replaced. That's good learning in the art of method acting and what a good tutelage they have had. They are truly blessed to have a mentor in the form of the one and only Amir Khan. And what do you say about him - Maestro's best performance yet. It's truly worth the wait for an Amir film as when he comes he ensures that you are witness to the best that the world has to offer. He has taken the form of acting to a different level. The kusti between him and his daughter were specially telling. It spoke reams of each of their insecurities, their wants and aspirations. They say a picture says a thousand words, well this one just spoke an omnibus.


                
An inspiring movie that shows the rise of female-power and dreams from the society in which girls are considered as backward. This movie is on the life and struggles of ex-wrestler cum coach Mahavir Singh Phogat and his two daughters Geeta & Babita to follow in his footsteps and become world-class wrestlers. Aamir was outstanding in his role as Mahavir Singh Phogat. The girls (both in young ages and when grown up) were good in their performances. The storytelling was quite appreciable as well as its cinematography. Another credit goes to Nitesh Tiwari, the director. This movie seems to be the greatest gift of the year by Bollywood. Aamir Khan will be reminded for his performance like he is in his other movies.Finally Mr.Perfectionist with his girls has proved their "Dhaakad".


                
What it would have felt to light up the fire for the first time ... what it would have felt to each individual who chose to break the stereotype. How it would have felt to fight against the stereotype and launch Geeta and Babita into the wrestling arena that too in Haryana. The journey of a dream, the journey of an aspiration journey of a father and journey of two brave girls from the small village of Haryana to become the IKON of Indian National women wrestling. If you are movie goer like me, it is high time that you go line up in a theater near you and watch #DANGAL. Now a day amidst nudity, cheapness and useless love stories very rare to see people clap for a movie, that too in the US it is never easy to get the audience to clap. You will be thrilled to take the journey with Amir as a father. you will be on the edge of your seat for many scenes. you will come out of the theater inspired. Amir thanks for #Dangal, irrespective of insensitive remarks against India I opt to pay for your movie and really thankful that I did watch your tribute to Geeta, Babita, and Mahavir Singh Phogat.


                
Review by AJ. In cinemas now: "DANGAL" MUST SEE, at least 2 or 3 times ! One of the most beautiful and bold films made by one of the jewels of India, mr Aamir Khan. It's such a loving and touching film about making a dream come true. To endure hardships and pain, to hold on to the trust, faith and innerstrength. Especially for women, not only in India, but all over the world, there's more to Life than the responsibility of the kitchen & family. Women have so much potential, if every woman would live her dream and exploit her own talents, can you imagine how fast forward this world would become. It's not about competing with men, or slaying them. It's about the real power women possess. What they can give to the world. And second it's about the delicate (and strong at the same time), the father-daughter relationship, the tears, the love, the hard life-lessons, seeking his approval, trying to say sorry when pride gets in the way (such a heartbreaking scene). I promise you, your tears will come straight from the heart, cause every girl has gone through this moment in her Life.. It has such an impact on the thoughts of men and women. There is no doubt anymore. It is proved, a woman can achieve what she wants, so no more excuses. But you have to be ready to go beyond the boundaries, conquer your fears, confront yourself, accept your weakness, be greedy enough to taste the victory. You want it so bad, you are willing to give up what you cherish most about yourself. But more important you must be able to distinguish what is good for you and what is bad. Cause pride can make you do things that are horrid to your character, it is not you and it is no part of your dream. But it is the lesson you have to learn on the path to becoming the champion. Becoming the winner you already are. To become a wrestler, one has to be stripped down from all thoughts one has had till now. And learn from a different source of knowledge and that's where the powerful father also guru steps in. He can mould her, but she has to do the job. It's not easy to get up at 5 am and go jogging in the fields, but if you are focused you will do it. If it means you can't eat all the sweet and tasty meals you used to eat, you will make the decision to not eat them. There's the difference, no compromise, it's just a yes or no, that simple, cause that will make you the winner. Some people are meant to be great, they work harder than anyone else. To make his dream come true, the father, Mahavir (even his name is great) changed his mindset. Men and women are equal, that's what he believed (unlike a lot of other people). He's a man who is a true man from the core. His respect for Life, for his parents, for his medal, for his lovely family, it's so grand. His daughters are his pride and strength. And if he says something, you can bet it will touch your heart and mind. He's so powerful without being rude or disrespectful. He's the ultimate teacher ! And he is right about the fact that sport in India has no support from the government. Cause if they would create a department for sports only, can you imagine how many medals India would win in all those world-competitions. So many talents are wasted as we speak, sporters settle down for a job, cause they have to eat, one can't eat a medal. The fight-scenes are exquisite in quality, you can actually hear and feel bones being cracked and crushed, muscles being tightened and bodies being slammed to the ground. It's Shakti-power all over the place. The songs are heartwarming and daring, it's tough to be a girl in a man's world and have the heart of a Lion, be strong as a bear and sharp as an eagle. Thank you Aamir Khan, once again, in making this world a better place, showing us the path to positivity and progress !


                
When going for a movie its customary to check the run time. If its more than 2 hours, it is expected to have some intimate moments with your mobile, during the movie. that's the kind of quality we have in movies these days. There is only one moment during the 161 min run time of this movie, when you take out your mobile from your pocket to check your messages & missed calls, that is the interval.and most likely you will do that with blurry eyes. There are good movies, there are excellent movies and then there are movies that leave you speechless. you don't know what part of movie to praise.Every element is so perfectly woven together. This movie is an encounter of the third kind. No matter what kind of movie goer you are, you will love it.


                
There are times when you are watching a movie and it ceases to be one; because you become a part of it. You become so integrated with what's happening that you start living every moment, every character. You feel invested in the motivations and its outcomes.I don't know if Dangal is the best sports movie India has ever produced but it's right up there; and then it's so much more than that. It's not an Aamir Khan movie. In fact, Aamir Khan isn't there in the movie; instead there's a character named Mahavir Singh Phogat who is obsessive about winning International fame for his country. And then there are his daughters: to whom the movie belongs. No one could have played the characters better than what you see on screen.For once, the Supreme Court order wont cross your mind while standing up for the National Anthem at the cinemas; you will do it because you feel like a proud Indian at the end.


                
An excellent movie. Outstanding performance by Aamir Khan. Best Movie of the year. The girls (both kids and the grown ups) established their role very well. Special mention should be given to Nitesh Tiwari - the director. Music by Pritam is good. The cinematography is nice. The story telling is excellent. Overall a very inspiring movie. Watch this movie for Aamir Khan. Hands down to Aamir. His role as a wrestler/coach Mahavir Singh Phogat will be marked as one of his best. This film will come as one of the best sports films based on the life of coach after Chak De and Iqbal. I strongly recommend this film. In India other actors should think like how Aamir Khan thinks. He is a brilliant actor and his unique thoughts makes him special and perfectionist. I give Dangal 10/10. Really "Dhaakad Hai".


                
This is how you make a phenomenal sports drama, this is how you make a real authentic wrestling movie. Compared to this, you'll forget Sultan.This is the real story of former wrestler Mahavir Singh Phogat and how he trains his own daughters Geeta and Babita to achieve wrestling greatness. First half is all about how Mahavir wants a boy to achieve his own long lost dream of getting gold for India. But, instead he gets 4 daughters. Somehow he realizes that his daughters can fulfill his dream and then begins the vigorous training of Geeta & Babita as children. After years of preliminary training, Geeta gets closer to her goal by winning nationals.But the real drama starts with 2nd half, as the daughters had to now get trained by National coach to get ready for International matches and eventually the Commonwealth Games.Amir Khan is absolutely on top of his role at every age of his character. Whether as young wrestler, middle aged or older. The kids acted so well it almost looked natural. The actresses for adult Geeta n Babita deserve all the applause for the effort they've put in to portray the real wrestlers.The best part of the movie is how real and authentic is the wrestling shown in the movie. What you see in Sultan looks absolutely choreographed (and garbage). But here, you even learn about the game and get involved. At the end, you'd really feel proud for India and those daughters.A must watch and should be considered for Oscars.


                
Movie Name : Dangal Genre : Sports / Drama / Biography Rating : Outstanding 5/5 There comes a movie in a while which you are awaiting with bathed-breath and after watching it, your joy knows no bounds. "Dangal" is a perfect example that exceeds the expectations and would give you a right dose of entertainment with an inspiring message."Dangal" is a biography-drama about the former Indian wrestler Mahavir Singh Phogat (played by Aamir Khan) who dreams of winning a gold medal for India at the Olympics. He earns enough respect in the field of wrestling but disowns the sport due to money-crunch. However, he trains his daughters, Geeta (played by Fatima Sana Shaikh) and Babita (played by Sanya Malhotra) who makes his dream come true.Directed by Nitesh Tiwari, who earlier made "Bhoothnath Returns", "Dangal" focuses more on the relationship between the Haryana wrestler Mahavir Phogat and Babita Kumari and Geeta Phogat. Unlike the Salman Khan's "Sultan", the wrestling drama is an emotional journey of a father teaching his daughters about the wrestling sports rather than full-fledged action film. The film opens well with Aamir Khan wrestling with his colleague at office. The subsequent scenes where he teaches his daughters the art of wrestling is brilliantly portrayed. The wrestling arena scene where the young Geeta fights with a boy for the first time is eye-popping. Kudos to Nitesh Tiwari for keeping us engaged at this time. The second half tells how Geeta Phogat joining the NSA (National Sports Academy) but in spite of having a wrestling coach, gets trained under her father to win the gold medal at the Common Wealth Games 2010. The wrestling scenes are probably the best scenes you will witness on the silver screen. The semi-final and the final match for gold is the highlight of the film. Thanks to wonderful screenplay written by Piyush Gupta, Shreyas Jain, Nikhil Mehrotra and Nitesh Tiwari, "Dangal" will keep you on your toes right from the beginning till the end. Background score is rocking and gels well with the mood of the film. Art direction is effective along with efficient cinematography for capturing the charms of rural India. Editing is crispy. Special mention to Shyam Kaushal and Kripa Shankar Patel Bishnoi for executing the wrestling scenes effectively. Songs are good but definitely the pick-of-a-lot is the title song "Dangal" which hair- raising.Coming to the performances, I cannot imagine any one apart from Aamir Khan playing the role of mentor to his daughter, Mahavir Singh Phogat. Aamir has chosen to put on lot of weight to look like an aging pehelwaan and his performance is impeccable. Just like "Sultan" was not just a Salman Khan's film and had other characters well-defined, "Dangal" boast off some brilliant actors as well. Zaira Wasim (Young Geeta) and Suhani Bhatnagar (Young Babita) are simply superb. Same goes for Fatima Sana Shaikh (Elder Geeta) and Sanya Malhotra (Elder Babita) who are spell- binding. Sakshi Talwar does well in her part. Overall, if you are lying low in life, "Dangal" is the right dose of medicine to motivate and inspire you. Go and grab the tickets now. Outstanding 5/5


                
Mahavir Singh Phogat is a former champion wrestler. He is married to Shobha Kaur. Phogat's dream is to win a gold medal for India in wrestling. He is unable to do this. He promises that his son will do what he couldn't do. However, although he loves them dearly, Phogat is disappointed when Shobha gives birth to four daughters. He does not believe girls can wrestle well. However, when two of his daughters, Geeta and Babita, come home after beating up two boys, Phogat realized how wrong he has been and begins to train his daughters in wrestling. The film is the story of how Phogat trained his daughters to become professional wrestlers.This movie is based on the life and struggle of Mahavir Singh Phogat and his daughters. Aamir Khan was excellent in his role as Mahavir Singh Phogat. The girls (both young and grown ups) were really appreciable in their roles. Special credits go to the director. The storytelling and cinematography was also good. This is the best gift that can be shared with your family on this Christmas season.


                
I do not think it is the best of amir khan till date.But it is a fantastic movie to watch especially considering the fact that it is the story of two girls who are belonging to the state which is having worst male to female ratio in India.In sultan it is shown that a woman if have to chose between family and career,she chooses family.But that was no women empowerment.But here in dangal,it shows women in India can be really motivated and always give 1 st preference to the carrer.This movie shows a beautiful relation between father and daughter.Great acting by all the characters.But it gets dramatic towards the end.It could have been more realistic excepting it to be amir khan's movie.But overall a good movie,MUST WATCH


                
Whatever we had expected from a Aamir khan movie , he does it again. This time not only Aamir but the entire team of Dangal just Brilliant. Right from direction,screenplay,cinematography, background sound and of course the brilliant acting movie nailed it. I was stunned at the wrestling scenes projected in the movie. They are damn good real and nail biting. Absolute a treat to watch.. Loved each and every performance. I will recommend everyone to watch this masterpiece. I have no word to say.. The movie is still playing in my mind. Such a delight to watch.. Kudos to Aamir Khan for his weight transformation. I cannot rate this movie. 10, 20 30 stars.. Its the movie of decade.
Dangal has a very strong story line and director Nitsh Tiwari made it in a way that instantly touches the hearts of the audience. It has all the necessary elements of entertainment, humour, action, thrill in complete balance. The characters' struggle to fulfil the big dream is praiseworthy and the makers of Dangal portrayed it on celluloid in the most entertaining manner. Based on the life of ace wrestler Mahavir Singh Phogat and his two daughters – Geeta Phogat and Babita Kumari – Dangal shows the emotional and physical struggle that the two girls went through to fulfil their father's biggest dream. Although the movie is very emotionally driven, it is well mixed with a good amount of humour and entertainment.To conclude Dangal is a movie that will make you laugh, then will make you cry and in the end, will make you blow whistles in the theatre. It is a wholesome movie with some brilliant performances and an inspiring plot. A must watch, definitely.


                
Watched #Dangal! One of the finest film to come out of the Hindi film industry in a long time and mark my words, it will be remembered as a classic in times to come. An impressive journey, the one that leaves an impact. A tale well told, myriad of emotions well portrayed.Engaging, measured, empowering and motivating.An epitome of blood pumping motivational story telling.It blends drama, emotions, sportsmanship and patriotism extraordinarily. Dialogues just nourish your senses, inducing correct emotions.It is so brilliant that after few minutes, you just forget that you are watching film.You simply start witnessing the journey of Phogat's family.Terrific casting and exceptional performances.


                
Dangal (means a Wrestling Competition), a biopic on Phogat Sisters Geeta and Babita and their father Mahavir Singh Phogat, by Nitesh Tiwari is a triumph over odds. Geeta made history by being the first Indian female wrestler to win the Gold medal (55kg) and Babita won Silver medal (51 Kg) in 2010 Commonwealth games. Offlate, Bollywood has certainly made a few very good sports biopics viz. Chake de, Bhag Milkha Bhag, Mary Kom, M.S. Dhoni etc. Most of them have done justice to the players and their lives. It is true that films about real heroes can become predictable. The story telling needs to be authentic too without misconstruing the essence. And that is where Dangal scores like anything. It is unadulterated, and remains true to the core. Dangal focuses on a father and his perseverance, persistence and eccentricities to fulfill his dream of fetching gold for the country through daughters. Under the umbrella of this main plot, the film tries to create awareness about so many pertinent issues. The film not only talks about the fight which one has to do in the real Dangal but also about the fight which one has to do against the mindset of people viz. certain games and sports defined as a taboo for girls by the society, the thought that girls are born just to get married, raise children and do household chores etc. The fight is also against the scarcity of resources, the lack of infrastructure support for the sports people especially sports like wrestling. One can instantly connect with the father who has deleted 'impossible' from his dictionary. One can also very well connect with the girls who just want to enjoy the bliss of being children and dressing up like girls, find their father to be overbearing, and their transformation to achieve what their father dreamt for them. The end is indeed predictable since we all know about Phogat sisters and their achievement but Dangal brings to us their journey which is simply incredible, inspiring and awesome. The best part of the film is its tone which is kept very much real, authentic and light. There are moments of humour too.Mahavir Singh Phogat (Aamir Khan) is a National Level Wrestling Champion who had to make a choice in his life and leave wrestling. But his passion and love for the sport never died. He used to enjoy all the fights in the local Dangal and always felt nostalgic of his wrestling days looking at the medals and certificates he had won. He is hopeful of living his dream through his to-be-born son. He gets disappointed every time when his wife Daya Shobha Kaur (Sakshi Tanwar) delivers a baby girl instead of a boy. He is definitely unlike those fathers who disown their girl children. Mahavir loved his girls but was just disillusioned about how to fulfill his dream of fetching gold for the country without having a son. But the day he realizes that his girls Geeta (Zaira Wasim -young Geeta), and Babita (Suhani Bhatnagar - Young Babita), have the potential to be wrestlers, he decides to go against the societal norms, fights all odds to train his girls. This is where the incredible journey of Phogat sisters begins. Aamir Khan as Mahavir Singh Phogat is terrific. It is one of his best performances, which would be remembered for ever, be it in terms of his physical transformation, his dictatorial approach with girls, his determination, never-to-quit attitude, being a possibilist as a path finder; he excels in every frame.Sakshi as Mahavir's wife Daya Shobha Kaur has given such a powerful and natural performance. She has fewer dialogues, but she speaks through her eyes and facial expressions. She plays perfect bridge between her unyielding husband and daughters.Phogat sisters are real discoveries be it the younger versions of Geeta and Babita (Zaira Wasim and Suhani Bhatnagar) or their grown up versions (Fatima Sana Shaikh and Sanya Malhotra). They are so much convincing. Zaira and Suhani are adorable. Fatima and Sanya are also very good. They have played their roles with so much of conviction.Another character which needs special mention is that of Omkar, nephew of Mahavir Singh Phogat. Ritwik Sahore (Ferrari Ki Sawari fame) has played his role very well. Aparshakti Khurrana (brother of Ayushman Khurana) plays the role of grown up nephew, he has less screen time, but he has made his presence felt. He narrates the story in typical Haryanvi accent. His scenes generate humour.Girish Kulkarni as coach in National Sports Academy has done justice to his role.The songs go with the flow of the film. Pritam's music clubbed with lyrics by Amitabh Bhattacharya is great. The lyrics are in absolute sync with the story. Dangal would certainly touch your hearts. I failed miserably in letting the tears come out of my eyes at many occasions, be it father- daughter relationship, their triumph over all odds, attitude to remain positive even amidst challenges. Felt like jumping out of chair and cheer their every victory on and off Dangal. Got goosebumps when the National Anthem is played along with the tricolor in the air. Many scenes have stayed with me.Dangal, a sports biopic, is a powerful, inspirational and incredible story of women empowerment. It not only talks about the fight Mahavir Phogat and his daughters Geeta and Babita had to do in the real Dangal but also about the fight which they had to do against the mindset of the people, patriarchic society, scarcity of resources etc. A must watch film.
