Story : Good Screenplay : Good Direction: Average Actors: All acted ordinarily except Aamir who was above average due to few heart touching scenes. Music: Effective/GoodToo much hype by patriots not knowing a good movie from a bad, who are simply echoing the same words uttered by the bollywood celebs for their friend Aamir. I felt the movie was very predictable with lots of scenes were altered from reality for entertainment purposes. Yes it has emotions, comedy, action etc. but is not a true movie at all except a few scenes such as fight sequences. I believe a lot of people are just going to watch this due to the word of mouth coming from other bollywood celebs promoting the movie left right and centre. The whole of India if not the world had more time at their hands due to the holiday season and everyone from marketing team to film producers, directors, actors, friends, media just went all out promoting this movie for Aamir and his production house and all they did is enjoyed people spending their hard earned moola on this average movie.


                
Just watched half of it, cuz the plot turns too obvious to a "father's dream and dignity matters" thing. Can't bear it anymore. To some extent it will help people in backward India to improve their awful India n culture for example: killing women, raping women, unfair opportunity for women to choose their career and life. However the core motivation in this movie is still disgusting, it's simply a well display of "what is patriarchy". Awful India, awful.


                
Had good heart and good acting (especially Aamir Khan) and the cinematography during the fights were pretty alright but the child actors were pretty bad and the movie was really, REALLY formulated and predictable. (also the message was good, but Cool Cat Save the Kids has a good message. why doesn't that have a 9.1 on IMDb?)Spoilers from here on out: At the end when she needs the points to win, it was the EXACT amount Aamir Khan said earlier in the movie, and there was 10 seconds left. hmmm... wonder whats going to happen... and then on top of that, we hear Aamir Khan repeating what the throw is to get the amount of points (i don't remember how many, so lets just say it was 7) at that moment. SERIOUSLY?!?!? It was pretty obvious when Aamir Khan said it the first time that it would be re-incorporated. Then towards the end of the fight when she needs exactly 7 points to win, and the only way to get that is the throw, you know its going to happen. The movie insults your intelligence by just SAYING IT AGAIN. Also, I had no idea what was going to happen in this movie. The day of my parents said that there was an Aamir Khan movie near us in theaters so we just went and saw it. I had NO idea of what was going to happen in this movie at all. I didn't look anything up or anything, yet I could still predict what would happen in the movie. another thing to add: the motivation for why the girls continued to fight in the beginning was kind of dumb. Instead of realizing by themselves that women are oppressed in India and they are given a chance, they are just told this by some random girl who we see for the first time who gets married. It was forced and bad. I don't write movies but they could have done this in a way that the girls found out by themselves, which really would have developed their characters more (imo).
This film is a portrayal of typical subjugation of children by their parents.This film was promoted keeping women empowerment as its central theme,but what it offers is completely contradictory to the claim it was promoted with.We can only see the children being forcefully drawn into their father's profession so that they could fulfill their father's wish of winning a gold for the country,which their father couldn't do.
