I am aware that many people would not like to read my review. I have no doubt that the movie viewing experience with its emotional pot-boiler roller coaster ride engages and is a good one, better than the Indian, regional and vernacular soap-opera dished out on Indian television. (That is why I am giving 7 out of 10 rating)But if a sensitive person looks beyond the cosmetics of movie dazzles – you will find someone is selling a regressive message through this film. Kodus to Dangal team for achieving such a feat. Here is my take..When the first poster of the movie was released I did not like it. Even though being a wrestler, why four girls should look like boys was the first question I raised.Now after reading so much appreciation and reviews of the movie I say this:<U+0095> This is another patriarchal portrayal of regressive India <U+0095> A father forces his dreams on children. One should never do <U+0095> Children should be kept free to develop and grow as they want <U+0095> This is again patriarchy dominance on the feminine gender and forcing it with the power of parenting to subjugate the flourishing of women's gender. <U+0095> For sure the flourishing of women's gender is not in imitating men and/or boys and becoming fighters, wrestlers and looking masculine. This is degrading the pride, dignity and respect of being a woman <U+0095> To use a true success story of a single case and successfully use it as propaganda for women's emancipation is sickening to say the least. The negative fallout of this movie could be: <U+0095> Irrespective of boys or girls many parents will force their children (and more so to girls) to do what they failed to achieve in life. Make their children do things that they as parents have dreamed. Sick mentality! <U+0095> Many girls may start behaving like boys - wearing boys dress, cutting hair like boys, fighting like boys etc. etc. not at all in the spirit of humanism <U+0095> Father in the movie saying that "My girls are no less than boys". Such comparisons are not needed in today's evolved society. This is a phrase of sixties India. It is similar to always call a girl "Tom Boy" and demean and insult her sexuality. Such comparisons just distort the femininity of girls and women, who mis-understand such statements as being treated like boys rather than girls <U+0095> Addressing girls as a male gender and treating one like that - the society like India - parents may do that to destroy the little bit of remaining self-esteem that girls and women - have on their given gender and sexuality <U+0095> I also am bothered - as I always tell everyone about it is MAN - in capitals that drive the so called women's emancipation and empowerment agenda - It is so disturbing to see this. The four writers of the movie are men, the director of the movie is wearing men's glasses, the so called super-star gender sensitive actor Amir Khan is too wearing a man's hat.<U+0095> In propaganda of spreading regressive message through this film the team too is of men - the director, writer, producer and lead actor - all men - who drive to influence the society in a way that may create a distorted image of what is meant by women empowerment. <U+0095> In real life on which the movie is based the father of the wrestling girls drives their lives. Such case studies should have been presented more sensitively by showing – such things need not be done – even though in the end it brings laurels for the country. Though I agree the medium of cinema when used with shrewdness can garner enough emotions within ignorant movie goers about nationhood to back the protagonist in whatever s/he is doing. That is what has happened in this movie - the art of good film-making -tends to overlook and ignore finer aspects of women empowerment and digs more deep into the patriarchal systems to further strengthen patriarchal roles to build the women's liberation and freedom movement I hope some readers who are sensitive human being will try to understand the point I am making and deplore such popular presentation of regressive concepts on feminism despite its all-time record breaking All India Collection. It confirms my review - Indian is still a Patriarchal society with male dominance.Have a look at the film with those lenses.
Born and raised in the small village Balali,in the state of Haryana, promising young athlete Mahavir Singh Phogat (Aamir Khan) made a mark on the national level for himself through wrestling,However his ultimate goal of becoming the first Indian wrestler to win a gold medal for India in the prestigious Commonwealth Games never fulfilled due to lack of physical & financial support. Mahavir finally succumbed to family pressure to find a real job and get married. He hoped for a son whom he could coach to become a wrestler who could represent India in the Commonwealth Games to win him the medal he dreamed of winning for himself.However things didn't panned out well as all his four children were born girls,it appeared that his dream has finally come to a standstill. The real story begins to twist when Mahavir's adolescent daughters Geeta (Zaira Wasim) and Babita (Suhani Bhatnagar) get into a brawl with some rude neighbor boys and beat them up. Suddenly Mahavir realized that all he wanted is a successor of him who could win the medal in his place irrespective of the gender. He starts training his daughters to wrestle, building them their own training ring in a nearby field and intentionally pitting them against boys because,he believes, the only way athletes learn is by competing up with stronger & meaner opponents.If his daughters Geeta & Babita (played as young adults by Fatima Sana Shaikh and Sanya Malhotra respectively) have the heart and skills, then there is no force that could stop them from winning & ultimately fulfilling his long held ambition & make him proud.The story then Plots on their journey to stardom. They put on the extra miles that serves to prove that will power,determination & self believe ultimately transforms into immense strength and endurance which enables one to do the impossible. This is what follows when finally one of Mahavir's daughters Geeta against all odds reached a mid-line between triumph and defeat when she reached the finals of the Commonwealth Games 2010 & Australian Wrestler Emily Bensted stood on her way to glory. Despite a nervous beginning she managed to recover from it & then lashed onto the opportunity & managed to win the Gold Medal that has eluded the Indian wrestlers on a global scale. Mahavir now a proud father was simply overjoyed & finally his daughter made him & others realize that being a girl or boy doesn't matter unless you have the strength to face reality & it's consequences. Truly a inspirational story for everyone to watch & specially to those women who are still fighting for a place that they are deprived off by others.This will act as a emotional boost for them & give them the strength they had been seeking for a long time.
Most of the reviewers for this film here on IMDb appear to be folks of Indian background; nothing wrong with that but with most of them offering glowing praise and a '10 rating, it's difficult to get a true perspective on the movie. I thought it was OK, though not a '10' rated film by any means. The picture utilizes a tried and true sports movie formula depicting a rigorous training schedule, a demanding coach and notable accomplishments along the way before the principal character encounters some roadblocks on the way to a Commonwealth Games gold medal. There's also the idea of success achieved by defying conventional thinking, in the way Geeta Phogat (Fatima Sana Shaikh) and her sister Babita (Sanya Malhotra) rise to prominence in the traditionally male sport of wrestling. That's perhaps the film's best takeaway, as the girls in question endured a lot of physical and mental anguish to achieve their goals, thereby serving as role models for other young women to follow.I couldn't help thinking however, that if the setting for this film was present day America, the father (Aamir Khan) might never have gotten past the first month of training his daughters because someone would have turned him in for child abuse. Cutting the girls' hair and restricting their diet would have gotten someone to notice, and Mahavir slapping his young nephew Omkar for some slight was totally uncalled for. It might not have appeared so bad if the man had lightened up his approach from time to time but his expression was always so grim it looked like he was mad at the world. One could say that his style eventually paid off in the end, but the emotional toll on his daughters, especially Geeta, could have been avoided with a more 'fatherly' approach. The one American film this most reminded me of was 1984's "The Karate Kid", but without a bully opponent and with national prestige at stake in the tournament matches. The film makers for that earlier movie put together a compelling and entertaining story in just about two hours, The additional forty minutes of screen time in "Dangal" is padded by repetitious scenes of training activity in the early part of the story that aren't all that necessary, while others are characteristically set to a musical accompaniment that seems to be a trademark of Hindi films. I did like the realism involved in staging the wrestling matches throughout the story, and the climactic final match was filled with suspense. With seconds to go, one will recall Mahavir's earlier explanation of the point scoring system, fully hoping that Geeta would somehow manage a five point take-down to insure a victory. The fact that this movie was based on the real life story of Mahavir Phogat and his wrestling daughters make it all the more fascinating.
This film tells the story of a father who hopes to have sons to pass on his wrestling dreams. He suddenly realises that he can pass the dreams to his daughters, and begins to train his daughters to wrestle.It is particularly refreshing to see a film about equality and women's rights in a traditionally patriarchal society. The plot is obligatorily touching, and mixes humorous moments in it as well. The scene about the daughters forgetting the mother made me laugh. It is a remarkable journey of a dedicated father and his two daughters.


                
After 2 years, Aamir Khan strikes back with 'Dangal'. And here's a film, that proves the superstar's genius yet again! Director Nitesh Tiwari & Aamir team up to tell The affecting true-story of Mahavir Singh Phogat, who taught wrestling to his daughters Geeta Phogat and Babita Kumari, to their eventual triumph. Its a film that delivers entertainment & a message that's important & worthy.'Dangal' explores Mahavir Singh Phogat and his two wrestler daughters' struggle towards glory at the Commonwealth Games in the face of societal oppression.'Dangal' is about the human spirit & that talent & passion don't come under any particular gender. If your a Man, you can achieve impossible goals & if your a Woman, you achieve the very same. 'Dangal' is about Mahavir Singh Phogat's courageous journey & how against all odds, he trained his daughters & made them GOLD in the world of wrestling. Early on in the film, Mahavir, who sadly quits wrestling after his father's discouragement, says "only my son can make my dream come true". But he has four daughters despite his willing to have a son. To his astonishment, one fine day, when two bruised boys come to complain after receiving a beating by his girls, he realizes his daughters (now teenagers) have the power & punch to rule in the ring. And thus, begins Mahavir's journey with his daughters that leads to history.'Dangal' is an important film, that is a wake up of call for all those, who underestimate women as a lesser sex. Women are powerful, strong & capable & at par with Men. We cheer for Geeta & Babita as they fight against all odds & your heart goes for Mahavir, who sees his dream come true through his daughters. The first-hour soars. Its a joy to watch the daughters get entangled in the world of wrestling & also inspiring to see them grow. You're engrossed by the passion Mahavir trains them with & how they grow as people & wrestlers. The second-hour slows down for a bit & that's where 'Dangal' falters. The sports movie clichés come in & the angle of a unlikable coach (played by Girish Kulkarni) doesn't really work. For a film that starts off with such precision & keeps you glued to your seat all through the first-hour, suddenly turns predictable. Also, Geeta's arrogance towards Mahavir & Family, don't stir up the emotions one might expect. But, things come back with force with a terrific finale, that will leave you cheering. Watching Geeta become India's first female wrestler to win at the 2010 Commonwealth Games, where she wins the gold medal, is something to be witnessed. Nitesh Tiwari, Piyush Gupta, Shreyas Jain & Nikhil Meharotra's Screenplay adapts an inspiring true-story, into an equally inspiring film. Though imperfect due to its clichés & some melodrama, the soul of 'Dangal' remains strong. The message of the film, to be honest, is even bigger than the film itself. The Writers deserve credit for delivering a story that celebrates women as 'heroes' & also, fatherhood. Nitesh Tiwari's Direction is very-well done. He's handled some of the film's most dramatic & emotional sequences, skillfully. Cinematography & Editing are quite good. Pritam's Score is fabulous. Art & Costume Design are perfect, while the wrestling sequences (done by Sham Kaushal) are raw & effective.Performance-Wise: Aamir Khan is the heart of 'Dangal'. His physical transformation from fit to fat, to his nicely done haryanvi accent, is note-worthy. But its his eyes & body-language that touch you. He is wonderful as a man who'd stop at nothing to see his dreams come true & at the same time, lend pride to his daughters' achievements. Aamir delivers one of his finest performances to date! Sakshi Tanwar, as Aamir's wife, is marvelous. She's remarkably restrained. Fatima Sana Shaikh as Geeta Phogat, is excellent. And watching her wrestle, looks as real as it could get. Sanya Malhotra as Babita Kumari, is fabulous. She gets a smaller role in comparison to Sana, but shines all through. Zaira Wasim as young Geeta & Suhani Bhatnagar as young Babita, are adorable. They steal some of the best moments in the film. Aparshakti Khurrana is lovable & so is the actor who plays his younger self. Girish Kulkarni is okay. On the whole, 'Dangal' isn't perfect & yet its an important film, that delivers a strong & important message. Definitely, worth a watch!
A martinet father, two young girls and a story to instill fear of disrespecting elders. This is not a movie to promulgate importance of girl child, neither is it a movie to bolster the idea of equality between boys and girls. This is a movie on discipline, being abstinent from worldly pleasures, and on being a believer of conventional wisdom.This is not a documentary, so don't watch it with the eyes of scrutinizing validity of events. Is it funny? Only a few bits here and there were. It was not a laugh riot like PK.Is it emotional? Will you cry? Only if young you had faced a strict disciplinarian father. Will you be bored? Not at all. Time will fly, thanks to optimal story pace, supporting characters, and sense of learning wrestling with the girls in the movie.


                
An endearing tale of having and dream and the endeavor to achieve it. I must admit that after 'Madras Cafe', this is a movie which has rekindled my hopes that Bollywood can create technically sensible movies. The handling deserves an applause. The movie doesn't give much chance to the viewer to get distracted. One fact that I hate about any Indian work ranging from films to series is the incessant, loud and maddening background score and this is avoided in the movie. Nitesh Tiwari has done a fantastic job while seated in the writer's and the director's chair. The command of all the actors over the dialect is impressive.Emotions, philosophy and practical scenarios are blended well. Mahavir's realization that his daughters have inherited his talent reminded me of that scene in 'Kung Fu Panda' where the Master Shifu, otherwise disappointed, sees a spark in Po. 'Nothing succeeds like success' - the villagers first condemn, then make fun of the family and finally praise and celebrate Geeta's success. One can even see girls being sent to train with Mahavir. The movie does have some emotional spots - the girls getting accustomed to their father's orders about getting ready at 0500 hours, they realizing that their seemingly insensitive father is, in reality, struggling for their better future, Babita criticizing Geeta and reminding her that their success is solely due to their father's sacrifice and skills and that he is growing old, the mild friction between the sisters over performance and Geeta calling up her father, Mahavir summarizing Geeta's journey and begging the NIS committee for another chance for her, Geeta quoting "Bahut dinon ke baad papa ki gaaliyan khaayi, accha laga !", after more than a decade of a fortitudinous journey, Mahavir denied the chance to witness the most important match of his daughter's career Mahavir finally appreciating Geeta after the gold medal.What I always crave for is having technical/professional(whether it's a sport, an armed conflict, secret services and so on) aspects given the maximum footage in the movie. The training of the girls, the points system, the strategies used and the games shown are perfect pointers for a layman like me to make out the 'head or tail' of the wrestling. The movie shows how vocational skills and what is popularly known 'jugaad' in India are quintessential for survival. Daya's stitching, Mahavir's ideas ranging from building the wrestling ground in his own field, using cotton mats as a low-cost substitute for synthetic mats, using the video parlor to analyse Geeta's previous games are all simple but successful ideas to navigate through predicaments. Mahavir, instead of celebrating Geeta's silver medal, stays back to watch the games of the other semi-final pair to evaluate the opposition in the final.The movie deserves 10/10 for it's genuine humor sprinkled all over the movie - the girls pursuing her mother to get them relieved from the training, Mahavir's stone-cold attitude to the tantrums hurled by his daughters, Omkar's sufferings and the comments from the crowd generate giggles.The characters in the movie seem balanced and well-placed. Geeta and Babita - Both the kids and the adults have played their parts well, successfully delivering what is expected from the characters. Omkar - the mascot and the 'comic relief'. Right from his inception in wrestling till the end of the movie, . His narration across the movie . He's the one that has the lion's in the humor. His expressions when his jeans are shortened to make slacks for his sisters, the torture he faces while his sisters learn wrestling and his unfaltering support(jack of all trades) to Mahavir all make him a lovable character. Mahavir Singh - Amir Khan has impeccably played a father and a teacher. Letting his girls have 'Gol gappe' for the last time, putting them on a non-veg diet despite of his wife's protests, giving up his job and disregarding his health and enduring hardships just for the success of his daughters are all. Once again, after 'Ghazani', he has put the efforts to modify his physique to suit the demands of the screenplay.Success of a person comes from the selfless support of many people who act like background processes. From Daya to the local chicken shop owner, all touch the viewer's heart.I felt that the music and lyrics have been an odd couple in the movie. Honestly, I was not impressed by the music, Pritam isn't the best choice for such movies. Having said that, the title track is notable. Amitabh Bhattacharya has made a mark in penning apt lyrics, the one I liked most were of the song 'Haanikarak Bapu'.Similar to the two sides of a coin, the movie has several shortcomings that are both facts and the desire of the viewer to expect more from something that is good or better than earlier attempts. After the intermission, I could feel the emotional drama stepping in increasingly e.g: The discussion between Mahavir and Geeta on the night before the final match(reminds of 'Chak De' final match!). While it's normal in an Indian movie, this consumes valuable time in the length of the film which can be dedicated for more technical aspects of wrestling. The sudden leap of the film from Geeta's adolescence to becoming the national champion was a bit disappointing for me - a journey of being a school girl in a hamlet to being a national champion would have involved aplenty of professional challenges like facing injuries etc. The number of songs should have been less.The movie, undoubtedly, is one of the Bollywood's fine works and a must-watch(more than once!). I just hope that instead of having one such movie per decade, we have such movies frequently, focusing on diverse sports. I look forward to the movies that take a cue from 'Dangal' and improvise on the technical aspects.


                
I love the Aamir Khan movie 3 idiots was great,this movie has become very popular everyone enjoyed but somehow I didn't like it much.
I seperated movie in two part part1and part2 Ilike part1 beacuse the difficulties of life in India were about the injustices of women and the struggle of a father to change it.The first part of the film was the classic aamir khan style that was giving amazing messages that was really cool but when we got to the part 2, girls grew up and the film was no longer an indian film and turned into a sports film.I'm not a man who loves sports movies, so maybe I didn't like it and I don't like wrestling not interesting.I'm pretty bored in the second part of the movie but this is a real,powerful story makes movie is wonderful, already received positive feedback from viewers.I can only say it's not exactly my style
Aamir Khan acting was now a separate level.


                
A Inspirational movie but still should not be pulled on the women's rights, mention women's rights is a little strange, why make women so humble. It still looks good, and it burns in the end


                
The story is good and I think this is one of the few movies of Bollywood in which character development is so good. The music is good and the title song is amazing with lyrics. You can listen it to get some motivation.The cast of the movie did amazing job as every part they played is nice. You can laugh, you can cry at the same time as this movie is filled with such moments.


                
Mahavir Singh Phogat is an unbelievably inspiring father, who fought against stereotypes and society, for himself, his girls and the pride of our Nation. It has shown, how once again the bureaucracy of the nation is eating away real chances of the talented athletes. The film is well acted, well scripted and a joy to experience. The success of this film is welcome and is a testament that the Indian audience doesn't just crave for the senseless no-brainier stories.However, one must not forget that more often than not, the films, with the Khans, are "Khan-centric" at the expense of a good story. And this is no exception. It's a black and white world. Amir's portrayal of Mahavir: my- technique-however-ancient-is-the-winner. The coach, who is against Amir's technique, is shown as The all evil villain, for whom the pride of the nation is less important than his H.U.G.E ego! The story could have easily being more nuanced with the growth of Amir's character (please note that I wrote Amir, because I think, it was written just to make Amir this awe-inspiring-faultless- unbeatable hero). The growth being:- Amir comes to terms with the fact that when Geeta does win the Gold,he is proud of who she has grown to become, not because she is his creation, his puppet who has won doing his bidding.
One of the strongest messages that he passes to the world, especially the villages of India is to believe that a woman's place is not just in the kitchen. Mahavira also believes that instead of raising our daughters with the objective to let them get married, we must ask them their dreams and help them achieve the same. This is where the duty of a true parent lies.


                
The movie is based on wrestling but the fact is what amir khan did in this movie totally mind blowing act but in this movie he act like his role which likes real and that two kids did that role superb act and movie created records in India and breaken all RECORDS so i gave 7stars out of 10 Thank You all of you for reading my review


                
I think the movie is slightly overrated. There is nothing wrong with the movie but there is nothing new in it. Blame it all on director and screenplay writer. The whole time in the movie, I was getting the essence of Chak DE India and few other sports movies. Like they initially don't want to be trained and then after realizing the good in it, they joined the campaign with full force. 70 minute moment before finals. Obviously, it was 6 minutes only. Rough competition in the semifinal. In short watching this movie makes me feel like I have watched a mixture of a 4-5 sports movie. Especially after the interval. Before the interval, the experience was quite funny. Overall it's a good watch, but doesn't deserve this rating.
Firstly, the climax was great! I mean one of the best cinematic climax in a Hindi cinema. But!!! But, only if it would've been true to the story. Unfortunately, it wasn't and I'm that type of a guy who HATES fictionalizing biopics when you have all the concrete story on your lap. Yet, it's just me and some of them may agree to it and some may not. On the whole, it's a nice effort ( I mean super super nice of Aamir, Nitesh and the girls) to pull it off so near perfectly (I mean to say physical and emotional-wise).
