To me, this show is bliss. I watched both of the first two episodes aired and am already in love. The genius lies in the delivery. The seriousness of which Bret and Jermaine approach the situation adds a certain amount of wit to every comment made. Pay close attention and the slightest musical references are made, such as Fleetwood Mac's "love square". It is the subtlety of the comedy that makes this show stand out above the rest.And as for the musical moments, I think I can speak for if not everyone, then mostly everyone when i say that my inner most thoughts are always in song.kudos Bret and Jermaine for creating a unique clever show that i'll look forward to every week.


                
I guess the general rule is that in any 1st season of a comedy there are going to be highs and lows. However this could be the exception to the rule. It was brilliant from start to finish. Anyone lucky enough to listen to the Conchords radio series in the UK or to have seen their HBO one night stand slot will not be disappointed. The humor is subtle and at times could be likened to the UK version of the office with Rhys Darby in the David Brent role (band manager Murray). Bret and Jermain satisfy audiences with their witty repertoire of songs and inane banter, all while the world around them seems to make less and less sense. Superb. A must see.


                
Words truly can't express the way I feel about Flight of the Conchords. My younger brother showed me a clip of their song "Business Time" performed live and ever since I've been hooked. The show itself is truly hilarious, but what really makes it a true 10/10 is the music. With songs like Business Time, Robots, Beautiful Girl, Bowie, Leggy Blonde and many more this show will make you cry tears of joy. Not only are the duo of the band brilliant but they also have comedians Rhys Darby as their hilariously pathetic band manager Murray and Arj Barker as their friend and local pawn shop guy to teach them how things work in America.If you simply go over to Youtube and search for Flight of the Conchords you're bound to find an ample source of entertainment but trust me, watch the series as well; it is simply brilliant.


                
This show has all the elements of a great comedy. The supporting cast is consistently hilarious; just view episode 10 and listen to Murray's commentary on rock and roll and threesomes. Mel is another gem of a character who has a husband but lives and breaths the FOTC band. Arj always has some sort of admonition and advice for these unsuspecting guys and it makes for a hilarious misconstrued view. I love how the writers take an idea and spin it in the other direction, such as the episode where the woman objectifies the man. I consistently laugh at what wild and crazy situation these guys will get into next. I hope they continue this show another season! oneG


                
What more can you ask for? It's funny, it's silly, it has characters that you love and musical numbers that really work. The simple storyline of two New Zealand musicians trying to make it in the Big Apple puts to shame other comedies that try so hard whereas Flight of the Conchords just seems so effortless. Murray their manager who is trying to treat the whole "band" experience" as though they were much larger in scope than just the three of them with almost non existent gigs is hilarious. Their one fan, Mel, is a wide-eyed, curly haired, stalker who conveniently runs into the guys everywhere. Never has stalking been this much fun. Not since Da Ali G. show has an HBO comedy been this enjoyable. Long life to the Flight of the Conchords. A hit if I've ever seen one. I LOVE YOU BRET (Brit)!


                
The subtle sense of laughter this show has is quite exceptional. Watching it, you never get the sense of bursting into hard laughs, yet you are not bored; during the length of the entire show, there is only one expression on your face, a wide smile. you get the feeling of extreme mellowness with a dash of cool, plus that New Zealand accent for garnish, and you got your self a recipe for, in my opinion, one of the best original comedies you'll ever see. But I also must note that with a fresh comedy like, you've got to have a sense of patience, since the mellowness of the show gives it a kind of slow motion to the events that occur. Finally the greatest part, and most funny, is the music. between scenes the Conchords sing a song that relates to the events occurring during the episode, and each song is just more hilarious than the one that preceded it, thus keeping that smile on your face.In conclusion, I love it.


                
Sunday night has been and still is HBO's night to shine, with great drama presented by the made in America Sopranos and its mafia tale(now its the surfer noir John From Cincinatti) and humor presented by Entourage. The Sopranos ended with a blackout and confusion and the fun that once was in Entourage is missing in its fourth season.This show is about a band called the Flight of the Conchords its a typical fish out water scenario presented in a very unique and quirky way, the show might reminds somebody of the short lived Tenacious D (Jack Black) series that also aired on HBO, because of the band element but this show is much more low-key and is extremely funny, the New Zealand accent just killes me! And the performances in this show are great especially by the bands terrible manager hilarious. This is definitely one of the funniest things on TV right now, together with the Office and 30 Rock. If you have a twisted kind of humor (ala arrested development) you will love this show...


                
I think this is the funniest sit-com I have ever watched. It makes me laugh out loud more than anything else I have ever seen. Why is a rambling conversation about buying a cup, or Simon and Garfunkel tribute acts, so funny? The writing is perfect and the acting is perfect. I do not know how these guys keep a straight face - not just Jemaine, Bret, and Murray, but the understated support cast too. The idea of a musical sit-com sounds horrendous - but not only are the songs very very funny but they are actually good songs too. Production quality very high. Consistently ingenious, pure joy. It also makes me want to go to New Zealand.
Why oh why did they stop after two seasons? This show is absolutely fabulous. Normally I hate about every movie or series where they start to sing in but this show is the exception. The musicians are brilliant, the variety of genres, the lyrics are so funny you can't get enough of it. I started singing their songs after every episode. And then that same kind of repetitive humor through the whole show. I thought it was one of the funniest show I saw the last years. Jemaine and Bret are hilarious, Murray their manager that comes up with the stupidest ideas, and Mel their number one fan and also only fan... It's all a cocktail for a brilliant show. Too sad that this show ended. A proof that New-Zealand can deliver when it's about comedy...


                
I love them because they don't try to be something they're not.This is one of the few shows I actually enjoy watching, and one of the only shows I've actually laughed out loud to until I cried. Their timing is perfect, their songs are catchy and hilarious, and they aren't afraid to be awkward or show their true colors.Probably best watched with friends to laugh along with (the CD is also lots of fun to sing along with in the car with friends), this show is always amusing and holds the attention of even the most fickle viewers (me being one of them).An instant 'cult' phenomenon, but maybe on its way to wider audiences.


                
This is one of the best shows I've ever seen and it truly is one of the funniest. Jemaine and Bret are one of the best comedy duos since Laurel and Hardy. The humor is dry and perfect. SEASON 1: I can't compare this season to any others because it's been the only so far but it is a wonderful kick off to the series. The characters are hilarious. My favorite episodes are "Mugged," "Bowie," "The Actor," and "The Third Conchord," but they are all hilarious and you need to see the entire season.I will add a review of season two when it comes out in 2009. Until then, check out this season and be prepared to laugh your head off. I know I did.


                
the subtle humor of this show is just so great. i also love the music. yes, our innermost thoughts are expressed in song, like when Jermaine writes a song for Brett and gets all graphic about his love for him and then Brett says he went a little over the top and Jermaine says "that wasn't in there." Also the dream Brett has where Jermaine is David Bowie. and how Murray always has to take roll at each meeting, including calling his own name. "Murray? Present." I think the key to the humor also is that they are so naive to the world of the US and they are learning every day. Oh, and when Jermaine tries to cheer Brett up by doing the talking stove. "You love the talking stove, Britt!" Hilarious. I thought I had a pretty strange sense of humor, but now I am sure of it! I actually didn't catch the show when it was on but I watched all the episodes on demand and now I am in withdrawal! Come back guys!
This is one of those shows in which it is difficult to explain why you love it so much, but you do. There is definitely a charming simplicity to the show, not to mention that it is wonderfully written and acted. Bret and Jemaine are so brilliant yet naive in their roles. It's impossible not to love them as they struggle to make their way as a band in America. I'm not going to lie, the first few episodes won't pull you in quite as well as some other shows have; however, some of my favorite shows need to grow on you. For example, Mad Men and Breaking Bad are two of my favorite shows ever made and I can't say I was captivated after a few episodes. It would be a crime to say I don't hold Flight of the Conchords in a similar regard. The musical pieces are memorable and hilarious and the show was ended far too soon. Definitely one to buy.


                
I'm one of those people who was told years ago about this show but just put it on the back burner and forgot about it. I finally got around to watching the DVDs that were given to me and I think these guys are brilliant.Most of my friends give me garbage movies to watch like Dodgeball, Bruce Almighty, Rush Hour, The Waterboy, and any other "comedy" that seems to appeal to the masses. I've been burned too many times. My buddy who is a fan of these movies told me how much he hated the show, so I decided to check it out since I think his taste in comedy is just repugnant. Not surprisingly, I became addicted.It's a show you can watch over and over again and it never seems to get old. It's a shame that they called it quits after only 2 seasons.


                
A comedy Musical , i only watched this as i was keen to see whatever happened to The Eagle from eagle V shark (an excellent movie - watch if you haven't). True natural comedy, witty in the fact these people seem to be 'real' people. Playing a role of people who think they are better at what they do than they actually are and not as intelligent as the average sole. Two Musicians that never play gigs , they are managed by a guy that seems to have no idea what a manager is, a band wit 1 fan or is she a stalker. If you like Napolean Dynamite then you'll enjoy this. Even the lyrics to the songs are superb. Hopefully this show will last a few series and will win many awards it deserves.


                
Very Funny. One of a kind. Nothing like it.It says this review is too short.


                
So funny, so well-written and the songs are so catchy. I loved these guys' style of humour - very much at their own expense and downright absurd. You feel better about yourself when things aren't going well when you watch this show!


                
Would probably rank higher if those who if those who bailed after a few episodes didn't get it. If you liked the IT crowd etc, you'll get it. Not a sitcom, so don't bother. Quirky, meta . Lots of fun.


                
