To me, this show is bliss. I watched both of the first two episodes aired and am already in love. The genius lies in the delivery. The seriousness of which Bret and Jermaine approach the situation adds a certain amount of wit to every comment made. Pay close attention and the slightest musical references are made, such as Fleetwood Mac's "love square". It is the subtlety of the comedy that makes this show stand out above the rest.And as for the musical moments, I think I can speak for if not everyone, then mostly everyone when i say that my inner most thoughts are always in song.kudos Bret and Jermaine for creating a unique clever show that i'll look forward to every week.


                
I guess the general rule is that in any 1st season of a comedy there are going to be highs and lows. However this could be the exception to the rule. It was brilliant from start to finish. Anyone lucky enough to listen to the Conchords radio series in the UK or to have seen their HBO one night stand slot will not be disappointed. The humor is subtle and at times could be likened to the UK version of the office with Rhys Darby in the David Brent role (band manager Murray). Bret and Jermain satisfy audiences with their witty repertoire of songs and inane banter, all while the world around them seems to make less and less sense. Superb. A must see.


                
Words truly can't express the way I feel about Flight of the Conchords. My younger brother showed me a clip of their song "Business Time" performed live and ever since I've been hooked. The show itself is truly hilarious, but what really makes it a true 10/10 is the music. With songs like Business Time, Robots, Beautiful Girl, Bowie, Leggy Blonde and many more this show will make you cry tears of joy. Not only are the duo of the band brilliant but they also have comedians Rhys Darby as their hilariously pathetic band manager Murray and Arj Barker as their friend and local pawn shop guy to teach them how things work in America.If you simply go over to Youtube and search for Flight of the Conchords you're bound to find an ample source of entertainment but trust me, watch the series as well; it is simply brilliant.


                
This show has all the elements of a great comedy. The supporting cast is consistently hilarious; just view episode 10 and listen to Murray's commentary on rock and roll and threesomes. Mel is another gem of a character who has a husband but lives and breaths the FOTC band. Arj always has some sort of admonition and advice for these unsuspecting guys and it makes for a hilarious misconstrued view. I love how the writers take an idea and spin it in the other direction, such as the episode where the woman objectifies the man. I consistently laugh at what wild and crazy situation these guys will get into next. I hope they continue this show another season! oneG


                
What more can you ask for? It's funny, it's silly, it has characters that you love and musical numbers that really work. The simple storyline of two New Zealand musicians trying to make it in the Big Apple puts to shame other comedies that try so hard whereas Flight of the Conchords just seems so effortless. Murray their manager who is trying to treat the whole "band" experience" as though they were much larger in scope than just the three of them with almost non existent gigs is hilarious. Their one fan, Mel, is a wide-eyed, curly haired, stalker who conveniently runs into the guys everywhere. Never has stalking been this much fun. Not since Da Ali G. show has an HBO comedy been this enjoyable. Long life to the Flight of the Conchords. A hit if I've ever seen one. I LOVE YOU BRET (Brit)!


                
The subtle sense of laughter this show has is quite exceptional. Watching it, you never get the sense of bursting into hard laughs, yet you are not bored; during the length of the entire show, there is only one expression on your face, a wide smile. you get the feeling of extreme mellowness with a dash of cool, plus that New Zealand accent for garnish, and you got your self a recipe for, in my opinion, one of the best original comedies you'll ever see. But I also must note that with a fresh comedy like, you've got to have a sense of patience, since the mellowness of the show gives it a kind of slow motion to the events that occur. Finally the greatest part, and most funny, is the music. between scenes the Conchords sing a song that relates to the events occurring during the episode, and each song is just more hilarious than the one that preceded it, thus keeping that smile on your face.In conclusion, I love it.


                
Sunday night has been and still is HBO's night to shine, with great drama presented by the made in America Sopranos and its mafia tale(now its the surfer noir John From Cincinatti) and humor presented by Entourage. The Sopranos ended with a blackout and confusion and the fun that once was in Entourage is missing in its fourth season.This show is about a band called the Flight of the Conchords its a typical fish out water scenario presented in a very unique and quirky way, the show might reminds somebody of the short lived Tenacious D (Jack Black) series that also aired on HBO, because of the band element but this show is much more low-key and is extremely funny, the New Zealand accent just killes me! And the performances in this show are great especially by the bands terrible manager hilarious. This is definitely one of the funniest things on TV right now, together with the Office and 30 Rock. If you have a twisted kind of humor (ala arrested development) you will love this show...


                
Smart writing! Not for the commercial masses. Well written and acted out characters. Original music throughout the program which is creative and innovative. Throughout the show the main actors perform out songs related to the episode that brings an unique style of directing. I really enjoyed Flight of the Conchords and looking forward to Season 2. The Band Meeting scenes are one the things that I enjoy about the show. Like I said though, not for the masses but a show that is very overlooked and very much not appreciated. A different brand of comedy and a very original series. Looking forward to buying the DVD of Season 1. Going in the collection!


                
I think this is the funniest sit-com I have ever watched. It makes me laugh out loud more than anything else I have ever seen. Why is a rambling conversation about buying a cup, or Simon and Garfunkel tribute acts, so funny? The writing is perfect and the acting is perfect. I do not know how these guys keep a straight face - not just Jemaine, Bret, and Murray, but the understated support cast too. The idea of a musical sit-com sounds horrendous - but not only are the songs very very funny but they are actually good songs too. Production quality very high. Consistently ingenious, pure joy. It also makes me want to go to New Zealand.
These guys really impressed me. They are excellent song writers, styling themselves after David Bowie, REM, and various genres they explored, and succeed in writing a legitimate, structured songs. They have a knack for creating a catchy song, and make it silly without compensating their shtick, or going overboard. They really take themselves seriously as musicians. And thats only 1/3 of reasons to check this show out.2/3 of reasons to see this is that the humor is very subtle, and sharp. Not particularly "American" humor, fans of British humor will appreciate the offbeat energy and situations. Rhys Darby is also very funny as the clueless, and loyal manager and friends of the duo. The premise of the show is simple: an up-and-coming folk duo work to develop a fan base in the U.S., starting with New-York. The juxtaposition between the duo's New Zealand calm, playful attitudes and their American acquaintances' brazen "American" demeanors.3/3 of the reasons is the lesser of the bunch, but adds a quaint dimension which I appreciate, is the show's potential. Some may notice that this show has quite a lot going for it, and could be something special if it realizes its potential for an interesting take on the struggle of a band's success.


                
This show stars two characters Bret, and Jermaine who have traveled from New Zealand to New York City in order to make their band "Flight of the Conchords" the next big thing. They are managed by a fellow New Zealander Murray, who really works for the NZ consulate in the US, but runs the band on the side, constantly failing to get them "gigs". Through interactions with Americans who almost always confuse them with Brits, an obsessed fan who is constantly stalking them, a buddy with a paintball gun, and a girlfriend who likes guys who are in a band, this show has some seriously funny moments. This show is full of humor that might make you think a little bit, but at the same time, you're hit with an occasional comment that makes you laugh, not laugh out loud, but you're just like haha, that was pretty funny. If you're a fan of Laugh out loud comedy where the jokes don't make you think a little bit, then stay away. This show isn't complex by any means, but it attempts to give you a subtle humor that some run away from. This show isn't the greatest thing to ever hit television, but if you're looking for a solid 30 minutes of entertainment, then tune in. I give it a very above average 8 out of 10, because it never fails to make you laugh, but at the same time, it's not the greatest show ever made.


                
Why oh why did they stop after two seasons? This show is absolutely fabulous. Normally I hate about every movie or series where they start to sing in but this show is the exception. The musicians are brilliant, the variety of genres, the lyrics are so funny you can't get enough of it. I started singing their songs after every episode. And then that same kind of repetitive humor through the whole show. I thought it was one of the funniest show I saw the last years. Jemaine and Bret are hilarious, Murray their manager that comes up with the stupidest ideas, and Mel their number one fan and also only fan... It's all a cocktail for a brilliant show. Too sad that this show ended. A proof that New-Zealand can deliver when it's about comedy...


                
FLIGHT OF THE CONCHORDS is Tenacious D without the raunch - but just as much a spank in the groin. That is, it will leave you breathless from laughing so hard (and you may have cracked a nut).Jemaine Clement (guitar/bass/vocals, Jagger-cool in his handsome ugliness) and Bret McKenzie (guitar/vocals, deadpan, unperturbed, who would look 12 years old without his beard), the novelty two-man band from New Zealand (funny accents and all) parlay their comedic stage act into a quirky New York situation comedy that perfectly captures their onstage minimalistic, unassuming quasi-style.Within the context of their search for acceptance, purpose (and gigs) in a New York City apathetic to their presence, all their classic musical routines are cutely inserted: Boom Boom, The Humans Are Dead, Business Time, Rhymenoceros and Hiphopopotamus - even Albi the Racist Dragon. For fans of the band, it is quite amazing to see how they've found nice little slots for all these funny songs, most of which are re-worked with full band backing.CONCHORDS music is folk, rock, electric, acoustic, hip-hop, anything that correlates with the topic of the episode, stylistically ranging from Hall and Oates, to The Monkees, to Pet Shop Boys, Bowie and beyond. And Episode 6 ("Bowie") shows off their genius in melding Bowie's many styles into a brilliant musical parody, with Jemaine appearing to Bret in dreams as David Bowie from different eras. Bret: "You look like Jemaine." Jemaine replies in that airy, offhanded manner of The Thin White Duke: "No, I'm David Bowie from the Ashes To Ashes video." For two characters who are so inept at everything (finding jobs, chasing girls, paying the rent), their virtuosity as comedic musicians is unmatched (well, maybe by Tenacious D in a different kind of way).Their useless yet anal "band manager" Murray (Rhys Darby) works in the New Zealand Consulate and manages the band part-time (during office hours) with an iron fist for taking roll call. At their three-man meetings, he prefaces news of no upcoming gigs by first announcing the title of the next item on the agenda: "Gigs: no." Kristen Schaal is Mel, their obsessive Number One Fan (actually, their only fan, on the verge of orgasm every time she is near them, or stalking them); Arj Barker is Dave, their friend from the pawn shop, who offers sage advice on women and life, both of which he knows nothing about; Rachel Blanchard is the beautiful, yet California-shallow Sally; Sutton Foster is Coco, Brett's occasional girlfriend, considered "Yoko" by Jemaine.Watch for Lenny Venito as a soft-hearted thug (Episode 3, "Mugged"); Aziz Ansari as an Indian fruit vendor prejudiced against New Zealanders - until he discovers he really hates Australians (Episode 7, "Drive By"); Daryl Hall as the World Music Jam host (Episode 10, "New Fans"); Demetri Martin and Todd Barry as a nemesis two-man parody duo (Episode 12, "The Third Conchord").No one trailer can do justice to the diversity and hilarity of the FLIGHT OF THE CONCHORDS series. All twelve episodes of Season One are indescribably different, yet incredibly consistent in tone and humor.The plots of their nominal "adventures" are nothing we haven't seen before in other musical comedies (a member leaving the band, the band splitting over a woman, one member moving out of the apartment, a new band member causing a rift between the original band members, etc.) but CONCHORDS presents these tried-and-worn plots in their own inimitable, groin-spanking way.Watch with a cushion covering your jewels. And stop touching those monkeys.--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania).
I love them because they don't try to be something they're not.This is one of the few shows I actually enjoy watching, and one of the only shows I've actually laughed out loud to until I cried. Their timing is perfect, their songs are catchy and hilarious, and they aren't afraid to be awkward or show their true colors.Probably best watched with friends to laugh along with (the CD is also lots of fun to sing along with in the car with friends), this show is always amusing and holds the attention of even the most fickle viewers (me being one of them).An instant 'cult' phenomenon, but maybe on its way to wider audiences.


                
But it certainly is for me. Flight of the Conchords is all about the quick & subtle comedy & hardly gets in your face (aside from the musical interludes of extreme greatness).Bret & Jermaine are two struggling musicians living in New York, they deal with some ordinary situations in odd ways, as well as dealing with odd situations with awkward delight. They have a band manager Murray, who is usually a scene stealer & is not without his own personal problems, which just adds to the hilarity of the whole show.Now the comedy isn't for everyone, it's something you either love, or just don't care for. I Care for it quite a bit, it's one of the shows I actually WANT to watch.


                
I love this show. The dry comedy and funny songs were strange to me at first, but over time I grew to truly love this show. These guys are hilarious, the show was off-beat and in a sort of indy style. each episode had the aesthetic of an art film, but far more humor.Unfortunately, it seems as though the show is done, but its a shame. So many hilarious characters - their one fan (the stalker girl), their goofy manager, and many other supporting characters who are just original and unlike everything else you see on TV. Some truly talented comedic actors. They all pull it off.The show almost has a 'simpsons' type vibe in that no matter what happens, you figure everything has to go back to normal at the end. No matter how close they get to fame/fortune/women, it can't last. Never thought I'd come to enjoy a show with so much music in it. But enjoy this show I did. Wish it would come back!
This is one of the best shows I've ever seen and it truly is one of the funniest. Jemaine and Bret are one of the best comedy duos since Laurel and Hardy. The humor is dry and perfect. SEASON 1: I can't compare this season to any others because it's been the only so far but it is a wonderful kick off to the series. The characters are hilarious. My favorite episodes are "Mugged," "Bowie," "The Actor," and "The Third Conchord," but they are all hilarious and you need to see the entire season.I will add a review of season two when it comes out in 2009. Until then, check out this season and be prepared to laugh your head off. I know I did.


                
'Flight of the Conchords' tells the story of a couple of musicians from New Zealand trying to make it in a band in New York. They're not very good, they have no girlfriends, one fan and an incompetent manager (Rhys Darby, who steals most of the scenes he's in), and everybody just loves their English accents. The series' twelve episodes follow their failures. So what's so great? Partly its the absolutely deadpan way in which the undynamic duo's misadventures are depicted; but mainly its the songs, which are brilliantly bad, pastiches of real musical styles but hilariously funny (although the songs feature mainly in "music videos" or in scenes which blend the characters' imaginations with real life; on the rare occasions the band actually gets a gig, their act consists of an anaemic chant of "we like to rock the party" over a badly strummed guitar - there is a reason for the band's lack of success!). In some ways, this is 'Spinal Tap', but with more musical variety; and the funniest program of the year.


                
the subtle humor of this show is just so great. i also love the music. yes, our innermost thoughts are expressed in song, like when Jermaine writes a song for Brett and gets all graphic about his love for him and then Brett says he went a little over the top and Jermaine says "that wasn't in there." Also the dream Brett has where Jermaine is David Bowie. and how Murray always has to take roll at each meeting, including calling his own name. "Murray? Present." I think the key to the humor also is that they are so naive to the world of the US and they are learning every day. Oh, and when Jermaine tries to cheer Brett up by doing the talking stove. "You love the talking stove, Britt!" Hilarious. I thought I had a pretty strange sense of humor, but now I am sure of it! I actually didn't catch the show when it was on but I watched all the episodes on demand and now I am in withdrawal! Come back guys!
This is one of those shows in which it is difficult to explain why you love it so much, but you do. There is definitely a charming simplicity to the show, not to mention that it is wonderfully written and acted. Bret and Jemaine are so brilliant yet naive in their roles. It's impossible not to love them as they struggle to make their way as a band in America. I'm not going to lie, the first few episodes won't pull you in quite as well as some other shows have; however, some of my favorite shows need to grow on you. For example, Mad Men and Breaking Bad are two of my favorite shows ever made and I can't say I was captivated after a few episodes. It would be a crime to say I don't hold Flight of the Conchords in a similar regard. The musical pieces are memorable and hilarious and the show was ended far too soon. Definitely one to buy.


                
I'm one of those people who was told years ago about this show but just put it on the back burner and forgot about it. I finally got around to watching the DVDs that were given to me and I think these guys are brilliant.Most of my friends give me garbage movies to watch like Dodgeball, Bruce Almighty, Rush Hour, The Waterboy, and any other "comedy" that seems to appeal to the masses. I've been burned too many times. My buddy who is a fan of these movies told me how much he hated the show, so I decided to check it out since I think his taste in comedy is just repugnant. Not surprisingly, I became addicted.It's a show you can watch over and over again and it never seems to get old. It's a shame that they called it quits after only 2 seasons.


                
A comedy Musical , i only watched this as i was keen to see whatever happened to The Eagle from eagle V shark (an excellent movie - watch if you haven't). True natural comedy, witty in the fact these people seem to be 'real' people. Playing a role of people who think they are better at what they do than they actually are and not as intelligent as the average sole. Two Musicians that never play gigs , they are managed by a guy that seems to have no idea what a manager is, a band wit 1 fan or is she a stalker. If you like Napolean Dynamite then you'll enjoy this. Even the lyrics to the songs are superb. Hopefully this show will last a few series and will win many awards it deserves.


                
I started watching this show this past summer at my buddies house once a week as a get together of old friends. At first the conversation was less about the TV show but more about what was going on with us. Sooner or later though we started paying attention to the show and how funny it actually is. The style of the show is a very dry humor similar to Monty python with its play on words and how you have to pick up on certain things and jokes. Every time I watch the show now I pick up on things I missed the previous times. It is a different styled show because at anytime it will break into a song. Usually the song is funny, I will admit though that some are misses. But this is one of those shows that you watch with your friends or other fans of the show and quote to one another. I think its a very good show and I can't wait for the next season to start up again because it definitely one of the most original shows on TV in a while.


                
This is one of my absolute favorite shows. I first started out liking the band and their music, having no idea that they had a show. Then, I started watching the show and ended up liking it even more than the songs. The show is very calm and slow-paced, despite being set in New York City. Bret and Jemaine (that's how their names are spelled) are two struggling (and I'm putting as much emphasis on the word) musicians trying to become famous. Throughout the two seasons, they encounter many strange people, including a Simon and Garfunkel-obsessed sex addict and even a racist fruit vendor. One of the funniest characters on this show has to be Murray Hewitt, the band's manager. Bret and Jemaine are very good musicians and their songs often coincide with the situation before they are played. A must-watch for any comedy and/or music fan. Nine out of ten.
Very Funny. One of a kind. Nothing like it.It says this review is too short.


                
