Smart writing! Not for the commercial masses. Well written and acted out characters. Original music throughout the program which is creative and innovative. Throughout the show the main actors perform out songs related to the episode that brings an unique style of directing. I really enjoyed Flight of the Conchords and looking forward to Season 2. The Band Meeting scenes are one the things that I enjoy about the show. Like I said though, not for the masses but a show that is very overlooked and very much not appreciated. A different brand of comedy and a very original series. Looking forward to buying the DVD of Season 1. Going in the collection!


                
But it certainly is for me. Flight of the Conchords is all about the quick & subtle comedy & hardly gets in your face (aside from the musical interludes of extreme greatness).Bret & Jermaine are two struggling musicians living in New York, they deal with some ordinary situations in odd ways, as well as dealing with odd situations with awkward delight. They have a band manager Murray, who is usually a scene stealer & is not without his own personal problems, which just adds to the hilarity of the whole show.Now the comedy isn't for everyone, it's something you either love, or just don't care for. I Care for it quite a bit, it's one of the shows I actually WANT to watch.


                
I love this show. The dry comedy and funny songs were strange to me at first, but over time I grew to truly love this show. These guys are hilarious, the show was off-beat and in a sort of indy style. each episode had the aesthetic of an art film, but far more humor.Unfortunately, it seems as though the show is done, but its a shame. So many hilarious characters - their one fan (the stalker girl), their goofy manager, and many other supporting characters who are just original and unlike everything else you see on TV. Some truly talented comedic actors. They all pull it off.The show almost has a 'simpsons' type vibe in that no matter what happens, you figure everything has to go back to normal at the end. No matter how close they get to fame/fortune/women, it can't last. Never thought I'd come to enjoy a show with so much music in it. But enjoy this show I did. Wish it would come back!
'Flight of the Conchords' tells the story of a couple of musicians from New Zealand trying to make it in a band in New York. They're not very good, they have no girlfriends, one fan and an incompetent manager (Rhys Darby, who steals most of the scenes he's in), and everybody just loves their English accents. The series' twelve episodes follow their failures. So what's so great? Partly its the absolutely deadpan way in which the undynamic duo's misadventures are depicted; but mainly its the songs, which are brilliantly bad, pastiches of real musical styles but hilariously funny (although the songs feature mainly in "music videos" or in scenes which blend the characters' imaginations with real life; on the rare occasions the band actually gets a gig, their act consists of an anaemic chant of "we like to rock the party" over a badly strummed guitar - there is a reason for the band's lack of success!). In some ways, this is 'Spinal Tap', but with more musical variety; and the funniest program of the year.


                
This is one of my absolute favorite shows. I first started out liking the band and their music, having no idea that they had a show. Then, I started watching the show and ended up liking it even more than the songs. The show is very calm and slow-paced, despite being set in New York City. Bret and Jemaine (that's how their names are spelled) are two struggling (and I'm putting as much emphasis on the word) musicians trying to become famous. Throughout the two seasons, they encounter many strange people, including a Simon and Garfunkel-obsessed sex addict and even a racist fruit vendor. One of the funniest characters on this show has to be Murray Hewitt, the band's manager. Bret and Jemaine are very good musicians and their songs often coincide with the situation before they are played. A must-watch for any comedy and/or music fan. Nine out of ten.
Tenacious D, just better. Great songs with absurd humor, delivered with a straight face and kiwi accents. Two absolute geniuses playing loveable idiots. Must have on DVD.


                
