From all the rave reviews, we couldn't wait to see this show. We love wacky humor and creative material, especially from Australia and New Zealand.I admit this may not be a fair review since we only saw the first 15 minutes. But we just couldn't bear any more misery - it was definitely the most boring and painful 15 minutes we've ever experienced watching a TV show - it felt like 15 hours. The songs may be (mildly) interesting by themselves, but inserted for an interminable 3 minutes each in the middle of a story scene just doesn't work.We're trying hard now to erase the memory. If you want some wonderful down-under humor in a delightful and engaging film, see "The Dish" instead.


                
This show is perhaps one of the most boring, most unfunny shows I've ever seen. While the humour was subtle, and I'm all for the subtle humour; the jokes just weren't funny.The show is about two Kiwis in their mid-thirties living in New York trying to start their music careers.I saw the one episode where Brett leaves the other Kiwi behind during a mugging. Okay, the plot idea has potential; but I got the feeling that half the episode was just filler, and the other half was actually important to the story.What I mean is, they kept on explaining how the one who was left behind felt betrayed and had a lot of mistrust for the other guy. I've got one piece of advice for the writers: mention it once for the idiots who can't figure it out by the way he's acting, and move on.And I found the characters were annoying. The character who left the other behind, Brett, came across as being overly innocent and naive, the one left behind walked around talking in this monotone and robotic voice.A third character, who was the band manager, was obviously incompetent, but he was the one character that I liked. He's also the one that earned the show a one-star rating.All in all, a show I have no intention of ever watching again.
This was the worst comedy I have ever seen. There was not even one time during the hole 25mins that I even sniggered. If I were you I wouldn't bother wasting money on the box set. Watch an example on youtube and if you don't find it funny then trust me it doesn't get any better. The parts that really made me want to kick the TV was when they started to sing. I'm guessing the songs were meant to be funny but I would have rather stuck forks in my eyes than watch episode 2. It made me wonder, perhaps that's what hell is - non stop episodes of 'Flight of the Conchords'. Also the hole episode just seemed cheap due to poor actors and scene setups. Overall disappointing.


                
