These guys really impressed me. They are excellent song writers, styling themselves after David Bowie, REM, and various genres they explored, and succeed in writing a legitimate, structured songs. They have a knack for creating a catchy song, and make it silly without compensating their shtick, or going overboard. They really take themselves seriously as musicians. And thats only 1/3 of reasons to check this show out.2/3 of reasons to see this is that the humor is very subtle, and sharp. Not particularly "American" humor, fans of British humor will appreciate the offbeat energy and situations. Rhys Darby is also very funny as the clueless, and loyal manager and friends of the duo. The premise of the show is simple: an up-and-coming folk duo work to develop a fan base in the U.S., starting with New-York. The juxtaposition between the duo's New Zealand calm, playful attitudes and their American acquaintances' brazen "American" demeanors.3/3 of the reasons is the lesser of the bunch, but adds a quaint dimension which I appreciate, is the show's potential. Some may notice that this show has quite a lot going for it, and could be something special if it realizes its potential for an interesting take on the struggle of a band's success.


                
This show stars two characters Bret, and Jermaine who have traveled from New Zealand to New York City in order to make their band "Flight of the Conchords" the next big thing. They are managed by a fellow New Zealander Murray, who really works for the NZ consulate in the US, but runs the band on the side, constantly failing to get them "gigs". Through interactions with Americans who almost always confuse them with Brits, an obsessed fan who is constantly stalking them, a buddy with a paintball gun, and a girlfriend who likes guys who are in a band, this show has some seriously funny moments. This show is full of humor that might make you think a little bit, but at the same time, you're hit with an occasional comment that makes you laugh, not laugh out loud, but you're just like haha, that was pretty funny. If you're a fan of Laugh out loud comedy where the jokes don't make you think a little bit, then stay away. This show isn't complex by any means, but it attempts to give you a subtle humor that some run away from. This show isn't the greatest thing to ever hit television, but if you're looking for a solid 30 minutes of entertainment, then tune in. I give it a very above average 8 out of 10, because it never fails to make you laugh, but at the same time, it's not the greatest show ever made.


                
FLIGHT OF THE CONCHORDS is Tenacious D without the raunch - but just as much a spank in the groin. That is, it will leave you breathless from laughing so hard (and you may have cracked a nut).Jemaine Clement (guitar/bass/vocals, Jagger-cool in his handsome ugliness) and Bret McKenzie (guitar/vocals, deadpan, unperturbed, who would look 12 years old without his beard), the novelty two-man band from New Zealand (funny accents and all) parlay their comedic stage act into a quirky New York situation comedy that perfectly captures their onstage minimalistic, unassuming quasi-style.Within the context of their search for acceptance, purpose (and gigs) in a New York City apathetic to their presence, all their classic musical routines are cutely inserted: Boom Boom, The Humans Are Dead, Business Time, Rhymenoceros and Hiphopopotamus - even Albi the Racist Dragon. For fans of the band, it is quite amazing to see how they've found nice little slots for all these funny songs, most of which are re-worked with full band backing.CONCHORDS music is folk, rock, electric, acoustic, hip-hop, anything that correlates with the topic of the episode, stylistically ranging from Hall and Oates, to The Monkees, to Pet Shop Boys, Bowie and beyond. And Episode 6 ("Bowie") shows off their genius in melding Bowie's many styles into a brilliant musical parody, with Jemaine appearing to Bret in dreams as David Bowie from different eras. Bret: "You look like Jemaine." Jemaine replies in that airy, offhanded manner of The Thin White Duke: "No, I'm David Bowie from the Ashes To Ashes video." For two characters who are so inept at everything (finding jobs, chasing girls, paying the rent), their virtuosity as comedic musicians is unmatched (well, maybe by Tenacious D in a different kind of way).Their useless yet anal "band manager" Murray (Rhys Darby) works in the New Zealand Consulate and manages the band part-time (during office hours) with an iron fist for taking roll call. At their three-man meetings, he prefaces news of no upcoming gigs by first announcing the title of the next item on the agenda: "Gigs: no." Kristen Schaal is Mel, their obsessive Number One Fan (actually, their only fan, on the verge of orgasm every time she is near them, or stalking them); Arj Barker is Dave, their friend from the pawn shop, who offers sage advice on women and life, both of which he knows nothing about; Rachel Blanchard is the beautiful, yet California-shallow Sally; Sutton Foster is Coco, Brett's occasional girlfriend, considered "Yoko" by Jemaine.Watch for Lenny Venito as a soft-hearted thug (Episode 3, "Mugged"); Aziz Ansari as an Indian fruit vendor prejudiced against New Zealanders - until he discovers he really hates Australians (Episode 7, "Drive By"); Daryl Hall as the World Music Jam host (Episode 10, "New Fans"); Demetri Martin and Todd Barry as a nemesis two-man parody duo (Episode 12, "The Third Conchord").No one trailer can do justice to the diversity and hilarity of the FLIGHT OF THE CONCHORDS series. All twelve episodes of Season One are indescribably different, yet incredibly consistent in tone and humor.The plots of their nominal "adventures" are nothing we haven't seen before in other musical comedies (a member leaving the band, the band splitting over a woman, one member moving out of the apartment, a new band member causing a rift between the original band members, etc.) but CONCHORDS presents these tried-and-worn plots in their own inimitable, groin-spanking way.Watch with a cushion covering your jewels. And stop touching those monkeys.--Review by Poffy The Cucumber (for Poffy's Movie Mania).
I started watching this show this past summer at my buddies house once a week as a get together of old friends. At first the conversation was less about the TV show but more about what was going on with us. Sooner or later though we started paying attention to the show and how funny it actually is. The style of the show is a very dry humor similar to Monty python with its play on words and how you have to pick up on certain things and jokes. Every time I watch the show now I pick up on things I missed the previous times. It is a different styled show because at anytime it will break into a song. Usually the song is funny, I will admit though that some are misses. But this is one of those shows that you watch with your friends or other fans of the show and quote to one another. I think its a very good show and I can't wait for the next season to start up again because it definitely one of the most original shows on TV in a while.


                
Just relax and watch some flight of the conchords.


                
Maybe it's the length of time between Seasons 1 and 2, but it's hard not to notice that there's something missing this time around. The writing is strong and the comedic acting as solid as ever, but the episode storylines are often weak and there's no denying that the music is rather dull and uninspired. Nevertheless, a weaker season of "Flight of the Conchords" is still strong overall, thanks to the terrific ensemble cast led by the hyper-talented titular duo, whose interactions with each other and others are never anything less than hilarious, and there's enough good will left over from the first season to carry the viewer through.


                
One of the best shows of the aughts, "Flight of the Conchords" arrives fully formed from the first episode, with leads Bret McKenzie and Jemaine Clement born to play their respective roles as members of a folk-rock group. The musical interludes are never less than hilarious and manage to further each episode's plot, while the supporting performers are just as good as the leads, making the entire season an absolute delight to watch from beginning to end.


                
