This series, produced at probably the most propitious time following the events of the second World War, is on a scale of value that stands far above any individual's presumption to criticize.The timing of World at War's production in 1974, amounting to some three decades after the events of the war, permits an accurate relating of events in a manner uncoloured by residual propaganda and slant. The passage of thirty years allows the telling to be backed up by an impressive and fascinating panoply of the very individuals involved, ranging from some of the highest military and political figures down to the field soldiers, civilians, and such survivors of the death camps as have remained to bear witness to the unimaginable inhumanities of which civilized humans are capable. Most approaching or well into their senior years, the interviewed subjects have had enough time to reflect on their experiences and in most instances have had enough time for whatever propaganda and fervor may have affected them in the past to have receded away, leaving only the memories of what they saw and what they did.The information that these survivors give, strikingly reinforced by the postures and expressions they display while telling their part, give their stories all the more impact. Such names as Ira Eaker, Adolph Galland, Louis Mountbatten, Albert Speer, Gertrude Junge (Hitler's personal secretary)... the list is far too long to relate. Today, within the lifetime of the survivors of this enormous lesson in the hideous price of political ambition, are young people who chant the same sort of militaristic and nationalistic war promotion as led to WW2. The DVD series we discuss here ought to comprise the core of a mandatory history subject in schools, that the lessons bought at such a horrible cost in those days should not have been wasted but should be taken to heart by those who did not see firsthand the terrible price.I am almost done watching the 11 disk set, having seen most of the series when a local TV channel aired it more than 10 years ago. It has lost none of its poignancy to me, indeed has become even more of a magnificent chronicle of some of the very darkest days of human times.The highest possible rating seems unworthy of being applied to this presentation. I think the value of this series is beyond counting.


                
Utterly brilliant. Powerful and evocative. The most compelling documentary series ever made concerning war. It's tone offers a stark contrast to the often gung-ho attitude towards World War 2 that the media exhibits. Rather than opting for screaming about the horror of war, it allows Sir Laurence Olivier's quiet voice to take a back seat to the true images of war: corpses everywhere, explosions, terrified citizens and soldiers, broken men, indifferent politicians, mistakes that cost thousands of lives, the suffering of the innocents. Most of all it truly brings home that mankind is capable of when all normal rules of "civility" are removed. There is something distinctly Hobbesian about man in a true state of nature, he will return to a more beastly form capable of crimes that will still shock and fascinate 60 years on. Perhaps there could be a follow up series called "The century at war" for the twentieth century was truly the century of horrors. I feel it is an irony of immense magnitude that it took an event which caused the death of 50 million people to produce such a compelling and excellent series such as this.


                
Theo Robertson has commented that WAW didn't adequately cover the conditions after WWI which lead to Hitler's rise and WWII.Perhaps he missed the first ONE and a quarter HOURS of volume 8? Covers this period, and together with the earlier volumes in the series, shows clearly the existing conditions, I feel. A friend of mine grew up in Germany during this period, joined the Hitler Youth even, and his experiences were very similar to that mentioned in WAW.This documentary is SO far above the History Channel's documentaries I also own, that there is no comparison.The ONLY fault, and it is a small one, that I have with WAW is this: the numbers are not included, many times. For instance, if you're talking about lend-lease, then how much war material was lent/leased? How much to Russia, how much to Britian? How many merchant ships did the U-Boats sink, and when? How many ships did the German or Japanese Navy have, total, in 1941? What type were they? How many troops? How many troops did the allies have, in total, and by country? Lots of numbers could have made a lot of viewers nod off, but I would have preferred MORE! And naturally, I always want to see more military analysis. Like WHY didn't Patton & Clark trap the German army that was at Cassini, after they had it surrounded, instead of racing Monty to Rome, and letting it escape? I don't think you can begin to understand war until you've seen some of these video segments on "total war", like the fire bombing of Dresden. It's like trying to understand Auschwitz, etc., before you see the clips of the death camps: you just can't wrap your head around it - it's too unbelievable.Unknown at that time, and of course, unfilmed, were the most egregious cruelties and inhumanities of the Japanese, including cannibalism, (read "Flyboys"), and some LIVE vivisection of medical "experimentation" prisoners, w/o any anesthetic! Dave


                
My wife and I have watched this whole series at least three times. I can't imagine how it could be better. This isn't the "complete" history of WWII<U+0097>no library could hold such a history<U+0097>but it is the best summary of that history. Lots of detail, lots of personal stories, and still keeps the overall picture in view.Olivier's narration is excellently written and, of course, superbly given. The interviews are from all sides, except the Russian, because the producers were not allowed to talk to many Russians. It is very much worth owning this complete program on DVD. We treasure our copy.The producer's do an excellent job of providing pictures and action where there was almost none extant in any archive: There are almost no films of convoys and submarine battles, for instance, but still, the episode on this subject is very well done.


                
i watched this series when it first came out in the 70s.i was 14 years old and i watched it at my best friends house as my dad didn't want to watch it.it became a weekly ritual every Sunday, and as anyone will tell you for two fourteen year olds to watch a documentary in almost reverential silence must mean that this was something special.the broad sweep of the events of world war 2 makes for a difficult subject to document.so the makers broke it down into what they considered to be the most significant key happenings and devoted one episode to each.some episodes covered long periods such as 'wolf pack' which covered nearly all six years of the battle of the Atlantic.while the battle of Stalingrad had one episode to itself.this documentary could not be made today quite simply because most of those interviewed are dead.the list of significant players appearing gives an amazing insight into the thinking at the time.Anthony eden the foreign secretary,Carl donnitz,head of the u-boats,Albert speer,pet architect confident and later armament minister for Hitler.in one of the later episodes we see traudl junge, Hitler's secretary,who was with him in the bunker and it was to her that he dictated his last will and testament-she left the bunker after Hitler's suicide and escaped through the Russian lines.these and many others play a major role in the realism of the events portrayed.if i have any criticism of the series it is that the code-breakers of bletchly park are not included but the revelations of their part in the war only emerged after the series had been made so i cannot blame the programme makers.the opening titles and music are magnificent,and Lawrence Olivier's narration lends a natural gravity to the script.the best documentary series ever made? without doubt.unmissable


                
Although too young to remember the first showing of the series (being just a baby) I later caught repeats of it on television in the late 80's, just when I was getting interested in the war and all of its aspects. It was my grandfather who first showed me the series and also gave me my first interests, relating tales of his time in the Royal Navy at Malta and later in the Pacific. Since then I have devoured many books and seen many television series about the World War Two era, with mixed opinions. The British television stations are generally very good at producing these, as The World At War can easily attest, with many gems made by both the BBC and independent companies. I strongly recommend such titles as "The Nazis - A warning From History", "Blitz" and the BBC series about Dunkirk. "Britain At War In Colour", with its companion series "Japan", "Germany" and "America" are of a very high standard. The World At War is by far the best and, despite its age, never fails to deliver. There will always be new revelations about the war that will keep cropping up that obviously aren't included in the series and of course World War Two took place over such a large canvas that to produce a series with EVERY detail would take more time and money then any other, even if such an undertaking was even possible. What I feel I must say to those who decry that it does not include everything is that The World At War can't physically do that as a series but it sure as heck can prompt you to do further research - and make it enjoyable. That certainly worked for me: I now have a very comprehensive library of books, videos, DVDs and tapes and CDs. Recommend to anyone with even a passing interest. The series was so well made that they'd find it hard not to agree that it is quality programming and highly informative.


                
If you want just about everything you want to know about WWII from multiple perspectives, this DVD delivers, you WILL learn new things guaranteed, so much so that you won't need any other documentary's on the subject. Get this, watch it, learn from it. Good for school use as well. As a bonus, watch this with Tora tora tora, saving private ryan, patton, band of brothers, a bridge too far, the longest day and other WWII epics along with this to make your knowledge of WWII even more complete. Sir Laurence Oliver's voice adds to the overall atmosphere of each episode in this 26 part series. Seriously you won't find a better WWII documentary set on the subject. PERFECT 10!!!


                
Certainly any others I have seen pale in comparison. The series gives balanced coverage to all theatres of operation. No one country is given undue credit for the Allied victory. Laurence Olivier brings great weight and dignity to his role as narrator.


                
After all these years I still consider this series the finest example of World War II documentary film making. The interviews with the many participants from all countries set this apart from any other project. It would be great to see a contemporary documentarian(Ken Burns ?) take on this topic and try to gather information from veterans before they are all gone. With modern technology to improve old archival footage and lots of information that has been unearthed since 1974 when The World At War was produced, an updated version of this series would be welcome. The History Channel has made some fine shows dealing with many aspects of WWII but an expansive series such as the World At War has not been successfully attempted since the original. If you are interested in this era don't miss this series. It is required viewing.


                
The music and Laurence Olivier's sombre delivery set the tone perfectly for this outstanding documentary. This is still a must see for WW II buffs, descendants of the participants of that conflict, politicians who think things always go their way when they extend their foreign policy via the deck of an aircraft carrier (did you hear that George Bush?) and anyone else curious or needing to know the whys whos and hows of some aspect of that conflict. The 26 episodes are roughly in chronological order but can be seen out of sequence since they are more or less self contained. There is bound to be new insight for the new viewer because of the sheer volume presented. Actual footage of the battles is interspersed with interviews of those involved in the stories. Many of the interviews are with second line authorities, that is, support personnel to the main characters, privates, captains, secretaries, eyewitnesses and the like. You get a real upfront taste of what war is all about.I am presently watching the DVD version of the original television documentary. I strongly recommend this over the worn out, gaptoothed, overpriced VHS offerings available on eBay. I paid $120 Cdn for five 2-sided DVD discs. This new release includes bonus material and is in full screen mode. The menus are easy to follow, there is first a choice of which episode you want to view and then after selecting that you are given the option of various chapters in the episode or to play the whole episode. It is understandable with such a comprehensive presentation there is a tiny amount more of navigation in the menu but the impact of what you will see is not diminished after 30 years, nay, after 60 years since the war finished.I remember watching the first broadcast on the Buffalo PBS station just before moving from London in 1975 and wishing right from that time that I could have a copy. Now my wish has finally come true.See this documentary. Tell your friends. Buy a copy for your library. Remember and honour the sacrifices and challenges overcome by those from America, Russia, Britain, Canada and all the other nations and peoples involved in the final victory. What an eye opener.


                
This should be required viewing for all young people. This is documentary at its best, from the haunting music and terrific narration by Olivier to its unflinching and penetrating analyses, The World at War is unforgettable and irreplaceable for anyone who wants to know about humanity's sorry experience at the nadir of the 20th century.


                
I must have seen this a dozen times over the years. I was about fifteen when I first saw it in B & W on the local PBS station.I bought a DVD set for the children to see, and am making them watch it. They don't teach history in School, and this explains the most critical event of the 20th Century. It expands their critical thinking.Impartially, with the participants on all sides explaining in their own words what they did and why, it details what lead up to the war and the actual war.Buy it for your children, along with Alistair Cooke's America. Watch it with them, and make them understand. You'll be so glad you did.


                
Example of how a World War 2 documentary should be made,using first hand accounts from actual troops and civilians whom participated in this awful conflict,and archived footage gathered from around the time .I caught this on a re-run on the History channel about a year and a half back,with no knowledge really of the Second World War at the time,but it enveloped me,and now I consider myself a World War 2 buff,watching and reading any and all that I can find about it,but nothing comes close to this landmark documentary,definitely worth buying the boxed set of.............This is quite simply documentary making of the very highest standard.


                
I originally watched parts of the series when I was a kid as my father had it on VHS. Didn't get much of it at the time. I didn't see so much significance in it as I wasn't the WWII history aficionado as I am now.I have a collection of countless WWII history documentaries, and many WWII dramas. After watching many, some of them quite interesting and compelling then recently getting the Blue Ray version of this series, it's obvious the "The World at War" is the definitive series of the genre.Firstly, in 1973 even while the BBC was filming this some 28'ish years after the war, there were a lot people around from the war to interview. So the series is full of wonderful interviews from people that were there.The deep baritone voice narration keeps the whole thing compelling, albeit some times difficult to watch/grasp to do the nature. And there is some pretty large volume series, maybe 10 or so volumes, but nothing matches this series in size and completeness.Now as another reviewer pointed out there is undoubtedly some bias. As with any such history recount there are often different political views.It all depends on who is telling the story. For instance here in America when I was a child I was taught that certain late 1800 generals were basically hero's for fighting Indians (Native Americans). But in reality it turns out that were actually brutal killers involved in more of a massacre of the people.Also there is just differing opinions on the how and why somethings happened in WWII. For instance with the "Battle of Dunkirk" some historians suggested that it was a big blunder by Hitler allowing the British soldiers to escape, while a more contemporary view is that it was more an issue of logistics.You have to make your own study with a "gain of salt" and come to your own conclusions. Why I suggest you watch several documentaries and read the books by "Albert Speer" (for more of an German inside view), etc.While on the subject, it's actually kind of a shame in WWII dramas (fictional and partly historical) where things are often distorted and twisted for dramatic effect. While almost every German is the bad guy and usually all demonized et al. For example, I'm sure the average German solider didn't know much about the genocide at all, and was not involved in any untoward brutality. He was too busy being a solider as any solider is conscripted to do. From various other documentaries it shows the Japanese were just as inhuman, if not more so. Also it overshadows other genocidal dictators like Stalin and Mao Ze-Dong responsible for around twice and at least five times as many deaths respectively! Often of there own people even! I'm not sympathizing, nor taking sides. There was undoubtedly unprecedented evil in the Nazi regime, but contorting the truth and turning the facts more into a fantasy is a disservice. If you really want to understand how things came about, how a country was turned around into such a hating war machine, plus how to advance as a world civilization and not have such things happen again then you have to embrace the facts.The movies want a great bad guy to hate, but it always isn't the facts. I would like to see more movies like "Das Boot", "Letters from Iwo Jima", etc., that show somewhat of a different point of view. Although these are still "Hollywoodized" by making things okay/politically correct because they all die in the end, etc.I digress. If you want to see a great documentary for entertainment and to study a part of WWII watch this excellent BBC "The World at War" series!


                
I remember watching this in the 1970s - then I have just recently borrowed a couple of episodes from our public library.With a nearly 30 year hiatus, I have come to another conclusion. Most of the principals interviewed in this series - some at the center of power like Traudl Junge (Hitler's Secretary),Karl Doenitz (head of Germany's navy) Anthony Eden (UK) - are long gone but their first hand accounts will live on.From Generals and Admirals to Sergeants, Russian civilians, concentration camp survivors, all are on record here. I can remember the Lord Mountbatten interview (killed in the 1970s) This is truly a gem and I believe the producer of this series was knighted by Queen Elizabeth for this work - well deserved.Seeing these few episodes from the library makes me want to buy the set.This is the only "10" I have given any review but I have discovered like a fine bottle of wine, it is more appreciated with a little time...


                
The only thing I have to add to all the excellent reviews that appear here already, is to marvel that this series was made at all. It was produced by the ITV (The channel that first aired that dead eyed simpering wazzock Simon Cowel), which isn't a public service broadcaster, but a channel that at the time received all it revenue from advertising. Add to that the fact that this series was originally shown on Sunday lunch time, back to back with a heavy review of the past weeks politics, Week-End World, with the lovely lispy Bwyan Waldron, (any show that has Mountain's Nantucket Sleighride for it's theme can't be all bad), and you can understand that we live in different times. Men in those days, on a Sunday, read the papers in the morning, then a nice heavy documentary series comprising the second world war in 26 hours, a touch of political debate, then a swift pint or 2, roast beef and fall asleep in the arm chair. Makes you wonder if we haven't gone wrong somewhere, men now a days of the age who would have done what I describe above, middle ages dads, are too busy trying to pretend that they are still 20, wearing cargo shorts, and playing xbox.


                
At this writing, just over 65 years have passed since Nazi Germany surrendered to the Allies, and yet the cataclysmic events seem from another time, another era, another epoch; a dark fantasy which seems illusory, almost fabricated. And yet this is not fiction but historic reality. The large hosts of military armies chanting "Sieg Heil" amid the plethora of swastika banners and German crosses appear like scenes from a surrealistic film, almost imaginary in its strangeness. A central figure elevated to the status of messiah by his people, almost a god, fueled by the undying devotion of millions. An horrific ideology overtakes an entire nation which had been known for high culture, literature, science and music. And the crimes against humanity within its borders escalate before this messiah and his nation confront the rest of humankind through a conscious combination of political maneuvering and military might. The messiah is not one of benevolence and peace but one of wrath and war.Is this a nightmare from which humankind would awaken eventually and say thank goodness, it was only a dream? Or a dark landscape of atrocity from which the only escape is death? And yet, no matter how unreal these times appear to us three quarters of a century later, the events of Europe in the 1930's and the 1940's have become not just a chapter of human history but a multi-volume work of epic proportions, the modern equivalent of Homer's "the Iliad" or Edward Gibbons "Rise and Fall of the Roman Empire". World War II is the great epic tragedy of the 20th century, a story written in the blood and anguished cries of millions, and rivaled only by its parent, World War I.Jeremy Isaac's "The World at War" produced in the late 1960's and early 1970's and premiered on British television in 1973 (and later in the US) remains the most outstanding production to date in English which presents a coherent narrative of one of the strangest episodes of human history. Narrated by the incomparable Sir Laurence Olivier, "the World at War" was the first attempt, so far as I know, to piece the large puzzle of people and events, both large and small, into a presentable film. For nearly 23 hours, divided into 26 episodes, audiences are taken back to the early 20th century to witness events that literally changed the course of human experience. The film relies on Olivier's narration, archival footage from the era, interviews of scholars, and interviews of people from the time, recounting memories of what they had witnessed.The interviews alternate between people of high standing and those of middle class as well as scholarly discourse. In the first episode, one woman remembers being enthralled to the point of silent awe when Hitler and his entourage greeted her and her colleagues. Another woman recalls that the doctor to her children had been dismissed from a hospital he had helped found, only on the grounds of his being of Jewish decent. A scholar recounts how Hitler perpetrated the burning of the Reichstag and blamed it on the communist presence in Germany to strengthen his power by marginalizing rivals. Hitler's strategy was to gain complete political solidarity in Germany at the price of human rights and freedom. But his aims did not end with Germany; Hitler sought to regain those lands around Germany which had been lost as a result of World War I. The documentary begins with Hitler's rise to Chancelor of Germany in 1933 as head of the German Socialist Worker's Party (Nazi Party), and his eventual rise to dictator upon the death of President Hindenburg in 1934. Hitler schemes to destroy all political adversaries to promote complete centralized power of the government. In short, he completely remakes Germany's political and judiciary structure to encompass an ideology in which political dissenters and those labeled as part of inferior races (i.e. Jews, Gypsies, and other minorities) are not only marginalized and stripped of human rights but are to be persecuted and eventually exterminated. At first, the world seems only to watch in awe and anxiety but for some reason is reluctant to act. The documentary then furthers how Hitler will take his ideology outside his boundaries and force the world to reckon with this new European power. The dictator plans to absorb many of the surrounding countries of western and central Europe into the Third Reich, blatantly undermining the Versailles Treaty of 1919. His designs begin near his own borders, first absorbing Austria into the German empire, and then France to the west and Czechoslovakia and Poland to the east. He forces Britain, the Soviet Union and Italy to sign treaties, but later will bomb England and begin an eastern offensive into Russia. Finally, a western and eastern alliance is formed among those countries which had not fallen into the Reich's hands. Their mission: to arrest Germany's military campaigns, and the inspiring speech by English Prime Minister Winston Churchill to Britain's Parliament becomes the rallying cry. The bombing of Pearl Harbor in late 1941 followed by Germany's declaration of war against the United States force Americans into the conflict on the side of the allies.Isaac's outstanding documentary is English language television at its finest and would not be rivaled until Ken Burns' "The Civil War" almost two decades later. In all likelihood, Burns was inspired by World at War in terms of its thoroughness of historical scholarship balanced with stories of everyday people along with a fine narrator; it is the war documentary by which all others are judged. "The World at War" stands as a crowning achievement dealing with a fascinating if horrific subject, the history of the human race nearly annihilating itself. But maybe the documentary is a positive model in and of itself, showing how much more wonderful it is to create than to destroy.


                
This is without doubt the best documentary ever produced giving an accurate and epic depiction of World War 2 from the invasion of Poland in 1939 to the end of the war in 1945.Honest and to the point, this documentary presents views from both sides of the conflict giving a very human face to the war. At the same time tactics and the importance of Battles are not overlooked, much work has been put into the giving a detailed picture of the war and in particularly the high, low and turning points in the allies fortunes. Being a British produced documentary this 26 part series focus is mainly on Britain, but Russia and America's contribution are not skimmed over this is but one such advantage of a series of such length.Another worthy mention is the score, the music and the whole feel of the documentary is one of turmoil, struggle and perseverance. Like a film this series leaves the viewer in no doubt of the hardship faced by the allies and the Germans during the war, its build to a climax at the end of every episode, which serves to layer the coarse of the second world war. After watching all 26 the viewer is left with an extensive knowledge about the war and astonished at just how much we owe to the members of the previous generation.


                
I am not a very good writer, so I'll keep this short. World at War is the best WWII documentary that I've seen. I've seen different WWII documentaries (not only English/North American) and this documentary seems to be the most complete WWII documentary that I've seen. I think it could talk a bit more about the Great Depression and why/how Hitler got to power, but it does a very good job at covering the war. It seems to be complete and objective/fair to everyone. It does not exaggerate or diminish roles of different nations. It has a lot of original footage, including color footage and many eye witnesses (it was made in 70's when a lot more were alive). It has great music and narrator. All-in-All I gave this one 10/10, because it's that good. (I haven't seen specials in DVD version so I cannot comment on those)


                
As so many others have written, this is a wonderful documentary. Here is a list of the 'chapters' for anyone interested: 1: A New Germany: 1933-1939 2: Distant War, September 1939-May 1940 3: France Falls, May-June 1940 4: Alone, May 1940-May 1941 5: Barbarossa, June-December 1941 6: Banzai, Japan, 1931-1942 7: On Our Way, USA, 1939-1942 8: Desert North Africa, 1940-1943 9: Stalingrad, June 1942-February 1943 10: Wolfpack 11: Red Star The Soviet Union, 1941-1943 12: Whirlwind Bombing Germany, September 1939 13: Tough Old Gut 14: Its A Lovely Day, Tomorrow: Burma, 15: Home Fires: Britain 1940-1941 16: Inside The Reich: Germany, 1940-1944 17: Morning: June - August 1944 18: Occupation Holland, 1940-1944 19: Pincers: August 1944- March 1945 20: Genocide: 1941-1945 21: Nemesis, Germany: February-May 1945 22: Japan: 1941-1945 23: Pacific: February 1942-July 1945 24: The Bomb: February-September 1945 25: Reckoning


                
10 out of 10, this brilliant, super documentary is a must see, with film clips from the war which people did not seen for years, untill this was screened in 1974. The film clips in this documentary from the war doesn't miss out anything, some of the clips left me dumbstuck. The whole series is over 20 episodes long, and Sir Lawrence Olivier is the narrator and tells a stunning story of war. Simply this is still probably the best documentary of war still, and now over 25 years old still is able to pack a tremendous punch. You must watch this at some time, even if it's a few episodes, even at that you will still be blown away at the impact this documentary means to those who have been there suffered and died in the name of WAR, in a WORLD AT WAR..


                
This series is old. Since its production we've learned a lot more about the history of WWII, and we can point at many things in WAW that we now know are not accurate or are missing. If you want all the details of WWII, go read some books. There's a lot of them, some about the most ridiculous details. However, if you want to learn about us, watch this series. It will change you forever. On the background of all the facts, all the military operations, all the suffering, defeats and victories, the authors have succeeded in creating an account of humanity at its worst and at its best and the most powerful anti-war statement I've ever seen. Our great-grandfathers have dearly paid for the peace they have given us, and we should be ashamed if we ever take it for granted.


                
This excellent series, narrated by Laurence Olivier, brilliantly, it should be said, charts the beginning to the end of World War 2. The origins are not entirely examined fully from Germany's fall at the hands of the Versailles treaty which helped propel Hitler's demonic rise, but as one reviewer says, that must be hard to do, in a 26-part series with so much to cram in. Apart from the expected combat photography/action, there are plenty of personal, emotional and human tragedies that are told giving the viewer an amazing insight, especially if you're not necessarily a World War 2 buff/fan. Episodes showing 'testimonies' and what life was like on the home front of the main allies/adversary, Britain, Germany, Japan, Russia and the U.S.A. were quite eye-opening. Showing the extreme savagery of the war on the frontline and of course the sufferings of civilians, the death camps etc., were very well handled and exposed. I'd fully recommend this in any history class for the younger generation (Of which it could be said I am one at 47!).Certain things are quite strangely left out, like the advent of the new jet era beginning, with Frank Whittle's experimental Gloster jet and the Gloster Meteor's combat debut as well as that of the German Messerschmitt Me 262 - especially as the V-1 was seen making its debut and there was surprisingly smaller mention of the V2. This is probably a small oversight, not referring to the more sensational secret and fantastic weapons which WW2 brought forward from a more barren old science. But a great series that made its mark and has done so ever since when thankfully repeated. A series to own as a box set in history terms, on DVD for anyone especially who happens to be a military fan. Jeremy Isaacs and Thames TV should be well proud.
This was by far the best war documentary ever made. From the very beginning of the first episode when Sir Laurence Olivier described the horrific events in Oradour-Sur-Glane 'The day the soldiers came'. To the final days of the war when the mushroom clouds appeared over Japan, I never missed a second of this classic series and I remember it well even though it was screened way back in 1974. Each and every aspect of this tragedy was covered in detail. This whole series should be compulsory viewing for as many of the world's children as possible so that the tragedy of World War Two is not repeated and that bigotry, hatred, greed and intolerance are not confused with patriotism or religious zeal.


                
World At War is perhaps the greatest documentary series of all time.  The historical research is virtually flawless.  Even after a quarter century, it is the most accurate and definitive documentary about WW2.  An invaluable historical work that includes interviews with some of the most important and fascinating figures from the war.  I highly recommend it as a learning experience.


                
