... about such historical and tragical events, but the role of Russians quiet depreciated and distorted (especially in parts related to Poland). And this is not astonishing issue, because it is English movie. Four episodes about Russian front out of 26 total. This is quite ridiculous proportion, comparing to how many deeds were done on Russian front. But nevertheless these facts, highly recommended for watching, because this movie is a most realistic among English and even more so American films ever.


                
THE WORLD AT WAR is regarded as perhaps the greatest documentary series ever made , but I watch documentaries all the time on The History Channel that are almost every bit as good as this . The one major criticism I have about TWAW is the opening instalment A NEW GERMANY which shows us a newly installed National Socialist government in Germany . I`m not defending fascism but how can a highly regarded series like this not show us any context that brought Hitler to power ? People in Germany turned to Nazism because the victorious allied powers made everyone in 1920s Germany pay a heavy price for loosing the first world war , something the programme fails to emphasise. And on a very ambiguous point is the role of the Soviet Union during the war. TWAW rightfully points out the contribution made by the USSR via episodes like STALINGRAD and RED STAR as the Soviet war machine being the major factor in the defeat of Nazism , but fails to heavily emphasise that much of the shocking loses suffered by the Soviets was down to the military incompetence of Stalin.I don`t want to give the impression that I dislike THE WORLD AT WAR , I don`t ( And I do recognise that both the theme music by Carl Davis and the title sequence are classics ) , but it`s impossible to be objective about history  , and that`s maybe the problem , the series goes out of its way to give everyone their view on the Second World War and this makes it just too objective though paradoxically that`s also one of the programmes strengths , the episode WHIRLWIND ( Which I rate the best in the series ) covers the allied bombing of Germany and features interviews with William Reid a RAF bomber pilot who won the Victoria Cross ( Britain`s highest military decoration ) during a bomber raid , then cuts to an interview with film star James Stewart who spent the war with the USAAF 8th airforce , then interviews people who history has forgotten like the people who survived bombing by the British and US air raids . It`s the people who history forgets that makes history so interesting


                
A junior high teacher long ago assigned the question: "Why do we study history?" I have puzzled over this ever since. Watching this series, "The World at War," I finally realized the answer: to understand how the world we live in came to be. Without understanding World War Two, you cannot understand the rest of the 20th century. For example, in the penultimate episode, it talks about the end of most colonial empires because of the thirst for freedom and self- determination around the world -- except the French, who used military force to hold onto Vietnam. I had never understood this root of the Vietnam War, and I suspect Lyndon Johnson may not have, either. A foreigner once asked me, accusingly, "What gives America the right to intervene militarily in foreign countries?" Aside from the issue of "rights," the reason is WWII. After World War One, Americans had no desire to get involved in foreign squabbles. But when the Japanese attacked America without a declaration of war on Dec. 7, 1941, followed by a declaration of war by Germany, we had no choice. (Americans know this, but you would be surprised how many foreigners, especially Asians, don't, and believe America was the aggressor during WWII.)Spoiler alert: Not to spoil the suspense for those who haven't watched the series, but America won. America emerged from WWII with a strong army and muscular defense industry, and an intact industrial base, unlike other nations that had been bombed to rubble, with the possible exception of Russia. So it became America's role to rebuild and protect the war torn nations of Europe and Asia. This also left America with military bases in foreign countries. Meanwhile, the USSR emerged as the other main military power, hence the Cold War.The more recent U.S. actions in Afghanistan, Iraq and elsewhere were the indirect consequence of the superpower role of the U.S. resulting from WWII, which only recently has begun to collapse. I think many foreigners, especially Asians, do not understand this, and have few details about America's role in WWII. Even younger Americans don't get it. But it is just one example of how WWII shaped the modern world.A more abstract reason to study WWII and this series is to understand human nature. I am talking about the unimaginable cruelty of the Germans and Japanese, and not just the military. But also the bravery and persistence of those who opposed them.Note: The series does mention some instances where we had broken Japanese and German codes, including prior to Pearl Harbor, so another poster is partially mistaken on this. But certainly there are important facts that have come out since this was made. Some posters suggest a British bias. I disagree, and think it is generally even-handed. Actually, it glosses over some British episodes, like the evacuation at Dunkirk or the Battle of Britain, perhaps because it assumes the Brits know these details. For an American perspective, see "The War," by Ken Burns. I wish there were an equivalent German documentary, and perhaps even a Japanese one. I suspect more Germans would be willing to open up about the war for a German documentary. Has there been one, but not translated into English?Even 26 episodes, plus eight DVD extras, are not enough to fully cover the war. Some episodes cover their subject more thoroughly than others, and you will need to supplement this with other WWII histories. The main weakness is that most episodes stick to recounting facts chronologically by the narrator; they do not use the modern documentary approach of having an historian put things into perspective. The episode on submarine warfare is a good example, where it could have been clearer why U boats lost their edge: air surveillance. This changes in the final episodes, but I was surprised to see a long-haired Stephen Ambrose, who provided some goofy opinions. Ambrose has since been discredited as a plagiarist and liar. He shows up in an hour-long monologue in one of the extras, and he can't even get basic facts straight. It's scary that the BBC used this crackpot to represent American historians. It would have been better to conclude with discussion of the rebuilding of Europe, Japan and Asia with the help of the Marshall Plan, but all the BBC offers are some snide anti-American remarks from Ambrose. Watching these 26 episodes will take up about 24 hours, one day, of your life. It will change the way you see your world.
