I hate this movie. It tells the story of a English professor who makes an an impact on his student and challenges them to take on the "man" , in this case their private school. The problem is that the teacher is treated as a angel who can do no wrong, even when he encourages his students to rip out pages of a book because he didn't agree with the author's opinions. "Be open-minded, unless you disagree with a person." seems to be be his message.The movie is heavy handed. All of the people who dislike the teacher are members of the "oppressive" leadership of the school, with the exception of the turncoat student who, as another reviewer points out, is given lines that make him look like a Neo-Nazi. Everyone who likes the teacher is good everyone who disagrees bad. Sorry the world does not work that way, sometimes bad people support good leaders, and vice versa. There was also the suicide of a student, which was not integral to the plot, and therefore seems like a pointless development, except to make the audience feel for the kid and therefore the teacher. Using a death seems like a manipulative trick on behalf of the filmmakers. Don't fall for the filmmakers' tricks. This movie is not inspirational , it is deceiving, and overbearing with it's supposed message of freedom.
I'm revisiting this comment long after I first wrote it, because I simply didn't explain why this film offends me to the degree that it does. First of all, I cannot recall another film made by artists I admire so much(Peter Weir, Robin Williams) that I detest this much. The moment this film tries to find a plot-- when Kurtwood Smith's character(Neil's father) argues with his son and asks, "Why are you defying me, Neil? Is it this new man? This Mr. Keating?"-- it sounds completely fake. Why would the father assume his teenage son is challenging him because of a teacher? How would he know which teacher to blame? This movie careens through manipulative scenes without ever stopping to really learn about its characters-- Knox's romance with a local girl is given so little screen time, it's absolutely pointless. John Keating's scenes in the classroom use literature as a source for empty sloganeering. That's a concert, not a classroom.But where the movie really fails its own ideals is in its treatment of the students as they begin to challenge the conventions of their supposedly oppressive private school. A movie that cared about them, and wanted to indict an authoritarian environment, would have a scene showing the school administrators leaning on a student, urging him to turn Keating over to save himself. Cameron, the turncoat character in this film, could have been written sympathetically-- he's an anxious wannabe with no friends, so, in a movie with some empathy, he'd be shown making the decision to rat out the group as a means to win his classmates over. Instead, he gets saddled with dialogue that makes him sound like a neo-Nazi, so that the audience can clap when Charlie punches him.At the end of this film, after all the exhortations from their teacher to challenge convention and conformity, these students face a choice. They all choose to lie to save themselves. Wouldn't a good film show its characters making difficult choices and daring to live with the consequences? Wouldn't a film that really cared about education show us characters that have actually learned something?
This movie could have been an interesting cultural and social statement about students attempting to study literature and to be creative in their own individual ways. But that is not what happens in the movie. Based on my observations of the teacher's attitudes and techniques, everything starts on the wrong foot.Now, the teacher played by Robin Williams proclaims to the students that one should be free-spirited and to be a seeker after art and truth. That is one of the purposes of poetry. There is nothing wrong with that at all. However, that is not what happens in the movie. The teacher played by Robin Williams encourages students to tear out part of a textbook because he disagrees with the author's comments. When I was a student, there were things that I disagreed with in some books, but I would never tear out the pages. How does tearing out pages of a book with which one disagrees encourage creativity and learning ? Moreover, how does such an action teach a student to respect the views of other people, whether you agree with them or not? This type of action tends to foster intolerance rather than creativity. In addition, in the film, the students are encouraged to "find their own space" by wandering around or by standing on top of their desks? This seems to have some value in a psychology experiment, but may have dubious value in a course of English literature.There is a difference between being "free-spirited" on one hand and rebellious on the other. Being "free-spirited" implies a desire to explore the unknown and to seek truth and beauty. This does not happen in the movie. Rather, the students decide to use some of the comments that they heard in the class to rebel against and provoke the administration. In once case, one student gets paddled. And for what purpose ? Next, the film could have been an interesting experiment in synthesizing the different approaches to pedagogy when comparing the "old school" structured techniques of the school dean with the "free spirited" techniques of the teacher played by Robin Williams, but once again, this does not happen in the movie. Rather, a full-blown adversary relationship develops which ends tragically. As mentioned earlier, the two points of view and systems can be brought together in harmony, but a meeting of the minds does not happen in the film. A vicious spirit of intolerance develops among the protagonists on both sides, not just with the school dean, but among the students as well.What later develops in the film is a total disaster as the two systems of pedagogy remain at enmity with each other as Robin Williams is eventually forced out of his position at the school. (One reviewer of this movie stated that the Robin Williams character was trying to use the students as "cannon fodder" in order to wage some sort of battle with the conservative administration for reason that were unclear. Somehow, I did not pick up on that. If true, then the Robin Williams character deserved to be terminated.) Worst of all still, death becomes a reality when one of the students commits suicide, something which should never have entered the plot. The student commits suicide because of his father's objections over his extracurricular thespian activities. Here, one could have come to some sort of common ground between the "old school" attitudes of the father vis-a-vis the "free spirited" lifestyle of his son. But, once again, this does not happen in the movie. Instead, the son kill himself, a cowardly act to be sure, something which should never have happened. From here, the plot degenerates at an accelerated rate. The film at this point becomes totally unwatchable.The teacher played by Robin Williams is not the direct cause of the suicide, but his approach to unrestrained, unstructured pedagogy that borders on nihilism is a factor that leads up to the events that precede the plot's tragedy. I would like to think that the teacher portrayed by Robin Williams had good intentions that went wrong.Robin Williams has been in better films such as "Patch Adams" and "Goog Morning, Vietnam". But this film represents his cinematic nadir.I rated this film 1 out of 10. I would have rated it a total 0 because of the direction of the plot. However, I think 0 out of 10 would still be too generous.Dan Basinger


                
Please forgive me, I didn't get it! I didn't understand why everyone swoons over this movie! When you read the reviews of this film (even from IMDb members)like, "this is the greatest movie I've ever seen!," it makes me wonder why I had to sit through it a second time just to see what I had to have missed! Nope, I still didn't get it! And I like Robin Williams! I liked Garp! I even liked him as that doctor in "Awakenings" who gave El Dopa to Robert DeNiro! Maybe I understand all too well... maybe, just maybe the people who swoon over "Dead Poets"share this movie's ideologies. I happen to agree with a IMDb member's comments calling this movie "manipulative." Overall, Dead Poets Society is a movie that drowns in it's own hypocrisy when it attempts to educate it's viewers of their absolute definition of what is good and what is evil. I gave it a 1 out of 10!


                
This movie is so poorly written my brother and I were laughing in the Cinemadome.  A self-righteous celebration of "poor" rich kids.  As the teacher Robin Williams gives these kids nothing...except a reason to kill themselves.  Apparently these rich snobs were too so self-wrapped up in themselves (and their school) that they didn't notice the bigotry in their school and in America.  Williams taught them plenty about dead poets (and other than William Carlos Williams...ah I won't go there) but not about life.  What a pathetic movie.  How it moved anyone to tears is beyond me.  I was hoping that when the kids stood on their desks at the end of the movie that they would attach nooses.


                
Oh boy. What to say about this movie. I rushed to watch it because of the rave reviews...someone even said it changed their life completely. Are you kidding me? Me and my entire family watched it and they all hated me at the end of the night. We were all even grunting loud complaints all throughout the movie about how bad it is. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone. Robin Williams is obnoxious in this one, the characters don't have much personality or development, and nothing ever really happens. And, please, you don't learn a thing about poetry, not even about anything. This movie is pointless. I wasn't inspired at any time during the movie, and neither was anyone in my family who was watching it with me. We were all just lost, thinking, "What's going on now? Huh? How does this all fit together?"


                
This is the WORST movie I've ever seen.Forget Waterworld, Wild Wild West or Battlefield Earth, this movie has everything I hate in a movie. First of all, Robin Williams making drama. God save us!! Always very sappy (I only liked him in Good Will Hunting). Cheesy dialogue. Sappy scenes (some scenes were so sappy I had to look away). Bad acting. Bad plot? Well, I don't even think this thing (I don't even call it a movie) has a plot. Ooohh and of course, it's BORING. I think that's the best adjective that describes this thing. BORING, BORING, BORING, BORING. Did I mention it was BORING?


                
ZzzZzzzZZzzzzzZZzzzzzZZzzzZzzzZzZzzzzzz<f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00B4><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00B4><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00B4><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00B4><f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00B4>


                
This movie is quite a boring film. We were made to watch it in English and it was a very boring film. The teacher also asked to write a movie review on this film but most of the class had no idea what the film was about. The teacher also asked us to spend our money to rent the film and watch it. i would rate it 0 but you don't have it!!!! all up this is an awful film. I would never watch this film again it was an outright disgrace i would not watch it if it was the last film on earth including Cinderella story i'm still having night mares about that one lol (laugh out loud) I'm being very serious about this (not the nightmares the movie) it is downright an absolute outrage.


                
My motto is : in order to be a good teacher , tell your students to do one only thing shut up and study , study and shut up If someone wastes his time trying to convince people his ideas work whereas the ideas of the other teachers don't, that man/woman is not a teacher He's a dictator I've always hated late robin Williams anyway
