This is a unique film, in that it is a Robin Williams movie where Robin Williams is not the biggest problem with it. The problem is the script, which treats poetry the way a Hallmark employee would treat it: a resource to exploit for some cheap sentimentality. "Carpe diem, kids! That's what every poem is about. Every poem ever. Hell, now that you know that, why even read a whole poem? Let's just yell out some lines that I've chosen for you while we play sports. If anyone contradicts me, we'll just rip his page out of the textbook." Ha, the best is when Keating is commenting on the poem of one of his students, and says something like: "You've hit on one of the major themes of poetry: love!" Really, teach? LOVE is one of the major themes of POETRY? Where do you get those amazing facts? Way to earn that paycheck.Then, of course, the plot has only one function, which is to lead us to the moment of truth, when Keating is unfairly forced out and the kids scuff up the furniture for him. This must mean that the plot doesn't really stand up on its own. Every adult but Keating is a tyrant, including all the other teachers. But if they all hate progressive education so much, why the hell did they hire this guy? And it's been said before, but the suicide is ridiculously out of character and is meaningful only as a plot device. Wouldn't someone like Neil raid his dad's safe and hitchhike to New York or something instead of taking his own life? Oh, but that wouldn't give the school a reason to fire Keating. It's like the screenwriter imagined the final scene and then wrote the movie backwards.This movie is about as deep as a movie of the week. Don't be fooled by the hype.
I loved Dead Poets Society. When I was 14...Professor Keating looked indeed cool and awesome, the poor kids suffocated by the gloomy and dull school, the frustrated ambitions and the unfulfilled dreams and so on.Which teenager hasn't dreamt about writing immortal poetry, about having a cool unorthodox teacher, about pursuing his (childish) projects?The problem with Dead Poets Society lies right there... It's not a deep and insightful movie about teacher-pupils relationship, it's not even a pedagogical movie, it's just a long and plodding teen drama, pandering to an audience of angsty teenagers and angsty parents.Professor Keating is a fairytale teacher who would and should be kicked out of any school on Earth. Public or preppy, it doesn't matter.For starters, encouraging to rip some pages off a book just because the teacher doesn't agree with the writer's ideas is not "good teaching", let alone "encouraging free-thought".Some would call it fascism, I'll just call it ignorance and arrogance. Even assuming the theory is ridiculous (and I really wonder if such a "mathematic approach to poetry" really existed), who does Keating think he is to dismiss a published, and supposedly widely accepted, critical system?But let's just pretend it's totally fair game having an unknown teacher, or a well-known troublemaker if you wish, trashing decades of teaching/critical theories... The awfulness of the movie doesn't end with that.Professor Keating isn't teaching a thing. He's just messing with the kids' heads, with the poor excuse of "living poetry" and "expressing themselves". How THAT will make the kids pass the class of English Literature is beyond me.Not to mention the fact the teenagers eat up whatever cheesy "romantic" drivel they get fed by their Mentor, thus leading to tragedy... Suicide, the cheapest way to garner sympathy for a mono-dimensional character. A suicide that has little ground to stand on, and that seems like a random tool to trigger the even cheaper final.Poor enlightened Keating must leave the school, and his loyal pupils will just salute him with an emphatic yet empty gesture.Just empty, formulaic and corny like the whole movie. The whole movie is basically a cheesy teen melodrama, something that could have been written or recycled for a TV Serial like 90210 or the O.C. The only difference is this movie got Robin Williams and a couple of sappy catchphrases.Actually the catchphrases are the common thread of Dead Poets Society, the most "memorable" and dramatic moments involve a catchphrase... Just like slapstick comedy and teen flicks. Or pro-wrestling...Dead Poets Society is cheap Hollywood neo-romanticism for teenagers and adults who are teens at heart, or for conformist anti-conformists.The basic idea could have been developed in a much better and more delicate way, but Hollywood just can't help but going full gas with Manichean stereotypes and situations. Thanks to that, we got a very overrated "masterpiece" filled with cheap sentimentalism and dime-a-dozen "thought-provoking" situations.Horace is rolling in his cold grave hearing his Carpe Diem being tossed around in such a trivial manner.Carpe Diem doesn't mean "do whatever stupid thing you want to", but more like "enjoy what you have now, because you don't know what the future holds"Quite frankly, the suicide goes AGAINST Carpe Diem... The kid kills himself because his (stereotyped) dad doesn't want him to act in a play, so BANG! While the Carpe Diem philosophy would have had the kid to enjoy every second his stint as high school actor, for how long as it would have lasted.But I'm aware I'm expecting too much from Hollywood...
This movie was a blockbuster and it's sure easy to see why.It's got a nice ,vapid ,"moving" screenplay ,with enough demagogy to win over the White House.You cannot be wrong when you show a nice ,modern,likeable,teacher.Is there anybody to tell me why cool teachers are always lit teachers?Look at the maths teacher:he's so grotesque that only naive people will bother.It sure is easier to tear out pages from a literature book:after all,you can study Thomas Hardy before Edgar Allan Poe ,who cares?Or use a "method" of your own.But try to study,say,the differential equations before the exponential fonction! Actually Robin Williams character is dangerous and should be kicked out .His influence makes one of his students  commit suicide:that does not prevent his mindless idiot mates to give him (the teacher) a loud cheer.Don't tell me their "carpe diem" mentor teaches them to live! In "the prime of Miss Jean Brodie" ,an almost unfairly forgotten movie,Ronald Neame refused that easy way.The teacher (fabulous Maggie Smith) was nice too,and her huge influence on her pupils lead to very bad things (sympathy for facism!).As a final,one of her pupils (Pamela Franklin) comes to say how much she despises her!We're far from Peter Weir's obnoxious weepie.Soon after,he would come back to making good movies as the highly superior "fearless" and "the trueman show" testify. And if you want a very good "school" Weir movie ,take "Picnic at Hanging Rock" instead of this "dead creativity society".


                
Many people think this is a great movie, but it isn't.  This movie was incredibly cliche and sappy.  The ending is so dumb I wanted to throw up.  Watch and you will see what I mean.  This movie gets an important idea wrong.  If this teacher was a great one, the students would love the poetry they were reading rather than the teacher himself.  I don't think the kids learned the greatness of the words they were reciting in the movie.  Here are some other things that bothered me:1. The students weren't good actors with the exception of Ethan Hawke 2.  The scenes where Dead Poet's Society meetings take place are horribly written. 3.  The screenplay takes every easy way out instead of finding a more clever and satisfying solution. 4.  It is full of cliches like the disapproving parent walking in through the back door during their child's big performance. 5.  The love story is stupid, pointless, and distracting. Although I liked one or two scenes, the movie dose not impress me.  If you don't agree, watch the movie carefully, and you'll realize it only tugs at your heart strings because the movie was created to do only that and not to create intelligent afterthought.  This movie is one simple, retarded, and under intelligent audiences.


                
To see this movie really made me angry and to be honest it made me scared. The teenagers depicted in this movie act like 9 year olds meeting a clown for the first time (Mr Keating). The laugh and cheer at his every move, they swallow everything he tells them and they run around and say "carpé diem" like it was the hippest expression since "thats tits". The directing is bland and uninspiring and the acting is even though good in one way completely realistic (I blame this on a crappy script though rather than the actors).I wan't Robin Williams to play something else than creepy super friends with tons of hilariousness at his hands and I think "One hour photo" is the right way to go in the future because seeing him like this again would seriously aggravate me.


                
I had already watched this film in German language before I watched it in my English lessons in English, of course. Perhaps, I was too young when I watched the film for the first time. But now I've realised what a great story it is. It makes you think about yourself: "Do I think on my own or do I just repeat what the "HOI POLLOI" tells me? All in all the movie is great but there's one problem I'd like to mention: Mr Keating makes his pupils do what he wants.Christine, Pforzheim


                
This movie is pretty much a mess.  I'm a huge Peter Weir fan, and I really expected more from him.  If you want to see one of his films, rent Gallipoli or Picnic at Hanging Rock, and avoid this at all costs.  This is basically one of those tiresome, pseudo-inspirational films wherein a unique, rule-breaking teachers inspires his students to do their own thing.  The characters are all cliches - the teacher; the sweet, slightly effeminate boy with the obnoxious father who doesn't understand him; the token girlfriend character, etc.  Also, I'm sick of Robin Williams using his films as a forum to show off his impersonations - save those for the stand-up routines.


                
I really hate to moan about movies and if you like this one, sorry; but that film is the purest rubbish! Robin Williams is a terrible actor, so unbelievable terrible! The rest of the cast - awful, too! Horrible young-artists: unsympathetic faces, no expression, no (sorry) talent. They spell the stupidity and pointlessness of the whole film. Oh, I forgot, this is probably the point: To have dreams is good; to have a lot of dreams is better; to have too much dreams will finish your sleep... and your life. If that is the point, it is a terrible one!
However, almost all of the poems in this movie are shapeless. Walt Whittman was a great poet - I love him! But Shakespeare, the Charlatan? I knew, in a film with this title MUST be the old Blah-blah about him and his brilliance. But this you'll still hear thousands of times in your life - without the film, as well.The movies' love-passage is superfluous! And the End (SPOILER:) - Baaaad! What a wonderful class. How they honour their old teacher! They stand up, wow, and climb their tables. Such a great event. But when he needed their help, nobody was on his side. Nobody has the courage to go with him, when he must go. Now, after the decision stands, the boys are plucky. Congratulations! And the most awful fact: this end wants to be touching!
We watched this movie for the last period of our career choice class. We were a class of 14 to 16 year old watching a movie about poetry. Teenagers today aren't really fond of poetry. If you get were I'm coming from..when there was a fight, i think the whole class wanted it to end up like one has a black eye and bleeding nose and other stuff than just a simple punch and there it was over. The movie was so long it never ended. Even when the Neil guy died..we kinda wanted to see him shoot himself and see a lot of blood and not just parents running everywhere and finding a gun on the perfectly clean floor. By the end, since like 3/4 of the class was gone on a field trip, we were about 10 in the class, nobody was watching it..i was just walking everywhere talking to people, some people were shooting paper balls into the recycle bin from the other end of the class. We were so glad when the movie ended. It was especially weird when Robin Williams wanted his class to call him Ô Captain..strange.Don't take it to personally, but i think it's more of a parent movie to watch together and not a movie that you would see with you're whole family. If you liked the movie, then thats great, i din't. Yea, i think it was one of our teacher (who is like a 49 year old single dude) favorite movie. So please you middle-aged people, don't torture you're kids with this.
I know a lot of people consider this movie to be a classic but I found it to be just sappy for the sake of sap and a complete lack of any humor. For that I don't see this as a "must-watch" so much as a "must-know" because the film did produce so many catch-phrases that we hear in pop-culture such as "oh captain my captain."


                
Beautifully made drama about a group of young private school boys who are challenged by their unorthodox English teacher to "seize the day" and "make their lives extraordinary".Peter Weir's strong picture remains uplifting almost to the very end thanks to Robin Williams' solid performance and some superb acting from the young supporting cast, including Robert Sean Leonard, Ethan Hawke and Kurtwood Smith. Technically the film is impressive too, with very good Art Direction/Set Decoration and John Seale's superb cinematography.Being youthful as they are, the lads take Mr. Keating's (Williams) sound doctrines a little too far as they begin to buck the system. And tragically the ending to the movie is a terrible miscalculation, being so depressing that it completely ruins this stirring motion picture, as it goes against the whole idea of the story - making the most of one's life.Tuesday, October 5, 1993 - Video
English teacher John Keating (Robin Williams) has a rather unorthodox approach to teaching (which raises a few eyebrows in the early stages). Worse is to follow when a group of students find Keating's book and learn about his involvement in The Dead Poets Society (essentially Keating and his fellow students going against the grain). When Keating divulges what The Dead Poets Society is all about the students are intrigued and decide to form their own Dead Poets Society, but will all of this come at a cost?I hadn't seen Dead Poets Society before but wanted to give it a chance due to its high rating and because it starred Robin Williams (an actor who can be brilliant when given the right material). What really surprised me about this film is how empty and boring it felt to me for the majority of its running time.I think the major problem I had with this film is that there was nothing really driving the narrative forward; if you look at films like To Sir With Love and Dangerous Minds they focus on students who are initially rebellious and end up being won over by a teacher and their unorthodox teaching methods which means that there is something there to move the story along i.e character shifts and character progression. In Dead Poets Society you don't really get any of that; the kids here seem far too accepting of Keating and his quirky and unorthodox teaching methods which doesn't give the film much of a sense of realism and doesn't make a lot of the classroom scenes all that involving.Even coming away from the classroom the film still failed to make any kind of impression on me; the kids form a Dead Poets Society and read poetry to one another in some kind of alcove, but I didn't get much out of any of this I'm afraid; no major insights from the characters and no real interesting dialogue. Despite there being a good number of students only 2 of them are given any real development; Neil Perry (Robert Sean Leonard) who bears an uncanny resemblance to a young Jim Carrey here and Knox Overstreet (Josh Charles). The former with his overbearing father dictating how he should live his life and the latter with his obsession with a cheerleader who is dating a jock. Both are coming-of-age story arcs, but the latter is rather trite and uninteresting whereas the former is a more interesting thread albeit a tad clichéd in all honesty. Whilst neither of these story arcs are brilliant, they do at least provide the film with some much needed character development and momentum.Still having said all that the film isn't all bad; the cast are likeable enough (the film boasts an early appearance from a very young Ethan Hawke). Robin Williams is always a welcome presence in any film and does a solid enough job here (although I must confess that I think he has been better in several other films). There are some powerful moments towards the end of the film and the final scene shown in the film is iconic and memorable.However, for me, Dead Poets Society, for the most part was rather dull and uninvolving - I also found it rather repetitive which also added to the tedium. For me, there were simply too many negatives and not nearly enough positives.


                
I watched this film because I was told it was a brilliant film, emotional and inspiring etc, and yes there are scenes when that all applied, but overall I was underwhelmed.The acting was good, although I would say I've seen Robin Williams do better.I got some of the messages it conveyed about life being short, think for myself and not conform with everyone else's ideals and to seize the day, but overall it failed to inspire me. I will go to work tomorrow feeling no different to how I did this morning, except for wishing that I had watched Good Will Hunting last night instead, because THAT is Robin Williams at his best.I must confess that after doing English Literature in school then retaking it in college for the grade (another 'D' by the way) I hate poetry.
Maybe somewhere in that statement IS part of Dead Poets Society?


                
