Oh-so-"strict", repressive boys' prep school. Kewl teacher arrives. Kewl teacher gets pupils to like poetry (sic) and say "carpe diem" a lot. One commits suicide because of his strict, repressive, killjoy Dad. Kewl teacher sacked. Pupils make meaningless gesture of solidarity and feel smug about it. End of film.It's a long time since I saw it, so I may have missed something out. But you get the idea.I wouldn't have bothered to add a comment, only I was taken aback when checking the other comments, to find there was, in the first two pages at least, not a single user recorded as having disliked this movie as I did.It's empty, fatuous stuff, pandering to "nobody understands me" adolescent whining, and cynically pushing an innocuous, market-friendly brand of smug irresponsibility in the guise of "non-conformity". How well the movie teaches non-conformity can be perhaps best judged by the other user comments: a chorus of sheeplike "carpe diem, yeah! right on!"s with not a single original insight anywhere to be seen."Cease the day" I especially liked. And the carpe diem teeshirt idea. This movie seems so made for ruminants, maybe it should come with a foot-and-mouth jab.As a matter of verifiable fact, no English teacher in the history of the world has ever succeeded in getting a significant number of pupils to like poetry. I say "verifiable", because if it were otherwise, published (live) poets would be able to live comfortably off their royalties. As another matter of verifiable fact, telling kids to rip pages out of books does not garner teachers "respect", only contempt - there's always a critical mass of students in any class who are at least intelligent enough to see through a poser.This is a McMovie if ever there was one.
I watched this film in English class this past week and I must say that I am a bit disappointed with what I saw. While many aspects of the film were perfectly engaging, I never felt grabbed by the story line, nor was I impressed with the script or, for that matter, actors.Robin Williams' character was perhaps the biggest disappointment for me. While I have always failed to see the reason for the hype Williams so often receives, I have appreciated some of his more serious roles, such as his role as the neurologist in "Awakenings". I was completely underwhelmed by Williams' acting in this movie. It was almost as if he was trying too hard to be the "inspiring" teacher and in doing so ended up being completely melodramatic, in both his ideals and his voice (he drifted in and out of a VERY annoying accent of some sort.) I'm not entirely sure why Williams was nominated for an Oscar for this role...The numerous clichés in the film also began to get to me after a while. I truly enjoyed the scenes where the boys were hanging out and talking. These were genuinely acted and scripted and were often very endearing. But the same is not true for the majority of the movie. I felt the teacher's teaching styles were almost too exaggerated for the movie. He would play some sort of game with the kids, they'd learn a lesson, and then be miraculously changed (an example of this was the whole "carpe diem" on the first day and how so soon after, everything became inspirational. Another scene that comes to mind is when the teacher helps the shy boy Todd Anderson create his own poetry.) There was no real work involved for this teacher. he uttered a couple of lines of poetry (and the most insipid and well known ones at that) and the boys were then "thinking for themselves".I couldn't see the whole controversy about the "Society" itself anyway. Much of what the boys were doing was hanging out in a cave at night. while this was certainly a "discipline problem", it hardly seems to pose a threat of any sort to the school.Anyway, I was overall underwhelmed by this film, but parts of it were OK.


                
Well, I remember loving this movie when I first saw it 15 years ago in junior high, but perhaps the film's main theme of a young, convention-defying teacher challenging kids to think freely and "seize the day" (an injunction that was repeated ad nauseum, even by a kid who used it as justification for molesting a passed-out girl) has been mimicked so many times that it just isn't novel anymore. More than that, however, the film has a number of inherent flaws.Williams plays Keating, an English professor who has just arrived at a prep school run by an authoritarian type who is hell-bent on adhering to the institution's guiding principles of tradition and discipline. Williams literally appears to be the only teacher at the school under the age of 95. Williams throws around a lot of quotes, but the full context and meaning of the quotes or the poems from which they are plundered are never explored but are rather exploited to make a cheap point. Whitman's "Oh Captain! My Captain!" is invoked merely b/c Keating wants the students to call him that. At one point Keating gets in an argument with an older teacher who questions his teaching methods, and both engage in a competition of trading quotes from poems. Have any two people in the entire history of humankind ever argued like this? Just curious.So what are these teaching methods that have the school's elders so worried? Well, most of Keating's classes seem to take place outside. He has the students do things like walk around in a courtyard (so they can "choose their own direction") or recite poems while kicking a ball. He also has them stand up on desks. Keating is apparently a rugby coach as well. At least, I am assuming this, because of the shot in which the kids are playing rugby and Keating is running along the sidelines like an idiot with his hands over his head. Keating doesn't care for textbooks, having students tear out the introduction to a textbook in which it is claimed that poems can be judged on two dimensions and then plotted on an axis. Did such textbooks actually exist back then? What poetry scholar would make such a ridiculous claim? It just seemed as if the filmmakers were setting up a straw man that Keating's character could knock down.Williams does a decent job with the script that he has to work with. The young actors who played the students were also decent, including a young Ethan Hawke. All of the other characters, who include the school principle, as well as the parents of one of the kids who kills himself, are one dimensional caricatures. This kid kills himself because his domineering father won't permit him to act; such frivolous extracurricular activities, the father claims, will interfere with the father's intentions to send his kid to Harvard to become a doctor. Okay, I had one question. Even assuming that the father sees the fine arts as a distraction from more practical concerns, why in the hell would acting in a play hurt his son's chances of going to Harvard? Don't schools value extracurricular activities? In any case, the father's opposition to his son's acting ambitions is wholly disproportionate, as is the son's failure to realize that once he is in college he will be more independent.Overall, I think that this film had something to say before the emergence of alternative teaching styles, but it just seems incredibly outdated now.


                
Well I'd heard great things about this movie, but it didn't really cut the mustard for me.  There are potentially great issues up for debate here, but they are not properly dealt with in this movie: - does the traditional, disciplined style of education work? - should parents strongly direct their children's career paths? - are teenagers easily influenced by parents, teachers etc. or not? - is it possible to pull by making an idiot of yourself?I went to a public school (message to non UK readers - "public" means "private, elitist" in the UK) albeit not as a border and nowhere near as grand a place as that depicted in the film.  I recognised some of the boys angst.  I recognised some of the teacher types - even Keating seemed like only a slightly exaggerated form of one or two teachers I knew.But the film didn't work.  It seemed manipulative to me.  It didn't grapple with the issues where it mattered.  It was sanctimonious.  It was predictable.  No school that stuffy would have hired such a notorious alumnus to teach.If you want great stuff on influences on young people and their educational angst, try reading Demian and/or The Glass Bead Game by Herman Hesse.  If elitist schools is your bag, read or see the Harry Potter stuff.  If Robin Williams being the maverick takes your fancy, try Good Morning, Vietnam.Life is short, so when "gathering ye rosebuds while ye may", I suggest you gather some other stuff and give the dead poets a miss.


                
The brats in this film cannot act, but they can scream, ever so stridently. Robin Williams puts a lot of energy into his performance, but the events are too pat and too predictable.  The homilies are much too preachy.  The attempts to tug at the heartstrings are much too obvious.  In short, the whole thing is self-indulgent pablum.


                
(THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERS) I saw this movie about 3 years ago on TV and really enjoyed it. I thought there was strong emotional depth, impressive acting, and a well-structured storyline. However, the next time I saw it which was about a year ago, I was underwhelmed. Don't get me wrong; it's not a horrible movie. It's just not as engaging as I thought it was. A lot of this does have to do with its tired, overused premise: the rebellious students oppose conservative, authoritative parents with the help of their liberal teacher. Now, you can take any premise and make it into a good movie, but DEAD POETS SOCIETY doesn't bother to give us anything fresh or insightful. It's just "Find yourself" and "Seize the Day!" and "Believe and you will succeed" for 2 hours.I still think the acting is generally fine, mostly from the kids. I'm surprised that only Ethan Hawke and Robert Sean Leonard were the only ones that went anywhere after this movie (correct me if I'm wrong). The adults aside from Williams however are not as effective. They're just stereotypical, hard-core conservative snobs who want to only keep the kids from "expressing who they truly are in life." Not much depth is given to them. Robin Williams is good too, but not as spectacular as most people claim him to be. When he's on screen, he's enjoyable and effective. When he's not, I don't miss him. I guess it has to do with the fact that there's not much to his character. He's just a wise, caring, liberal teacher who only wants to help his students. That's not bad, but he seems more like a representation of the movie's idea of Carpe Diem than an actual character. Mr. Keating also acts more like a plot device because he is only around when he's either a) teaching a class, or b) helping a student(s) outside of class. I guess that's why I don't miss him when he's not on screen. The rest of the movie is about the kids taking his lessons and applying to their daily lives. Nothing wrong with that, but it would have been better if we saw Keating more than just the teacher/moral support. Bland characterization, however, is not the only problem I have with this film.The biggest problem for me is the third act when the Robert Sean Leonard kid commits suicide. What the heck happened?! I would be emotionally involved if the film bothered to show signs of him struggling with suicidal thoughts. But this seems so sudden and out of nowhere. The kid does the play, his father doesn't approve, and he kills himself. That doesn't work. This is the part that makes me wonder why this movie won an Oscar for Best Original Screenplay (especially against the likes of CRIMES AND MISDEMEANORS and SEX, LIES, AND VIDEOTAPE) because when I see a movie that has a sporadic act of tragedy, I don't think, "Oh, my goodness! This is so sad and moving!" I think, "What the heck? Did the screenwriter run out of ideas?" Here's the thing: Suicide can be a powerful dramatic tool if handled correctly. It can work in a story that sets itself up as a tragedy. But this movie sets itself up more as an inspirational and uplifting drama, so this act of despair seems out of place. Even at the end where the kids stand up on their desks and protest, I still had a hard time getting past that kid's suicide. Another thing that bothers me about this is that it's such a cheap way to show how damaging conservative attitudes can be and how helpful liberal attitudes can be. This can be an effective lesson but here it's told clumsily. The screenwriter forces the audience to care instead of simply telling a story and allowing the audience to be naturally affected by it. I'm sure the person who wrote the script meant well, but this comes across as a little condescending. It seems like he's saying, "Care for these characters right now!" I'll feel what I'll feel, just show us these people and their lives.That's all I can think of for now. Hopefully, I didn't rant too much. I understand why people like this movie because there are a couple of good scenes and again the kids do a great job. But personally, I think the movie just needed to avoid the clichés and dig deeper to become something really meaningful and poignant.
Boring. Sounds like a frankstein with teenager movie and cult movie parts


                
