"Whenever you find yourself on the side of the majority, it's time to pause and reflect." - Mark Twain The "teaching genre". Typically these films deify heroic teachers whose classrooms are havens at odds with the conformity or mediocrity that plagues the rest of the institution. In this regard, these films merely take familiar stories about admirable loners and nonconformists and place them in an educational setting in which the school milieu is fairly incidental.Films like "Stand and Deliver", "Dead Poets Society", "Mr Holland's Opus", "To Sir, with Love", "Dangerous Minds", "Coach Carter", "Mona Lisa Smile", "Music of the Heart", "Blackboard Jungle", "School of Rock", "Little Man Tate", "Dangerous Minds", "Freedom Writers", "Pay It Forward" etc etc all follow the same narrative progression, the inspirational white/black teacher moving to a school where he/she is forced to deal with various problems (racial tensions, student apathy, learning difficulties and institutional barriers), all of which he/she solves by delivering inspirational messages in offbeat ways.Very few "teaching films" deviate from this formula. Some of the best that do are perhaps Frederick Wiseman's "High School", "High School 2" and "State Legislature", Laurent Cantet's "The Class", Nick Ray's "Bigger Than Life", Olivier's "Term of Trial", 2002's "To Be and To Have", and "The Prime of Mrs Jean Brodie", with Maggie Smith. For the most part, though, cinema has failed to produce many interesting "teaching movies".And so "Dead Poets" is another mushy "teacher flick" which advocates "independence" and "non conformity" by sticking to a very generic and clichéd movie formula. Here, the maverick teacher is played by Robin Williams, a wacky guy who inspires his band of students to "seize the day" and "chase their dreams".The film was directed by Peter Weir, and so it has a certain classiness which, at first glance, seems to differentiate it from the pack; it's low-key at times, well acted and beautifully shot. It's only during "Poet's" last half hour that we realise how much we've been conned. And so as Weir's plot draws toward a typical "I am Spartacus!" ending (you'll know it when you see it), we begin to grasp how goofy the picture really is, the film populated by one dimensional adults, villainous kids, ridiculously stuck-up parents and a plot which reduces the art of poetry to a couple selectively chosen one liners, all designed to illicit "rebelliousness" and "non conformity".So serious is the film in its message, that it even has one kid commit suicide because he is unable to break free of his father's wishes. In other words, conformity literally kills, physically as well as spiritually. This is a worthwhile message, but the film is so conventionally manipulative in its final half, that all power quickly fizzles out.For a film which pretends to profess a love for poetry, you might even call this flick anti-poetry. Early in the film, Robin Williams draws a graph on a blackboard which he says is used to "measure the worth of a poem". On one axis of the graph is a poem's "importance" or "depth", on the other axis of the graph its "perfection" or "technique", the implication being that a work of art which succeeds on both axes, or very highly on one, is discernibly "better" than others. Williams then erases this graph and orders his pupils to tear it out of their textbooks. You cannot measure the objective worth of art, he says, only what that art means to you personally.Later, one kid who spends hours and hours toiling over his poems, discarding them all because he doesn't think them any good, is put in front of the classroom and told to "let go" and "just say what comes into your head". Suddenly he becomes like all the other students in the film, able to magically and whimsically create great poetry. What the film is advocating is not some kind of objectively great poetry, which artists strive for and toil to create, but misusing poetry as a metaphor for a kind of whimsical freedom of expression; nothing matters other than your own subjective feelings and opinions. Nothing matters, other than you conforming to your desires, embracing your right to free speech and impulsively doing and saying what you want at any particular moment. This isn't poetry, this isn't artistic expression, it's just a kind of self-obsessed, narcissistic, rash impulsiveness.Now look at all the things the students in the film use poetry to achieve. It's all sex, girls, dancing or throwing things away. Very simple, egotistical, hedonistic or impulsive things. Children and people with bipolar disorder have been shown to act with more impulsivity than other people. Artists, of course, are themselves often described as being childish (or possessing a child's imagination) and are more prone to being bipolar. What the film is unconsciously doing is tapping into the whole "artist as free" and "art as childish impulsiveness" cliché, without marrying it to anything truly substantial.The limits of this approach are best observed in the film's final scenes. The young artists are given the chance to save their teacher, but instead choose to save themselves. They've never been taught, through poetry or art, to really stand up for anything of value external to themselves. Only later, when their teacher is kicked out of school, do they impulsively stand on their desks and show him support. But of course now it's a wasted gesture.Significantly, the one kid who "stands up" in defence of his teacher is the one kid who was serious about poetry and seemed sceptical of William's character. His act of "standing up" is the only true act of rebellion in the film, the artist putting himself on the line, standing up for something worthwhile. Weir completely misses the implications of this. 7.9/10 Generic. Worth one viewing. See "If" and "The Magdalene Sisters".
Best known for it's (in)famous 'oh Captain my Captain' sequence, Dead Poets Society's biggest problem is the clichés it invented for the high school movie drama. Today's jaded audiences might smirk at such examples as the shy boy finding the confidence to express himself through the help of a rebellious teacher, or the purity of youthful romance, but to the film's eternal credit, this was fresh ground after a decade of teen sex comedies. Dead Poets Society's teenagers aren't simply lust crazed hormone bags that wander into embarrassing social accidents every fifteen minutes, they're a tad more realistic...for most of the film at least. When the movie ventures into darker territory in the closing quarter it falters, becoming an awkward attempt at manipulating emotions that jars against the promising story told in the beginning.Set in a prestigious school where the upper lips are stiff, the shirts stuffed and the emotions repressed, a class of teenage boys find their new English teacher John Keating (Robin Williams) taking a slight detour from the established curriculum. Encouraging them to think outside the box rather than be restricted by school-approved guidelines, he not only provides them with a full appreciation and love of poetry, but also a fresh mindset that focuses on seizing the day and acting on impulse. Soon, the boys are exploring various avenues of life (one becomes an actor, another pursues a local girl etc...) while their parents look on disapprovingly and the identikit old-fashioned teachers with grey hair and suits start trying to interfere.What is most striking about this whole enterprise is that despite its reputation, there isn't a laugh to be had anywhere. This is not a Robin Williams comedy-drama, it's just a drama and the comedian suits the role perfectly. He is convincingly charismatic and just sentimental enough to stop you from choking on your own vomit, this is Robin Williams the actor, not Robin Williams the clown. However, he's also more of a supporting character, as the chief focus is on the boys (including Robert Sean Leonard and Ethan Hawke in their younger days) and they all play their characters well. Hawke is probably the best, his tearful breakdown in a snow covered field being surprisingly effective, but they all hold their own against the more experienced actors.Shame then about the closing part of the story. With a sudden about turn, the film changes from an account of the individual versus the machine into a teenage suicide yarn all too quickly. This wouldn't be a problem if more time had been taken, but the character involved seems to decide to kill himself with as much ease as the rest of us pick what to have for lunch at work. And while I'm not an expert on teenage depression, I'd like to think it takes more for a young lad to blow his own head off than simply running into life's first obstacle.Dead Poets Society therefore is ultimately a promise that wasn't completely fulfilled as the subtle, intelligent storytelling is blown out of the water by the mishandling of the closing scenes. Consequently, if you're anything like me, you'll spend most of the film trying to guess which kid pops his clogs. It's an enjoyable and involving drama, but as a tear-jerker it fails to move. Williams is excellent as always though and for seventy five percent of the time, Dead Poets Society is a great film.


                
Australian director Peter Weir's third picture in Hollywood, 'Dead Poets Society (1989),' doesn't really explore any territory that has not been covered before. For most of the film, we can pretty much predict exactly where Tom Schulman's screenplay is heading, and so there are few surprises to set it apart from other movies of its kind. However, despite his film's hint of unoriginality, Weir hardly puts a foot wrong, and 'Dead Poets Society' proves a thoughtful, funny, haunting and inspirational drama that'll certainly stay with you once you've seen it. Accompanying a cast of bright, young actors {some of whom you'll recognise from their later successes, including Ethan Hawke and Robert Sean Leonard} is comedy veteran Robin Williams, whose warmth and passion forms the emotional core of the story.The prestigious Welton Academy prep school ("Tradition, Honor, Discipline and Excellence"), as they're four-pillar motto suggests, has a long-standing history of success and high reputation. The young male students of the college are expected, at all times, to respect rules and authority, and to continually strive for greater and greater academic achievements. Into the school comes former student, now English teacher, John Keating (Williams), whose unorthodox approach to lessons, and vigorous passion towards literature and poetry, inspires many of his impressionable young students, and severely ruffles the feathers of Welton Academy's management. Keating's rousing motto of "carpe diem" (a Latin phrase meaning "pluck/seize the day," borrowed from Horace's "Odes 1.11") inspires the young boys to make the most of every opportunity, and to look within themselves to discover the correct path for their lives.The film proved quite successful at the 1990 Academy Awards, acquiring an Oscar for Best Original Screenplay, and nominations for Best Actor (Robin Williams), Best Director (Weir's second nomination in that category) and Best Picture. Perhaps because of the preparatory school setting and the cast of young actors, 'Dead Poets Society' seems as though it would be most effective with young teenage boys, who will relish the film's opposition towards conformity and strict authority. Nevertheless, the film also boasts a more important moral from which we can all take something: always seize the opportunities that are presented to you, and make every day of your life count.


                
"Dead Poets Society" is more than a lesson of life. It's a hymn to life. It has a good message: "Carpe diem", which means "Seize the day". I completely agree with that message because there's no coming back and time flies.It's a reasonable movie with an inspiring story, good message, great performances from the actors, wonderful sceneries, awesome soundtrack (classical music, for example), drama and comedy.John Keating is the kind of teacher that anyone would like to have as a teacher. A teacher with such a colorful imagination and sense of humor, a teacher who inspires his students to make their dreams come true and makes their lives extraordinary. I mean, wow! John Keating is brilliantly performed by the comedian Robin Williams. In general, Robin Williams is as humorous as usual in this movie, but we can also see some of his talent for drama.Besides this incredible teacher, other great characters are: Neil Perry, Knox Overstreet, Charlie Dalton, Steven Meeks, Gerard Pitts, Todd Anderson and even Richard Cameron (although he has the power to anger us at the end because of his attitude). All of them are very well played by the actors.About the boys, Charlie Dalton aka "Nuwanda" is the funniest of all. He's just hilarious! "Nuwanda" is such a funny nickname - lol.Todd Anderson is a shy character portrayed by Ethan Hawke. This actor looked so different when he was younger and his role here is completely different from (for example) "Before Sunrise" and "Before Sunset".Mr. Perry (Neil's father) is a complicated character. Like Kurtwood Smith himself says, «he's understandable, not likable». He doesn't let Neil do what he wants and controls all of his life and future.The ending is somehow... empty: Neil dies and "Nuwanda" is expelled. But the boys's homage to Mr. Keating at the end is admirable. What's even more amazing is that it is started by Todd Anderson.
... Speaking for myself, I don't want to spend a large amount of time in the company of young men who need *permission* to be themselves. If teacher John Keating's role necessitated 'guidance', THEN I could understand, but it doesn't. They all show themselves to have a certain amount of gumption and intelligence outside of the classroom; so why once they get in there are they portrayed as spineless saps who need to be taken by the hand and 'shown the way'?!Keating (Williams) didn't seem to me to have as much effect as I was led to expect and hoped for as I watched. This was more about the boys just being lucky enough to have a role-model standing in front of them who didn't fit societal norms at the time. The kids weren't taught anything much beyond learning how to follow their own instincts, and really, shouldn't fraternising with your peers teach you to do that adequately enough?!It's hard to feel sympathy for people who've got all the raw materials already there; but appear to be so feckless that they need to be *pushed* in order to put them to use! Films that show mentoring the disadvantaged are easier to get behind because you're rooting for the underdogs; there's just no such incentive, in this case. This may be much better made than material like "Dangerous Minds", but at least in that case there's more 'antagonism' going on underneath the surface...I still enjoyed the film greatly; but making the circumstances of the pupils more sympathetic straight from the get-go would have turned this film into one of my all-time favourites...


                
English teacher John Keating (Robin Williams) inspires his students to discover their love for poetry and seize the day.This is a story about what one teacher (or a mentor of any kind) can do to inspire the youth, whether it be for good or evil. Those viewing this film will generally see it as a force for good, a call to "seize the day". And that is probably the correct interpretation.But interestingly, the call for non-conformity leads to its own kind of conformity. And one could argue that Keating's power is not much different than that of a politician or cult leader. Had he chosen to use it differently, he could have been a very dangerous force in these young men's lives. In fact, we see not everyone who followed his path was better because of it.


                
Having taught English for 43 years, I have stood in the place Robin William's character has. Some days you look out over the herds of kids that pass before you and you cry for them. As a teacher who put his heart and soul into what I did, I tried to make impressions help them master life skills. The sad reality is that one does one's best to crack the numbers game. Every year we have a few of those students who we try to embrace and find the right direction for them, but we are so hamstrung. The first thing I thought when evaluating this film is the little group of kids that he dealt with. He got to know each of them intimately. Of course, it's a prep school, but even then he should have had a couple other full classrooms. What he does is admirable and exciting. That he throws himself into his work to such an extent is amazing. But let's face it. This is a formulaic film that has been done many times before. It is monument building and flying in the face of establishment whose soul purpose is to ruin these kids' lives. There's a kind of narcissism to think that in this group we have bunch of directionless idiots who could never think for themselves. It sends a positive message but the population is carefully put together to send that message. It's just not real.


                
I find it ironic that I am attempting to provide a, largely, objective assessment of this film; a task which the film's main character, John Keating, a poetry teacher, would view with derision. His personal philosophy is that poetry (and by extension, I imagine, all other forms of art e.g. filmmaking) should be viewed entirely subjectively. That art cannot, or should not, be objectively scrutinised but that the importance of any piece of art is in the emotions that it may evoke in its audience members. The reaction of the audience member to any piece of art is, of course, unique to the individual and that is where the value truly lies. Keating's intellectual adversary in this film is the author of the "Introduction to Poetry" Mr Pritchard. His assessment of poetry is cold and detached, believing that poetry can be objectively assessed like a mathematical formula in order to determine its importance. This dogmatic view is, naturally, in the same line of thinking as the strict, prestigious school that the film takes place in. The school is seen to be ruthless in the application and preservation of this soulless mentality which indoctrinates its students. It is, of course, the clash of these contradictory ideologies which creates the central conflict of the narrative. However, I do have major disagreements with how this conflict is presented in this film. Namely, that the film is rather simple in its assessment of this rather complex issue and presents it in a black and white fashion. Keating is seen as the hero of the narrative and his philosophy is presented as, ironically, the objective truth in the overall question. I feel that the school and, the figure of Mr Pritchard, come across as quite exaggeratory and caricatural in the examination of the opposing philosophy. As an agnostic nihilist I understand that life is meaningless and that the only option humans have is to ascribe meaning to whatever we deem appropriate. That is to say that, to the fullest extent, Mr Keating is 100% correct in his worldview. That the examination of art IS entirely subjective because there can be no objective standard. On the other hand, the strict adherence to this worldview is, I find, extremely problematic. There may not be an objective standard for the arts or to the meaning in life but humans do need that structure to exist as a society AND to adequately assess the arts. I think to prove this point I think one merely needs to look at the modern art scene. The current school of thought that "anything is art" also means that "nothing is art" as a consequence. It's a sad state of affairs when an unmade bed can LITERALLY be deemed as a work of art and can be perceived as being of equal worth as, say, the ceiling of the Sistine chapel. Under Keating's worldview the two are inherently (but more importantly readily PERCIEVED) to be equitable since there is no objective standard (other than what one ascribes). This is what, I feel, has led to the degradation of modern art where the skill and artistry derived from objective standards and tutelage in the past has been lost/overlooked. Indeed, in the film Keating is faced with the problems of his own ideology. One of the students produces a poem that reads "The cat sat on the mat" which mockingly exposes the flaws of his philosophy. One of his students becomes quite anarchic when he buys fully into Keating's worldview only to be (arguably hypocritically) reprimanded by Keating himself for his actions. To further illustrate this point I shall use another example. With nihilism, and the lack of objective meaning, there is no reason WHY a man couldn't kill another man if he felt like it (if he knew he could get away with it) as there is no reason why he should or shouldn't do so. Naturally, the reader of this review understands this to be an "objective wrong" as that is the reality of the society we have been conditioned by. Therefore, that obejctivity exists (if not in the truest sense). Ultimately, Keating is correct in that the reason we have the arts is for the emotions that they evoke in us and the value that we ascribe to them. There are plenty of "objectively" bad movies that I love but the fact that they are objectively flawed doesn't hinder my enjoyment of them. However, I do think that the acknowledgment of these flaws is of crucial importance. In short, to justify my ACTUAL review of this film (which I haven't even STARTED yet!) I first had to tackle its underlying philosophy to explain the legitimacy of my objective assessment. Yes, it is true that any piece of art (be it poetry, filmmaking etc) is entirely subjective to the fullest extent. However, practically speaking, it is really more of a mix between the objective and the subjective; even if the objective is merely a delusion which we (as a society) collectively endorse. With that lengthy explanation in mind I can now identify what I understand to be the objective assessment of this film. I think that, before attributing one's subjective value onto a film, a baseline must be set determined on the objective success (or failure) of a film on a technical level. This film is around the 7/10 mark (i.e. a "good" film) as far as I'm concerned. I can certainly understand why people would give it between a 5 ("average") and an 8 ("great") out of 10 as this is where the grey area lies as to the range out emotional investment and subjective assessment exists. However, to give this film any higher or lower (I think) lacks real insight into the strengths, or limitations, of this work.To begin with, I feel that the narrative was solid and enjoyable. The dialouge inparticular is its greatest quality and produces some really great interactions between characters. The character of Mr Keating (played by the late-great Robin Williams) is the centrepiece of the film and the source of its wise and insightful dialouge. Williams is more witheld in this film than his other films but this only serves to create an enigmatic aura around his character. He exudes a great warmth and passion which is made readily evident. Its a good performance but certainly not his best ("Good Will Hunting") as his character doesn't have a great deal more depth beyond his role as an educator and mentor to expose weaknesses in his character. The limitation of the film is that the story is very predicatable and there was no point when I was thrown off track. The change in events that occur in this film is down to the shifting motivations of the students. Of the large group, three are of prime focus: Neil, who feels oppressed by his father, Todd, who is experiences problems with his introversion and Knox, who is too shy to talk to the woman he loves. By these brief explanations of these three protagonists you can almost already figure out what the end result will be. This is largely what prevents the film from ever attempting to reach a higher threshold of significance. Despite the limited scope of the narritive this is beneficial to the film in the fact that it keeps it well contained and is as clear and concise as it could have been. I'd say that the antagonists in the film (being the principal and Neil's father, among others) are very one-dimensional and don't really enhance the story greatly. However, since the overall point of the film is to challenge and resist conformity it is, perhaps, beneficial in a much broader wider context with this in mind. The performances from the extended cast (beyond Robin) are very good and for a film that really depends on the strength of its young actors does a terrific job.The direction for the film is decent and there is some interesting cinematography, namely in one classroom scene which provokes a suitably nauseating and disorienting experience for the viewer which puts us firmly in the shoes of one of the characters expertly. However, the cinematography and direction (at least from a visual standpoint) does not reach a "great" level of quality. To conclude, I shall now talk about the subjective experience I had when watching this film. It is easily understood why so many people have such an endearment towards this film. Its message is simple. "SEIZE THE DAY!" is the Keating's mantra as he implores his students (and more importantly the audience) to make the most of their lives. It is a remarkably simple message, but it is one which is not readily appreciated in day-to-day life in modern society. It is easy to see why people are so affected by this film as they face the humdrum monotony of daily living. I think a criticism which people have of this film is that some of the characters (namely the students) come across as quite pretentious. Whilst I can certainly see WHY people may have this perception, I don't think it is an accurate one. Mr Keating's ambition for the children is for them to be able to think for themselves, nothing more, nothing less. Mr Keating is helping the students start their journey to self-discovery but does not presume to hold the answers. Other than the issues I have with the conflicting ideologies (which I identified earlier in length) I feel that the film deals with its themes and subject matter adequately. As the film's final scene highlights, there will be people who will be deeply inspired by this film and there will be those who will scoff and will deem it to be overly sentimental. I can appreciate the opinions of both in regards to this film but I think that, ultimately, there is enough quality in this film to justify the 7/10 rating from myself.


                
This movie has a lot of things going for it. Beautifully filmed in a picturesque location, with excellent performances by Robin Williams and Robert Sean Leonard. Having not seen this for years, however, some irritating flaws have made themselves known I never noticed before, such as how little Ethan Hawke is actually in it, and how underdeveloped his character is. More time seems to be given to Josh Charles seemingly pointless subplot involving him pursuing a pretty girl. Considering neither have anything interesting to say to each each other except cookie cutter love dialogue, it sort of undermined the more grandiose attempts that Robin Williams was trying to get at. Sure love makes life worth living, but portraying a love story that bland and shallow doesn't really inspire. Would have been better to have some more interactions between Todd and Keating in place of that so their relationship would be given time to grow, we learn more about them, making the conclusion hit as hard as it should. It also would have been nice for the actual meetings themselves to have more of a point and dissect and examine the poems they speak rather than getting them out of the way so they can dance and sing the night away. The intentions and the themes are good, plus the great score and the atmosphere are why this gets a 7, but in a perfect world it would have been a 10 if not for it's frustrating stumbles in the character and plot department.


                
After hearing for years people talk how fantastic of a film this is (some would even say one of the best ever made) I finally decided to check it out. While it was enjoyable, it unfortunately failed to have the impact on me it has had on so many others.The biggest strength of the film is it's performances. Robin Williams is at it's best here showcasing not just his ability as a comedic actor, but also as a dramatic as well. His character is a fascinating one and anyone who has had a teacher or mentor who was inspiring will be able to relate to his character. What really surprised me though was how well the actors portraying the kids were. This is one of the few films I've seen that is focused intensely around a group of young adults were all of the actors do a great job.While the film has a good story at it's core, it hits so many of the same beats and themes as other coming-of-age films and stories that it pails in comparison to some of the better ones out there. The story takes a while to kick in as the film gets off to a rather slow start and while the actors do a great job, only one or two of the younger characters are actually interesting. Robin Williams really is the star here and when he disappears for too long the film begins to drag quite a bit. I honestly wish the movie had been focused on his character since he was the most interesting, but that's not the story this movie is trying to tell.For all my complaints, I still found Dead Poets Society to be an enjoyable film. It has fantastic performances, a good message, and features one of the most iconic (and well-deserving) best final scenes in a movie I've ever seen. But there's no denying that it pales in comparison to some other coming-of-age films due to a predictable story that drags in areas. I have a feeling many of the people who adore this film saw it when they were younger which is why it has stuck with them for so long which is perfectly fine, but anyone who has seen other coming-of-age films might find this one a bit underwhelming.


                
Dead Poets Society is not a film for everyone. For people who delve too deep into the meaning of the film, you might find yourself rather cheated or disappointed because of its radical nature. However, if you take it for what it is.. A film that wants to incite the senses to accept change; you will end up getting that warm feeling one gets when having a cup of hot chocolate on a chilly December morning. It works itself up from a simple saying ~ Carpe diem, which is Latin for 'Seize the day'. It is what the new English teacher asks his new 17 year old batch of students to do (in quite a bizarre manner). Together with The Truman Show and Master and Commander, it is one of Peter Weir's best films. The football match with Beethoven in the background, and the climax with bagpipes are the two best sequences in the film. I found Robin Williams' impersonation of Marlon Brando and John Wayne hilarious! Dead Poets Society is a film that has been widely criticized for its ending. You will know why once you've see it. As far as film-making goes, the ending is done perfectly. However, it could mean different things to different people. To challenge your views, to look at things differently, give Dead Poets Society a go. It is based in 1959, so don't give it as hard a time as some critics have given it.O Captain! My Captain! 7/10. I love the ending.


                
This is the story of a bunch of teenage kids at a very conservative boarding school. The school ends up hiring a liberal English teacher John Keating (Robin Williams) who tries to teach them all to be free thinkers. The main kid Neil, played by Robert Sean Leonard aka Dr Wilson from House, wants to act but his dad forbids it. His dad is played by Red Foreman from That 70's Show. Neil eventually defies his father and acts in a play anyway so his dad pulls him from the school. Neil kills himself because he can't talk to his father and tell him how he feels. The school fires Keating because they blame him for Neil's death. The ending scene has Neil's best friend Todd (Ethan Hawke) stands upon his desk in protest then 7-8 others join him and it ends with the dean screaming at them to get down.A great story about non-conformity
The acting in "Dead Poets Society" is very good all around. The plot is an interesting one. It's the type of story that Robin Williams liked doing for much of his career. His characters mostly are far from the ordinary, usual, or everyday people. Often, they are played for the sympathy of the audience. And, that's okay - to an extent. When the character is a hero who does something for the good of others, or thinks of others, he is the proverbial "good guy. One thinks of such films in which Williams starred. "Awakenings" of 1990 was a fine movie, as was "Patch Adams" of 1998. Williams was superb in "Jakob the Liar" of 1999. But is his John Keating such a person in this film? It's one thing to encourage students to be themselves, to become original, to pursue their dreams. But without the attention to those students, their characters and situations, the teacher ducks responsibility for himself or herself. Then, his uniqueness or difference in methods is really more self-centered. It's not a true interest in the students for their welfare and well-being. The end of this film is melodramatic, and a way for the students to overcome their disgrace at lying. It never is clear why they would need to be off the hook for anything themselves. Obviously, the institution wanted to find a scapegoat, and the father wanted a culprit. Keating seems to accept the class salute at the end as a good sign and squaring of the students with him. But that doesn't remove his complicity. How much guilt did he feel or show for what happened? Would a teacher who really cared for his students have not been more aware and interested to see that something so drastic as this didn't happen to someone in his class? Would such a death have ever occurred, had he not encouraged his students to be bold, to challenge authority and family?This is one film in which Williams could have played a character who owns up to a failure in responsibility. Instead, one is treated to a tutor who is put upon for being unjustly dismissed. Was his career more important than the life of any one of his students? Where is the justice when a student takes his own life?
An inspiring, endearing & emotionally stimulating tale that's further strengthened by a surprisingly down-to-earth performance from Robin Williams, in addition to the spot-on chemistry between its young cast, Dead Poets Society is an affectionately crafted, skilfully directed & smartly scripted work that only asks its viewers to dream more urgently & live more fervently.The story takes place in an all-male prep school during 1959 and follows a group of students who are encouraged to unleash their creative side by their new English teacher, a former alumni of the school. As he inspires them to look at poetry & life with a different perspective, his students restart the unsanctioned Dead Poets Society club and begin challenging the status quo.Directed by Peter Weir, the film introduces all the relevant characters in the opening scene but it takes a while to get acquainted with most of them and separate one from another. However, once their English class begins, and their new teacher's unorthodox methods unlock their true potential, it turns into an enjoyable, entertaining & thoroughly nostalgic drama that's as heartwarming as it is amusing.The atmosphere, for the most part, is infused with a positive, creative & optimistic vibe and all the moments featuring Robin Williams is a delight to watch. The fine dynamic between its young actors makes them convincing as a group, and their individual contribution is no slouch either. Camera is operated in a smooth, static fashion. Editing is controlled, unfolding the narrative at a steady pace, while its score adds flavours of its own into the final print.Coming to the performances, Dead Poets Society features a wonderful cast in Robin Williams, Josh Charles, Ethan Hawke, Robert Sean Leonard, Norman Lloyd & others, with Williams impressing the most. It's a finely measured & highly grounded effort from Williams who as John Keating delivers a performance that arguably ranks as his best. And he is brilliantly supported by the rest of the cast who all play their part with flair, both individually and as a group.On an overall scale, Dead Poets Society is a wonderfully evocative coming-of-age drama that tries to illustrate the importance of finding one's true passion in life and embracing it wholeheartedly. It packs plenty of laughs over the course of its runtime, and fine dose of tears as well but at its heart, Dead Poets Society is all about making your lives extraordinary. And the only way to do that is by following your heart, pursuing your dreams & continue seizing every day. Delightfully recommended.


                
A good story and a meaningful one too!But why not show us more character of Neil'parent and the headmaster, it seems a little strange somewhere the story goes and something deeper and maybe more important haven't discuss in this movie.Instead, some scenes which doesn't prove a necessary point somehow take place them.
This film is about a teacher who shows his students that they can dare to follow their dreams and be great.The characters were greatly developed, there is more to find out about them than what is shown to us, and that makes them more human and believable. The Dead Poets Society is not just about high school kids reading poems at night, but about young people daring for the first time to question themselves and authority figures, as well as to "Seize the day".There were still some things I found hard to believe, like Mr Keating (Robin Williams) not really teaching poetry but making them stand up in chairs, playing soccer and walking in circles. The examples of the kids daring to do "great" things are not that great; Would you really go to a girls school to read her a poem in front of her boyfriend? Would you really commit suicide because your father doesn't approve your acting and wants to send you to a military academy?Overall, Williams gives a great performance and the cast works great together, it is well shot and the suicide scene is very powerful and memorable. The story is great, but the execution and plot points were not convincing to me.
Dead Poets Society is considered by many to be the crowning achievement of Robin Williams career. There is no dispute over Williams performance, as it is considered to be one of the best of all time, and the film is so revivered, that it's require viewing in many education classes, but just how good a film was it? Robin Williams stars as Professor John Keating, an unconventional teacher who inspired his students to push the boundaries of the way they think. Keating's students worship him and reform the old club he was a founding member of as a student, The Dead Poets Society. Keating's unconventional thinking pushes his students, but the question is will it push some of them too far from the norm, at their strict boarding school? The performances makes this film, as you will see some amazing things. As for the story, it really isn't anything more than a means to present the characters. When you take away the performances, the truth is that this film is about a traditional boarding school, an English class, and a poetry club, not the most interesting of stories. Dead Poets Society is rather slow moving and one begins to question just how meaningful a club like this would be, especially in today's digital world. When it comes to Dead Poets Society, I loved the performances, but wasn't crazy about the film as a whole. I think the storyline is lacking, the characters aren't as unconventional as they could have been, and things move much too slowly for mainstream audiences. That being said, if you are a movie lover, this film is like It's A Wonderful Life and Citizen Kane in that it may not be the best of films, but it is a part of cinematic history that must be scene for it's undeniably outstanding performances and it's contribution to the history of film.


                
The movie digs deep about the very foundational idea of conforming whether to the general idea of well being, which may not be in line with one's own choice, or to live and let live the very desires that makes one feels very much alive. The premise is inserted well in the theme of artistic literature and the philosophical paradigm it comes with. There is less twists in the steady build up and flow of the story. But the dramatization is superb. It's able to grasp most, if not all, the essential issues concerning the period of the younger adulthood. The movie is then capped by a great sequence of finale events that question the idea of loyalty, not just to the friends beside you, but also to yourself and your belief. Robin Williams acted out good here, although I have to say that this is not his best performance. It's nice to see Ethan Hawke's earlier works in this movie. And it's quite a loss that most of the other actors of this class don't really make a long career.


                
"Dead Poets Society" staring Robin Williams is quite well-known for the public and was awarded Academy Awards. After the end credits rolled, the movie proved that it deserved the awards. The story is about our society to force people to be repressed without sentimental feelings. The students in the movie seemed to reflect our uniformed world. They want to be someone with emotion and sentiment. But, the reality does not flow into the way that they want. Even though the plot could easily have become terribly common, Robin Williams and other characters had the skill to make it gripping. The masterful acting kept my attention from beginning to end. Especially, the scene that students come together and listen to the poet, "O'me, O'life" by Walt Whitman, made me shiver. And the words "Carpe Diem" which means 'seize the day', remained in my brain after the movie. I'm wondering if I live like that. So, I really hope that such a movie will be released again in theaters.


                
It was a different World in 1959 and Teaching Conventions and Learning Institutions were Ultra Conservative, especially by Today's Standards. The Film takes place at an Uppity Prep School with Traditions not easily toppled. Enter Free Thinking Teacher Mr. Keating who is about to "Shake Rattle and Roll".This is a, dare one say it, Poetic Movie with a smooth Patina and an Off-Beat Meter. But, ironically it stays quite standard in its portrayal of Student Rebellion and is nowhere near Kerouac, Ginsberg, or The Beats. Some reference or acknowledgment of "The Movement" might have been a bit closer to the Theme here and would have given it some Street Cred.This is by the Book, pretty much, with its often visited Story and is not without Flaws. Such as the completely out of context Page Ripping Scene that is so badly thought out that it almost makes the Movie Dumb Ass. Did the Writer actually think that Censorship and Book Destruction was an apt way to illustrate Free Thinking. That is unforgivable.An overrated Film, but a Very Good one. Schools were like that, Parents were like that, it is an Inconvenient Truth. In the Decade that followed, for better or worse (mostly better), conventions would collapse, traditions would tumble, and the Lip Service given to Freedom would be challenged. In this Fictional Story, all that was a little ahead of its Time and those involved suffered, like all Dissidents.


                
"Carpe diem. Seize the day, boys. Make your lives extraordinary." "You must strive to find your own voice because the longer you wait to begin, the less likely you are going to find it at all." "I stand upon my desk to remind myself that we must constantly look at things in a different way." These inspirational quotes from Peter Weir's drama "Dead Poets Society" best sum up what this film is all about. It's a film that any student currently in high school or college will probably appreciate immensely due to the main ideas it shares with them. It's also a film that inspires us to live our lives in a way that better satisfies our dreams and desires. "Dead Poets Society" follows a group of students (Robert Sean Leonard and Ethan Hawke chief among them) in their senior year at an all-male Vermont prep school led by a strict headmaster (Norman Lloyd) who wants to maintain "tradition, honor, discipline and excellence" in the school as much as possible. He makes the students recite this phrase about the school's four main principles on a daily basis. He assigns the students work that's either overwhelming, discouraging, or doesn't make much sense. The students are hardly even allowed to go off campus. Talk about a prison like lifestyle at that place. These students are just plugging away trying to get good grades to move on from Welton Academy and go on with their lives. But when this group of students attend an English class with a teacher (Robin Williams) whose teaching methods are unorthodox by Welton standards and whose life morals to the students are very profound, they become influenced and inspired by his lessons to the point where they incorporate his advice into their own lives. One of the students (Leonard) uses this advice in his own life by becoming an actor despite his father's (Kurtwood Smith) disapproval.The performances from the students in general are pretty decent since I bought them being completely entranced by what the teacher teaches them and I also believed that they were learning from what they have been taught. Speaking of the teacher, Robin Williams also turns in a solid dramatic performance as the insightful teacher. Even though we don't know for sure how he came to obtain this knowledge, whatever he's teaching his students sounds like very good life skills. What really makes "Dead Poets Society" special though is what it teaches the audience. After seeing this movie, some people may no longer like being in strict, conventional environments such as school again. Some people may want to pursue careers that personally make them content with their lives. So I guess you could say this film will leave an impact of some sort to anyone who watches it. While the characters played by Norman Lloyd and Kurtwood Smith were sort of meant to be antagonist roles, I felt no sympathy for either character at all. In fact, the screenplay succeeds all too well at making these two characters so hateful and unpleasant to the point where you just want to punch them in the face for causing you so much hatred. The reason why these two characters bother me is because they're simply being jerks without having any motivations behind their actions whatsoever. There are also similar characters that are in this picture that are just so hateful and bossy that you just can't stand being in their presence. I forgot to mention that these students secretly revive a literary club called the Dead Poets Society (hence the reason for the film's title) in which the teacher used to be a part of when he was a student at Welton. They attend these meetings in a cave off campus where they read poetry and writings and what not. I thought that these meetings didn't really work that well for my taste since I simply thought they were a little too weird. Overall, the reason why "Dead Poets Society" is worth one viewing is because of the message it tells its audience regarding how to better live your life. As I've stated earlier, the group of people that will be most affected by this film, for better or worse, is definitely high school and college students. I feel like this is the demographic that will most likely take these theories to heart and use them every day of their lives especially during their rebellion state. I know I was at least affected by it when I saw it as a teenager, and even if I've obtained some harsh facts about reality, I won't forget the morals "Dead Poets Society" conveyed to me.


                
I just finished with the movie and I personally think it was great. The characters were deep, especially Mr. Keating and Neal who I felt were quite similar to each other. They both try and rebel against people who oppose them and both fail in some way though Keating is still admired by most of the student's in his class. Neal shoots himself because of his father's continuous oppression, which I feel was not forced in the screenplay but rather beautifully planned. I felt it was quite predictable that he was going to kill himself and did not take the film out of focus but only brought more depth to it. Todd is shown to be meek and introvert for reasons unknown to the viewer but it is quite believable. I thought the film was very realistic and actually showed how students are sometimes forced to study subjects that they are not very interested in, and that parents like Neal's father and teachers like the principal of the school do exist. I can personally connect to the film as I too am a student of literature but I feel that many of the unhappy viewers are those who have no particular interest in literature and poetry. I think its a must watch and a beautifully directed film where the viewer WILL be affected emotionally in a good way and will definitely learn something from this film no matter what age group he/she belongs to.
In the heart of more prolific days, Peter Weir directed this bold anti-establishment gem, starring a conspicuously reined-back Robin Williams as the unorthodox English teacher John Keating - a name that sounds like a poet's, to match the man's passion for the passion of individual will. Williams would do more nuanced, angrier work in Good Will Hunting eight years later, but this was the movie that showed the world he was more than Mork.The real star of the show is Robert Sean Leonard as the tragic trickster Puck (AKA Neil Perry), whose father can't afford for him to fail, but who cannot live without his thespian dream. With a luminescence reminiscent of Jim Carrey (who would take the titular lead in possibly Weir's finest, The Truman Show), Leonard beautifully portrays the joy and agony of personal expression's vital extremes.As usual, Weir's aesthetic is classic yet distinct, never bellowing for attention but occasionally coming alive to provide an indelible image: a bicycle sending a wave of birds into the sky; a shy student spinning in a poetic trance; a tiny lost figure stumbling onto a frozen harbour.Maurice Jarre's ugly synth score is slightly jarring (no pun intended), but Weir is on hand to furnish his soundtrack with a series of well-chosen classical pieces, most memorably two Beethoven excerpts, including the possibly divine "Emperor" second movement, which helped burn Picnic at Hanging Rock into our brains.There's little subtlety in this Society, but there is a wealth of humanity and truth, and a boundless idealism, amounting to another fine fable in the canon of a modest auteur.


                
Peter Weir took time off from an otherwise noteworthy career to direct this crowd-pleasing melodrama about yet another maverick schoolteacher with unorthodox methods, who in this instance bucks the traditions of his stuffy New England prep school by quoting Walt Whitman and inspiring his students to "seize the day". It's ironic that a script defending freethinking nonconformity should be so predictable, but under Weir's typically intelligent direction the film is (likewise predictably) never less than enjoyable. He pulls all the right strings in the right order, patching the familiar story together with a surplus of lush pictorial glue. Robin Williams downplays his trademark mugging style to actually offer a credible performance, despite being miscast (or at least misrepresented) in the pivotal lead role. Despite a few gratuitous moments of token stand-up comedy shtick (John Wayne and Marlon Brando impersonations, and so forth) it isn't, after all, meant to be a comedy.


                
As with many High School English classes, we had to watch this over the past few days. Unlike most "school" movies, however, I quite enjoyed it. Robin Williams was great as usual, a pleasant change from his typical over-the-top comedy roles. He is one of my favourite actors, as he can play so many types of roles so perfectly. The supporting cast was great as well, each having their own moments to shine. The film had a very good message, to always stand up for what you believe in, and to seize the day, Carpe Diem! Part of the ending bothered me, to avoid spoilers I wont go into why, though the final scene certainly made up for it. Overall, I was pretty surprised with this movie. Who knew they'd actually make us watch something good in school!7/10


                
