I'm impressed. It was an all around good film. Perhaps I'm biased - Robert Frost's poem, A Road Not Taken, was quoted - yet so many other things were as well.It's not about poetry. It's about how you look at the world. How you look, how others look... how you think, how you feel... and a warning to never, ever become conformist (though being conformist about walking is perhaps slightly exaggerated). Never become conformist - always make up your own mind.I liked the music, as well. The bag pipes give a certain special touch.I gave it an 8/10 - a high score for me.


                
Dead Poets Society is not just a movie. It's a 128 minutes of pure magic and by the time the story reaches it's end, you will end up learning something really important : "Seize the day, because the day doesn't stand still".The movie was one of the most iconic piece of work of the late Robin Williams. Robin Williams knew how to make others happy. How to make them smile. How to inspire them. As John Keating(an English teacher), he made his students realized that one of the biggest secrets of a happy life is to follow your heart.Dead Poets Society explores the possibility of following your dreams. It tells us that it is not mandatory to be a part of the rat race. It teaches us that people around you will make you feel ordinary everyday so that you doesn't take the risk but you should do what's best for you. It teaches us that once we are out of our comfort zones, we discover the truth about ourselves which might help us in realizing our dream.The movie is a "must-watch" for everyone. Not just the students(they need it more than others though) but also for all those people who are finding it hard to discover their objectives. It's for those who are struggling because of certain norms of the society which are holding them back. The moment you start doing something different, is the moment when you start creating history.Watch it and feel rejuvenated. 8/10
After recently watching "Mrs Doubtfire" And then "Old Dogs" a movie from the latter part of the late Robin Williams's career. I decided to revisit some of his earlier dramatic work. And one phrase came tonight "Oh Captain, my Captain". so I immediately settled on 1988's "Dead Poets Society".I also forgot about this brilliant quote. "Carpe diem. Seize the day, boys. Make your lives extraordinary" I don't know if it was the tagline for the movie, but it certainly should have been.Plot In A Paragraph: Todd Anderson (Ethan Hawke) has been sent to the school where his popular older brother was valedictorian. His room-mate, Neil Parry (Robert Sean Leonard), although very bright and popular, is under the thumb of his controlling father (Kurtwood Smith) The two, along with their other friends, meet Professor Keating (A brilliant Robin Williams in one of his serious moods) their new English teacher, who tells them of the Dead Poets Society, and encourages them to seize the day, and make their lives extraordinary.For an actor well known for his comedic roles, Robin Williams is in fact, a very effective dramatic actor. Kurtwood Smith is his usual reliable self as Mr Perry, the dominating father, and all of the "boys" do well in their roles. Ethan Hawke is especially good, likewise Josh Charles, Robert Sean Leonard and Gale Henson.Some may find it boring, and it is slow in parts, but Williams's performance more than papers over the few cracks. Touching, Tragic and humorous in places. The final "Oh Captain, my Captain" is spine tinglingly good!! And if be lying if I didn't say I welled up a bit. It really is a very good movie. One that deserves to be seen.


                
Although this is set in the fifties, I think it's delivery of the ideals of nonconformity are timeless. As a current high schooler, I can attest to the fact that conformity is extant among teenagers. There are very few Neil Perry's today, and the few that remain are mostly seen as rather queer. This is a sad truth, but the fact remains that for some inconceivable reason people are more inclined to follow popular whims than their own interests. This movie introduces the idea what is socially cool and accepted isn't necessarily enjoyable. The poetry that Keating shows his students isn't stuff that's going to make you the popular guy in school for knowing, but it's inspiring and awesome.This is seen in the progression of the students' attitudes toward the Dead Poet's ideas. At first they react to Keating's lessons with confusion and almost fear, especially in the case of Todd Anderson. When Keating tells them of the cult that he started when he was in their position in a way that appeals to them, they begin to realize that it might be worth the effort to go deeper into some of this poetry. After a couple of meetings, they have fully embraced it and realize the wonders and opportunities that it provides. They now start to question authority, especially in the cases of Dalton and Neil. Keating's lesson of walking in your own way is especially helpful in this regard. The really interesting thing about Keating's teaching is that he does not actually have that much screen time, but he does have a profound impact on his pupils. He really leaves them to make their own conclusions as to what his lessons mean with only a few featured lessons. In other words, he does an "inception" with them.We can see that each of them acts upon his lessons differently and "seize the day" after their own fashion. Dalton, Neil, Knox, and even Todd to and extent use his lessons as inspiration for courageous acts, again in different ways. Pitts, Meeks, and Cameron are also inspired by the lessons and the secret meetings, though they do not have a storyline to prove it so concretely. While all of the main roles get a pretty good amount of development, the most prominent plot is that of Neil Perry's dispute with his father. This is the one point where Keating gives explicit and specific advice to any of his students. The villainy of Mr. Perry is not at all implausible since the world is full of over-assertive parents, though his motive is understandable. Neil's (SPOILER ALERT) suicide at the end at first struck me as surprising and uncalled for, but when I took a step back, it made sense. I think this was because I didn't fully understand what he was being forced to leave when his father took him out of school. It seemed like he was only upset about the loss of being able to act, but it's also the loss of all of his friends and Mr. Keating. So Mr. Perry is essentially destroying Neil's world. The events that result after Neil's tragedy are primarily driven by the other villain, Mr. Nolan. He is very pro-conformism and by the books, which we have learned to despise by the end of the movie. He has some great villainous moments at the end with the dismissal and canning of Keating, though I felt like that process got unnecessarily drawn out. The final minute of the film with the rebellion of the class is a great ending that adds a positive and inspiring touch to the darkness and gloom of recent events. To wrap up, I would recommend this movie to people who like inspiration of a non-forceful nature. It's a very character and story driven movie with no action or comedy. In other words, it's interesting over entertaining. As with Keating's students, each viewer will take something different out of the movie. It's good to watch with people that will be genuinely interested in watching it. Overall Rating: 8.4
Did not think that I would enjoy this film because I am not a big fan of Robin Williams who plays the role as John Keating, an English Professor who loves poetry and teaches this subject quite different than anyone else. Professor Keating gets down to basic facts about poetry and turns this subject into a very enjoyable experience which relates to how you can live in this world and have a great experience in doing whatever you really want to do and it also draws out young men's mental feelings about themselves and other people. This story also dwells with a young man named Todd Anderson, (Ethan Hawke) who is a very shy student and also had an older brother who attended this same college and was valedictorian, which are hard shoes to step into. Todd's room-mate is Neil Perry, ( Robert Sean Leonard) who has a very overbearing father and wants him to go to medical school and does not want him to waste his time on any social activities at the college. This story becomes very interesting with some of the students falling madly in love with pretty gals which makes this film a great all around treat to watch and enjoy.


                
'Dead Poets Society' is one of the top rated films of all-time and also happens to be a multi-award winning film, and its easy to see why. This is a truly remarkable film every parent, especially, should see. Robin Williams and Robert Sean Leonard are exceptional in their respective roles. In fact, the entire cast were very good, and notably also Ethan Hawke.The love story between Knox and Chris felt forced and was annoying and seemingly out of place in this film. Yes, I understand the need to portray young love, since this is a coming of age film, but there was nothing romantic about them. I found it to be pure lust on Knox's behalf and Chris eventually fell for him for whatever reason. There is no chemistry whatsoever between them and the film would have been so much better without this love interest. Charlie Dalton's obsession with women was far more believable and (also) clearly lust, but suited the character and emphasized his personality.Robin Williams played a very gentle, kindhearted character, always giving advice and putting everyone else's needs before his own. He not only captures the student's attention, but also the viewer's, as he is perceived as a caring, loving person and me as the viewer felt a sense of joy as he nurtured the boys, giving them hope and inspiration - not only on a poetic level, but on life itself. It was delightful to see the boys enjoy his class and looking forward to what he had to offer.The unexpected ending shocked me to the core, for so many different reasons, and I won't spoil it for you. It caught me completely off guard. Although this is a film I probably won't watch again in a hurry (especially now that I know the ending) it definitely is a film worth viewing at least once.


                
Every school should have a teacher like Mr. Keating (Robin Williams). He is inspirational and teaches young men to think for themselves and look at life differently. If I'd had a teacher like that, I might have done better in school! For me, it's the theme of the story that is the most important. The acting performances are secondary. I've watched the movie about three times now, and I still find myself getting inspired - and getting a boost to my self confidence! Robin Williams is excellent in this type of role - in my opinion, I prefer his performances in drama rather than comedy.This movie should be shown in all schools for 12-13 year olds. It's especially motivating for those who may lack confidence and are somewhat meek and mild. This movie gives them a voice. A teacher like Mr. Keating shapes the lives of young men and teaches them more than any classroom book can. It's a life affirming movie. I love the movie!


                
In 1959 Delaware (as Vermont), charismatic poetry teacher Robin Williams (as John Keating) arrives to begin work at the "Welton Academy" preparatory school for boys. An alumni of the school, Mr. Williams teaches poetry with uncommon zeal. To gain attention, he demands students tear out the pages of books written by essayists with whom he does not agree. To get participation, he invites students to stand on the teacher's desk. Williams does impersonations of Marlon Brando and John Wayne. His motto is "Seize the Day," a directive made popular by novelist Saul Bellow. Yes, this class is fun...Williams teaches the "dangers of conforming," and encourages students to think for themselves. When they learn Williams belonged to a clandestine club called the "Dead Poets Society" when he was a "Welton" student, the class decides to revive the group. They meet in a cave to read poetry by the masters - but, mainly, they just goof around. Playing the saxophone and sharing "Playboy"-type centerfolds accompany Walt Whitman. Because Williams'' influence extends perilously beyond the classroom, his "unorthodox teaching methods" get the popular teacher in trouble with school administrators...This above average production won good notices and award consideration for director Peter Weir and star Robin Williams. Originally, the teacher held back a secret; "Oscar"-winning writer Tom Schulman was persuaded to drop the idea, so we and the character are left with a gap. Williams' "Keating" is put on the sidelines in favor of the students. Nothing against the actors, who perform exceptionally, but they do look more like handsome young college-aged models than typical high-school aged boys. There is some physical diversity in the extended supporting cast, though. A few of the boys wear glasses...The main stars are sensitive writer Ethan Hawke (as Todd Anderson) and his roommate, aspiring actor Robert Sean Leonard (as Neil Perry). The next tier includes prankster Gale Hansen (as Charlie Dalton) and lovelorn Josh Charles (as Knox Overstreet). Although these players are almost interchangeable, the actors create distinguishable characters. Best of the remaining parts goes to Dylan Kussman (as Richard Cameron), who perversely turns out to be the group's real non-conformist. The film is too self-consciously calculating and manipulative to be fully masterful, but it sure looks nice.******** Dead Poets Society (6/2/89) Peter Weir ~ Robin Williams, Ethan Hawke, Robert Sean Leonard, Gale Hansen


                
Robin Williams, Robert Sean Leonard, Ethan Hawke, Norman Lloyd, and Alexandra Powers star in "Dead Poets Society," a 1989 film directed by Peter Weir and written by Tom Schulman.William plays an English teacher, John Keating, who comes back to his alma mater, an exclusive boys school, to teach. His teaching technique is very different from anyone else's. His focus is on encouraging students to find themselves by reading and writing poetry, to be individuals, and to know their own hearts, to see the world in a unique way, and to take risks - "carpe diem." One of the students finds Keating's old yearbook and learns he was part of something called The Dead Poets Society.When he's asked about it, Keating says that he and some of his fellow students met in a cave and read poetry. Neil (Leonard) and his friends Todd (Hawke), Knox (Josh Charles), Gale (Charlie Dalton) and others form the club again, find the cave, and sneak out at night. They read, laugh, and joke.The boys are inspired by Keating and, in their own lives, try to break out. Each has his own story but the main focus is Neil, whose dictatorial father is insisting that he become a doctor when in his heart, he wants to be an actor.Unfortunately, the school doesn't exactly want students to think for themselves and neither do their parents. Problems arise due to Keating's unorthodox teaching methods and opening these kids' minds.What a beautiful movie and what great imagery of birds flying free, the boys standing on their school desks and seeing the room from a different perspective, that idea of being "up high" used when Neil late at night looks out the window of his home.The film is predictable, but that doesn't make it any less powerful. It's set in 1959, and yes, kids did what their parents told them to do, and if your parents didn't like your choice of career, you were discouraged from going into it. I know someone who wanted to have a career in the army; his parents flew to Germany to see him. The young man returned, became an attorney, and was never a good one, nor a very happy person. Someone else I know actually got a part on Broadway and her parents made her return to her home town. Yes, that kind of thing happened. If you're creative like Neil, you can't really suppress it - the soul cries out for something else.Robert Sean Leonard, Wilson on "House" is very young here. He gives a marvelous performance. I've seen him on Broadway twice - he's a very serious and committed actor. Everyone is good in this well-cast film. Robin Williams absolutely shines as a warm, funny man who loves to teach and who believes teaching goes way beyond just the subject. He's just fantastic.For me, anyway, there weren't a lot of surprises in this film, but I loved it. It was both uplifting and depressing - the school wants the students to meet the status quo, and Keating wanted them to fly. Today, it's still not easy being different.


                
"Dead Poets Society" is a movie that is enjoyable with just good acting and competent filmmakers at the helm.John Keating arrives at Welton Academy in 1959, years after attending the school, as the new English teacher. He wastes no time making an impact on his students, saying "Carpe Diem," or "Seize the day" to them. The pupils at first do not know what to make of Keating, who is not the usual Welton teacher. After coming across a yearbook, a group of his students find out that Keating belonged to a club called the Dead Poets Society. Seeking answers, they confront Keating, and he reluctantly tells them about going to a cave not far from the school, and he and his fellow members recited and created poetry. Intrigued by what he heard, Neil Perry, the leader of the group, organizes a revival of the Dead Poets Society, and everyone agrees to attend. Later on, Neil finds an old poetry book on his desk. Upon opening it, he finds that it is Keating's copy of the book that was used at each meeting. The gang goes to the cave and spends the night there, immersed in poetry.Keating has an impact on the boys in more ways than one. He tells them they are going to think for themselves, and to find their own voice. Several of the boys take that to heart. Meanwhile, Mr Nolan, the Academy's headmaster, has received word about Keating's teaching style. He approaches Keating about this, and wanting to put a stop to Keating's maverick methods, tells him to just prepare them for college and leave it at that. However, Nolan is already too late, for several of Keating's students have already decided to see what life is all about."Dead Poets Society" features a talented ensemble cast. Robin Williams is great as Keating, in one of his best dramatic performances. Robert Sean Leonard (known to TV viewers as Wilson on House) are both good as Neil and Todd. And Kurtwood Smith, best known as Red Forman on "That 70s Show," is well cast as Neil's stern and demanding father. The film is a story of a dedicated teacher, but it is also a coming of age tale. In addition, it is a study of conformity vs. non-conformity. It would have been interesting to see how the lives of the characters turned out during the 1960s, when the counterculture first came about. This is a movie that you should watch. Don't miss it.
This movie, for one, is a real gem of character fruition. Set in the fictional Welton (Hell-ton) Academy for Boys we follow a few of its students and a new English teacher, Mr. Keating. One of the main themes, as propelled by Mr. Keating to the boys, is to grasp life as it is and not as it's expected and he does that through embedding an appreciation for poetry and the literary arts- not as mere text to adhere and memorize but as emotions and stories to feel. Through that Mr. Keating allowed the boys to get to know themselves and find where their passion lies, aside from what is expected of their future.One of the main characters, Neil Perry, may have been the most influenced by this new perspective being taught and goes about to form a bastard version of the Dead Poets Society upon learning of it from Mr. Keating's past as a former student of Welton. This ushers in a flurry of self-discovery and adolescent rebellion as the boys find themselves building an appreciation for the arts and self-expression.The villain of the movie lay with the school officials and some parents garnering the uppity appeal of authority and the 'right way' of things. The inevitable struggle with that and the boys was an awesome display of humanity as the Dead Poets Society is inevitably dismantled because of a tragic resolution of one of the characters. The process showed how selfish people can be in the face of doing the right thing as opposed to not getting chided for your own beliefs. The way it reflected how society conditions and discourages free-thinking is awesome, especially when the caged-bird syndrome is revealed with Neil Perry.The acting in this movie, considering the ages of the characters was great. All the little nuances that you would expect from a group of teenage boys were there and they were, surprisingly, tolerable. We got to see a young Ethan Hawke, as Todd Anderson, flap his acting wings as the film's strong under-dog supporting character. The direction was great as well. The mood and the overall growth of the film was enough to put you into the world and root for the characters while not being too demanding or too taxing on the viewer. Robin Williams excelled in the dramatics of his role and it was a breath of fresh air to see him go to his comedic panache in the few moments that he did. Being a teen movie one would expect some elements of a love scene and it was there but not in the overwhelming sense for it to take away from the film, it merely supplemented the appreciation for passion and seizing the day – as was the general theme of the movie.It's indeed a classic in its own right and one that should be watched at least once to make your life extraordinary. The life lessons scattered throughout will leave you feeling, somewhat, appreciative of the little things and will leave you chanting Carpe Diem or referring to a friend as 'Captain, My Captain.'Standout Line: "We don't read & write poetry because it's cute. We read & write poetry because we're human beings and we're filled with passion!"


                
I generally find great inspiration in films like this, and "Dead Poets Society" is no exception. Robin Williams stars as a professor who encourages his students to "make your lives extraordinary." This ends up causing some of the students to go too far in this direction, resulting in the "sad" elements of this film. I did, however, feel a sense of encouragement in what Williams says, realizing that we've only got one life in this world and should make it something great. The scenes with Williams are superb, some of the best dialogue you will ever hear, in this film that won an Oscar for its screenplay. Williams was robbed of an Oscar here, though he later won one for the similar film he appeared in "Good Will Hunting." Though I like "Good Will Hunting" even better, I truly enjoyed this film. The one thing I felt it lacked was enough scenes with Williams and his students. Too many scenes feature the students off on their own in their club, or getting in trouble with other students or their parents, scenes that can get depressing when there are so many of them. Fortunately, Robin Williams comes around often enough the lighten things up a bit, though this is considered one of the first of his more serious roles. The ending scene is great, as is the one with Williams telling the students to rip out part of their textbook. A nicely-done, inspiring film. Not perfect, though it is still quite good.***1/2 out of ****


                
The movie "Dead Poets Society"(1989), set in Vermont in 1959 at Welton Academy written by Tom Schulman and directed by Peter Weir is about an elite private boys school where a new teacher named Mr. Keating teaches them to "seize the day".In contrast to all other teachers Mr. Keating´s teaching Methods are unortodox and are based on democratical principles. He tries to teach them to be freethinkers and wants to inspire them but he doesnt think about the consequences.The most presented characters are Todd Anderson ( Ethan Hawke ), Neil Perry ( Robert Sean Leonard ) and John Keating ( Robin Williams ). Todd Anderson is the new student at the school, he is a shy young man, who has some big shoes to fill because, his brother went to this school before and he was one of the best students. His roommate and friend Neil Perry is the more confident one and supports Todd.In my opinion it is a great movie, which contains critical aspects. It opends up my mind and made me think about how i should live my life, because living is a beautiful responsibility that we should care about . I started think about some things that are criticised in this movie in another way.


                
The film Dead Poets Society is based on an novel written by Tom Schulman
and directed by Peter Weir.
It is set in a very strict High School in Vermont.
The movie was nominated for the best Performance by an Actor in a Motion Picture for a Golden Globe and many other Awards.
The film Dead Poets Society is About a private School with very strict rules where the new English teacher trys to teach the Boys how they could size the day and express their Feelings in Poetry, but he didnt thought About the consequences.
One of the main characters is Mr. John Keating who is played by Robin Williams.
I think he played his role excellent and very realistic.
Another important character is Todd Anderson (Ethan Hawke).
I think this film is very likeable and a film everybody should watch,because it makes you think About your Life and makes you try to improve it.When I watched the Film,I started to seize the Day a bit more than I did before. I think it is one of the best Films I ever watched.
I think the Director and/or the author trys to says that we should free our minds and try tomake every day we live extraordinary.
We should think About our behavior against others and ourselfs.
I think everybody who wants to see a film with a Deep message should watch this film.
Dead Poets Society criticizes the strict, orthodox teaching methods, by using the Welton Academy in Vermont as a representative. Mr. Keating, an English teacher, teaches his students to be free-thinkers, without mentioning the consequences.
That way the movie does not only criticize tradition but also teaches the risks of Carpe Diem (Seize the day).It features Robin Williams as John Keating, Norman Lloyd as Headmaster Gale Nolan, Kurtwood Smith as Mr. Perry, George Martin as Dr. Hager and many more.John Keating is played very convenient by Robin Williams.
He plays the role of a modern, calm teacher and mirrors the future of teaching.This movie is great, if you want to learn about Carpe Diem but also want a proving example why it is not always right and that you have to know the consequences.Movies to watch after Dead Poets Society are:
-Good Will Hunting (1997)
-Sixteen Candles (1984)
-Dazed and Confused (1993)
-Easy A (2010)
-The Edge of Seventeen (2016)
-The Perks of Being A Wallflower (2012)
-A Beautiful Mind (2002)


                
A film that's reputation speaks for itself, Dead Poets Society played an important part in many Gen X's lives as an experience that was inspirational and relatable, as well as a call to action to "seize the day".Beloved by many through the year's since its release in 1989, Australian director Peter Weir's Oscar nominated and well-renowned boy school drama holds up well these near 30 years on from its initial release thanks to Weir's carefully constructed direction, the performance of the late Robin Williams and the world class script by Tom Schulman.Telling the story of a group of teenage boys enrolled in the traditional and up-market Welton Academy private school in the late 1950's, who find themselves embracing life in new ways and looking at the world differently thanks to the teachings of their against the grain poetry teacher John Keating, Poets may lay hold to some slightly cheesy cinematic situations but so important is its messaging and well-meaning intentions, that this matters very little in the grand scheme of things.Led by one of William's best acting turns, a turn that also reigns in the energetic comic's sensibilities to great effect while also allowing him brief moments of comedic flourish's and eccentricities, Poets also lays hold to some brilliantly realised turns from its young cast members that includes a young Ethan Hawke and some powerful turns from young performers Robert Sean Leonard as Neill Perry and Josh Charles as Knox Overstreet in particular.It's a testament to Weir's skill as a director that he turns a seemingly simplistic story into something more and while its arguable that not a lot ends up happening through the duration of Poets runtime, it's hard not to be affected by its look at adolescence and finding one's self and purpose in the world thanks to Weir's handling of the material that he never allows his tale to go full Hallmark, marking the films emotionally powerful moments all the more memorable.It's unlikely we would get a film like Poets made today but that matters little thanks to Weir, Williams and the young cast (many of whom sadly never went on to deliver much acting wise outside of Hawke) who help make Poets a timeless film that gifts us one of the most instantly likeable and inspiring creations in the form of the kind-hearted Keating.Final Say - An important part of cinematic history that features many a classic scene, Dead Poets Society may not be a flawless piece of filmmaking but with its heart in the right place and an inspirational life message at its core, Weir's film is deserving of its highly regarded reputation and remains a timeless coming of age tale.4 ripped book pages out of 5


                
This is probably one of the best coming of age films I've ever seen. The anti-authority themes are just so excellent, and the fact that you could argue very easily that Keating was a negative influence on the kids makes the movie that much better to me. It comes off as a little preachy (poetry is great, whatever), but we can also see how Neil's parents may be right about a few things, the dean/head of the school was also fairly reasonable if you look at it without the like, "main character bias" or whatever you want to call it.I think I liked it so much because I used to be like the kids in the film. I used to think movies, tv, books, and ESPECIALLY poetry were a total waste of time. I was focused entirely on science, math, school, tests, stuff like that. My Keating is also an English teacher(s). My Junior and Senior year English teachers encouraged me to read and enjoy it so much more than anyone else in my life. So when I watch this movie, and I see Keating on screen, I'm thinking of my own English teachers (even though they're definitely a lot less intense). Problems with the film? Not many, but, there were a few. I felt like it was a bit melodramatic at times. No high school aged kids are going to be talking like this in real life, it's definitely over dramatized. The authoritative characters are exaggerated as well, in my opinion. This is all ok though, the plot, acting (especially from Williams), and themes really worked out well for me, I loved them. I'd have to watch the movie again to point out more flaws, on first watches of films I , and I think most people, have a much more positive view than they would after further reflection or rewatches. I think the mark of a really good movie is that it improves as you think about it more (One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, Schindler's List, and Apocalypse Now being my favorite examples). I really liked this movie. I think I could consider it one of my favorites for now. All the themes just resonate with my own life so well.


                
Dead Poets Society is absolute success in the portrayal of the truth of the individual, their individuality and the society that was formed on the back of it. The Western and every other First World Country is based in that idealism and through that achievement, pioneers and true champions have been born again and again.
The thing about DPS that I do appreciate is also want deeply haunts me that despite it's idealism, very rarely does anything slip by the realists - very much like reality. That truth is so debilitating messed up that it is almost akin to the realization that according to the stats and surveys produced, no matter what you have chosen to believe, most of us would have ended up as the accomplice to the oppression in the Holocaust than be the Hero whose list would be topic of an Oscar winning Biopic. I don't care that you think I may have overstretched my analogy because it is very much the truth in both counts. But getting back to the story, the realism wins out in those moments when Robert Sean Leonard's character chooses quicker incumbency of the inevitable grasp of death than rather face the futility and frustration of living his parents' dreams. This is also a recurrence when Robin William's (RIP, you brilliant and magnificent legend; I have no idea what you thought in the last moments of your days but if I could, I would tell you that every breath that you ever took was completely worth it and you left the world a better world than when you came into it and it was no so because it was inevitable but because you chose to make it better for those whose lives were touched by yours. So, thank you in addendum to anybody who ever made your life better and brought a smile to you) Keating is fired and students are left helpless to do anything about it till the last when they defy their necessary conformity to the school. But even then, the movie ends out an melancholic breezy high which could only be managed by the ambiguity of shot being cut then and there with a final display of approval. That is what is impressive about this movie that there is a definite parallel established in the story because of the world that exists and the world that should exist. It is beautiful in an haunting re-imposition of reality and its dread that we must fight everyday. 
It will also be close to my heart because of:
1) How close I feel to Neil Perry (RSL) because I could identify with the frustration he fought and lost. It makes me want to face the rough hands I have had in my life a little bit harder. I want to live and be happy in the way of Keating, but should I fail and can't get back up, let this be my self-implicated obituary - I have loved living. I have had good times and I have cherished each one of those, so much so that you could say I sucked the 'marrow out of those bones' whenever and however I could. Unfortunately, I must have more bad shit happen that I couldn't fight or became too cowardly against. I would like to apologize for that, I didn't mean to hurt anybody anymore. Perhaps, most of all, myself was the top of the list. I may have hated quite a few people because my Idealism and weaknesses and loved a lot more because of how much love I felt I had to give and also, of my perpetual, ever-lingering loneliness. I don't know if I feel those anymore, I don't if I want or want to give forgiveness and lastly, if there is even a beyond. I sincerely hope not, one life is all we have and it should all we get; peace and unknowing in the everlasting is all that I seek anymore if I have chosen this path. Take care, be well and value life while you have it and can still make good on its promises, honestly. Only a dead man can tell you the truth of that.
2) It contradicts on almost every story in Indian Film Industry that has been made on this topic (it might be slightly poetic that I am obsessed that I am so obsessed with pain, living in The City of Joy; Then again, Pain is a binary of Joy - Each the more building itself where the other chooses frequent). Indian movies are more emotional, more optimistic and dramatic in their flair that people will actually make the choices that Perry couldn't and people like the Perry parents and the Headmaster will actually take a chance on him and forgive him. This movie shows another very possible side of that scenario and I can appreciate that. Overall, I still do prefer movies with hopeful portrayals because if there is one thing we need some more almost everyday, it is hope. The hope that the unlikely, harder choice which may lead to a positive outcome after toil should still be fought for no matter how hard it is; which, I honestly know, easier said than done but I really wanted Perry to fight one more day even if it was and not have gone quietly into night - Rage, Rage against the dying light (I am paraphrasing Dylan Thomas's poem about this subject which was dedicated to his father). You will watch it. You need just someone to tell you that you will be alright. I will be that person and it is gonna be okay and I think you will find a more fervent desire to live life better and better yet as an definitive individual after you have watched it.
P.S. - Should be anybody be interested in checking out the more optimistic portrayals of the style of story DPS pursued, here are the names - Mohabbatein & 3 Idiots
It's with a sad sense of irony that one watches the film today, knowing that Robin Williams took his own life at the age of sixty three a few years ago. No one can truly know what personal demons another person faces daily to bring about such a tragic event. His suicide defied all rationality to anyone who followed his career and he is sadly missed.I think everyone deserves a teacher like John Keating at least once during their time in school. I came close, there was a teacher in my high school who was as well regarded as Mr. Keating but I was not in one of his classes. Yet he was a personal favorite and always took the time to chat when the opportunity presented itself. Insisting that one learns to think for themselves is probably the most valuable lesson any teacher can inspire, and when that lesson takes hold, you have the triumphant acknowledgment that that teacher is not only a capable instructor, but a valued human being as well.I've seen this film a number of times and it always manages to impress. You can see the young men of Welton Academy mature as students and as individuals over the course of the story. The death of Neil Perry (Robert Sean Leonard) certainly strikes a discordant note, but serves to dramatize the inner turmoil one faces when forced to accept outcomes that don't come from the heart. It was unfortunate that he could not seize the day in his own good time, while attempting to conform to his father's accepted principles of Welton - 'Tradition, Honor, Discipline and Excellence'. There should have been some room left over for Humanity.
This film, which inspired and changed the lives of many, gives us a story: about the English professor John Keating
(Robin Williams)
In a boarding school, the Wilton Academy, where the students are studying, the professor enters the life of the Academy studentsTo inspire them to love life and change their lives forever, when it makes them think in a different unconventional way and with a lot of rebellion.
The film contains a collection of beautiful poetry quotations ..
Including the quote from a poem by the English poet Robert Helek:
"Gather the buds as long as you can, the old time is still flying, and the same flower that smiles today will die tomorrow"
The film also contains a lot of wonderful ideas .. Of which the professor said to his students:
"We do not read and do not write poetry because it is funny, we read and write poetry because we are members of the human race, and the human race is full of emotion.
Medicine, law, business administration, engineering .. is a noble and important character in order to preserve life
But poetry is beauty, romance, love, these are the things we live for. "
And the beautiful film also:
That he knows them on the slogan "Carpi Diem," which is Latin means "nest your day"And teaches them how to "extract the essence of life" from every moment, how to think for themselves and choose their own wayEven if he is uneducated or strange, to have the courage to defend their ideas and beliefs, to face the power that is trying to paintTheir way and their future without any consideration for their feelings and emotions.
I saw this movie a couple of times over the years, it made an indelible memory. Especially the last scene where each boy, in turn, stood on his desk, defying orders from the old headmaster. Now I was able to watch it again on Netflix streaming movies.This certainly is one of our landmark movies. Set in 1959 former student at the elite private boys high school, Robin Williams as John Keating, returns to teach. Classroom scenes focus on his poetry class. We find out from his photo in the old yearbook that he was a rebel of sorts, willing "to try anything", and perhaps it is a mystery why the staid old school, valuing discipline and tradition, hired him. Keating's main focus is to get the young boys (all the actors were in fact teenagers during filming) to learn to think for themselves. Carpe diem. Seize the day. But that invariably runs up against school administration and some of the parents. When Keating was a student he was a member of an unofficial club "Dead Poets Society." Upon learning about this a group of his students on their own reestablish this club.The tragic figure is Robert Sean Leonard as Neil Perry with a strict father who was determined his son would become a doctor. But his son really want to act and couldn't deal with what he was being forced to do.A very young looking Ethan Hawke is shy Todd Anderson. And a very young Josh Charles who is still acting in TV, he was Will in "The Good Wife."Fine movie with no easy answers but we are each encouraged to seize the day in our own lives. Sadly Robin Williams took his own life in 2014 at age 63.
There is a lot to like about the movie. Cinematography, characterizations, actors, etc. I really liked how it leaves you feeling for Keating's character at the end, while also in many ways arguing against his actions. The Latin teacher and principal are respectful and cordial. Their positions are more level headed. After all, Keating's student kills himself, when he could have waited a year and become an actor. He would have been an "adult" in no time. He couldn't wait. I have to be an actor now or die. I can understand feeling that way if your parents are telling you you can't be who you want to be. But suicide? The other students are reckless too. They're young. They're not as capable of thinking long term. They're doing stuff that's risking expulsion... stupid stuff, that could negatively impact the rest of their lives. They don't have as much experience. Anyway, that's why i liked the movie. Did really well developing that central question of how much freedom and responsibility 17 years can handle. How much critical reasoning can they do and should it be encouraged? Hard to say, I think.
From Director Peter Weir (The Truman Show) and screenwriter Tom Schulman (Honey, I shrunk the kids) introducing this classical school melodrama set in the world of "America's best preparatory school" Wilton Academy where the students bearing names like "Pitts" and "Meeks" (you couldn't find whiter names?) are introduced to their new English professor John Keating (Robin Williams) who comes bearing his informal and contemporary teaching methods making him appeal to his new students immediately.The movie-set in 1959-follows the theme of challenging the conservative, conventional style of life and encouraging a new free thinking style presented by the character of prof. Keating, who, to be honest, didn't take much time getting into the heads of a group of white nerdy boys who do study groups in their first day of school, really lads? Anywho, professor Keating, who keeps constantly quoting Whitman, Herrick, and Tennyson, introduces the boys into the "cute" world of poetry in a very dynamic and playful acting much as the actor himself, losing himself into his theatrical persona where he reads Shakespeare sonnets impersonating Marlon Brando from the godfather (uhmm somebody needs to tell Robin that the godfather deputed 19 years after the time of the movie) but regardless of his outstanding performance as the quick witted, fast paced professor, I'm afraid that Robin Willam's character does not fit as a protagonist of this film rather than the tool that helped the plot move, the character wasn't anything more than a very well crafted plot device in this movie.The main conflict we see in this movie is between a young Robert Sean Leonard playing the role of Neil, a smart student who dreams of becoming an actor, and his hardheaded strict father who denies him his wishes in fear of it disturbing his education (probably the only white boys in the US who cannot defy their parents) a conflict which ends up in a most tragic way.The dead poets society is a secret society founded by an intellectual equivalent of a 98 Pound weakling teenage version of professor John Keating himself, and reincarnated by his young students who get immediately attracted to the idea of poetry under the influence of their charismatic teacher, the reincarnated form though, seems to be completely purposeless (well asides from meeting in a cave in the night, wooing chicks with other poets lines and dancing to Vanche Lindsay's "The Congo" (one of the poems that critics debate it's racist content which is ironic in an all white cast movie).The movie's cast including Robin Willams, Robert S. Leonard, and Ethan Hawke did a great job portraying their roles and quite frankly hiding the many flaws in a movie that has not one, not two but three scenes with birds flying off in one sequence (maybe Peter Weir is trying to compensate for the lack of "birds" in the all boys school?) but all in all the movie is quite enjoyable, entertaining and indeed, worthwhile.


                
Dead Poets Society is a film that has a very important message , a film where the Carp Deam phrase is well traveled , the cast is very good, we have the great Robin Williams is one of his best performances in his career , the cast still has a still young Ethan Hawke , Robert Sean Leonard , Josh Charles and etc , the first act of the film is a bit slow , more is quite good , not reach is tiring , is a very poetic film, direction Peter Weir is excellent , the trail sound is good, the picture is also very good, the last act is very good , especially the end that is perfect for the film, Peter Weir finished very well the film, the script is good, has its lapses , most are little, Dead Poets Society is one of the decade 's top 80 , has a good cast , and many memorable moments . Note 8.3


                
Sure, sometimes the movie is on the edge of kitsch but who would have thought beforehand that a movie with a teacher trying to inspire his students for poetry would turn out to be such a success. What's more, the movie has also turned the Horace aphorism "carpe diem" into a term that has found its way into modern language and is widely understood. One has to concede, however, that the movie does not deliver its original meaning, which is more about enjoying life as it is than shaping it to one's favour.Usually I am not such a big fan of Robin Williams as I am not so fond of clowneries but in this movie, he, as Mr. Keating, was playing the unobtrusive part of his lifetime. This opinion apparently was shared by some colleagues from the show business who in their shows, on the occasion of Mr. Williams's death, climbed up a table just as Mr. Keating did in Dead Poets Society to demonstrate how the change of perspective can alter preconceptions.Besides, the movie can also be seen as a didactic play on what effects a liberal or a strict education can have on teenagers. It will, hopefully open the eyes of all parents who are convinced to know best what is good for their kids without ever asking the kids what they want. The message of possible disaster, however, does not come across completely convincing since I could not quite understand why Neil felt so trapped since otherwise he was a self-confident young fellow.Eventually, the movie also perfectly demonstrates how recklessly established systems react on outsiders who question this system and try to change it. In case of any occurrence that puts this system and its stakeholders at risk of lower outside acceptance, a scapegoat is quickly found and removed. By doing so the stakeholders count on the cowardice and fears of its dependents and unfortunately this calculation frequently pays off. So does it in the movie. The final scene with the students climbing up on their desks to demonstrate their solidarity with the scapegoat Mr. Keating makes a good ending but does not change the overall situation. It does demonstrate, however, that Mr. Keating's endeavors to encourage the students to become self-confident, non-conformist members of society have fallen on solid ground, especially with Neil's shy roommate Todd, the first one to stand up for the captain, Mr. Keating. Hence, not all is hopeless and changes for the better are possible <U+0085> All these interesting aspects along with the many and so diverse coming-of age character studies of the classmates make it a movie definitely worthwhile seeing. Especially it is quite different from most other films.


                
