It was with a sad reason that I re watched Dead Poets Society, as we lose yet another talent and an all round good person in Robin Williams. This being my favorite Williams film, I took it upon myself to honor his memory by remembering his best body of work, in my opinion. Mr. Keating is the teacher that I wish I had, and granted this might be a mixed opinion within the film's context, but the matter of the fact is that he was no ordinary teacher, and that's something you don't see very often.The thing about this film is that it doesn't shorten its importance to Williams's performance. The supporting cast is one that balances the film like no other. Every one of those students that revived the DPS is, in one way or another, influenced by Mr. Keating, be that positively or, unfortunately, negatively. The story being an Oscar winning screenplay, is one that I think mostly resonates with younger people, and with this movie being part of my 10th grade Portuguese course, I, personally, embraced its essence and of course its driving message of seizing the day.As I've seen here on IMDb, this movie might not gather nearly uncontested praise, but it is very much highly regarded today as it was 25 years ago. The final scene still gives me chills to this day, and in the midst of our sad goodbye to Mr. Williams I just wanna say Thank You My Captain. It was a pleasure learning to become my own motivated person. May we all Carpe DiemRating: 9/10


                
Swim against the stream What this film did for me? I found myself 'standing up on that desk' to remind myself that I should be constantly viewing the world with new perspective. A magical film, and despite it being made in 1989, still completely and maybe even more relevant to today's society. In a world of mass conformity, largely created by social media and smart phone technology, especially among the young and teenagers, it is ever more important to be inspired by and pursue what this film teaches us. We need to find our own voice among the crowd. Make your life extraordinary. It renews, inspires and restores a feeling of passion for words, poems, literature and life! Passion for learning and excelling / expressing ourselves. Keeping your eyes open, looking backwards and forwards, never down. Life is not 1 dimensional. Life is about expression; expressing those many layers and dimensions which make up the fabric of life. This film completely encompasses that sentiment. Striving to find your own voice. Finding words and meanings to best depict the inner workings of your life and mind. "We read and write poetry because we are members of the human race. And the human race is filled with passion. And medicine, law, business, engineering, these are noble pursuits and necessary to sustain life. But poetry, beauty, romance, love, these are what we stay alive for."You can learn a lot from this movie. In society/ schools nowadays we are constantly being bombarded - told how to do things, why, and what they mean. we are filling up our brains with junk yet we have a world of knowledge, quite literally, right at our fingertips. Yet have we lost a sense of curiosity? Have we stopped asking why?My favourite scene was the one in the dormitory room, when the boys are playing, jumping across beds and desks, chasing each other round the room, round and round in circles. I think the directing and camera work is fantastic here, with the camera positioned in the middle of the room shooting upwards and following the boys in a rather dizzying way - it completely encompasses the ultimate freedom and spirit of the film. Powerful directing. Magical visuals- autumnal lake scenes and old New England buildings. Dead poets society made me both laugh and cry a lot. Almost a therapeutically good movie. It will stay with me for a long time to come. Robin Williams was wonderful too. RIP.10 out of 10 and I want to watch it again already. Remember you are here - that life exists, and identity; that the powerful play goes on and you may contribute a verse. That the powerful play *goes on* and you may contribute a verse. What will your verse be?Oh, one extra thing. Here is my inspired 5 min poem:Your verse? Quick fast tick tock, Skim swipe tick tock, Glowing face tick tock, Head down tick tock, Marching stomp tick tock.Each day tick tock Faced with a question tick tock, Your verse tick tock, Two roads tick tock, Diverging Follow your path tick tock, Open your eyes tick tock, Face the world tick tock, Seize the day tick tock, ListenOne day tick tock, Lie with the daffodils. Food for the worms. Forever, Tick. Tock. Thank you for reading my short verse. Post a reply in the message boards if you too felt inspired. (Oh also I'm not claiming to be Tennyson here....just an enjoyable way to spend a Sunday morning reflecting on this wonderful film I watched last night. Think of those boys at the front of the class before you choose tear it apart! :-) )
This film ends up on top 10 and 100 lists so often that I think many people (me included!) have a tendency to overlook it and think of it as composed only of those key visual scenes, a story told in fragments of the familiar. Rewatching it recently, however, I was reminded of how brilliant Robin Williams' performance is and how effectively the viewer is also drawn into the group, another member of the secret society, another person holding something important close and willing to defend it. A true classic.


                
In a sense, this movie was indeed the celebration of Dead Poets the world over! Dead Poets Society! I am guessing a large number of you, like me, were expecting a bunch of spooky irregular events at the mutter of that name. Certainly wasn't to be, it is an inspirational odyssey which will make you pounce upon time and reclaim your life. Carpe Diem and the spirit that John Keating (played by Robin Williams) stands for could easily be misinterpreted by the turn of events in the movie, especially Neils poignant death. To do so is to completely miss the point. The spirit of Carpe Diem lies in the painstaking eventualities which one will have to brave to follow the lead of passion and fervour. Robin Williams plays a professor of poetry, John Keating at the prestigious Welton School, with a management making sufficient hay with the schools continual academic shine. His particularly unorthodox methods of teaching soon make one realize that poetry is not something to do with rhyming words or fantasy lands, but that poetry is in effect a direct means to ones disposition in life, a disposition which would ring success in all avenues. His students soon change their very outlook towards life indulging in activities much to the displeasure of the academically unbending deans of the school. Harvesting discontent against Keating, the deans soon latch on to the one opportunity(or mis-opportunity I must say) that comes their way in the form of Neils death to see the removal of Keating from the school and the teaching profession. The last few minutes celebrate every individualistic spirit to let you segue into a illusive reality. A young Ethan Hawke playing an even younger student redeems his professors every drop of sweat with "Oh Captain! My Captain!" . Watch the movie and you will see why! At least for half an hour after I watched this movie, I managed to drive mans favorite cliché "Life Sucks!" into oblivion. I suppose the students at Welton were not the only ones Professor John Keating inspired.
I watched this movie near one year after the tragic death of Robin Williams, and only for the first time. I had heard about the "O Captain! My Captain!" thing and knew it was a very popular film, but what I wasn't prepared for was how deeply emotional it is, and how much it resonates with the passing of Williams. This is a movie that although could be described as trying too hard for emotion, still just makes you want to smile, you want these boys to break out of their closed off traditional world and do what they want to do in life.The story is about an elite prep boarding school and its students, where some are being worked hard as they await the day they enter college. But in comes Mr Keating, a new English teacher who's ways don't exactly impress the hard up parents and teachers, who's values are very much the underpinning of what the young students despise. The story has its ways of making Williams just great to watch; the young guys who act here work well alongside him and make this a movie that has no central character, but a central story to share.Directed by Peter Weir, the movie is not all about Robin Williams and the famous scenes that are involved. In fact Weir gives just a fine performance as any other, his directing is finely done and he knows how to control the emotion of the film so that it isn't always one tone. Tom Schulman whose experiences inspired this movie, creates a beautiful script, in fact I am not quite sure if is Weir or Schulman who make this special, but in any case both are on great form. The rest of the cast pitch in well too, a young Ethan Hawke as the painfully shy Todd is OK, I am not sure if he is good but in any case his more emotional side is fascinating when done. Josh Charles as Knox is also good and the other boys involved such as Robert Sean Leonard are good also. I found if any part of the movie stops this from utter perfection, then the acting is what it is, by no means bad but sometimes a little over the top. As for Williams's nomination for an Academy Award, well maybe I agree, I mean his acting is great here and although I've seen some criticise his comic side coming out here, I for one don't think it was a bad thing.When you get a film that just makes you think, you know it is fairly special, but one that adds into it emotion too, then it starts to become sublime. This film knows how to challenge perception, and even though this is set in 1959 and made in 1989, the ideas that Keating uses are still inspirational today, and the way in which he talks about poetry can at times be most beautiful. I think again a lot of praise goes to Schulman for creating a script that can mean a lot to someone, watch this at just the right age and this could blow your mind, it really could.Is it for everyone? well it should be, a movie I would highly recommend to someone even if they don't usually like this kind of movie, simply because of the thought process involved. It isn't even too long, I felt maybe for it to one of the best ever, it had to maybe have had an even better ending than it already does, which is a really fine ending by the way. It should keep you gripped throughout, it never made me feel bored or like I had better things to do, it was a rare movie that spoke to me and opened my mind as I feel the people behind this wanted it to do.


                
Dead Poets Society is directed by Peter Weir (Picnic At Hanging Rock/Gallipoli) and stars Robin Williams, Robert Sean Leonard, Ethan Hawke, Kurtwood Smith, Gale Hansen & Norman Lloyd. The script is written by Tom Schulman, based on his life at Montgomery Bell Academy, an all-boys preparatory school in Nashville, Tennessee. The film is set in 1959 at the fictional Welton Academy in Vermont (location shoot from St. Andrew's School in Middletown, Delaware). The story follows that of English teacher John Keating who uses his different method of teaching to inspire his students to be all that they can be whilst warning of the perils of conformity.Dead Poets Society was a monster smash hit that made almost $220 million profit in Worldwide box office takings. Not bad considering this was the year that film lovers flocked to see the likes of Batman, Lethal Weapon 2 and the third outing for one Indiana Jones. It showed that there was a mainstream market for serious drama if it is done well. And rest assured, Dead Poets Society is done well, very well in fact. Its launchpad is Schulman's Academy Award winning script that puts under the microscope educational conformity and the ogres that are parental and peer pressure. Enter the inspired casting of Robin Wiliams (nominated for BAFTA & Academy Award for Best Actor) as the teacher who urges his charges to see outside of the box that they have been placed in. Young men, soon to be full adults, who have their lives mapped out for them, are challenged by Mr Keating to be spontaneous, to pursue idealism and view life with new perspectives.Coming two years after he was nominated for Good Morning Vietnam, Williams once and for all proves to his doubters that he is a quality dramatic actor. His Keating is charismatic but without the mad-cap histrionics that Williams is famed for. Very controlled, in that what is in essence a catalyst role, Keating hasn't rushed to become said catalyst. He's a constant sympathetic presence, a father figure type, yet a confidential friend too. That Schulman's script has avoided the usual clichés that come with teacher-student relations in film's helps Williams as an actor to breath intelligent life into Keating. Even the flecks of humour that Williams is allowed to work from, such as Brando doing Shakespeare, play with a warmth that's essential to the relationships forming in the piece. Tho it's unquestionably Williams' movie (the film soars when he is on screen), the young cast playing the students get an A + for their sensitive portrayals. Notably Robert Sean Leonard (heartfelt), Ethan Hawke (haunting) & Gale Hansen (punky). While Kurtwood Smith leaves an indelible image as a domineering father.In the hands of Weir, the film, unsurprisingly to his fans, carries an air of mysticism too. Again working with one of his regular DOP's, John Seale, Weir knows how to capture the time, place and people in his movies; while cloaking them in dashes of mystical beauty. Be it the boys striding around the school grounds amidst autumnal hues, or plodding wearily thru the snowy terrain as Winter kicks in, Weir gives the scenes an apt poetic quality. It's also of note that these scenes, as well as the cave sequences where the Dead Poets Society meetings take place, blend with the characters emotional states. Sprightly and optimistic around the greenery, nervous and excited in the darkened cave, then heavy of heart and leg as the fall accompanies the emotionally turbulent last quarter. A last quarter that leads to what has now become a divisive ending. Some have (and will) come away from it irked and claiming it to be syrupy. Others such as myself find it uplifting, hopeful and a fitting end to the emotional roller-coaster that cast and crew have taken us on. Is your glass half full or half empty? An excellent and intelligent story is directed and acted accordingly, with its themes making it actually one of the best Punk Rock movies out there. 9/10


                
A film that continually defies expectation, whether it is through the plot, characterizations, or performances of the actors. While you may not end up where you expected to, you are ultimately glad you went along for the ride.It's 1959, and at Weldon Academy, tradition is everything. Weldon, however, is about to be shaken up by the arrival of John Keating (Robin Williams in an unusual dramatic turn), who encourages his students to look at things with new eyes. Among those who take his message most to heart are Neil Perry (Robert Sean Leonard), son of an overbearing and unpleasant father (the truly evil Kurtwood Smith), and his roommate, Todd Anderson (Ethan Hawke), ignored younger brother of a previous Weldon valedictorian. While the students who form the "Dead Poets Society" have good intentions, participation in the group leads to Neil's defiance of his father, which in turn leads to tragedy. Todd has mostly been an observer throughout this, but the loss of one of the few people who cared about him, and the potential loss of another finally bring him out of his shell, and allow him to take his first stand.This is an interesting script, in that it leads you to believe you're going to have a happy ending, and then snatches that ending away so quickly you hardly know what has happened. Before you can catch your breath, a suicide has occurred, the surviving parents are hounding the school, teachers and students are turning against each other, and the truth is buried under expediency, leaving the viewer wondering what was being taught in prep schools in the 1950's. In the end, Keating is used as a scapegoat to appease the anguished father, but the film leaves one more lesson to be taught before Keating leaves Weldon forever. Unfortunately, several plot points introduced prior to the suicide are simply dropped after it, leaving the viewer wondering what happened to the budding romance of one of the students and a town girl, as well as a few other things that just get left rather than addressed.The setting of the prep school works rather well in this film, making it almost a world unto itself. The stone buildings represent the unchanging tradition valued so highly at Weldon. Nothing moves the stone; nothing changes the school. This further emphasizes the gulf between the students and the rest of the world on the occasions in which they enter it.In spite of the flaws in the script, the performances are uniformly strong. Smith is the epitome of evil, oozing malice out of every pore in every scene he is in. Unfortunately, this works against him when he loses his son, in that we feel no sympathy for him at all. Williams gives a surprisingly restrained performance as Keating. What comedy there is in this film does not come from him. He plays Keating as a man of passion and integrity, who accepts his fate with grace and class. While Leonard can be a bit cloying, he does an excellent job of portraying Neil, especially the vulnerability which is behind the bravado. The most remarkable performance in the film Hawke's Todd. Not only do you see wonderful character development, but some of Hawke's most expressive acting occurs when he has no dialogue at all. It is through Todd's eyes that we see the end of the film - his upset that one of the Dead Poets Society has turned traitor and gotten another expelled, his disbelief that the others have joined in the persecution of Keating, and his inability to take a stand against that injustice. Most impressive is the scene where Todd watches Keating pack to leave the school, rather than pay attention to class. Todd has no dialogue throughout, yet Hawke's portrayal is so skillful that you see everything he is feeling, and the buildup to his outburst. A truly unforgettable scene.This is a movie with an unhappy, yet satisfying ending. An injustice has been committed, but it has also been recognized, and perhaps a lesson learned. A thoughtful film, well worth watching repeatedly.
I recently re-watched this film at my current ripe age of 30. I haven't watched this movie since the mid 90s when I watched it on TV. So that puts about 10-12 years since I've last seen it.I rented this movie because I recalled that it made such an impression on me. After watching the film again, I can remember why. The protagonists are a group of impressionable teenagers who are about to enter college. This is the age at which I saw this film.Robin Williams' character, Keating, is introduced as a teacher of poetry but becomes a teacher of life. His lessons of carpe diem ("seize the day"), living life to its fullest and nonconformity are the types of messages that ring true in the hearts and minds of teenagers. At this age, I find the film pleasurable but when I watched it at the time, I felt truly inspired. It was the sort of film that really made me think and feel and the general ideas sat with me for some time.


                
Film set in 1959 (based on screenwriter Schulman's own experiences at academy) about liberal English teacher Williams influencing his students who attend all-boys Welton Academy. Focuses more on the group of boys, but Williams is able to work his off-the-cuff dialogue enough to keep you reminded that it's still him. Absolutely beautiful Northeastern setting, with excellent enough pacing to keep you entertained the entire way through. The boys are surprisingly less dorky than you'd think. The film never takes the easy way out, with Weir and Schulman seeming perfectly content with impending gloom. Kudos also for developing how important teachers can be to their students and vice versa. Williams' character was inspired by Samuel Pickering.<U+2605><U+2605><U+2605>½ (out of four)


                
Dead Poets Society is a film about a group of boys attending a prestigious Prep school in New England during the 1950's. The story follows Todd Anderson (Ethan Hawke), the younger brother of a former valedictorian, and his roommate, Neil Perry (Robert Sean Leonard), a exceptionally bright, artistic student with a overbearing father. The school rests upon four pillars: tradition, honor, discipline, and excellence. However, a new outlook comes in the form of a new teacher. The new English teacher, a former student John Keating (Robin Williams), presents the students with a different outlook and encourages the boys to seize the day. His unorthodox teaching methods stir up his students imagination and anger some of the more traditional characters in the film. There are many themes throughout, but above all else the message is to follow your heart. The story is extremely well written and the cast of young actors do well to bring the out the uncertainties and excitement of adolescence. The set design and direction capture this period and produce a story that will pass the test of time. Robin Williams performance in this film ranks among his best. He has departed us, but his legacy lives on. He visits us through his films and tells us "Carpe Diem"!


                
I'm 15 and probably would never have looked at this in the video shop and bought it. After i was introduced to it in English class and after watching it changed my mind about old non-action films. For the first 5 minutes i was bored to death but then as the film progressed i began to understand the characters and recognize some actors. Half way though the film i thought "Wow, I'm gonna hire this out". The film had everything from comedy, drama, romance, suspense and enjoyment and i thought "whats not to like". A top notch performance by a young Ethan hawke who played a nervous Todd Anderson. Its a shame you don't get movies like this anymore but this one is an instant classic.


                
Not only will this movie touch your heart and possibly bring tears to your eyes, it will inspire you to be a better mentor to others and to follow your dreams no matter what the boundaries or consequences may be. It is truly poetry on the screen.. a great story and a touching social commentary on humanity and life's greatest challenges. The thought of non conformity scares a lot of people in this world but when you choose to take a step out of the box your life will forever be changed. If you haven't seen it yet, I highly recommend you do. The film does portray a great deal of tragic irony but I wont be a spoiler. This movie has defiantly taken my love of poetry to an entirely new level!


                
Dead Poets Society is a much better film than I anticipated. Honestly, I thought this would be a film all about poetry and I loathe poetry, so I didn't give this film a chance. I'm glad I did because this is not a film about poetry, but about a group of college kids who have been encouraged to follow their own dreams. This film is a well-made drama that will make you smile, laugh, and cry. It also has one of the most unexpected scenes I have seen in awhile.Peter Weir's film is about a group of college kids who are inspired by their English professor, John Keating. Keating tells his kids who follow their dreams and they do just that. Unfortunately, the dean and the parents have other ideas for their kids.Robin Williams gives a true, inspirational performance as John Keating. He is the teacher that is common nowadays, but someone my parents would yearn to have. Ethan Hawke delivers a stand out performance as one of the kids and so does Robert Sean Leonard.Overall, this is a truly inspirational film that has one simple message for all people, especially younger ones. This message is "Follow our dreams and don't let anyone tell you what you can or can't do." This message should have been used back in the 1950's-1960's. This film is well-acted, has great direction, and should leave a tear or two. I rate this film 9/10.


                
This movie is one of the Finest movies I have seen, with performances which absolutely captivate and amaze you. The script of the movie is really different and something never seen before. Robin Williams as John Keating and Ethan Hawke as Todd are just fantabulous and have done full justice to the characters portrayed. The portrayal of Neil Perry by Robert Sean Leonard couldn't have been better. There is a dialogue in the film : "We are not talking artists, we are talking freethinkers". We all can't be artists like Shakespeare. but we must be freethinkers. This movie teaches to "seize the day, and make our lives extraordinary." Especially the end of the movie is marvellous where Ethan Hawke stands up on the bench and says - "Oh Captain ! My Captain!" to his professor Mr. Keating, which actually brought tears to my eyes. It conveys the most beautiful thought- of being ourselves,enjoying ourselves, and doing what we want. We are mortals, and we never know till when we shall live and must make the most of each moment and enjoy it. The movie propagates the message of 'Independence- in thoughts and actions'. It is not just the script which has the power, but the direction, acting and other aspects in the movie are just beyond words. One may say the movie is about poetry. For me it(poetry) is a medium and an expression used in the movie, to convey the message of celebrating life, being free. I salute to all the Dead Poets, the world over !!!Watch this movie at least once. You will surely enjoy it.
Dead Poets Society is directed by Peter Weir, has music by Maurice Jarre and stars Robin Williams, Robert Sean Leonard, Gale Hansen, Josh Charles, Kurtwood Smith and Norman Lloyd.The students of a private boys school return after the holidays to two new changes.A new student called Todd Anderson(Ethan Hawke) and the new English teacher with a different view of teaching Mr Keating(Robin Williams).As the year begins Mr Keating inspires the boys to be different from everyone else and follow their hearts. Keating finds his methods opposed by the schools strict headmaster Mr Nolan(Norman Lloyd). Some of his students reform a secret club which Keating started with some friends when he was a pupil at the school. The club is called The Dead Poets Society, the idea is to learn poetry and discuss life.Tragedy lies in store when one pupil Neil Perry(Robert Sean Leonard)goes against his domineering father(Kurtwood Smith)and his plans for his future and tries to do what he wants to do.Williams is excellent as the outgoing and kind Keating desperately trying to make learning fun and interesting. He cares about the students a great deal and wants the best for them. Williams shines during the comedy scenes but shows what a good dramatic actor he could be too.Robert Sean Leonard gives a deeply moving performance as Neil, so desperately wanting to be his own man and do what he wants but unable to stand up against his father. There's fine support from Gale Hanson as the rebel Charlie Dalton and Josh Charles as Knox Overstreet, two of Neil's closest friends. Funny and poignant, Dead Poets Society is a film that stays with you long after it's over. Robin Williams gives one of his best performances proving he could perform serious dramatic moments as well as comic ones.
Upon watching Dead Poets Society, I was truly touched - tears were brought to my eyes with the heart rendering tale of friendship, coming of age, death and loss. Robin Williams cements this film with his portrayal of John Keating, an inspirational English teacher who invokes his students to seize the day and live life, however within the confines of a strict conservative elitist academy - which bodes well for the adversarial route that emerges between Keating and the Institution. In short, it was truly wonderful, OK it's not raw and brimming with realism, however this is not what this film attempts to do - a pure gem with a fantastic cast, I would definitely recommend it.


                
DEAD POETS SOCIETY, in my opinion, is an excellent Robin Williams film. Despite the fact that Keating (Robin Williams) was funny, his antics were a little unorthodox. The first time I ever saw this was in English class during my senior year of high school. After seeing it then, I decided I liked it. However, I didn't buy it on VHS until a year or so later. If you ask me, the most memorable quote is, "Carpe Diem!" In case you're wondering, that's a Latin phrase. Before I wrap this up, I must say that the performances were top grade. Now, in conclusion, if you are a fan of Robin Williams or Ethan Hawke, you're in for a good time and lots of laughs, so see this movie today.


                
i was really fascinated by this one.it's heart-lifting and if you haven't seen it you should definitely work out the problem-you've missed a lot.i do think that this film may change your life.everything here is just great:the cast,the plot,the level of acting and at last,but not least the strong affection on your mind and aims.as i saw there are so many comments on this that i think mine is not necessary,but i felt like i'm very concerned and obliged to write something,so,i thought that i can be useful ,just as many here in the site. Honestly,i was looking for some info for my essay in English about this film,but now i'm really keen on saying'Seiz the day'. wish all of you who have read this luck.that's all,and please don't tell me that you are bored of me!Jeez,thanks!:)


                
For once a story that doesnt have a happy ending. Dead poets society is a tragic story of a young man wishing to be an actor but for his stubborn father who wants and demands him to be a doctor. This is not the only story however, there are other tales such as love, compassion and humour. It is a great film and I have to admit I was sceptical when I saw that Robin Williams was the main star. However, he is brilliant in this movie and makes it work as the compassionate and funny Mr. Keating.Rating 9/10. Great.


                
High school is a brutal place. And if you have authoritarian parents like Neil's, it gets more brutal.Consider a different teacher, who has different habits, different methods. That's Mr. Keating. He had different ways to teach. His methods worked perfectly for students that has courage but his methods didn't work for coward students like Cameron.In the end, they blamed him for everything. They forced everyone to sign and they kicked Mr. Keating out of the school. They were able to this because of coward students, students who wishing to become slaves."Carpe. Carpe Diem. Seize the day boys, make your lives extraordinary!"


                
Inspirational movie to watch at all ages. ''Dead Poets Society'' was directed by Peter Weir and produced Steven Haft, Paul Junger Witt and Tony Thomas.
It has been published in 1989 and has a total length of 123 minutes.
The movie ist about a boys school in Vermont which is named Welton Academy. Most of the teaching is done in a very strict way because of the four pillars of the school. The new english teacher Mr. Keating wants the boys to be free thinkers without thinking of the consequences.
The main actor Robin Williams, who plays the role of John Keating fits perfectly in his role. Robert Sean Leonard as Neil Perry, Ethan Hawk as Todd Anderson, Josh Charles as Knox Overstreet and last but not least Gale Hansen in the role of Charlie Delton represent their characters very well, despite their youth.
In our opinion this movie is a great way to rethink your current decisions in order to live a joyful life. While watching this movie you'll think about how you can make your life extraordinary and it shows what an impact your words can have on people. For example how Neil reacts to his fathers words.
The director's intention is have an impact on peoples lifes in order to seize their days and that they've got a life to live. He wants that we think about the stories that we could tell in our future because we are maybe for some people an idol.
We would recommend the movie because of its great story and amazing message behind it.


                
This brilliant, award winning, masterpiece teaches you how to think for yourself, which new English teacher John Keating (Robin Williams) does for us. The movie is great all the way through and doesn't have any slopes or plot holes. The director (Peter Weir) does a great job at playing with your emotions; at one point you'd be smiling and happy for John Keating's students, and other times the movie will leave you in tears.
Not only does John Keating teach you about looking at poetry from different perspectives, but he also teaches you too look at life in a whole other perspective.
This movie shows how even the rich don't have it easy. Their parents choose their life for them and those parents don't let their children have a say in what they want to do. You can see this with everyone but especially with Neil Perry (Robert Sean Leonard) and his father Mr. Perry (Kurtwood Smith). Neil wants to act, and his father already knows what he wants to Neil to do, and he ruins Neil's life.
If you're looking for an inspirational movie, Dead Poets Society is the one for you.Overall this is a beautiful movie and I'd give it a 10/10.
Oscar winning for best screenplay, and writing this 1989 hit was 128 minutes of perfect drama and comedy. It was funny when it had to be and hit hard with the drama. I give this a 9/10 I thought that the role of John Keating was a perfect fit for Robin Willems. Dead Poet's Society was a great movie for young adults teaching them about the imported of reading /writing poems, some of the poets are Walt Whitman, Shakespeare, Robert Herrick and Lord Byron. Ethan Hawke played Todd Anderson amazing, he played a boy who starts shy then slowly becoming an loud good reader. I think they should have told us more about the history of the Dead Poet's Society and what will happen to it, also I thought that Mr. Keating should have stud up for himself at the end. I liked the way he showed the class poems. He taught in a new way and it worked. He should that you don't have to be in a new in a class and with text books all you have to do is open your mind.
I was surprised by the great act of my lovely Robert Sean Leonard, Ethan Hawke and of course Robin Williams. This movie is so powerful and emotional. It makes you think so many things for life, for situations, people and many more. It holds you till its latest scene. Is is like a true story of the old decades, what was like back then and how it is now. You can learn so many things from this great scenario. You will be motivated by this movie and maybe you'll learn a thing or two about poetry.
Dead Poet's Society, directed by Peter Weir, investigates the lives of a group of male students who attend Welton Academy, a highly conservative, rigorous boarding school in Vermont. Their English poetry teacher, Mr. Keating, inspires them through his unconventional methods of teaching to reestablish a "Dead Poet's Society" at their school, in which they gather to recite poetry and "suck the marrow out of life". Some may argue that Dead Poet's Society's themes of depression and suicide make the movie too morbid for young viewers. Others, including notorious movie critic Roger Ebert, may insist that the overrated movie has a tired and predictable plot; of course the innovative, non-comforting teacher will change the lives of his students and be fired by the traditional, ancient headmaster. However, I insist that this movie's heartfelt message, exploration of common teenage experiences, and inspirationally crafted characters make this film one of my favorites. Moreover, the film's actors and relatability makes Dead Poet's Society one of the greatest coming of age movies ever made.The actors in Dead Poet's Society make this film exceptional. The perfectly cast Robin Williams, who takes the role of Mr. Keating, blends humor, inspiration and sentiment to gorgeously execute his character. When Mr. Keating brings up lines from Shakespeare, he quirkily performs impressions of other famous actors spouting lines, incorporating the lovable nature of Robin Williams into the character. However, in an instant, Williams can just as easily spout words full of hope and inspiration that bring tears to my eyes. His ability to evoke such a multitude of emotions in viewers makes the film incredible to watch. Robert Sean Leonard, who plays Neil Perry, one of the boys who yearns to pursue an acting career despite his father's plans for him to become a doctor, has an amazing performance in this film. His versatile acting, which includes portraying Puck from "A Midsummer Night's Dream" within the movie and exploring the darkness of depression and failure, suck the audience into the plot and his character's journey. These actors create an attachment from the audience, which in part makes the film successful.The relatable scenarios in Dead Poet's Society appeals to the viewers' sense of sentiment. Robin William's character, Mr. Keating, encourages his English students to savor every moment in life and put themselves in uncomfortable situations to help them discover their inner passions. He often asks his students to stand on desks to prove everything can be perceived from a different perspective and walk around while a beat plays to show how easily they tend to walk with the beat and, therefore, lay victim to conformity. As an audience member, I, along with many others, can relate to having an awe-inspiring teacher that taught beyond the classroom. Mr. Briguglio, my tenth grade English teacher, often recited Mr. Keating's favorite phrase, "Carpe Diem," or seize the day, when encouraging us to go out into the world and live with vitality and drive. While we explored literature, not only did we discuss the books' themes and characters, but we also asked ourselves philosophical questions and often went off on tangents exploring human tendencies and personal experiences. Mr. Briguglio created a safe classroom environment, similar to Mr. Keating's, where students could fearlessly open up about their passions or worries. My experiences allowed the messages in Dead Poet's Society to deeply resonate with me because I could relate to these boys as their teachers completely changed their interpretation of learning and outlook on the future. This made this film extremely enjoyable for me to watch.This movie is one of the best coming of age movies because its inspirational messages evokes hope and curiosity in its audience. Mr. Keating's frequent invigorating spiels that encourage us to chase our dreams serve as a beacon of hope and optimism for his audience members. I was personally left with chills, feeling invincible and and as if I had somehow joined the Dead Poet's Society myself, unlocking new ways of perceiving the world and encountering life. The blend of tragedy, struggle, humor, warmth, love, and invaluable wisdom that this film harbors truly makes it a movie worth your time.
