The movie, "Se7en", starring Brad Pitt, Morgan Freeman, and Gwyneth Paltrow, is by far one of the most inventive, well-written, and cerebral films in recent history. The film, blending a well put together combination of dark visual style, intense plot development, and polished acting, remains tight and focused throughout, from beginning to end, never straying outwards into unimportant issues, or resorting to typical Hollywood clichés. Se7en is uniquely on its own for suspense dramas as it both fuels the need of the audience to be drawn in and entertained by the events unfolding, and remain uncompromising and shocking, thus satisfying the initial vision of the director, David Fincher.The story surrounds the hunt for a serial killer, who, inspired by Dante Alighieri's seven deadly sins from "The Divine Comedy", sets out to, "preach" about man's impurity, and does so by targeting victims, then torturing them by pitting their own underlining sins against them. Se7en seemingly starts out as a typical cat and mouse detective story, however, it quickly develops into of a sort of modern-myth, with good and evil taking centre stage. The story is original on all counts, and thrilling on all levels. The most important aspect of Se7en, however, is that it keeps the audience numerous steps behind its story, as oppose to other thrillers, which become predictable and bland by the end. By keeping the audience in the dark, the film remains fresh and original as it progresses. Se7en even dramatically turns the tide at one point, just as the audience is finally getting comfortable and asserted into the gloomy atmosphere, thus creating as much as fear and uncertainty in the audience as it is with the characters involved. By the film's conclusion, the audience is as much apart of the film as the characters themselves, and arrive at Se7en's surprise ending without a single clue of it, prior to it occurring. Se7en's poetic ending(which will not be given away) says a lot for the people behind the movie, showing they are not afraid of going against the grain. A rarity with films so nowadays.Directed brilliantly by David Fincher, and skillfully written by Andrew Kevin Walker, Se7en is well crafted and ingeniously clever, making it one of the greatest films of the 90's. While Se7en may not have garnered critical acclaim as such films as Silence of the Lambs, Se7en is, undoubtedly, as influential as any film to date.Score 10/10


                
It is a rarity for a film to be completely unsettling and yet unrelentingly gripping.David Fincher's story takes place in a bleak and constantly raining city (never named) where urban decay and sleaze in all forms are rampant. Coming up to his retirement from the police force is Detective Lieutenant Somerset (Morgan Freeman) who is tasked with breaking in his replacement, Detective Sergeant Mills (Brad Pitt) before leaving. Somerset is world weary, under no illusions about the futility of the daily role he plays and (initially) wants nothing more than to escape the grime and violence of the city. Mills on the other hand is convinced that he is going to make a real difference having voluntarily transferred to this precinct, bringing his wife to the city with him. Before Somerset can move on, a homicide comes in which he and Mills are assigned to investigate. But its only the first of a string of ritual murders that will be committed by a killer who is basing his crimes on the seven deadly sins as depicted in Dante's "The divine comedy".To begin with, Se7en appears to be a standard "cops on the trail of a killer" story which shouldn't be too difficult for the audience to get comfortable with. But as we descend along with the characters into the merciless, brutal world without hope that they inhabit, you are left reeling at the events that unfold.The two detectives enjoy an uneasy relationship with no real friendship ever striking up between them. The older Somerset is educated, astute and gives the impression of being emotionally burnt out. Mills, who has no respect for Somersets methodical investigating gets excited at the thought of solving a murder and firmly believes that the good guys will win eventually. The further we get into the action, the might of the evil that they face pushes both men beyond their limits.This film draws heavily on biblical themes and you can certainly see similarities with such films as "The Seventh Seal" (1957). Both films show the price that good men have to pay when they fight evil and the unsettling truth that the rule book goes straight out the window when you are dealing with something so diabolical that it has no boundaries or limits at all.Se7en shows us a world which has been destroyed by its own sins, a wasteland in which values are minimal. The killer, having nothing but contempt for this world, sees it as his mission to expose the faults and show everyone what they have become. It is a fascinating twist that when the killers motives become clearer, Somerset with his greater understanding actually feels some degree of empathy with him. This is lost on Mills though, whose level of clarity never reaches the same point.A previous reviewer mentioned that you begin to expect the unexpected whilst watching Se7en and i completely agree. Eventually if you think of the most obvious outcome in any situation and predict that the opposite will happen, it usually does. Even the finale itself became kind of predictable because by then you are conditioned not to have any hope. This is a minor flaw though because the story is so well and so shockingly told.Director David Fincher didn't pick up another script for 18 months, such was his exhaustion and frustration following the completion of Alien 3. Apparently he agreed to direct se7en after one reading of Andrew Kevin Walkers screenplay because he was drawn to its hard hitting delivery about inhumanity. He stated: "It's psychologically violent. It implies so much, not about why you did but how you did it". For the camera work specially altered film stock was used to make the visuals look as dark and unsettling as possible which is complemented well by Howard Shores music score.The Most disturbing message that Se7en puts across, is that the fight against evil is destined to be a Pyrrhic victory. But regardless the only thing we can do is fight on whatever the cost. We have no other choice."The World is a fine place and worth fighting for." I agree with the second part.


                
Seven's quality puts it so far beyond most of the "cops on trail of deranged killer" genre that it comes out as a true jewel of cinema. Everything about seven is perfect. It is art captured on film. This movie is a bright spot for all of the stars who worked on it. Brad Pitt never gets the credit he deserves for his acting because he's a pretty boy and the press is a lot more interested about how he and Jennifer are doing. That's a shame because he is a talented actor that isn't afraid to take chances with both the roles that he picks and the characters that he plays. That is quite rare in the A-list world. Morgan Freeman is a great actor. You can always count on him to do what he does best which is play a wise veteran that has seen it all. Kevin Spacey is another great actor that has great range and really puts life and personality into his characters.
The real talent of this movie, excluding the actors that brought it to life, is the director David Fincher and the writer Andrew Kevin Walker. Fincher's talents for making a visually stunning film are now well known and he often brings a dark patina to his work. Andrew Kevin Walker must have some incredible demons living inside him. Either that or one hell of an imagination for bringing the intricate story of Seven and the plan of John Doe to life. John Doe's plan really is twisted and I won't be spoiling it here. Suffice to say I have never seen so evil and complicated a plan in a movie before or since. The cinematography of the film is dark but beautiful and throughout the film it is either night or raining or both except for two very brief moments. It is such an emotional movie that you can't keep from being caught up in what is happening. Do you understand and sympathize with what John Doe is doing or do you think him a mad killer that must be stopped.Bottom Line: If you haven't had the opportunity to see Seven yet then you must at least rent it. It is so damn good that I know you will like it. The only reason you wouldn't is because you're just too damn fragile to take something this hardcore.


                
This movie is from start to finish a well produced and directed film.  The performances in this movie are outstanding. Brad Pitt, once again, makes his role a stand-out performance by putting his versatile acting skills into his interpretation of Detective David Mills. Morgan Freeman is well-cast. His brooding acting style fits the character (Detective William Somerset) like a glove, and Gwyneth Paltrow gives her best performance EVER in the role of Brad Pitt's supportive wife/lover (Tracy Mills). And of course, Kevin Spacey who plays the diabolical yet misunderstood serial killer.The movie is suspenseful and in parts very exciting.  There is a "Pseudo-Noir" quality to this movie that really fits in well with the content of the film (Serial Killing). It has it's philosophical moments that anyone who thinks a lot about the state of the world today can appreciate. It makes subtle moral judgements without insulting any beliefs that the viewer may have and it also generates debate for any post-film coffee/drinks gathering.Andrew Kevin Walker (Screenplay) has taken the subject of the Seven Deadly Sins and he really puts a great new twist on these themes.  As a writer, I really could appreciate the depth that he goes into with these ideas. The movie gives us just enough information to be entertained and informed yet not bombarded and made bored with too much philosophy.  In this respect, the film doesn't "preach" any special meaning even though the film's moral statements are still maintained.  This film can be enjoyed on so many levels and I really enjoyed the third act. One of the best pieces of storytelling and scriptwriting ever.Outstanding performances from everyone involved (And yes, of course, David Fincher does a wonderful job) Say no more. *****


                
Gothic, shocking, suspenseful, disturbing and clever, `Seven' marked a new beginning for director David Fincher's career. This dark tale of murder and crime revolves around two detectives in present New York city played by two brilliant actors `Brad Pitt' and `Morgan Freeman' who are paired together to solve a puzzle of murder that is at the hands of a man who kills regarding to the seven deadly sins. Both actors displayed striking performances that are so sharp and realistic sometimes you have to remind yourself that's its all acting. David Fincher's masterpiece really gives us an opportunity of a lifetime, maybe it's one that we don't all wish to share, but by seeing this movie you will experience a glimpse of the horrors that this world is filled with, and a small piece of mind of a man who you only prey you never have to meet.Brad Pitt successfully proves to us that he's not just a pretty face on screen, and that he sinks into his character so well, that you can walk off after the film finishes classifying him as a pretty darn good actor.You wouldn't expect anything else from Morgan Freeman because it's perfectly obvious that this guy was born to play the roles of the smart detective.David Fincher's timeless directing and memorable filming captures all the goods that this film has to offer and will undoubtedly leave you shocked and begging for more films like this. Seven is a step into the harsh realities of life, a realistic portrayal of two detectives investigation into the un-describable horrific world murder, and the darkest realms of the human soul.We can only prey for more classic memorable work from Mr. Fincher and for those future directors who are intent on making a gothic, psychological thriller, make sure you sit down and watch Seven with a pen and paper ready to take notes.


                
Rarely there has been a movie with such a good dark and chilling  atmosphere. I even see this movie more as an horror movie than as a  thriller because of that.  "Se7en" is unique in many ways. The movies mood is already set right  from the beginning on. The movie starts dark, intense, chilling and  mysterious, a mood that is present throughout the entire movie. It's  very depressing to watch and I mean that in a positive way of the  meaning of the word. The mood is set by good camera work and lighting,  or better said, the lack of it. The music from acclaimed composer  Howard Shore also adds to the chilling atmosphere.  Unlike many other movies from the same genre, the movie is slow paced  and takes it time to develop the characters without falling into some  obvious cliché's. The two main characters played by Morgan Freeman and  Brad Pitt are presented as an unlikely police-couple that are different  in many ways from each other but in a way that is also what makes them  such a great couple. Brad Pitt for once has the opportunity to play  more than just the pretty boy and he does it with success. Kevin Spacey  truly plays a bone chilling character, almost just as legendary and  chilling as Hannibal Lecter. I would very much like to see the two of  them put in the same room, just to see who would make it out alive.  Further more it was great to see R. Lee Emrey again as the police  captain.  The movie is filled with some truly gross, sickening and horrifying  scene's, this seriously ain't no kids stuff! The movie has some of the  most sickening murders I have ever seen featured in a movie. But it  aren't just only the gross scene's that are good, there are also some  scene's that are made with lot's of beauty and profession such as the  library scene.  Dark and chilling movie that you will never forget also thanks to the  ending which I will not spoil for you. A real must see.  10/10


                
A stand out film dealing with a particularly unpleasant Serial Killer, "Se7en" (along with "Silence of the Lambs"), is something of a milestone in this genre. An intelligent script, and admirable actors including the excellent Morgan Freeman, Prad Pitt, Gwenth Paltrow and Kevin Spacey, with a cinema noir style, and very grisly murders representing the Seven Deadly Sins. It is the performances however that lifts this movie above the average, Morgan Freeman as the older world wise detective, Pitt almost manic as his young enthusiastic sidekick, Poltrow plays the wife with a fine degree of sensitivity, and Spacey does his usual brilliant psycho routine. There is a pivotal scene with Freeman and Paltrow in a café which shows the depth of performances here. They are believable characters in a dark disturbing world wherein it always seems to be raining. An effective thriller with tight direction and atmospheric photography.
Se7en is a very complex and deep movie, while also being quite disturbing. Andrew Kevin Walker created one of the most original spec screenplays of all time, but it is the kind of story traditionally used more as a writing sample than actually made into a movie. But the creative team of director David Fincher believed in this extremely dark, uncompromising story, and made it just the way Walker wrote it.The story revolves around two extremely well-drawn characters, David Mills (Brad Pitt) and William Somerset (Morgan Freeman). In one sense their relationship is the ultimate cliché -- the old veteran cop paired up with the brash rookie (though Mills is not actually a rookie, just new to the unnamed city where the movie takes place). But the contrast between these two characters is played out not for laughs or cheap drama but as the real working out of a moral question. Somerset, the lonely, cynical older detective, cares about people but has seen too much of the dark side of life to have much hope for society. Mills is not as intelligent as Somerset (kudos to Pitt for being willing to play a character that frequently looks foolish), and he lives by a simplistic belief in the power of law enforcement to change the world.Throughout the movie, the two characters struggle with this conflict -- is human society basically rotten, and can one person do anything to make a difference? Somerset, an intelligent, well-read man, is smart enough to recognize the truth, however painful that is. Mills is the kind of person who has never truly questioned the simple "values" he was raised with. Somerset tries to educate him, tries to warn him, but ultimately fails.In the end, it is only John Doe, the serial killer, who can teach Mills (and by extension the audience) the truth -- that this world is very often shockingly vicious and senselessly cruel. Doe and Somerset actually have similar views of society and the world, up to a point. But while Somerset still cares about his fellow human beings, Doe hates them, and takes out his rage in a series of gruesome murders based on the seven deadly sins.This movie is about the investigation Mills and Somerset undertake of Doe's murders, his "sermon" to the world through serial killing. Ultimately, Mills and Somerset can only do so much to try to stop Doe; the killer always seems at least one step ahead of them, and stays that way until the very end of the movie. In a normal Hollywood film, Mills and Somerset would "win" in the end by catching Doe and setting the world right again. But Andy Walker had a quite different ending in mind, and Fincher and his team take the shocking conclusion all the way to the limit of tension and drama.This movie, like Fincher's "Fight Club," was controversial for being violent and gruesome. Certainly there are a number of gruesome and disturbing images of murder victims' bodies, and many aspects of the story are very troubling, to say the least. But only one person is shown being killed on screen, and by far the worst of what happens in this story happens in the viewer's imagination. Unlike most films that have high levels of violence -- including, for example, Reservoir Dogs or Silence of the Lambs -- this movie genuinely attempts to grapple with the moral implications of what is being shown on screen. In direct contrast with, say Quentin Tarantino, who uses extreme violence for shock effect and to gain notoriety, Fincher actually shows less violence on screen and raises far more probing moral questions in the viewer's mind. I cannot think of any movie that contains as much genuine debate and discussion among the characters about crime and human morality as this one does -- while never becoming dull or preachy for a moment.I cannot finish this review without a word about Mr. Fincher's extraordinary visual talents. This is a man who ranks with the top handful of directors of all time in his knowledge and grasp of film-making technique. Everything from set design to lighting, selection of film stock and processing techniques, camera movement, frame composition, and editing work together to create an entirely new level of visual brilliance. Fincher's use of technique brings to mind nothing more than the work of Steven Spielberg in the 1970s, the last time a director this extraordinary burst onto the Hollywood scene. A whole generation has passed since then, and there is a new wave of techniques and tools available to the filmmaker of the nineties. Fincher uses every one of these tools to their utmost. The technical work and supporting actors are uniformly superb. This is a movie that works on every level. Andy Walker, having written a mind-blowing screenplay, must have been stunned when he saw the finished film. This movie will rock you to the core.
Seven is directed by David Fincher and written by Andrew Kevin Walker. It stars Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt, Gwyneth Paltrow, Kevin Spacey and R. Lee Ermey. Music is scored by Howard Shore and cinematography by Darius Khondji.An unnamed US city and two cops are on the trail of a serial killer who kills his victims according to which one of the seven deadly sins they have committed.Having been stung by the studio interference and negative fall out regarding his directorial debut feature film, Alien 3, David Fincher waited three years before committing to a project that he had control over. The result was Seven, a dark masterpiece of unremitting creeping dread that showcased the work of a clinically excellent director. Seven is not just a movie, it's an experience, an assault on the senses, a jolt to the brain, a trawl through the dark recess of some sick city where it always rains and the darkness holds many fears. This is no boorish slasher movie, it's psychological discord 101, we only see the aftermath of crimes, the discussions of which forces us to delve deep into our own imagination to fill in the blanks, forcing us to go where we don't want to go, you sense the director is somewhere gleefully pulling our strings."But that's the point. We see a deadly sin on every street corner, in every home, and we tolerate it. We tolerate it because it's common, it's trivial. We tolerate it morning, noon, and night. Well, not anymore. I'm setting the example. What I've done is going to be puzzled over and studied and followed... forever"Seven is very much an ultimate horror film, really is there anything more scary than a serial killer who is smarter than the cops chasing him? Not only that but they are, oblivious as they be, part of the master plan. This killer is not only unstoppable in perpetrating his violent crimes, he is, as Freeman's weary retirement bound Detective Somerset says, methodical and patient. It's going to end bad, the cops know it and so do we, and that's when Fincher and Walker stick their hands into our guts and pull out the last semblance of solids to deliver one of the greatest endings of modern cinema. An ending fit to grace any noir, neo-noir or smart ass psychological horror movie from across the ages. With each viewing of Seven there's the repeating wave of bleak emotions that come as the reversed end credits roll, desolation and disbelief, sadness and shock, our trip through earthly hell is over, but only in the psychical sense!Faultless cast performances, no doubt eked out by what we now know is a task-master director, photography that brilliantly brings to "light" the melancholic sheen of a decaying society and a Howard Shore score that crawls out of the speakers and cloaks your body like some evil Incubus or Succubus. Seven, a masterpiece of unease and evil wrung out by a master director. 10/10
I love psychological thrillers and this is one of the best I've seen. Morgan Freeman was elegant and convincing as a burnt out cop who wanted to retire but found the fascination of the job tough to let go of. Brad Pitt made the transition from cocky new guy to serious cop vry convincingly. And what can I say about Kevin Spacey who is always excellent. (Except to wonder why his name doesn't appear in the opening credits - I looked three times.) And Gwyneth Paltrow as Pitt's wife was as fresh and charming as ever. I truly enjoyed the performances of all the main cast members.The best part of this film is that even when the killer is caught the suspense isn't over. In fact - it may be just beginning.
In 1995 David Fincher released a perfectly constructed modern masterpiece; Se7en. One of the most exhilarating experiences of all-time and a classic to come.A cop; Detective David Mills (Brad Pitt) has just moved into the city with his wife, Tracy (Gwyneth Paltrow) in hope of finally settling down. Mills will take over the job of Detective Lt. William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) an old cop who has seven days until his retirement begins. Both are dedicated to the badge. They are put together on the case of an obesity murder, in which a man has been forced to 'eat till he bursts'. This then leads to another murder scene in which a lawyer has bled to death, although the murderer didn't actually use the knife; he made the lawyer do it. This is just the beginning of a mass murder masterpiece crafted by the insane John Doe, brilliantly played by Kevin Spacey.Whatever you do while watching it, do not see it as hollow. Se7en is far from it. Many scenes study civilisation; present civilisation. And its evil. Our society isn't a pleasant one. The film concentrates mainly on the cops search; when it comes to the mystery part in finding the killer, we discover the policemen's differences in methods, and how the most obvious one does not actually work. Of course, its Somerset, the one with the most experience who has the best way. He tries to find out why. Why some man is killing these people using a specific punishment. While Mills tries, unsuccessfully, to find out how; by studying the crime scene for clues. He ends up bored. With the help of the library, Somerset gets closer to the murderer. It may seem as though the role of Tracey is a pointless part, but she is more important than anything. She is the one who brings the men to being more personal with each other. Notice how in the dinner scene she is the one to introduce them by name. All making the climax tense and difficult.Mills is the kind of guy to pull his gun out before his torch. He has an arrogant sense of things though is 'by the book' and works. Somerset has never even fired his weapon. He sees the evil round him. And he wants to leave it. Though he is a cop so he has the permission to do something about it. But the problem is, he isn't doing anything about it. John Doe is. The reason why society is evil is because we are allowed to sin. There is now nothing stopping us. It has become a common factor of life. And there should be. That is why John Doe thinks his behaviour is OK. But the problem is he is being stopped instead of the crime out there. This is the harsh reality we live in.There are seven deadly sins. Gluttony. Greed. Sloth. Pride. Lust. Envy. Wrath. And seven ways to die.Kevin Spacey is amazing as John Doe, portraying insanity perfectly. One of the greatest supporting performances of all-time already. And he's only in it for half an hour. Brad Pitt delivers a kind of forced performance which adds to the Hollywood effect of the film though I couldn't imagine anyone else for the part. Morgan Freeman played his role with the greatest concentration. Throughout he needed a look of woe on his face. And he did just that.The writing is extraordinary. The genius, Andrew Kevin Walker took an interesting subject and created an instant classic. But most credit has to go to Fincher. Who took aspects you wouldn't even think of looking at and filming it. Together they project a deep film on our screens that no-one should miss. In one scene near the end, he makes it so when a word is spoken we cut to a character as that gives us clues to their fate. A feast for the brain. One of the most imaginative scripts of the 90s. Fincher also knows exactly how to shoot the film. Whether it be steady-cam for the slow and easy parts or the hand-held camera for the adrenalin pumping scenes.The cinematography is what makes this an excellent movie. Everything is dark. The world out there is rough, raw, grim and gritty. It does just that. The effect it makes is astounding and truly works. The sinister music that is added keeps the heart pounding throughout and keeps the audience uncomfortable, in a good way. As that's what the film tries to achieve. The opening credits are upon the greatest segment of film I have ever seen. The jumpiness makes you feel uneasy yet intrigued to keep watching. Every scene, due to the effort put in it, is masterful and is what makes the film a joy to watch and observe.Se7en reveals the best glimpse we have seen of the disturbing underworld. One of my favourites and always will be.10/10
I didn't know what I was getting into when I sat down to watch this movie along with my friend. He had brought the DVD to my home and as he is a hardcore fan of Brad Pitt, he has bought almost every major hit movie of Pitt and since I am also a fan, we both watched it together. I thought it would be a cool movie like other Pitt films, but it was so dark and has so much more than other films of this genre.Detective William Somerset (Morgan Freeman) is on his last week in duty and he's all set to retire when the case of a strange death is made his responsibility to solve. Though all others think that it was a psycho who was responsible for the death, Somerset has his doubts, he thinks that the murderer is simply a clever and disgusted man who is trying to rid the society of evil. In many ways, his and the killer's view about the degrading society is alike, except that Somerset wants to leave the city for the country life and the killer is taking action. Enter Detective David Mills (Brad Pitt), the young and dynamic sleuth who has a positive view on the society, and he is made the partner to Somerset. Then onwards, there are more disgusting, shocking deaths with the seven sins as its identity. The seven sins are - Gluttony, Greed, Sloth, Envy, Pride, Lust and Wrath. While Mills believes the killer is an insane person, Somerset tells him that he is a very clever, normal man and nowhere near insane with his precise killings and no clues to be found anywhere. The killer is a John Doe (played brilliantly in a cameo role by Kevin Spacey) and it takes every last bit of Somerset's and Mills willpower to not get carried away by the magnitude of the brutal, methodical killings. Tracy Mills (Gwyneth Paltrow) is the wife of Mills and they are very much in love. Will the detectives be able to stop this killer who claims himself to be a servant of God and who will bear the brunt of this maniac's insanity eventually - The society or the detectives? David Fincher is at the helm of this amazing film. This could have been a routine cop-killer story, but he does not even step into the tired and old Hollywood clichés and is not afraid to make this a dark, unique and depressing tale about the human life. Also, he does so in a very powerful and clever way. I was racking my brains to figure out who the killer was, as in films like these, they would show the killer beforehand. And in the end, it was true; the killer had come in contact with the detectives. Morgan plays the old and more worldly wise man, rather in contrast to Pitt's character who is a hot-head at times. No matter how insanely talented Pitt is, the press always seems to give more importance to his charming looks and relationship with Jolie (back then, it was Jennifer Aniston). Tracy is genuinely portrayed by Gwyneth Paltrow. She played a major part in bringing Mills and Somerset together. I loved her scene where she introduces each other. Though she didn't get enough screen-time to have satisfied me, I got over it as the ending was so emotional and I cried (I am a straight guy and I am not ashamed to say that I cried) when Pitt finds out what was in the box. I could see that one coming a couple of minutes before the movie got to it, but it doesn't mean I didn't get emotional at that point. I was hoping against hope that it wasn't what I was thinking. But, it was and I cried. Don't see this if you can't handle brutal death scenes (although they show only the aftermath of the death, it is still nauseous) and are easily bored when things are not non-stop action. But, the screenplay is one of the best I have seen in this genre. Also, the colouring layout of the movie is dark, everything is subdued and always raining, except save for the climax which is bright and hot, which served as an irony of sorts and it was wonderful. When John Doe tells Mills to become wrath, I got chills running up and down my spine.I still consider Fight Club to be the best Pitt-Fincher movie, but I can't ignore this brilliantly made movie. Though not everyone will like this film (case-in-point, my Brad Pitt fan friend), because of the dark overtone, I loved it as it isn't flashy and predictable like most movies of this genre, and actually was very brilliant.10/10
At first, I was a little hesitant about taking time out of my life to see Seven. I mean, I am a busy person... but this film was well worth my time... Perhaps the best Brad Pitt film that I have seen, this film involves two detectives (Pitt and Freeman) going after a delusional killer (Kevin Spacey) who murders his victims according to the seven deadly sins: gluttony, greed, lust, etc... Spacey takes pride in his killings and leaves clues for the police, similar to "Son of Sam" killer David Berkowitz when he murdered six women in New York City in the 1970's ("Summer of Sam"= another great film)... This was an intense thriller that had me on the edge of my seat from start to finish...Movies generally take a lot to keep me interested, and I am generally a fan of comedies and action flicks. But Seven was different.... it was a fantastic thriller that kept you thinking and waiting to see what happens as Pitt and Freeman chase down the barbaric killer who feels that he is doing "God's deed"... This film is a must-see!! My only regret is that I had did not see it until 10 years after its theatrical release... Please feel free to email me with any questions or comments...
This is by far the finest serial killer movie of all time. The script is beautifully paced and original with a fantastic twist at the end. The acting is superb, everyone is on the top of their game. Morgan Freeman shows his versatility and superb natural ability in the role of retiring detective Somerset, Brad Pitt gives the performance of his career as the young feisty Dectective Mills and Gwyneth Paltrow is fantastic as his highly sympathetic and caring character of his wife Tracy. But of course it is Spacey who steals the show as the compelling chilling "John Doe".His entrancingly calm and chilling performance lifts the picture above many others of its genre and his pure evil glint is just as chilling even more so than Anthony Hopkins in "The Silence of the Lambs".I believe that Se7en is far far superior to "The Silence of the Lambs" and others of its kind. It was one of the greatest films of the 90's (for me second only to "The Usual Suspects") and i feel is constantly underrated by many. I am glad to see it at #36 although i feel it is worthy of the top 20.This is David Fincher's finest hour as a director with his drab rainy surroundings adding a superb drab atmosphere to a drab city. Andrew Kevin Walker's script is however will be what remembered as an incredible story, perfectly crafted and acted out beautifully by Spacey, Freeman, Pitt and co.A MUST SEE FILM FOR EVERY FAN OF GREAT 90's MOVIES, ONE OF THE DECADES GREATEST.
i love this film, it is the ultimate thriller film, everything about se7en is brilliant. the cast are well picked and make the best contributions, the main characters Somerset and Mills are portrayed perfectly through Freeman and Pitt. in my opinion this is both Pitt and Freeman's best film, they still have not outshines there fantastic performances. Paltrow as mills wife was a good choice though there are a few other actresses that could have played this part, though i think that what paltrow brought to the role was the fragile emotional side of the character, so i am pleased that she played this part so well. the director is my favourite of all time, Mr David Fincher! he is a fantastic director, not just for this film but for his other films like fight club. he gets fantastic results from his cast and crew and makes the perfect film. and as i'm a budding editor myself i have to mention the fantastic edit on the film, by the editor Richard Francis-Bruce, i do love the edit on seven as he cut at hit points and generally did well.if you haven't watched it watch it, if you've seen it seen it again! i certainly will.


                
I went to a friends house last night and rented movies. I picked Se7en to rent because I've always wanted to see it since I saw David Fincher's masterpiece, Fight Club and his well made thriller, Panic Room. People have always said this movie was good so I wanted to see it if they were right and they were sure right. Seven is an insanely brilliant film from start to finish. The performances by Morgan Freeman, Kevin Spacey, and especially Brad Pitt are all phenomenal in this chiller. The movie was just plain out suspenseful and left my heart beating fast til the movie was done. The twist at the end was very intense and you never knew it was coming. Totally unpredictable. Overall, a fantastic film and David Fincher is a pure genius when it comes to smart films and Se7en deserves to be one of the greatest thrillers that has ever been made. I highly recommend it.Hedeen's Outlook: 9.5/10 **** A


                
The greatest thriller of all time right next to Silence of the Lambs.David Fincher has outdone himself and it shows.The story is simple.Two detectives must apprehend a twisted serial killer who punishes his victims for their own sins.But what they come across will soon change them both forever!!!Expert story teller Fincher builds non stop tension which nearly explodes by the end of the movie.Morgan Freeman and Brad Pitt are at their best here.There is great chemistry between the two and Gwyneth Paltrow is terrific as Tracy.The end of the movie is one of the most shocking experiences ever on film.The first time when I saw Se7en i was shocked,horrified and just couldn't believe what just happened.THE END will shock you be sure but that is one of the reasons the movie is so good.The final lines by Somerset are moving:"Ernest Hemingway once wrote that the world is a fine place worth fighting for...I agree with the second part".
I never understood why Seven was never given the credit it truly deserves. This movie has a total package. You get horror(in its purest form), suspense, drama and lots of action. I would rate Seven as one of my favorite horror flicks. The way the film concludes with all seven sins being committed and the way the last two unfold is magnificent writing. The sadistic style in which John Doe disposes of his victims highlights the suspense aspect perfectly. I don't know if there has been a better selected cast. Brad Pitt as the rookie, cocky detective. Morgan Freeman(one of my personal faves) as the veteran. Best of all Kevin Spacey as the macabre and very twisted John Doe. If you haven't seen this movie, rent it Tonnie.
This movie really is a modern day classic. The film is a true suspense film that always has you at the edge of your seat from beginning to end. It truly is a great film for anyone to see. So I'll give it 20 out of 10! The scenes were shot great and very dark so it made you really interested. Brad Pitt played a phenomenal part as the new detective, and Morgan Freeman as the old going to retire cop. they both had great chemistry between their characters and that really helps the film. But the most greatest part in the film was the ending! You would have never thought that the killer would go to that extent! I will not give out the ending, but believe me, you'll be be shocked!
Se7en is great. Need I go on? Alright... Se7en starts off nicely making it look like another day at work. Well it is, but it's the beginning of something big. Not 5min into the movie and we're introduced to the first murder scene which is a obese man with his hands tied together under the table and his face smashed into a pile of noodles. He's obviously dead. The killer in this movie picks his victims according to the seven deadly sins, which if you don't know are: greed, gluttony, lust, pride, wrath, envy, and sloth. The killer is very original in the style he kills his victims, which are often times very gruesome. Although they don't really show any killings in here just the way they implied lust was enough to turn my stomach. The movie does a great job with its dark setting and bad neighborhood. Symbolic that this city sucks and is run down. The acting by Mordan Freeman and Brad Pitt is sensational, as well as Kevin Spacy's acting, whom I praise for his role. Overall this is one of the best movies I've ever seen, and the ending... oh buddy, the ending will getcha.


                
David Fincher has become one of Hollywood's most wanted directors since this film and this is a fantastic film. Since this he hasn't done a bad film, in fact most are excellent. Seven is more conventional than his films the Game and Fight Club but it has a great script which is fantastically directed. The actors of the film are of the highest calibre. Morgan Freeman, Brad Pitt, Gwynith Paltrow and Kevin Spacey are all fantastic, Freeman and Spacey in particular. The film has plenty of twists and is involving while everything comes to a shocking and stomach churning ending. This is definitely one of the best crime thrillers ever made.As with other Fincher movies it looks fantastic. The cinematography is outstanding. The score is also fantastic and the overall look and sound of the film is top class. This is a modern classic, no doubt. *****


                
I first saw this movie when I first visited America, I knew nothing about this film (as it had just opened) so I paid my money and gave the film a chance. It simply blew me away. The ending is just unbelievable. The performances are fantastic, the direction and art design are exceptional and Kevin Spacey (my fave actor) popping up towards the end was the icing on the cake. Plus every time I watch the film now it reminds me of being in America... it's my favourite movie, for so many reasons. :)


                
For nearly every movie about a sadistic criminal that would come after, some part of us recalls the words of Detective Somerset, who may be one of the first men in mainstream cinema that dares to ask why we easily dismiss serial killers as lunatics. Directed brilliantly by David Fincher, and skillfully written by Andrew Kevin Walker, Se7en is well crafted and ingeniously clever, making it one of the greatest films of all times. "The World is a fine place and worth fighting for." I agree with the second part.
I saw this film in an empty cinema with a mate and I came out with chills, Kevin spacey plays his role amazingly same as Morgan freeman and Brad Pitt and could watch this film over and over and it would never get boring! The effects are also amazing the tone of the films is bleak at times but I like that in films so this one is definitely highly recommend!


                
This is just an all around great movie. Great acting, original story line. They don't make them like they used to. A good movie I hope they never try to re make. Some movies just need to left the way they are. A Great villain role in this movie and the hero's are both perfect in their roles. A must see


                
