I'm sorry for those of you who think that a watered-down pseudo-sadistic murder spree makes for compelling or an intelligent film.  It doesn't.Let's set aside for the moment the miserable lighting and cinematography in this film -- half the movie is so monochromatic that it's difficult to tell what you're looking at, and the 'artistic' angles compound the problem.Let's set aside the absolutely rotten characterizations -- Freeman tries hard with his portrayal of the absolutely-cookie-cutter jaded soon-to-retire cop, but there's nothing there, and Brad Pitt's scenery-chewing over-the-top "look at me, I'm sooooo mad!" rookie-detective turn is, frankly, laughably silly.  Gwyneth Paltrow has absolutely nothing to do, and Spacey's character is...well, he's not a character.  He's a bit of hackneyed dialogue, without motive, without charisma, without even a semi-consistent tone (we're supposed to believe that this infinitely careful killer is also so ramblingly incompetent that he leaves evidence all over his apartment?  That he's so confident he knocks off cops' wives, but so easily frazzled he loses his cool under light questioning in the police car?Let's instead focus on plot holes so wide you could toss a horse through them.What kind of police department is this?  There is not ONE ATTEMPT to answer some of the obvious questions that would be asked in any murder investigation (is there surveillance video of the lawyer's offices (there would be)?  Where did the killer get his antibiotics (those things are tracked, numbskulls)?  Why aren't the cops even TRYING to predict the killer's victim pattern, after they've been given ridiculously explicit hints?  Most importantly, the entire ending is completely implausible...under no circumstances would any department, anywhere, EVER, send two detectives off with the high-profile confessed murderer like that. When Spacey proposes his little 'deal,' the cops would have said "tough. Rot in jail, sicko."I suppose the success of "Se7en" proves that if you shower an audience with enough slickly-produced gore (not even that imaginatively rendered), they'll buy it, particularly if you layer on some random pseudo-literary quotation to give it a sheen of "art."  A sad comment on the state of the horror genre.


                
If the viewer enjoys reading bizarre, sensationalistic stories in The National Enquirer and watching surgical procedures on cable TV, this film might be of interest. It is not recommended for after dinner viewing unless one happens to suffer from bulimia. The fact that it has received such high viewer ratings speaks volumes about the state of society in the present day. The only redeeming feature is the performance delivered by Morgan Freeman as the veteran detective. Otherwise, it is a stomach churning gore fest in the deviant style so pervasive today. The events portrayed herein seem intended only to appeal to the very worst aspects of indecent human behavior. With films such as this setting the example, it is no surprise that our social structure is deteriorating so rapidly.


                
**CONTAINS SPOILERS**
Perhaps it's the timing. Three weeks ago I might have reacted differently to this movie. But right now I just have little tolerance for the way it takes genuine horror and evil and creates a stylish, but ultimately empty, Hollywood package out of it. This film is about a sadistic killer who is choosing his victims and methods of death based on the seven deadly sins (hence the title of the movie). On his trail are two detectives, a young hotshot named David Mills (Brad Pitt) and a senior Homicide Lieutenant, William Somerset, (Morgan Freeman) who has become cynical almost to the point of burnout. The murders are carried out with extreme cruelty, although the violence is not actually shown being committed, it is depicted quite graphically by what the two men discover at each crime scene, as well as in the various photos, coroner's reports, etc., that they examine. To be blunt, this is NOT for the squeamish, in fact, I'm surprised this film didn't get an NC-17 rating. Anyway, the bodies pile up, and despite their best efforts (including a very close encounter by Mills), the killer, known only as `John Doe', remains at large. In fact, we don't even see him at all until halfway through the film, and we don't see him close up until near the end. Which is, basically, where this otherwise well crafted film falls apart. At this point, five victims have already been discovered. In a strange plot twist, Mr. Doe turns himself in, them makes a bizarre offer. In return for a full confession, he requests the two detectives accompany him, alone and unarmed, so he can show them the final two victims. Obviously he has something really shocking planned as his grand finale, and, given his extremely high level of intelligence shown to date, only a fool would accept such a proposal at face value. Yet accepted it is, and all three men end up alone in the desert, the scene set for the final horror.   (Warning: BIG spoiler ahead)On the drive out, Doe has been taunting Mills relentlessly, setting up the big showdown in which Somerset is handed a package containing the severed head of Mills' wife, played by Gwyneth Paltrow. At this point, Doe springs the trap. With a sneer, he informs Mills that the head represents the sin of envy, namely the killer's envy of Mills' heretofore charmed life. Of course, the sinner will pay for his sin, and in the process bring down the final victim, Mills himself, whose sin is wrath. Somerset, who understands the situation fully as soon as he opens the box, tries in vain to prevent what he knows is inevitable. Mills struggles to fight off his natural desire to kill Doe, knowing if he does, the killer wins his twisted game, but in the end he cannot help it. The film ends with Mills being driven off, presumably in handcuffs, in the back of a squad car. No matter what happens to him now, his life has been utterly destroyed. Much as with the suicide bombers of September 11th, we are left with the sense of the sneering triumph of evil over good, of a twisted life of hate given solely for the purpose of destruction.So, what is the point of this film? There isn't one, as far as I can tell. There's no moral here, only psychosis and brutality artfully rendered. It's an appeal to cynicism, to shock value for its own sake. I suppose we are expected to react by noting that the ending was `cool' or at the very least, `original'. Yeah, right. And the really disgusting part is that this isn't some low budget slasher flick, but a top quality production with big name stars. A lot of thought, effort and talent went into making this film, but the end result is something that deserves to be flushed down a toilet.
this is a bull**it film heralding style over substance.  fincher couldn't direct himself out of a box.  like "american history X" director tony Kaye, fincher can photograph alright, but neither have any sense of how to make a film. this is a movie for people who understand and are dazzled by flashy camera work, and can be left with a mere impression of that, no story whatsoever, and still find it to be "powerful."  and kevin spacey (one of the finest actors alive, probably the finest) isn't given a thing to do, while brad pitt is given 2 hours to brood.  this movie sucks, and the fact everyone loves it makes it suck even more.


                
This movie seems to have just one purpose, to show the limitless depravity of the human race.  It's artful. Well acted. It is unforgettable. It will take a piece of your soul from you, and you'll never get it back. I am not a better or wiser person for having seen this movie. And I was not entertained. The movie takes from the viewer and gives nothing in return. You'll be a better person for not seeing it.


                
Don't get me wrong it was suspenseful at times (insert suspenseful music here) and was supported by an outstanding cast.. though it is just very predictable. From the start we see that Mills is a weak rookie detective who makes the most simple of mistakes even when being pleaded not to. So we know he will be victimized at the conclusion of the film.. How hard was it for me to take a wild guess and say that the press guy attempting to take photos at the scene of the crime was in fact our serial killer "John Doe"...... not very hard I must admit. The fact that the director had to bring to our attention that Mill's wife Tracy is pregnant and hiding it from Mills tells us that something gruesome is going to happen to her or the baby in the end... and all it's doing is creating a little more suspense.. but yet still easily predictable.. The only reason I finished the film was the slightest hope of something unpredictable happening. And unfortunately I never got that.. so I wasted about two hours.I feel for anyone who is a logical thinker that watched this.. likely the only person this film could catch off guard is somebodies 70yr old grandmother.
Dude... this movie made me go back to the store and ask for a refund.. not for the $3.50 I paid to rent it.. but for the 2 hours of my LIFE that it cost me. You people are killing me.. Yes, I'm talking about you. Each and every one of you that said "Yeah, it's a really good movie" and then refused to watch it with me. It's horrible.. don't be afraid to say it. Morgan Freeman is a god. Sure, maybe if I was a chick (or a gay dude) I'd think Brad Pitt is a Hattie.. but give me a break. I can't remember the last time I invested this much of my life in WANTING to see a movie and later, wishing I had gone for a drive with Thelma and Louise. If you haven't seen it yet, go rent the Matrix. Sure Keanu Reeves sucks, but at least you know what you're paying for... --SirX


                
In the first few minutes of this movie, you get a good idea of what it's going to be like. We are taken to a crime scene where a grotesquely obese "shut-in" has been murdered. His bloated, decaying corpse has been there for awhile, with roaches and other vermin crawling all over the place. If this grosses you out, don't expect things to get much better, for this flick is nothing if not a first class gross-out. While there are a few elements of some interest, such as the sequence where annoying and mouthy Detective Mills (Pitt) attempts to run down the serial killer, or veteran actor Morgan Freeman's downbeat interpretation of the jaded detective, the movie is otherwise sadly lacking in redeeming value. The concluding scene is just plain sick, the sort of thing we've come to expect from Kevin Spacey, whom I cannot stand.


                
This film is a total triumph for style over substance. Characters that you don't care about get caught up in a fairly ludicrous set of circumstances and the ending is telegraphed from early on. The icing on the cake is when a potentially more interesting detective movie/police procedural is suddenly ruined by the confession of one of the minor characters in the film that he is the killer. His drawn out speeches about his reasons for committing the crimes come across as unnatural and forced and the whole movie descends into farce with the courier company (nice product placement) delivery of the severed head of a character so underwritten that her input to the scene remains the same as when her head was still attached. Why so many people like this superficially dark but ultimately very mainstream thriller is beyond me. Sure, Morgan Freeman delivers another solid performance and Spacey is good even if his performance (much like Jack Nicholson's turn as the Joker in Batman) belongs in a different movie to the drab, underplayed, naturalistic tone that all the other actors seem to be opting for. Pitt is guilty of phoning in his performance to a large extent and Paltrow wrestles manfully with a sketchy part but can't make any serious impression. A puff piece.
Once an actor has been in a movie with an evil counterculture end and as the bad guy I don't trust movies that actor is in anymore. Kevin Spacey is one such actor. I was half watching Se7en for a long time while I was doing some work on the computer, thinking I wish I knew the remote control was. Near the end I realized that Kevin Spacey was John Doe but he was in jail so I let it go on a little longer. When I heard Morgan Freeman say that John Doe had the upper hand I had to get up fast and change the channel. I still don't know how it ends.There really should be a rating system that a movie has a bad ending so that guys like me don;t get suckered into watching crap like this.


                
The ratings and commentary praising this disturbing piece of junk are mindboggling to those who have a mind and an ability to discern entertainment. Morgan Freeman is a great actor (What's he doing in this?)and Brad Pitt is a caricature of himself. The best one can say about this "film" is that it perfectly represents the self-indulgent nihilism of the Clinton years. It's easy to see why Kevin Spacey (John Doe #1) is/was such a big supporter. Garbage in, garbage out.


                
This is the kind of stuff somebody thinks up on the toilet. There is nothing remarkable about this film besides how disgusting it is. I can not help but think a more subtle approach would have helped this movie avoid the banality of the special effects, which seem more suited for a science fiction due to their over exaggeration.The story is overly contrived. The director handles this movie in such a way that the narrative jerks from one scene to the next, yanking us to a punchling serving as a climax. Something so obvious and derivative is not worth watching.Overall I felt the movie was very disengaging and fundamentally simplistic in narrative. The characters are cliché and I found the general atmosphere of the film undesirable.


                
...so I can put myself out of my misery right now.  This is the most bleak, depressing movie I have ever seen.  A completely joyless experience.  What I wanted to see was a detective story about the pursuit of a shocking series of murders...what I got was an overwritten, pretentious philosophical treatise on the nature of good and evil, with no detective work whatsoever. In almost every scene, there were table lamps that only lit the square inch that surrounded the bulbs; it never stopped p***ing down rain, and everything was cold and dark to the point where you couldn't see what in the Sam Hill was going on.  Okay, I get the point already!  Yeesh.  Bleach. Terrible.


                
Where did this film go wrong?It splits into 2 parts: Good and very bad.The first 3\4's is good. Brad Pitt puts on an acting display that is less wooden than usual and Morgan Freeman puts on his usual thoughtful guy role. It's not Crazy Joe Clark from Lean on Me, but it's a decent role. Kevin Spacey has the best part, but that's cause he's a nutbag. Pitt and Freeman are on the trail of a serial killer who keeps leaving clues in the style of the 7 deadly sins. It's an intruiging plot that has many odd and nasty characters and scenes that are worth watching.Then comes the end. Brad Pitt's acting falls apart. I would swear that he had just gotten up and read the script 5 minutes before filming. I don't really want to say what happens because that kills the film and I'm not that kind of guy. Let's just say that Pitt walks into a situation that would make the strongest person fall apart. The emotion level should be beyond what humans would normally feel everday. It's horrible. And yet, he acts as if he already knows is like 'Oh man, that's bad. doughnut anyone?' It doesn't help that I figured out the end way before it came up, but I lost any thought of Pitt coming into his own as an actor. See the film, judge it for yourself.


                
Now I'm no hater of violence in films and I rather enjoy a good horror.The two leads are both actors I usually enjoy and they both give good performances is this.The film making and camera work in this film are very, very good.It's well acted and I think the director and script writers got the film they wanted.So what is the reason I have scored this a "2"?Well it's "torture porn", it may even be the first of the current seemingly never ending proliferation of titles and I just can't see the attraction on on-ending suffering and pain as the subject of a film. The only reason for such films seems to me to show increasingly nasty ways of maiming and killing people. If that kind of film is what you enjoy then watch this as it is certainly better made and acted than most of the genre, but it's not for me.


                
