Let me begin by saying that when I watched this movie I loved it. It had a stellar cast and an amazing concept. The plot was at just the right pace and never bored me. It had a dark theme although this theme worked perfectly for the way the movie ran. The thing that ruined the movie for me was the ending. First of all the fact that it was Kevin Spacy that was John Doe was obvious. Did anyone have trouble discerning that the caller was Spacy? However, that only bothered me because the filmmakers though the audience was so stupid that they could not know Kevin Spacy would be in it from the beginning.The real issue was the fate of the last two sins. I do not remember the order, however, Gluttony, Greed, Pride, Lust and Sloth were all murdered before John Doe turned himself in. Then he turns himself in and somehow convinces the detectives to bring him to the open field. Then the head in the box sparks Brad Pitt's Wrath into killing Spacy's Envy. The problem that I had with this ending was that Greed, Gluttony, Pride, Sloth, Lust, and Envy are murdered and Wrath goes to prison. The penalty for the other six sins are death, but, the penalty for Wrath is prison. The concept makes no sense whatsoever. They should either all go to prison or all die. Make up your mind.If I could have changed the ending it would be something like this: -Instead of John Doe turning himself in he calls Brad Pitt and says that Pitt and Freeman must meet him in this open field. They must come alone. When they arrive Doe then draws a gun and makes Pitt and Freeman put theirs away. Freeman is sent back a few yards and Spacy gives Pitt the box with the head. Before Pitt opens the box Spacy puts away the gun. Pitt is then overcome with Wrath, draws his gun, and shoots Spacy. Only known to Spacy, a bomb is strapped to his chest with a dead mans switch. Thus the bomb explodes killing Pitt.Therefore in my alternate ending Spacy dies from his Envy and Pitt's Wrath kills himself.Just a thought.
This is a top 250 movie?!?  Brad Pitt's acting is shallow, stereotypical, and not nuanced.  He does the California surfer-dude routine throughout the entire movie as though some uneducated simpleton dolt could wind up with his job...sorry, but I don't think so.  The plot line relies on a connect...the...dots methodology -- contrived, and largely predictable with action interspersed with banal social dialogue.  I gave this 4/10 mostly for the fine acting of Kevin Spacey and Morgan Freeman.  Very silly -- Brad Pitt's acting had me laughing...and not in a good way.   In defense of Mr. Pitt, I think he was badly miscast since I've seen other movies in which he does at least a respectable job.


                
I don't know if it is me or what, but it seems I am getting used to see similar stories like this one. Two detectives, the old experienced one who keeps calm everywhere and is near to retirement and the young impulsive one who does not like to be advised. It is time people in Hollywood start using their brains, because the audience is tired of the same trash. It is like Lethal Weapon with Glover/Gibson, but dark.OK. This movie is good, it has thrilling moments and some good actors (not all), but to me it is just another detectives movie. I do not see any originality here. I have seen the same sadistic scenes including the famous "blood writing" in tons of films already.---SPOILERS---There are also some stupidity/plot holes in the movie:1) Do you really need 20-30 swat men to break into the apartment of ONE criminal that is probably alone taking a bath?2) The zombie thing. This really made me laugh. It is impossible that a man is still alive after being tied on a bed one year. It seemed taken from Night of The Living Dead!!! To be alive a person needs to eat food, drink water, go to the toilet, etc. They had cut one hand from him. An injury like that is infected quickly. The man can even die for a heart attack because of the contaminated blood or even the pain caused by the cut.3) In the scene where both detectives are chasing after John Doe and finally the murderer does not shoot Mills and escapes is just plain ridiculous. In this case you would be expecting Mills screaming to his buddy "I am OK, William, run and get the bastard!" like you probably saw in other detectives movies but... No! Here they just missed the criminal.4) In the high voltage towers field, when the box came, a good cop would have not opened the package because there was a high probability that the box contained a bomb. And by the way, the box contained a bleeding human part. NO SMELL??? Come on!5) John Doe kills people who match deadly sins. Why does he kill Tracy? Just to have a reason to make Mills mad? Tracy is the most innocent person in the movie.More things out of place:1) Detective Somerset seems to be a respectable and correct person. Why is he such a dick with detective Mills for example when Mills has a kind gesture offering him coffee? OK. It is a detail and Mills is actually shallow, but why Somerset behaves like that with the boy?2) Tracy Mills character does not have a clear place. Personally I think she is beautiful but her acting is so so. Her relationship with her husband, the young detective, is very cold and anybody could think she is flirting with Somerset, not looking for help.3) After dinner in Mills apartment, there is a scene where Tracy woke up and saw that both men have gone. That scene did not really add anything.4) John Doe character is not menacing. He actually looks and speaks like a gay.So if you do not have these points in count you probably will think this film is great, otherwise you will think just like me that this is another detectives movies of the pile. And this movie is not disturbing, it is sadistic.
I know this is supposed to be a "dark" thriller but for God's sake couldn't the budget have stretched to at least one light on the set?  Through half the film you have to squint to see what's going on, and anyone who couldn't guess what was in the parcel at the end of the film must be a total moron. 4/10


                
Seven is a pretty lame movie, IMHO.When I pay to watch an R rated suspense/thriller movie, I want my blood, guts, and action. This movie provided me with almost none of the above, with the exception of like three (come on, only three?) bloody dead people. OK, OK, the drug dealer on the bed was the best part. But the movie is SO SLOW and BORING. Sure, Morgan Freeman does a great job acting, but all the biblical psychobabble in the world doesn't make up for NOT SHOWING THE KILLER KILLING PEOPLE. I don't want to go off on a rant here, but having 2 cops walk around in the rain merely going into apartments for nearly two hours bores me to death. The ending was cool, but hardly makes up for this sad attempt. I don't get this watered-down mainstream pretty-boy nonsense. Oh, if you couldn't tell, I didn't like this movie.
Oh my god! Current rating 8.7 and # 28 on top 250 list...!! I think many of IMDb users have gone out of their mind to vote 10, 9 & 8 to such a ridiculous crap.Yes, it is a fact that i do believe in the voting system of IMDb and it is absolutely true that i consult the reviews of this site before watching most of the films. In 95% of cases my judgment gone true. On the basis of rating and reviews i got disappointed only with two films. One is Se7en and the other is Once upon a time in the West (1968).Some of the IMDb users are also claiming Se7en to be the best work of David Fincher till date. But i don't think so... Fight Club (1999) is the best work of Fincher till date. It doesn't matter to me what others think about this review of mine but this is not a classic to be rated so high."The god inspired and ordered a person to eliminate those 7 people who are indulging themselves to the 7 deadly sins of the universe." I do admire the insane attitude of the killer but the plot and the entire story was full of flaws. Like in most of the psychological thrillers here also the lead actors failed to read and analyze the mind of the killer. In every crime committed by the killer... he stayed two steps ahead of the detectives. And yes the climax itself was one of the worst i have ever seen.Watch it only if you are a strong fan of crime thrillers otherwise not! Self - interpretation by the viewer after watching the film is the most important thing... 4/10....I can't vote it more than that..


                
This movie is one of the most over-hyped I've ever seen (#43 in IMDb!). Seeing the trailer let one know (and guess) at least 60% of the movie, the end is more or less clear about 20 minutes before it happens and absolutely clear about 5 minutes.This brings me to another point: the plot fills this more-than-2-hour-movie as Brad Pitt would fill the clothes of the Gluttony-victim. There are too many sequences that seem just stretched and which do nothing for plot or character development.All in all: could've been a decent 90-minute movie, and I've seen many worse but it's definitely not worth more than 5 points. I gave it 4 (-1 for being over-hyped).


                
Hello! 'Seven' was watched post listening to numerous positive recommendations. But, upon watching it, I realized that this is a movie which is highly overrated but seem to be not up to expectation. Brad Pitt and Morgan Freeman played their part genuinely though the intensity of the serial crime happened in the movie was not catchy and influential. I take this movie is far away from reality! At times the movie seemed to be boring and may cause eye lids to fall down. I never watched a crime story with least thrilling vibe'. The justification seen behind each murders sounded childish. I don;t suggest you to watch this movie rather can be used a sleeping pills!


                
I know that many of you will probably want to strangle me for saying this, but I fell asleep during my first attempt at watching Se7en. I really tried to stay awake, but all attempts proved to be unsuccessful. I just couldn't stay interested. In order for a thriller to satisfy me, it has to have suspense and action. Se7en was lacking in both areas. I'll admit that the whole idea of incorporating the seven deadly sins into it was clever. However, the movie was not capable of holding my attention because it did not show any of the crimes as they were happening. When I watched the movie for the second time, I managed to stay awake. Once I got toward the end of the movie when "John Doe" was introduced, I finally understood what was so good about it. The end was definitely praiseworthy because it was the only intense part. I don't mean to bash the acting. Pitt, and Paltrow as well as the rest were superb actors. However, the overall storyline was insufficient.


                
I have never understood why so many people consider this movie a great thriller. It has a few spooky & exciting moments, but overall it is terribly predictable and disappointing. Brad Pitt is insufferable, and the old, wise cop vs. young, arrogant rookie thing has been done to death in better movies than this one. There is little here that is original or creative--it's fine for a rental, but I'm sorry I wasted my money when it was in the theaters.


                
I basically thought this movie was exploitative junk.  The violence was gratuitous and the plot was not compelling.  Although I must admit that I found the movie very disturbing, that does not mean it was well made. Watching people being tortured and mutilated for no reason is disturbing even if the movie as a whole is terrible.  Moreover, my views are not based on my being squeamish -- which I am not.  I think Silence of the Lambs -- which is gross and disturbing, and which some people compare to Se7en -- to be one of the great movies of all time.


                
I used to have a thing for movies, but I think that I've more or less exhausted the supply of good ones. "Seven" was not one of the good ones, despite the high rating. The main problem comes in the form of the villain. I just didn't buy it. By going down the list of the seven deadly sins, it seemed like he was trying to incite reform amongst the people. However, he did it in a way that kept it from being relevant to the general populace. The scale was completely warped just for the sake of the number seven. There needed to be more blood spilled in a less ordered way to scare people, and I would argue that such a killer would know that. Fear motivates people and could have brought about the changes that all the characters wanted to see take place. That would have been an interesting movie--people dedicated to maintaining order realizing that the order needs to be subverted to do actual good. That is an interesting conflict. Could the divorce really happen? The groundwork was there for such action to take place, but the result would have been too thought-provoking to be thrilling for the average viewer. Fear shapes people's behavior more than anything else, when present. Think about how many churches you see on your way to work. Inertia takes over when fear is absent. The killer was too calculating to suffer so many ineptitudes. And speaking of ineptitude--I am saddened that people seem so incapable of telling the difference between a good movie and a bad one. Shame on you again.


                
I don't understand why people think this is a good movie.  The plot is predictable yet not really believable, the hero is unlikeable and the villain, who is supposed to be the movie's moral foundation (go figure *that* one), ultimately pulls the rug out from underneath the movie at the end.The scene where Brad Pitt allows the killer to escape was irritatingly hard to believe.  And what was the Gynneth Paltrow character's (not to mention her unborn child) sin?  The killer was careful to choose people who (at least in his mind) deserved to die yet at the crucial climax he completely broke with his pattern in a most incredible way.And where does a "moral" serial killer come from?  Seems like an oxymoron, but of course in the end we see that he's not moral after all.  Still, the whole concept rings hollow and leaves one wondering what the point of the movie was anyway?  It seems like it was just a story created to give the film makers a chance to show grisly murder scenes one after another in an attempt to shock us.If you want to see a much better movie along these lines (and much more disturbing because it's believable), watch "Henry, the Portrait of a Serial Killer."  And be sure to give it a higher vote than this turkey.


                
