People did not like this movie for a simple reason: too negative. I can understand that this movie is so depressing in so may ways. What it shows that Big Fish eats Litte Fish and none of us want to think about that anymore than most of us experience it in our daily life. It shows the battle between the evangelicals and the corporate business man. Or maybe even the battle between evangelicals of today and the non-religious people or atheists of today. Even worse is that this movie shows that religious people, priests are or can be as bad as a corrupt oil man. Maybe why people did not like this movie is because it might have offended them. Especially Paul Dano playing the priest. Both Daniel Day Lewis and Paul Dano are wrong and too extreme on their opinions. People are able to accept this. What people cannot accept is though that these same extremities and same misguided opinions from both characters are very much true in that they are heavily believed still today. Not all Christains are like Paul Dano's character and not all business man are like Daniel Day Lewis's character but many are like them. That is the world we live in.Now is their any alternative or positive side? The answer is yes and that is H.W. the son of Daniel Plainview(Daniel Day Lewis). He epitomizes hope. He shows that despite being deaf and having a father who uses him as a ploy for better business he can still break free of the chains that he is being tied down by. What separates H.W. from the residents and evangelists of Little Boston? The difference is that he and his father are educated and they are not. That is how Daniel Plainview is able to manipulate and cheat them the Sunday family, even Eli Sunday(Paul Dano) the priest and preacher of Little Boston. From what H.W. sees and experiences he sees that much of what is around him is just wrong. He uses his experience that he had gained as a kid to break free of the corruption and chaos that could have taken over him. That is one aspect of the education I'am talking about: our experiences and understanding of what is happening around us. Now to get to the technical aspects of There Will Be Blood. It is just truly spectacular in every way. First off the acting was amazing. Daniel Day Lewis gave arguably the best performance of his career playing Daniel Plaiview or ever since movies began to be made. He freaked me out and probably shocked many people. His thirst for power and money was at such a high level that it made me wonder about what people are really capable of. The deceiving, the greed, the thirst for power and the every man for himself attitude actually looked more real than ever to me. Without Daniel Day Lewis I don't think this movie could have achieved what it has. Paul Dano gave a great performance as Eli Sunday though people tend to disagree. I think he gave a great portrayal of an extremist evangelical priest of how he himself had his own thirst for power and how he was more blasphemous then respectful and gracious to god then how you would expect a priest to be. How could people not be shocked by these two characters, I was myself.Why was the music for this movie not liked. I thought this was among the top five musical scores I have ever heard. The music perfectly gave you the feeling of the corruption and deception setting into the movie. It perfectly intertwined with the rest of the movie as the movie itself was ever growingly becoming more and more chaotic and surreal. Probably too shocking though.Paul Thomas Anderson I believe gave the best directing job of the year. He was able to show the oil fields and its processes, the rise of an oil man, the way everyone can be bought even a priest and the hope that H.W. represented. This movie was never boring and it was as stunning of a directing job as Daniel Day Lewis gave as a performance for his role in this movie. The intensity of this movie was as high as a movie could possibly be and some of the credit for this has to go to the director. The cinematography and the music seemed to intertwine perfectly like the rest of the movie. It gave the sense of the time period and as said before the greed, deception, etc. The cinematography did not just give you a negative feeling but a feeling as if what you are watching is real.You should not like this movie just because of the great technical achievements as you should not for any movie but for what it says and how it says it. I'm not even sure if you should enjoy this movie in general but you should not be blinded by your opinions. I applaud you whoever out there who can somewhat understand this movie and get past the lying and deceiving we do to ourselves. This movie really shows the humanity of human beings. Why is this rated-R?It has so many intense scenes that if you get inside this movie it is truly haunting. Now maybe this movie was too powerful for many people, it was probably even shocking for realists. Maybe though its not that surprising that so many people don't like this movie because the truth hurts. Not the truth about corruption or about people but the truth about ourselves.


                
PT Anderson's name already means something, or I should say something else. His self assuredness alone gives me shivers. A modern artist with such clear and severe vision of the world. Boogie Nights, Magnolia, even Punch Drunk Love have an Wellesian disregard for what's in or out. His films are landmarks that may infuriate some, confuse others and mesmerize the rest of us. Here, with the rigorous tale of an impervious oil man, PT Anderson outdoes himself. He has Daniel Day Lewis as his accomplice in a performance that would be as difficult to match as it is difficult to describe. There is a monstrous beauty here that not even a broken nose can disguise. The saga is filled with long silent moments of tension that take place in a cinematic canvas and an actor's head. PT Anderson must have known that this was going to be, not only not a mainstream opus but a hard pill to swallow. I for one stand up to applaud his daringness.


                
The world of cinema has seen and marveled a plethora of phenomenal performers, who over the years have entranced billions of viewers globally with their guile, grandeur, subtlety, eloquence and idiosyncrasy, but I dare say that none of their performances can match Daniel Day-Lewis' portrayal of Daniel Plainview in There Will Be Blood, for sheer ruthlessness, panache, eloquence and cheek. Being the chameleon that he truly is, Daniel Day-Lewis incredibly musters up all his prodigious talent as an actor to conjure up his misanthropic alter ego, Daniel Plainview, whose perpetually smirked face bolstered by his malice filled eyes makes him one of the strongest and the most fascinating characters ever caricatured on the silver screen. Daniel Day-Lewis is at the top of his game and virtually unstoppable as Daniel Plainview, a portrayal that not only resuscitated him as an actor, but also established him as someone who wouldn't leave a single stone unturned to bring his character to life and perhaps it is this very attribute that has helped him in his endeavor to be the absolute best at what he does. Paul Dano is absolutely brilliant as Eli Sunday and has complimented Daniel Day-Lewis in every sense of the word in spite of the fact that he barely had a week to prepare contrary to Daniel Day-Lewis, who had a whole year to prepare. Eli Sunday is ambitious, enigmatic, placid, pesky and pusillanimous and despite being highly contrasting to Daniel Plainview, ironically has many similarities to him, especially the uncanny demeanor that helped them both to inveigle others. It is the chemistry and the ever growing tension between them that makes the movie haunting and spectacular. There Will Be Blood is a morbid tale of greed, betrayal and obsession adorned by some great performances, visually stunning cinematography and masterful direction. Plainview owns a mine with potential silver deposits and his assiduity finally pays off when he discovers a silver ore. He sells it to acquire a crew to help him with the subsequent diggings in the mine. After the mine runs out of silver, oil is discovered in it and hence begins Plainview's journey of insatiable greed and morbid obsession. In order to acquire more oilfields and to strike out further deals easily, he adopts a young boy and names him as H.W. to help build a facade of a benevolent family man for himself. It almost takes him a decade to establish himself as a minor oilman, but this moderate success further intensifies his avarice. Subsequently, a young man named Paul Sunday (Paul Dano) visits Plainview's camp and offers to sell information about his family's ranch, which he claims to have an ocean of oil underneath it. Plainview and H.W. travel to the Sunday Ranch pretending to be on quail hunting while hiding their ulterior motive of verifying Paul's claim. Being as perspicacious as he was, it didn't take him long to find the vestiges of oil in the cracks formed due to the recent earthquake. He tries to inveigle the Sunday patriarch (who almost cried with rapture on hearing the offer) to sell him the land at a moderate price (which he calls quail price and not oil price), but is stymied by owner's ambitious son, Eli Sunday (also played by Paul Dano), who asks him to pay an additional ten thousand dollars towards the building of the Church of Third Revelation. Plainview reluctantly pays him five thousand dollars as advance and promises to pay the remaining amount once the drilling starts. Plainview assembles his crew at the Sunday Ranch and builds the first derrick. He also buys almost all of the land surrounding the Sunday Ranch so he will have not only those drilling rights but also the right to build a pipeline to the ocean to circumvent the railroads and their shipping costs. Eli wants to bless the derrick before drilling begins but Plainview rebuffs him. Using the money given by Plainview, Eli builds his church projecting himself as a preacher, faith healer and prophet. Soon the church has many followers, most of whom are Plainview's workers. Eli's increasing influence on the people and his display of false divinity starts pestering Plainview, who is further flummoxed by congregation's frequent gatherings (the daily prayers prevented the workers from taking desired rest, thereby decreasing their efficiency). Plainview beseeches Eli to make them less frequent, but Eli dismisses him with disdain. Plainview's ruthless ego is badly jolted by Eli's stubbornness and he brutally assaults him and even threatens to kill him when Eli asks him for the remaining money. Eli returns home all covered with mud after Plainview's assault and takes out his frustration on his myopic father, blaming him for acquiescing to Plainview's naked ambition. H.W. is deafened during an oil rig incident and starts behaving as a brat. Disconcerted by the change in the mannerisms of his son, he sends him away. Eli soon gets his revenge when a fellow named Bandy forces Plainview to get baptized at the Church of the Third Revelation (as a penance for a murder that Plainview committed and of which only Bandy knew). While baptizing him, Eli humiliates him by repeatedly slapping him and calling him a sinner for abandoning his hapless child. This incident further intensifies the hatred in Plainview and sets the tone for a deeply haunting finale when they meet many years later. P.T Anderson once again proves his mettle as a director and manages to pack a punch with this poignant and a deeply disturbing masterpiece. The movie incredibly succeeds on every level and entertains immensely, while still delivering a strong message. It was undoubtedly the best picture of 2007 and one of the best of the decade. In fact, it was very remiss of the academy to keep up with its long earned notoriety and prefer a relatively mediocre 'No Country for Old Man' over this truly haunting masterpiece. P.S. 10/10
PT Anderson delivers perhaps his best work with "There Will Be Blood". Unlike "Magnolia", the film's daunting runtime is not very daunting whilst watching it. All acting in the film was solid, even the work of the child actors. Daniel Day-Lewis in particular delivered a truly phenomenal performance, capturing the power of greed, fear, insanity, and comedy simultaneously, at many points throughout the film. At no point does the time period distract from the power of the film. Sometimes period pieces cannot be appreciated because they delve too deep into historical details -- turning the experience into more of a documentary than a narrative set in the past. This is not the case for "There Will Be Blood", as human interactions are the focus of the film. Johnny Greenwood's chilling score is very strong, benefiting from the elegant minimalism that he show's in the band Radiohead. The cinematography is also spectacular. Robert Elswit beautifully captures the essence of the environment and the tension amongst the characters. All in all, this is truly a perfectly crafted film.


                
This film raises the game for everyone out there. I have loved all of Paul Thomas Anderson's work, including his greatly underrated Punch-Drunk Love, but this is a huge leap from any of the previous movies into a realm, as others have said, inhabited by classics such as Treasure of the Sierra Madre - and then some. Every element of this film is astonishing, from the opening twenty minutes, which feature virtually no dialog, to Jonny Greenwood's score, which I have heard criticized as too imposing but which seems just about perfect to me (and brings to mind the non-Blue Danube elements of 2001 at its most experimental). Daniel Day-Lewis' performance is in a league of its own: his voice, his mannerisms, his physical movement, his stunted emotions, are flesh and blood, and hauntingly so, in a way that even Tommy Lee Jones in In The Valley of Elah (which I thought was a pretty staggering performance) can't quite attain. I will watch this film again and again simply to see something so raw and so moving and so gut-wrenching. This is why I love movies; this is what made me want to make movies when I was fourteen years old.


                
What is evil? What is hate? How low can an individual go with one's actions and still be considered human....? These, quite possibly, are the biggest questions raised in There Will Be Blood.Paul Thomas Anderson and Daniel Day-Lewis, the tycoons at the helm of this dig for moral oil, tell a story that takes the archetypal anti-heroes of 'Citizen Kane' and Travis Bickle of 'Taxi Driver' to a whole new, 21st-century level. The film, using Lewis's character Daniel Plainview, walks through incredibly dangerous cinematic territory that questions religion, plays with the nature of greed and hate and evil, and with it all, draws terrifying parallels to the world we live in today. The film and its main character claw so deep through the limits of humanity and the landscape of hell, that you'll be thanking the Good Lord for the silver screen that divides you from this horrible world Paul Thomas Anderson has portrayed. But despite how safe you may seem in your cushy seat, you will undoubtedly walk out of the theater with all kinds of new demons and ghosts buzzing in your head and ripping away at your subconscious. In this way, Anderson has abandoned his primary previous influence of Robert Altman to take more of a Stanley Kubrick direction, creating moral allegories that creep into your psyche and don't ever leave. You should be scared. Very Scared.


                
A few months ago I saw the trailer to There Will Be Blood, at first I was a little put off, it looked very strange and a typical drawn out drama. But then a little later, I saw a different trailer that was much better and looked more interesting. So now it had all this hype and is now nominated for 7 Oscars, including best picture, finally it came to theaters in my home town and my mom and I just saw it. Now, I'm just going to get a complaint out, I think this movie was still a little drawn out, it kind of took on a Kubrick type of feel with the first twenty minutes that had no dialog. But that was the only thing that threw me off. While I'm not as in love with this movie as much as everyone else is, There Will be Blood is going to be a sure classic down the line. The direction, the acting, the script, the sets, everything about this film was done beautifully and shows the utter greed and madness that can turn men into monsters.Daniel Plainview is an oil man, he's in the business with his son, H.W., and he goes around buying land very cheaply, and makes thousands and thousands of dollars when he strikes oil. But when he comes a town called Little Boston led by the tip of a boy named Paul, he buys the land promising the church that he will donate five thousand dollars to it. Eli, the leader of the church, claims he is a prophet and goes to the extreme to prove so with his followers. When Daniel's team is draining oil, his son is blasted away from an explosion of oil and looses his hearing, Daniel at this point just goes mad and meets a man who claims to be his brother, but he later finds out that this man lied to him. He abandons his son and is loosing all sanity, but when the church comes back to him, he claims he is saved. Years later though, he goes from business man to monster and is going to "drink Eli's milk shake", you'll see what I mean when you see the film.There Will Be Blood is a film of utter perfection, the reason why I'm rating it so high is because it is a perfectly made film. There's nothing wrong with it, when I said it's a little drawn out, it's just my opinion. But Daniel Day Lewis pulls in a flawless performance and became Daniel Plainview, especially the end, he pulled in such a chilling side and didn't over do the dialog, which I'm sure any other actor would have done. But one performance I am particularly impressed with is Paul Dano's as Eli/Paul, Eli really got to me and was incredible during his sermons, he held his own up to Lewis. He's come a long way since the silent rebel in Litte Miss Sunshine. There Will Be Blood is a GOOD movie, I mean good in the highest regards, because how many of us can say when a film is just utterly good? Not too often. There Will Be Blood is going to be a good contender this year for the Oscars, but we'll just have to see who'll take the best picture award, because we have some good films that are competing.10/10
If Daniel Day-Lewis doesn't win an Oscar for this performance, there is something horribly wrong. His performance and this film were amazing. I don't give this kind of accolade out generously. I was at the screening at the Chelsea West. We waited outside in the cold and rain for a good two hours to get in there and get some good seats and I can honestly say, I would have waited double that amount of time. Enough of my rambling though. In regards to the film itself; it was very well done. The cinematography was amazing as well as the set design. As usual, PTA gives us a flawless script with terrifying, humorous, and compelling dialogue. All of the acting was spot on. Paul Dano played the role of a two-faced, maniacal, and power hungry preacher. The young man who plays H.W. Plainview was also very solid. As PTA stated during the Q&A last night, he seemed to know everything about the story and his character and seemed to be a natural. Daniel Day-Lewis. Need I say more? He was breathtaking in TWBB. Amazing is all i can say. You will need to see the film to see for yourself. Some may become bored with the film at times, which is what i gathered from the people sitting around me. I had no problem with the "slow" scenes, but the general public may have a problem grasping this film. If anything, this will be the reason if it gets snubbed at the Oscars.


                
exhilarating, suspenseful, chilling and beautiful.i heard once that the reason people stand whenever the 'hallelujah chorus' is performed is because it was first performed for a king, and he was so moved by it, he simply stood up during the song. this movie is just like that.i'm happy to be alive and at an age where i can appreciate this sort of thing now, because 50 years from now, people will surely say, 'i wonder what it was like to see that movie in theaters when it had just been released.' when i say, 'you should go see this movie,' i don't mean it's really entertaining, a good way to spend a Saturday night, worth the price of admission or what have you. i mean it in the way that i think everyone should see the sistine chapel, read hemingway, listen to beethoven's 9th symphony and so on. it will certainly be remembered for generations to come as an important work of art.


                
There Will Be Blood. Chilling, Sublime, perfect.First I must say the Soundtrack is amazingly disturbing and sets the tone of the film from the first scene. Many forget the amount of mood that sound sets. The film held me enraptured from first to last second.The story is perfectly displayed. Ever thing is laid out before the viewer in an intentional pace. The film is for viewers with imagination and foresight who can see through the shams of modern movie plot and into the realm of literature.The acting is simply stunning. Daniel Day Lewis can portray lines with a single expression and does in this film.I'm sure many will not enjoy this movie and all I have to say to them is go watch Transformers 2 again.


                
Just so you know where I'm coming from... I think Magnolia is one of the most overrated films I've ever seen. But this... This is a damn Kubrick-level masterpiece. Flawless. Saw it from a folding chair in a overflowing theater at the Alamo's Fantastic Fest in Austin - there were moments where I'd look back and see every jaw in the room dropped. Its less overtly political than I imagined - more about the psychology and emptiness of the lust for power. See this as soon as it comes out - this is going to cause a ruckus (especially coming out on Christmas, Jesus!), and its much better if you don't know what to expect. Except for blood.
There Will Be Blood is a story about greed, religion and vengeance due to the discovery of one of nature's riches: OIL!Daniel Plainview(Daniel Day-Lewis) is a poor silver miner who is injured and taken in by a few men digging for oil. When one of them dies in a freak accident, Daniel brings up the man's son as his own and becomes a self-made oil tycoon in the process. After receiving a tip-off that a seemingly impoverished town out west has a whole ocean of oil beneath the surface, Plainview rushes there and stops at nothing to get what he wants. Even if it means losing all the things most important to him, especially his SANITY. It was written for the screen and directed by Paul Thomas Anderson, who also directed Boogie Nights and Punch-Drunk Love. This is definitely a far better than the two. He should get a Best Director Nod for his work. The music is unlike anything ever I've ever heard, and it completely drew me into the haunting mood of the movie. The movie will get a lot of Oscar Nominations, hopefully Best Picture but most importantly:Best Actor. Daniel Day-Lewis is arguably the most talented living actor and his performance here clinches that title in my opinion. At first, you see how Plainview goes from being an extremely charismatic individual to a dark, insane and vicious oilman. Day-Lewis perfects all of these characteristics to a T and no other performance this year is even in the same league as this one. The movie is about 2 hours and 40 minutes long but it certainly didn't feel like it when I watched it. Actually, I would've been happier if the movie was 3 1/2 hours. It was that good. I was simply enthralled by this work of art. It is the best movie of the year with the best performance of the year.
just got back from an early screening here in san francisco and thought i'd just lay down a few lines. Mr. Anderson was in attendance but did'nt really comment on the film, I would have liked to hear what he had to say, as I have not been so knocked over the head by an American film in so many years. He was humble in his introduction and let the movie speak for itself. It is a near perfect stew of direction, cinematography, score and last but not least, acting. Daniel Day Lewis is absolutely mesmerizing, Paul Dano made me squirm as the wretched young priest. oh my god, i have chills just thinking about both of these performances. they stay with you. a lot of the film reminded me of Terrence malick, though it did'nt emulate him. just a nice reminder. i think i'll watch days of heaven now. i wish there were more films like this coming out of the states, let's keep our fingers crossed.


                
Words don't describe Paul Thomas Anderson's latest epic film project, and he doesn't let them dominate the story either. A significant chunk of "There Will Be Blood" has no dialogue and the ability for it to stay so captivating is only a testament to Anderson's incredible ability to tell stories about people through images that says more than about what's happening.Anderson's weapon in this film is no secret. It isn't often Daniel Day-Lewis's name shows up on a marquee these days, especially when it's not tied to something that is sure to be good. This latest choice of his, however, is better than good and so is he. His character, Daniel Plainview, a self-proclaimed "oilman," is deeply complex and troubled. The way that Day- Lewis plays the lighter parts and seamlessly transitions to the darker parts is chillingly believable. Plainview is not only interesting, but he's embraceable, despicable, amusing and frightening all throughout the film.The only truly supporting cast is his son and a self-proclaimed prophet that he comes into complications with played by Paul Dano (Little Miss Sunshine). Dano's performance is unfortunately shadowed by Day-Lewis and it does feel like he was too young to be cast, but the 23-year-old is highly impressive and will perhaps be a marquee name in the near future."Blood" is otherwise the strength of Anderson and his crew. The original score by Jonny Greenwood, who is mostly known for his guitar skills in Hollywood, brings something abstract that simultaneously fits the film's generally quiet demeanor using a variety of percussion sounds and few musical notes. While some films prefer soaring John Williams themes, Greenwood's theme for "Blood" is one dissonant chord and a sound effect that can be best described as a more painful version of the THX sound system effect. It's harsh, but so is the film. Anderson makes every moment count whether it's when there's music or where he puts the camera.To best describe the film in terms of people familiar with Anderson's work, it's his first film that truly translates to the interests of all dramatic film-lovers. It is distinctly his film, yet viewers will be able to grasp it much more easily than the abstract and obscure multiple storyline nature of "Boogie Nights" and "Magnolia." For people new to his work, be prepared to feel some discomfort, but if you pay attention to the way the story is told, then you'll find the mastery of "Blood."


                
There Will Be Blood – 9.8/10 Director: Paul Thomas AndersonWriter: Paul Thomas Anderson Ground-breaking, disturbing, distraught,frightening, unnerving, intimidating, and in every sense of the word –'a masterpiece'. There Will Be Blood is a character sketch so strong,so complex, that it might take an individual a lifetime of trials and tribulations to comprehend the forces of human nature at work.The film is dark and desolate, like much of Upton Sinclair's works, on whose book 'Oil' the film is loosely based on. Paul Thomas Anderson's (Magnolia) vision to convert this nature study of capitalism into a stunning film, revolving around an oil baron and a pastor has yielded starkly contrasting reactions. While audiences at large have not taken to the film particularly well, most critics unanimously agreed it was Anderson's best. Daniel Day-Lewis (Daniel Plainview), who plays the role of the oil prospector, has etched a new character in the history of world cinema and Paul Dano (Paul Sunday/Eli Sunday) who became a part of the film after the shooting started has played Day-Lewis' antagonist with perfection.Anderson researched this film with all sincerity and it shows. Day-Lewis spend days understanding the character he was playing, to an extent that the actor who Paul Dano replaced alleged he was intimidated by Daniel's character, off-screen as well! The cinematography of the film is simple brilliance, and rightly earned Robert Elswit, Anderson's companion from Magnolia, an Oscar for best cinematography. While the music of the film did not earn much appreciation, I thought it perfectly complemented the film. In several instances, the music lays bare Day-Lewis' emotions, especially in the instance post the accident, when he has a conversation with his son HW, played by Dillion Freasier.The film had a very strong script. This is almost true of all films made from successful and well written novels. But Day-Lewis has gone a step forward and owned the character. He commands every iota of attention in the film and for the first twenty minutes, where there is no dialogue, Lewis proceeds to build and delineate a character which will ultimately define what the film will be. I am not sure if I have seen a better character sketch in a film, a character so powerful, that it leaves one disturbed when the credits role in. What has amazed me is the magnitude with which the audience and critics alike have misunderstood the character narrative of the film.Lewis' character has largely been interpreted as a heartless, cruel, capitalist for who even his adopted son is just a tool to achieve power and success. I believe this widespread misinterpretation is due to a shallow approach that capitalists are greedy and will stop at nothing to achieve their goals. The character of the film is so complex, that I am not sure if there is enough space and time, and ability to explain the nuances and explore the depths. But I will make a brief attempt to do so.Lewis' character is shown to be highly competitive. A man who trusts no one and loves nothing; he is lonely and believes there is no need to understand people as it would be a futile pursuit beyond that what is obvious. But he is not a man driven by pure greed, nor is he blinded by wealth and affluence as many viewers have believed. His relation with his son, and his inability to chart the course of his son's life, reveal his softer side while throwing light on his own superiority, godlessness and a form of megalomania. His character is extremely rational, but his hatred for everything that competes with him ultimately leads to his destruction. Not only is he aware of this (the last dialogue of the film tells us this), we see several moments where his loneliness breaks him; but the fundamental purpose of a human being shedding tears is undermined if there is no one to wipe them. He rises spiteful, harsher and harder after each trial, like a rock hardened by the incessant heat of a volcano. He seeks some solace, something to hold on to. Any trace of familial blood (There WILL Be BLOOD) which he can create by the virtue of his will or by the hand of destiny, he shall accept. The complexities of his character are so profound, that they only reveal themselves in small and quick passing dialogues and one has to live the character to truly see through him.I dread to say there are common traits Daniel Plainview shares with all and everybody. We have either failed to realize it, even though our actions would speak, or we have managed to subvert, repress and bury them deep enough for acceptance in an unforgiving, conditional society. The film is like a streak of artistic lightening in a bleak sky. Whether this film speaks of perfection or not, we will never know, but one thing is certain, we will debate its mastery for years to come.


                
I could go on for pages and pages about this movie but I'm going to keep this short and sweet.'There Will Be Blood' is a masterpiece due to two factors, Paul Thomas Anderson and Daniel Day Lewis.First of all, Paul Thomas Anderson is a proved visionary of cinema and he's quite obviously mastered the art of storytelling through character development on screen and most importantly, he knows how to get the absolute best out of his actors. Although 'Boogie Nights' and 'Magnolia' showcased a magnitude of talent in its ensemble performances, this film is all about Daniel Day Lewis.In my opinion, Daniel Day Lewis is the greatest actor on the planet, his range is unequalled and I have never come away from one of his performances not in complete awe. This is his greatest work, both subtle and grandiose, genuine and brutal, it is something to be marvelled at and a best actor Oscar has never been so deserved as the one that he picked up for this.Just like Joaquin Pheonix in his latest 'The Master' you come away from this viewing almost exhausted at the raw emotion that spills out on the screen throughout the movie.Perfect filmmaking, this is why I watch movies.


                
Wunderkind Paul Thomas Anderson's new film calls to mind Orson Welles' Citizen Kane in its themes and subject, and, shockingly, it's a good enough film to sit side by side with the one most often dubbed the greatest movie ever. Daniel Day-Lewis plays Daniel Plainview, an oil prospector who will do anything to be a success in the business. Much like Citizen Kane, There Will Be Blood depicts how the lust for money will eventually alienate every human being around you, and eventually make you completely isolated from the world. Unlike Citizen Kane, Daniel Plainview doesn't just grow apart from the world, he also becomes insane. There is a lot of metaphorical subtext lining the film's bottom, especially concerning the relationship between fundamentalist Christianity and big business. It's all very interesting to ponder. I don't know if I think the film is one of the most intellectually stimulating movies I've ever seen. For the record, I don't think Citizen Kane is, either. The message "money corrupts", while probably true, isn't especially insightful. What both films have in spades is a director with incredible talent who can envelop their audience in the rapturous experience of pure cinema. The desolate, desert setting sucks you in deeply and never lets you go. Every gravelly word spoken by Day-Lewis is anticipated with both glee and dread. It could have went on for three more hours, and only my bladder would have given notice. My only small grumble is Paul Dano in the final scene. He's good throughout, don't get me wrong, but that final sequence takes place over a decade after the last time we saw Eli Sunday. Daniel Plainview has aged, his son (as a child wonderfully played by the wide-eyed Dillon Freasier) has aged. Why is nothing done to Paul Dano to make him look older? At least give him a mustache! I think there must have been a reason for it, but I can't for the life of me imagine what that would be. Otherwise, an amazing experience.
I heard a lot of praise and superlatives for There Will Be Blood with critics calling it a 'masterpiece' a 'classic' and Daniel Day Lewis' performance being hailed as one of the best performances in cinematic history. Thus my expectations were high and surprisingly they were met. There Will Be Blood astonished me right from its sublime opening. We're introduced to a fabulous shot of somewhat threatening desert mountains with The Shining-esque dissident music playing over it, immediately giving the film a sinister quality. Then we're showed the corruption of Daniel Plainview as he discovers oil by accident and elaborately draws it out, presented entirely with no dialogue, just striking direction and visuals. It's a gripping sequence and the film doesn't let up from there.Let's start with the visuals. There Will Be Blood features some of the most stunning cinematography I've ever witnessed. Sometimes it looked as though it was a stunning oil painting (pun kind of intended) with awe-inspiring shots of landscape, almost eating up our anti-hero. Daniel is often presented in raw close-ups like the characters in Les Miserables, giving him a domineering look throughout the film. Daniel is so powerful that he even controls when the film is going to end with a haunting, "I'm finished." Paul Thomas Anderson (who's works I've never seen before) directs with amazement. There are often very few camera shots, focusing on the intensity of our protagonist.And let's face it, There Will Be Blood succeeds so spectacularly because of it's terrifically memorable main character. At it's heart, There Will Be Blood is a character study and an intense one at that. Daniel is basically in every scene and he's a compelling character to watch. At first I felt admiration for his ambition, but then we see him turn into someone totally ruthless, filled with greed and anger. I also loved how the two contrasting characters of Daniel and the preacher interacted. The preacher thinks he's some sort of God, whereas Daniel could be alluded to Satan, however in the end the preacher and Daniel are nigh on opposite sides of the same coin.Of course, the character of Daniel Plainview is made all that more compelling thanks to the other Daniel that's playing him. Daniel Day Lewis is truly electrifying and is up there with Heath Ledger's stonking performance as The Joker in The Dark Knight. He has a wonderful charisma about him, he's a great public speaker and has great ambition. However, he turns into someone almost psychotic. I found the final moments to be the most memorable and haunting as we see Daniel in the future, clearly succeeded, but has he? It's here that Daniel Day Lewis is at his most intense and jaw-dropping, helped by the wonderful writing.The screenplay is a tour-de-force of writing. It sometimes reminded me of Quentin Tarantino as it often featured long scenes of dialogue, but written with such suspense it made it all the more gripping. All the characters are developed wonderfully, but of course it's Daniel that we're focused on most. The directing also reminded me of Stanley Kubrick at times, filled with atmosphere and dread just like the extraordinary, The Shining. One of the most intense sequences features Daniel getting baptised in Church in order to secure an oil deal. It's jaw-dropping to watch as one of my favourite critics Chris Tookey pointed out that Daniel is full of rage, yet also genuinely calling out to God. It's quite heart-breaking.After seeing There Will Be Blood I thought that it deserved a definite 9/10. However, it's been almost 48 hours after watching it and it's still swimming around in my head. I also felt utterly compelled to buy it on blu-ray (as I catched the film on the telly) which is certainly telling. Thus, I have to give it the perfect 10/10 as it just resonates in your mind. Plus it just feels right to do so at the moment. There Will Be Blood is an unforgettable film which you'll either get or you won't. I loved the atmospheric music and atmosphere which prevailed throughout the film. Daniel Day Lewis gives an astonishing performance, playing one of the best characters in the film world. It's final moments completely amazed me and immediately made me want to see it again as it's heft two and a half hour running time flew by. There Will Be Blood is a true masterpiece and an utter modern classic not to be missed!


                
Curious that both of the two best films of the year (the other No Country for Old Men)- likely two of the most daring and great of American films I've ever encountered- both are measured, classically told stories of the pit of greed that encapsulates in the soulless. In the case of Paul Thomas Anderson's film, he uses a source which, as one might expect if one's read Upton Sinclair, there are as many metaphors to be had as blood. But not poorly laid metaphors at all, or ones that hit you on the head without reason or proper impact. These are the kinds that enrich a work of art, where they can be thought of later as with the themes, while in the midst of things you're just wrapped up in the solar-plexus of the story, and more crucially the storytelling. Daniel Plainview is a prospector at the start of the picture who has an image of himself, one that must never be broken. He digs for silver, then digs for oil, and strikes it rich. But he wants more. He buys up land from an Able Holiday, who's closest related Eli is welcoming, but at a price that the Lord has set (assumingly). Soon there is much oil, lots of it, and a pipeline as well. Eventually, like CF Kane, he's by himself in his big, dark mansion, without a Rosebud to boot.Daniel Plainview is such a great character because he is, as played to complete astonishment and embodiment by Daniel Day Lewis (reincarnating, ever so slightly, his volcanic performance in Gangs of New York), a servant to a God that leaves nothing in its wake. He and Eli, in a more-than-subtle sense, are kindred spirits: they worship their idols, one being money and one being God, but they also have a commonality, which is that what they want is never really enough, and what they want relies on those around them at their blind will. When the two, after years of "ups and downs" as Plainview says, have their final meeting in the bowling alley, it becomes less a revelation than a staggering scene of hell. It's one of the most absurdly dramatic endings in all movies.But there's also a greater metaphor, which is the oil itself (by the way, Sinclair's novel is titled "Oil!" with exclamation point). Anderson's picture is carefully constructed around a man who for capitalism is his lifeblood, for lack of a better term. The oil keeps flowing, and flowing, as does the money. But it's never really enough. There's an inherent fascination with watching a man, like Kane for example, who can never have enough because of a crucial defect in his humanity. No real friends, no real family (a re-emerging "brother" is a big sub-plot), and a son who, when a tragedy befalls him, can never be apart of his own self-created image. Rarely has a character been portrayed, by the actor as well as the director, in such a way that makes him so hateful, so unsympathetic, but never one we can look away from. It's capitalism unforgiven, if that makes sense.And meanwhile, with his characters of Daniel and Eli locked in to the web of money and religion in the center, Anderson crafts a film loaded with visual beauty. He's a director known for elaborate long-takes and tracking shots, but here it's even more measured, more in tune with a classic epic, as though the Grapes of Wrath were turned on its head. The dialog cuts like a knife, the cinematography has a visionary quality that brings out the spectacle and the personal feeling (less mood, though there's that there too) of the compositions. And the music by Greenwood is unlike any ever produced, with strings and wailing chords that pierce right along with the narrative.Altogether, it creates in There Will Be Blood a truly horrific and yet ever so recognizable truth in the American dream. And like No Country for Old Men, none of the characters have a "happy" ending. Not that a bleak ending a great films makes. But if it fits, it should be rode out till its logical conclusion. There Will Be Blood can be called all the big words- masterpiece, classic, essential, must-see, and that it's maker is worthy of comparison now (more than ever) to the great filmmakers of old. But it's above anything else a precise drama of conscience, or lack thereof. It's a fine, fine milkshake indeed.


                
Oil derricks in flames, ruthless and vicious human beings and spilled blood combine in the California oil fields of a hundred years ago. Daniel Plainfield, a self-made and hard-driving oil baron, and Eli Sunday, an unscrupulous and manipulative preacher, confront and antagonize each other over the course of decades. Both are unstable and hollow souls who expect and bring out the worst in others. Greed and avarice causes them to drill into human hearts as much as the vast oil fields in which they toil. Plainfield and Sunday clash in surprising and brutal ways until one of them discovers the limits to how deep a drill can go.Upton Sinclair, the author of the story on which this film is based, is likely turning in his grave in the realization that things have gone downhill since his time. 100 years ago when someone was accidentally clocked by a drill rig, Plainfield could dump the body in a tar pit and be done with them. These days Plainfield could strike again and not even need the cover of night to get rid of the body, just a Twitter account.The film is exquisite, impressive and ornate on many levels, especially the acting and cinematography. It racked up two Oscar wins for Daniel Day-Lewis' acting and for the cinematography, and it was nominated for six more. Daniel Day-Lewis is at his wicked best in portraying Plainfield. The cinematography is amazing for its startling beauty, composition and colors, oil derricks bursting into flames in the night for example, as well as the intriguing way it frames the characters. The photography tells an enthralling story beyond words and sound. The period clothing and elaborate sets are fascinating to behold. Such attention to detail makes even scenes of business negotiations appear alluring. The film is long, but because it is so good you don't notice the passage of time. An eerie yet intriguing soundtrack goes hand in hand with the disturbing characters, heartless actions and frequent severe beatings.


                
"There Will Be Blood" is an instant classic, very much in the mold in of "Citizen Kane," but much more effective. This is one of, writer/director, Paul Thomas Anderson' finest achievements and is certainly in the discussion for his best work along with "Boogie Nights" and "Magnolia." P.T. Anderson is quickly rising as this generation's best director and maybe the greatest visionary film has ever seen. On a technical level, "There Will Be Blood," is near perfection and may end up near the top of AFI' 100 greatest films list in another 20 years or so. The Cinematography is gorgeous. The score is incredible- sometimes a little overused. The acting is great, lead by one of the best of year- see Viggo Mortensen of "Eastern Promises" if you want to see a performance that rivals one of this magnitude. Paul Dano was, however, over the top and just couldn't match up with Lewis as he was outclassed and out performed, but some of the smaller roles were played with incredible realism and felt completely genuine. The direction is flawless. The art direction will put you back in the late 1800s on through the late 1920s. The performance by Daniel Day-Lewis will the thing that's remembered for years to come as he now owns title to two of the greatest acting performances of the 21st century ("Gangs of New York"). Like, "Gangs," "There Will Be Blood" is powered by Lewis as it's lead by Daniel Plainview, played magnificently by one of the best actors cinema has ever seen as he carries this ambitious film. Without this incredible performance to lean on "There Will Be Blood" just can't hold up to what it sets out to do. As we watch the development of Daniel Plainview and his hatred culminate we quickly realize just how deadly Plainview becomes. Where there's oil there's greed, and where there's greed there's disputes, and where there's disputes there's blood, and there will be blood. The greed in this film is saturated through the characters with one after another looking for money. Oil is the source of money and no one can get at it except for Daniel, so his greed is going to come into conflict with the spectators greed, who all wants a piece of the proverbial pie.The best scene in the film is the big gusher scene and it's also the turning point in the film. The cinematography in this five minute scene alone is worth a nomination and the score will sing your ears as the fire will sing your eyes. After years of drilling for oil, Plainview becomes powerful, but not as powerful as he will or dreams of becoming. The big gusher represents Plainview's boiling greed and once the ocean of boiling oil erupts, Plainview, is overcome with the prospect of making so much money that he could move away from everyone and live in a mansion, away from "these people." He hates most people and he doesn't see anything worth liking when he looks at people. Everyone that crosses his path is just another spectator getting in the way and taking the money that he has rights to. He does all the work- the drilling, he does all the finding, and he leases all the land so he should get all the money. This is how this works, you see. When his adopted son H.W. goes deaf from the blast of the big gusher, Daniel, no longer knows of any way to talk to him. When his partner asks him, "How's H.W." as Daniel is mesmerized by the fire and the ocean of oil under his feet and the kind of money he can make- the real money- he uncaringly says he's "not good." Then, just like that, H.W. becomes a burden instead of cute face to help him buy land. H.W. is a tool in Daniel's eyes. Everyone is a tool. Just like a pickaxe or a drill, people are tools, and Daniel uses those tools to get what he wants, but when they start acting like people instead of tools is when we have big problems. H.W. just gets in the way like everyone else and the love and bond of a father and son seem to take a back seat to greed and competition.Daniel sends H.W. off to a school for the deaf in San Francisco. While he's away his brother Henry is the next in line of spectators getting in the way. And Eli Sunday as well, the evangelical preacher for the Church of The Third Revelation. Paul Dano plays Eli, and his twin brother Paul Sunday, and get's into dirty business to provide for his church so he can preach to a bigger congregation. Sunday becomes immersed in his own greed and eventually finds himself corrupt and looking for help from his "brother Daniel" who doesn't exactly see himself as his brother. Greed and power sit atop the focal points of the film in regards to self examination. Sometimes you have to take a look at the ugly side of yourself. Some may question their actions as they try to change and some continue those actions without remorse. Daniel's plunge into madness is dark and prolonged and gradually alcohol and hate become the driving force in his life. As Daniel plunges into the never ending abyss we see that his hate knows no boundaries and he will hate anyone and turn on everyone. You'll come away questioning if he loved or cared for anyone. As Daniel comes to a point in his life where he wants to be: Alone and on top with his rivals drowning in a pool of their own blood. Whether he eats someone or isolates himself from people, he succeeds in whatever he does.


                
There's a recurring nightmare of mine where I am falling down a well. Our reality is an illusion. This life is simply the dream we have while we are actually falling down a well. It always seemed as if the well was bottomless. After watching "There Will Be Blood" I discovered the well has a bottom. At the bottom of the well is one thing. Oil.Also falling down this well was "The Performance." Watching Daniel Day Lewis play the unstoppable, unshakable, unfathomably misanthropic and greedy oil man that is Daniel Plainview, one is left to imagine that "The Performance" was always out there. It always existed somewhere in the ether, in our collective unconscious, in our nightmares and anxieties. It took a visionary auteur like Paul Thomas Anderson to realize that if he did a modern film update of Upton Sinclair's early 20th century novel "Oil!" and ominously renamed it "There Will Be Blood" then this performance could be channeled onto celluloid as a testament to the defining struggles of 21st century mankind.Blistering cinematography of stark California landscapes from Robert Elswit, an evocatively organic and haunting music score from Jonny Greenwood (from the rock band Radiohead), and the beautifully fluid movement and framing of Paul Thomas Anderson's maniacally calculating camera grab you from scene one and never let go. Daniel Day Lewis moves through the film like a cold burning firestorm combining and combusting with the technical elements and the fabulous ensemble cast around him to create a rising tension that is unlike anything experienced in cinema since the golden era of Stanley Kubrick.The story is multilayered and allegorical. Led to an untapped area floating in dust on rivers of oil by a mysterious young man, Plainview soon comes face to face with that young man's twin brother, Eli Sunday (a fecklessly manipulative Paul Dano). Eli is a wunderkind preacher at the Church of the Third Revelation and has the town wrapped around his finger with his claims to be a healer and prophet. Eli agrees to let Plainview buy his family's land for the right price. The profits are to be used to build a bigger church. But when Plainview refuses to let Eli properly bless the drill site, a series of events unfold that Eli trumpets as acts of "God" while Plainview views them as results of meddling people he can scarcely see any good in and must crush.The heart of the movie lies in Plainview's relationship with his adopted son H. W. (a wonderfully naturalistic and quietly expressive Dillon Freasier). When the boy is injured on a drilling site and loses his hearing, Plainview, torn by his love for the idea of the boy looking up to him and the friendly face the boy has leant to the family business, abandons him only to latch on to a shady vagabond (Kevin J. O'Connor) who trots into town claiming to be his long lost brother Henry. Plainview's replacing of a fake son with a fake brother shows his character's deep-seeded and wounded need to connect to someone when insatiable greed has been his only driving force.To explore in detail the film's deeper message and resonance for today's audience would be to spoil the ending. Suffice it to say, after the slowly infectious, nerve-shattering build-up, the film culminates with a soliloquy from Plainview to Eli that will make your jaw drop. In the end, it lives up to its title. There was blood. Whose was spilled is not a matter of debate, but what that blood says to its 21st century audience will be discussed and argued and studied for years to come. If you want to know what happens when greed guised in religious zealotry falls down a dark seemingly bottomless well with greed blatant as corporate capitalism, look no further than this film. There is a bottom to that well. There is a winner at the finish line. Meanwhile the blood is on the floor, the walls, the desert sand, the silver screen, the nightly news, and pumping through our bodies until we die.
I don't know whether this is quite as good as No Country for Old Men or not - only time will tell that - but this is a very, very good film in its own right, anyway. This is most comparable to Citizen Kane, boasting a similar structure and main character, although this is every bit as compelling and interesting, with twists and turns around every corner, always something to keep you on the edge of your seat. There Will Be Blood is a riveting drama, and it weaves a tale that you will not forget.Daniel Day Lewis's acting is fantastic, and he is surrounded by a supporting cast that do not lack for acting prowess themselves. If you enjoy masterful cinema, than this is as good of a place to look as No Country, and better than most other movies you could pick. Superb.


                
For me, This movie is as near to a masterpiece as anything ever will be.Let me start off my saying that for me, this is Daniel Day Lewis' performance of his career. He is utterly magnificent. He manages to be so despicable, so horrifying, yet we still see small flickers of love coming from his character.The story follows Daniel Plainview (played by Daniel Day Lewis) on his journey as a young worker to the successfully terrifying wealthy oil businessman.The movie is a cinematic masterpiece. It is beautifully shot, scripted, acted, edited, the soundtrack by Radiohead's Jonny Greenwood is utterly mesmerizing and hypnotic at times.The movie starts off relatively slow and tense but have patience with it and you will be rewarded with one of the best movies ever made in my opinion.10/10 Must watch.


                
A magnificent piece of work by Paul Thomas Anderson. Daniel Day Lewis truly deserved the Oscar for the kind of acting he displayed including the lust for money,insanity,anger,ambition,emotional trauma.I have never ever seen a Hollywood piece of work like this. This movie follows the life a ambitious young man of early 1900s from building up his small oil well to discovering the greatest oil reserve in his life and how this discovery effects his own life and how he starts taking pride in himself building hatred towards other people in pursuing his lust for money. It also explores the type of superstition prevailing in that era among the local countrymen. In a nutshell this movie deserves a special place in the Hollywood because this is just one of its kind to be made. Don't miss it!


                
