I like Upton Sinclair and I like Daniel Day Lewis (DDL) (esp. impressed with Gangs of NY), but this movie is a flop in so many ways I can't recount them all here. Generally. it suffers from a deeply flawed screenplay and what I would presume to be the misdirection of DDLs considerable talent. In roughly 2.5 hours, the movie does almost nothing to either account for or reveal in any particularly interesting way the moral bankruptcy of Plainview. Insofar as DDL's performance is concerned, it is particularly overacted at the scene of his baptism, when his overt contempt for the proceeding could not be more apparent. While we can sympathize with his plight and laugh with his sarcastic murmurings, it is simply unbelievable that such a manipulative person in desperate need of the critical lease for his pipeline wouldn't at least fake the requisite sincerity, especially as we know the Plainview character is a capable performer and has a history of doing so. The 30 minute over-dramatized coda explains nothing and adds nothing and thus the movie's conclusion is abrupt and unsatisfying. We already knew that Plainview was brutish and that Eli Sunday was a fraud. Some better explanation for the distance between D Plainview and H.W. would have been welcome, but none was offered.A WEEK LATER: Everyone I speak with in NYC who has seen this movie agrees that it is weak and over-hyped. How is this rated the #28 best film ever made on IMDb, higher than Chinatown, Taxi Driver, M, Vertigo, The Third Man, Clockwork Orange, Raging Bull, Rashomon, etc... etc... ???? Are the voters here truly tasteless or just studio shills?TWO WEEKS THEREAFTER: With another 1000 votes in the tally, its clear that the IMDb audience thinks this is the 16th best film ever made -- which goes to show how very little great cinema they've seen. Despite their rating, the film is no better than The Treasure of Sierra Madre where Bogart essentially gives DDL lessons in how to play the miner succumbed to greed -- a performance for which he didn't even grab a best actor nomination! (Admittedly, TWBB is perhaps more "true to life," and benefits from incredible staging (sets and rigs) but I take this to be a function of the present climate where audiences are willing to accept an overt "indictment" of capitalist speculation as opposed to the more restrictive clime of 1948 in which the subject had to be reduced to a comedy.) Interestingly, I just read on wikipedia that "(The treasure of Sierra Madre) is director Paul Thomas Anderson's favorite film. In fact, he watched it every night before bed while writing his film There Will Be Blood"
First off, I'd like to say that I have enjoyed most all of PTA's films. I loved Boogie Nights, thought Magnolia was an ambitious, but not great picture, and thoroughly enjoyed Punch- Drunk Love. I, like many others have eagerly awaited Paul Thomas Anderson's latest film, There Will Be Blood. In fact, I drove almost 120 miles and waited 2-3 hours in line to see it, as that was the closest showing of it. I bought into all the hype, read almost every review, watched any and all interviews of it that I could, expecting a "masterpiece" as so many IMDBers put it. People even had the audacity to say it's one of the best films of the decade. Some big words and shoes for a film to fit. Nevertheless, after the wait, I found myself disappointed and terribly bored with this film. The movie's pacing and editing was SO slow and too long (nearly 3 hours), I felt that the editor should have had another much needed run in the cutting room. For instance, certain shots in a scene went on forever as the camera stays with a character for 5 min or more, never changing angles, creating a needlessly slow pace. There were many scenes with little to no dialog adding another dull layer. Now I appreciate films with silence that present cinematic art ( "3-Iron" and "Spring, Summer, Fall, Winter...And Spring", two movies that are nearly all silence) yet here it granted the film unevenness. People are claiming this film had beautiful cinematography, yet I fail to see what was so unique. Perhaps the theater I was at had an inexperienced projectionist, bad print or something, but the shots, lighting, and composition were rather dull and the camera movements uninteresting. I mean how hard is it to shoot wide-angle barren landscapes and campfire scenes and follow actors with steadicam/tracking scenes? Although this wasn't a stylized movie, rather an attempt to take you into the 19th century, I thought the cinematography was mediocre at best. I've seen better work from Robert Elswit and other DPs. Worse than mediocre however, is the music/soundtrack, which was so obnoxious and used out of place, that it just may have worsened the viewing experience. The horror-like, intense and unnerving score that was mixed way too loud in the soundtrack, doesn't even seem to match the images or the story. The music isn't "bad", but it does not fit well. The music, which attempted to create tension among the characters exemplifying greed and corruption, seemed extremely forced and vexing. Here is this rather slowly cut/paced movie displaying an ugly landscape or early America undeveloped showcasing a man being SLOWLY corrupted, scored side-by-side with this imposing, experimental, enormous, horror-like score that was woefully out of sync with the film and apparently wanted to call attention to itself, not assist the story. Acting... Well, although there is praise left and right for Daniel Day Lewis and Paul Dano, I felt both performances were lackluster, Paul Dano's being much worse. There were many times that I felt like Dano was just reading from a script and not embodying the character, for instance, the first time we are introduced to him, his lines are weak and artificial with strange speech pauses and insipid facial expressions. DDL was also nothing special. His accent was, well... certainly not mind-blowing, and didn't make me think of anything uniquely "American" as that was what he was supposedly trying to portray. In many scenes he was overacting and Dano was underacting, or vice versa. I couldn't get into the two personality types as they were undeveloped. Although the audience is supposed to dislike DD Lewis, I didn't care for any of the characters and completely lost interest in the film about 40 min to an hour into it. DD Lewis is a great actor and that may be an understatement, but he certainly did not shine in this picture. Yet at the same time, he may have been the only redeemable thing in this movie. I can only assume that since PTA is known for giving minimal direction and following his scripts closely (he has stated this during commentaries of his films) the acting was flawed and pulse nearly-dead, due to the weak script/adaptation. There were some major/minor holes in this film, but I didn't care. I was too bored, and couldn't care about any underlying tones of greed and religion since the characters neither really embodied either very well. Some characters appear, some disappear never to be seen again, certain scenes that were supposed to be climactic and intense came off as comedic (the audience I was with, laughed a great deal during these scenes) and I wondered if that was the way PT Anderson intended it, or it being the audience I sat with. I don't know. For example, during the final scene where DDL and Dano's "discussion" turns into a near fight, the scene comes off as if it were slapstick and had the audience busting out in laughs.In summary, this film was a major let down for me as I had high hopes for it, and was a fan of all of PTA's films. The film's execution, writing, and direction was empty and flawed, resulting in an uneven, and painfully boring film. I suppose there are different strokes for different folks, but the film really stinks.
Being a huge fan of Paul Thomas Anderson, my expectations were high for this flick, but alas, it did not deliver. Brilliantly directed by Anderson, with a phenomenal central performance by Daniel Day Lewis, I think the problem with the film is at a fundamental and conceptual level. The work is ambitiously themed, but Anderson hasn't taken the time<U+0097>or perhaps didn't have the desire<U+0097>to draw us into the story or the characters. Magnolia was an epic, ambitious work also, but it was on a human scale, and Anderson never seemed to be reaching for his effects. There Will Be Blood is another matter: it's all reaching, but it comes back empty-handed. Based on Upton Sinclair's novel, the film tells the tale of oil man Daniel Plainview, a man without substance, and apparently without heart or soul, driven by mysterious forces (forces that are never revealed), whose only passion is for oil. Plainview doesn't appear to be all that interested in profit, even, and although he is a ruthless businessman, the impression the film gives is that this is more a point of principle than actual greed. We are never given a clue as to what might be behind such a principle, however, or behind the character's stubborn, almost inhuman drive.The trouble with There Will Be Blood is that, if you place a hollow man at the center of your movie, you are likely to wind up with a hollow movie. Daniel Day Lewis carries the film on his sinewy shoulders, and he keeps us gripped by the sheer magnetism of his presence; but the script doesn't provide much context for his performance, and the character seems to be almost entirely the actor's creation. Long as the film is (158 minutes), Anderson doesn't use the time to establish his characters, or appear to care about building suspense. He seems to consider such conventions beneath him, and the result is fuzzy, muted, shapeless and meandering. Individual scenes are often strong<U+0097>the film is gorgeously photographed<U+0097>and there's certainly a dark poetry and lyricism to the film; but because there's no central thread to tie the scenes together, and without much narrative or character drive, the various episodes just hang in a void. Since we have no clue as to what drives the central character, there is nothing to drive the scenes forward either. Violent confrontations<U+0097>between Plainview and the preacher, Ely, between Ely and his father, and the final murder<U+0097>should be intensely disturbing but somehow fail to move us. Anderson doesn't make us feel the tensions that lead up to these scenes, so they appear to come out of nowhere; they seem overwrought, faintly ludicrous. Inside such a dramatic vacuum, Lewis' performance<U+0097>intense as it is<U+0097>becomes often blackly amusing: Plainview seems not only psychotic but absurd. Yet we can't tell if he's meant to seem that way or not. For such a bleak and violent work, Blood is almost devoid of tension. And for all the care that has gone into the film's look, and despite the central performance, it's rather slack, even tedious. It's clear Anderson is aiming for something big, but I think the ambitiousness of his concepts has undone him (though this is presumably why the film is being praised so extravagantly). He's trying to paint the portrait of a soulless man, driven by greed or unfathomable obsession, whose complete lack of feeling for anyone or anything besides oil turns him, by steady degrees, into a psychopath. And he's probably aiming at a parable for our times, in which insane corporate greed strips the Earth of its blood and man of his soul. But the film may be too finely conceived: Anderson has forgotten to take the trouble to draw us into the story and make it dramatic, meaningful, and what's on the screen are his lofty intentions, but not much of a movie. There Will Be Blood left me entirely cold. I felt nothing for the characters, and besides Plainview there are no characters, really. There is the preacher Ely, who is faintly despicable but otherwise less than substantial, and Plainview's son, who barely says a dozen words throughout the film. The rest are shadows, and Anderson seems to have intended it this way (he has cast the film almost entirely with unknowns). And although Daniel Day Lewis is mesmerizing throughout, there is only one scene which gives us a glimpse of what is going on inside Plainview and allows us to see him as a human being (the scene when he admits to hating people). Mostly, he seems like some relentless force of nature, a golem, driven by sheer hatred. But there's nothing to account for this hatred: like everything else in the film, it seems to exist in a void. There Will Be Blood is a tale told by a genius, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing. Critics may beg to differ, but if so, I suspect they are responding to the film's intentions more than what it actually achieves. Since Anderson's film appears to be about something, even though it never connects with us emotionally, it's being treated with awe and reverence (with repeat comparisons to Citizen Kane). But I think this is Anderson's weakest film, and except for one or two scenes (such as when Plainview's son is deafened in a rigging accident), it's almost entirely lacking in the compassion, the humanity, which made his previous films so remarkable. There Will Be Blood appears to be a case of a filmmaker getting carried away by the grandiosity of his vision, being too busy mapping the forest to remember to plant the trees. It's the sound of one hand clapping.
I was greatly disappointed by the film. While Daniel D. Lewis's acting is rather impressive, the rest of the movie is disappointing and it's not clear what the movie is about.The screenplay is not cohesive - many scenes and facts are unexplained and don't make sense; Examples: the first ten minutes in which we see D.D.Lewis digging in a mining pit and injuring himself; Why does his son lose his speech despite the fact he only heart his hearing? Why does the son set the house on fire when Henry, the impostor brother appears? Why does Eli strike his father and how does this relate to the rest of the film? The music was simply awful and was often irritating: squealing and screeching going on and on, repetitive noises, etc. In some scenes I felt as if the music was completely inadequate and taken from a cheap horror film.I feel that the director focused on shooting beautiful shots and directing long, single shot scenes, but neglected the story underlying the movie and tying all pieces together. The film appears to be a combination of good parts that simply don't fit well together.
I went into this film not really knowing anything about it (apart from Daniel Day-Lewis winning the Oscar). And I left without really knowing anything about it.The film starts with a fairly long segment without any dialogue, which actually I thought was quite good. A brave move in this modern day, and one which I think worked. I couldn't quite work out why the central character was mining for silver one day, then suddenly drilling for oil, but that's immaterial.The second act (after DDL has adopted the son of a dead worker, for what one would imagine are altruistic reasons) involves the mining of oil in a small Northern California town. Again, this worked pretty well - going to the town, buying up drilling rights from the townsfolk by conning them etc. Then HW (the central character's adopted son) is made deaf in an accident, and suddenly the film changes direction.Most of the second half of the film is confused, and in the end pointless. One minute you feel sorry for the central character, having to send his son (whom he clearly cares for) away to school. The next he doesn't seem to care about anyone but himself.The whole "long lost brother" subplot could have been excised from the film without any real loss to the story. In fact, most of the last half of the film could have been lost, and this would have been a better film.I haven't read the original book on which the film is based, but I assume it is a character piece, with several vignettes in the life of the central character. On film, this just didn't work.If you are convinced to go and see this film, take a cushion, as it is overtly long. 3 / 10 mainly because the central performance is so riveting.
after a long day me and my buddies were discussing which movie we should watch that night.one guy said,hey there's that movie "there will be blood".i said yeah i heard it has many favorable ratings,multiple nominations and is simply one of the greatest movies(critics). the first part of the movie which has almost no dialogue leaves you playing with your soda straw. I have to give some credit to Daniel Day Lewis though overacting was prominent in the film.The film length was excruciating,at certain points I questioned if it would ever end.It would have been at least a bit more interesting if we knew that DDL's character was using the boy as a marketing tool during the movie and not after it finished.So in conclusion the following adjectives: boring and overrated
After all the hype, this was very disappointing. Its all been said in other reviews. The story rambled and jumped around without any regard for continuity and plot or character progression. All the characters were one dimensional. The score seemed to be in competition with the movie instead of complimenting it and Daniel Day Lewis, who I consider to be a great actor, was way over the top with an accent reminiscent of agent Smith from "The Matrix". I half expected him to attach a "... Mr Anderson" on to some of his lines. I think its crazy that this is currently ranked at number 33 in the IMDb most popular movies. I fear there's a strong element of "The emperors new clothes here"


                
First off, I have to admit that I went into this film with low expectations. I've hated every film by P.T. Anderson ("Boogie Nights" is the worst film I've ever seen). "There Will Be Blood" is more garbage from this no-talent. He doesn't seem to understand how to pace a film, his dialog is insipid and his characters are impossible to identify with. Yet the most irritating thing about his films are that they're BORING! The photography in this film is excellent, but the screeching soundtrack made me want to gouge out my eyes. Daniel Day-Lewis is an extraordinary actor, but he'll be downgraded in my book because he participated in this trash. Wake up Hollywood: P.T. Anderson is a hack! It astounds me that his films get such great reviews.


                
I went into the theater expecting to love There Will Be Blood, but instead found myself thoroughly annoyed by the soundtrack (distracting and overly dramatic), the plot (almost nothing happens over the course of 2.5 long, excruciating hours) and the main character (over-the-top, one-dimensional, unlikeable and unbelievable). The first third or so was good despite the awful soundtrack, but after the pivotal accident scene with his son, I couldn't stop looking at my watch. NOTHING HAPPENS. Was it supposed to be a fascinating character study? Daniel Day-Lewis plays an evil (or just "competitive" as he says) cyborg who spends most of his time chewing imaginary tobacco that never gets spit out. The only time he seems remotely human is in the occasional scene where he almost manages to seem like he cares a tiny bit about his son. That's it. I should say, that's it except for a stupid ending involving a bowling lane. The best thing about the movie was the excellent cinematography.Spend your money on No Country for Old Men instead of this - it's about a million times better in every way.
I love epics from Spartacus to Lawrence of Arabia to Seven Samurai to Citizen Kane. The only thing epic about this movie was it's length. Daniel Day-Lewis gives a virtuoso performance as an amoral man, who over 30 years remains amoral. But what's the point? There is no progression, no growth, no action and not one character to care about. There is nothing in this movie as big as Day-Lewis' performance, and the story remains off balance from start to finish because of it. I found myself wishing I was watching a Ken Burns' documentary on the early days of oil. The music was often atonal and intrusive, and actually lessened what little pleasure I took from this film.The degradation that follows pursuit of riches was addressed admirably in "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre," where we see the progression of gold lust turn good friends into crazed enemies. "Madre" showed the joy of becoming rich. "Blood" had no joy. Any fortuitous discovery must be followed with pain.Finally, there was about as much blood in this movie as there were lines spoken by women; almost none.


                
A truly stunning performance by Daniel Day Lewis, encased in a torturous shell by a horribly sadistic director. A horrid score, intent on causing unsettled paranoia in the watcher, with no consideration for sanity or eardrums.A thoroughly Oscar-worthy and unwatchable piece, with little character development, incongruous events, and long, un-edited tracking shots that speak to a complete disregard for editing or directorial responsibility.There was barely a moment when I didn't long to be one screen over, watching Step Up 2. But a penance was demanded of the audience, and I paid it to watch one of the greatest performances of my generation.


                
As an avid follower of the IMDb top 250, I must vote this a 3 just to try to bring this film back to where it belongs - certainly not in the top 25. It probably was more of a 6, but the marks it has been getting have been a bit too generous. It was meandering and boring and in the end told us nothing except what we already knew it was about-a greedy man looking for oil at any cost. The acting was okay but DDL was much better in Gangs of NY.Are you really going to tell me that TWBB is better than Psycho, Dr. Strangelove, Citizen Kane, Silence of the Lambs, Fight Club, the next 5 movies right behind it. Please! Lately the voters on IMDb's top 250 have been giving high marks to films that just don't measure up. Juno, Little Miss Sunshine and Hot Fuzz, for example, were all average at best.I really loved Boogie Nights and Magnolia, but this is not PT Anderson's best. Movies still have to be entertaining and this one was not.


                
This movie started out well enough with a high interest value in the first 50 minutes or so - explaining the struggle of the early oil pioneers with their lack of knowledge and equipment - it took a fair nose dive after that with Daniel Day Lewis's acting just becoming extremely annoying and the soundtrack becoming so shrill and distracting that at times I found myself covering my ears until the passage in question had moved on to quieter times. If DDL was up for an Oscar for this (and i'm no way sure of this) I have to say that the overall quality of Oscar nominees must be slipping - the storyline just got lost in an over-long rambling mess of a film. I have to say that mile for mile DDL's films SEEM to run into an overlong mess (see Gangs of New York) and it seems at times the direction of this movie gets waylayed. This is of course just my opinion and maybe you might get something out of this movie that I did not - Satisfaction - satisfaction that I longed to crave especially after a good opening - but ultimately its promise was larger than its delivery - one for the straight to video I fear with boredom a high factor in the latter stages of the movie and DDL just becoming an annoying inclusion in a thus ultimately unsatisfying experience


                
Anderson is the best American director working with big budgets, period. Which screenwriter who has penned a masterpiece on paper (and not wanting to do the dirty work themselves) would not want Paul making their film? I have the highest regard for him. The highest. In the league with Mikhalkov and Almodovar. I think I know what's wrong with this film. To me the catchism "character study" has always been a cop out for not making a film which works on what Robert Mckee terms the "extra personal" level of conflict. That, or has not classically arced the character which feels completely wrong for this film. It is fantastic to begin to show this devastating greed of the American flavor in such detail, but to what ends? To the spiritual and moral devastation of one man, but so what, meaning that what Anderson has here is the primordial greed that is still destroying this country, and with what he has written it is not enough to make an aesthetically definitive statement on how it effects everyone of us.Many people are confused by its message, as they were with the central message of Magnolia...which was unavoidable actually..(who's fault is it that people aren't versed in the Bible....The plague will come if we don't wise up.) If the film were to have shown, for example, how this redoubtable myopia affected at least the townspeople already in the film, or to write more emboldened (WARNING: The budget just went up considerably) if Mr. Plainview becomes Senator Plainview and naturally continues his cultivated habits of the perfect businessman really in the political arena, then we would start to care, because then it would be plain to comprehend and appreciate what a felt monster this character truly has become, and the consequences of the propagation of this cherished American ethos (when unchecked by other forces like religion, or love of family) when applied unilaterally ....work hard, be number one, etc. This film does not go far enough.
I haven't read Upton Sinclair's "Oil" which "There will be blood" is based on but I understand that the main character in the movie is depicted as being far more demonic than the character shown in the book. So apparently it's the screenwriter who we can heap scorn upon here and not the novelist responsible for the original source material.Paul Thomas Anderson, the screenwriter, has borrowed a page from the second half of "Citizen Kane" where a multi-dimensional character suddenly morphs into a one-dimensional bad guy. But in "There will be Blood", our anti-hero, Daniel Plainview, played by Daniel Day-Lewis, is one-dimensional throughout! There seems to be a mantra uttered these days that Day-Lewis's performance is a masterpiece and he deserves the Oscar. Except for a few dramatic angry outbursts, Day-Lewis's performance appears to me as entirely one-note! That's really the fault of the screenwriter, who believes in the "I'm not OK<U+0097>you're not OK" school of screen writing. Make your character someone who openly admits that he has contempt for everybody and also (unconsciously) dislikes himself. Anderson's Plainview is a metaphor for big business past and present. It's a puerile view of American business and American businessmen since no one is like that in real life. Evil characters need to have likable and hence charismatic characteristics<U+0097>they attain their objectives by seducing their constituents (e.g. Tony Soprano). One wonders how such a surly and nasty character as Plainview actually succeeds. Notice how the peripheral characters in this film have virtually nothing to say<U+0097>they are completely underdeveloped. The screenwriter is content to explore only his relationships with three main characters, his son, Eli, the minister and his pseudo half-brother (who he ends up killing after he realizes that the man is really a con artist). One wonders why Plainview has to be so demonic and unlikable. Would a person whose main goal is to be successful jeopardize his entire career by murdering the man who pretended to be his brother? Would a person who purportedly did everything for his handicapped son throughout the boy's childhood suddenly turn around and disown him simply because he wants to move away with his wife and start his own company in Mexico? And finally, does it make ANY SENSE AT ALL that he would risk imprisonment by murdering the minister who comes begging to him after he's lost all his money in the stock market crash? I understand that Plainview was getting back at Eli for humiliating him after he was forced to undergo Baptism in order to lease the land from one of the parishioners, but to suddenly murder the fellow with a bowling pin at the end made no sense at all!"There will be blood" is melodrama which descends into cheap propaganda. While Daniel Day-Lewis will probably win for best actor (and I don't think he should), my prediction is that this picture will not win the Oscar. The truth of the matter is that it's too much of a downer<U+0097>and downers don't win Oscars!
I'm sorry, but I simply can't possibly comprehend how this movie can garner such high ratings. It has honestly shattered my trust in IMDb's ratings.I watched this movie after seeing the reviews it got here, and I cannot express enough how disappointed I am after losing 2.5 hours of my life to a pointless film whose plot simply never developed. It simply lacks a good plot (or any plot for that matter), which simply makes it boring as hell.I honestly went through a 2.5 hour depression, the reason I gave it 3 stars is for the simple fact that the cinematography and the acting were good, but what it good is that if it lacks in every other aspect.Conclusion, I'd rather see paint dry than see this movie again. The only good that came out of this is that I had 2.5 hours to reflect on life, and it's many meanings.
Hollywood, like the rest of society, has its own political correctness. This is one of those films that everyone is supposed to admire. Supposedly, the characters are deep and dark and very complex. Daniel Day-Lewis is one of the best actors working today, blah, blah blah. Almost all of this is garbage. This film has the worst attribute of anything in the entertainment industry - it is not entertaining. Boring would be a better term. Dull, plodding and excruciatingly long. The moments of interest are few and far between, and far too fleeting to make this movie worth watching. One leaves the film primarily with a sense of wonder as to why Hollywood thinks it is so noteworthy. It is not, except perhaps as a example of the bad films Hollywood increasingly tells us (the public) that we SHOULD like. There is a growing disconnect between the films celebrated at the Academy Awards and those films that the public actually enjoys. No wonder the audience for the Awards dwindles each year. Continued celebration of boring, forgettable films such as this will ensure the Academy's increasing irrelevance.


                
Other than as a vehicle for Mr Day-Lewis's acting this is a dreary film containing little in the way of character interaction at the end of which, having managed to stay awake, I could care little for what had happened. This film seems mostly a series of screen tests or auditions for an Oscar(TM): can you do angry now Daniel? Can you do that in a Sean Connery accent? Rather humourless and otherwise devoid of emotional content, lacking anything intellectual, occasionally awful photography I'm at a loss as to why anyone would want to watch it.


                
After reading all the hype surrounding There Will Be Blood (Daniel-Day Lewis's Academy Award nominated performance, Paul Thomas Anderson's directing, the cinematography etc) I expected the pièce de résistance of 2007 cinema. However, it was actually more disappointing than American Gangster. Sure I may (and most probably have) missed the point of TWBB, but even if I did get it, I doubt I would have been any more entertained. It really was boring. The story, the characters, the setting, everything. Well, everything except Daniel Day-Lewis. His performance as conflicted small-time oil baron Daniel Plainview is exceptional. So is his mantastic moustache. If the whole film was stripped down to him offering profound monologues on various turn-of-the-century American Midwest sets, it would be acceptable. He really was the only factor maintaining my interest in the film, although he should still lose the Academy Award to Viggo Mortensen. However, if there was an award for hobbling duck walks, Day-Lewis would win by a mile.One particularly irritating aspect of TWBB is the character Eli Sunday, played by Paul Dano. Yes, I realise he's supposed to be irritating; that does not make his screeching voice or perpetual presence any easier to accommodate. Though evidently supposed to be a focal point of TWBB, his very existence drags the already unpromising premise (Oil! Wow!) into insipid mess territory. I cheered (well I didn't, but I could have) every time something bad happened to him, which was not often enough. Another annoying character is Plainview's 'son', H.W, who we're supposed to feel sorry for, for some reason. Considering his total absence of character development and the way he magically ages about ten years near the end of the film, the only feeling he evokes is puzzlement and indifference. And they're pretty much the only people I can recall. Oh, except for Plainview's long lost 'brother', the human equivalent of a plank of wood with a moustache drawn on by a Biro which has been chewed on incessantly by a moron. Other than Daniel Day-Lewis, the only positive aspect that can be taken from TWBB is the score composed by Jonny Greenwood of Radiohead. Paranoid and edgy, it fits the bleak atmosphere of the film perfectly. Actually, I would rather just listen to the score on its own. Although then it would remind me that I watched this in the first place. Great, everything is ruined.So, don't bother watching this turgid shambles unless for some reason you derive some kind of sadomasochistic pleasure from boring yourself stupid. Instead, just download the soundtrack instead and listen to it free from lingering, unwanted vestiges of There Will Be Blood invading your thoughts. To amend a quote by Plainview, "That wasN'T one goddamn helluva show."


                
And all three stars are for the Greenwood soundtrack, which is the best part of this movie. I've seen all five Academy Award nominated films for 2007, and this one is by far the worst. Daniel Day Lewis is a great actor, and he can't save this boring script, which meanders aimlessly through the years of his characters life without really digging deep into it, or any other characters for that matter. It also seems like every P.T Andersen movie since Boogie Nights (brilliant I might add) gets progressively worse, and with "blood" he's really hit bottom. I really wanted to like this movie, and was ready to give up several times, but stuck it out. I would rather have watched Juno or Michael Clayton again. And I can think of a couple of movies which should have been nominated for Best Picture over this one. Save your money, and more importantly, your time.


                
I know there are a lot of viewers & critics who are absolutely over the moon with this movie but i'm not sure what the fuss is about! I read some reviews about TWBB & then i heard about the number of awards it was up for. I then found that it had an 8.6 rating on IMDb so i thought i'd give it a watch. I thought that the plot was very 'run-of-the-mill' & that all the possible sub-plots failed to materialise. And the ending seemed a bit over the top in terms of what happens during the film. Daniel Day-Lewis seems to always impress in any role he plays & his character was intense & very intriguing but that doesn't make a movie on it's own! Nothing unexpected happens at all (except an over the top murder right at the end) & nothing interesting seems to develop. Initially, i thought the 1st couple of sub-plots weren't developed on purpose in order for ones further into the movie to be developed or a surprise plot to appear but nothing happened at all. Very linear story, good dialogue & great acting but not a good movie for me. I didn't like 'No country for old men' because of the poor ending but, as a complete movie, i rate it better that TWBB because at least it had an interesting beginning and middle. Just my humble opinion.
The acting was good. The directing (Paul Thomas Anderson) was terrible. I am at a loss to understand why so many people enjoyed this film.It was very disappointing to me, I thought I was going to see a first class film but instead saw something that was bizarre. This should have been a great film. The nearly 3 hour run time (2hr 46Min) could have been cut down to at least 2 hours and would have improved it. The Director had many scenes of completely empty meaning. Example. My Son daughter and I just made the start of the movie. We got settled in and I had to make a run to the mens room after a minute or two of watching him hammer away at rock. I returned after about six minutes and he is still hammering. No meaning what so ever. There were other scenes likes this where men are working an oil rig up, down, up down. And a scene where Kevin J. O'Conners character is sitting on the beach. Why am I staring at him looking up down and just sitting? Stupid. It's like Anderson sees this as artistic. I think its useless and a waste of film and run time.Again, to me this should have been much better. I have seen several epic films, Lawrence of Arabia, Gone With the Wind, Ten Commandments, A Bridge Too Far, and more. They didn't waste run time. They WERE artistic, this one falls far short. The first time I saw Daniel Day Lewis he was starring in My Left Foot for which he won his Oscar. And He was absolutely superb in Last of the Mohicans. This is a good performance but not my favorite (Mohicans is one of my favorite films, mainly because of DDL's acting). If he wins the Oscar that is fine with me, it was a good performance. But I will say, that by the end of the movie he reminded me more of Timothy Dalton in Hot Fuzz, looked like him and sounded like him. Strange, but thats how he came across to me.Paul Dano does a good job in his role of as does O'Conner.Bottom line from me. Wait for the DVD.Gary


                
There Will Be Blood was seen as a strong competitor at Academy Awards with No Country For Old Men, which was the reason to see these movies. After i've been disappointed with both it once again confirmed the irrelevance of Oscars and IMDb rating.Daniel Day-Lewis offers a tremendous performance, yet this is a default for any movie he's been in. So, no surprise there. Paul Dano was rather weak and the rest of the crew bearable.Yet, the main issue was the ambition of Paul Thomas Anderson to create a monumental piece of art. 158 minutes of length only confirm my assumption.Sorry, but i have really nothing to add about There Will Be Blood.


                
If I wanted to watch John Huston, I'd have rented Chinatown. Daniel Day-Lewis does a great impression of Huston in this film. The unrelenting sociopathic nature of Plainview wears over time. A long time. There doesn't seem to be any point except oilmen are ruthless and evil, and religion is a scam. There is a trend of excessive violence and brutality in many films these days, instead of a good story and great characterizations. Ciaran Hinds is underutilized Much is promised- nothing much delivered but an "ambitious man" story. Taken from "Citizen Kane", and a cheap supernatural thriller hinted at when it seems God will take a hand. He never does. There is also a frisson of "Moby Dick", man pursuing the leviathan. Woe is me.


                
I'm glad to see there are many other people here who were very disappointed with this film, although for other reasons than I was. I am sick and tired of the film industry's bashing of Christians and this is just the latest in the hate-spewing of celluloid secularists. Can you imagine depicting anyone else like this and getting away with it? Of course not, but anyone wearing a cross and quoting Scripture is "fair game" for all kinds of abusive characterizations.The tipoff, by the way, always is a closeup of the "bad guy" (Christian) wearing a cross. That is the case in this movie a number of times when they really want you to hate "Eli."The last scene in this movie, in particular, is absolutely, so over-the-top that even non-believers gagged at how overdone it was with both main characters being almost cartoonish. That this ludicrous exaggeration took place is no surprise when you look at who directed the film. Mr. Anderson done this before in his other movies."Eli Sunday," a Pentecostal preacher, spouts so many un-Biblical statements it would make your head spin. There are false prophets everywhere, no doubt, but who sounds and acts like this guy? Clueless filmmakers like Anderson don't know, that's obvious. For example, Sunday yells, "God doesn't save stupid people." Nobody - even a fake preacher - would say that. Come on. Does Hollywood ever portray a normal minister or priest? To emphasize, their agenda, Anderson made Sunday into such a whiny wuss that nobody would like him, regardless of his beliefs.Daniel Day-Lewis, meanwhile, fares a lot better, of course, as filmdom's favorite: an anti- hero. However, his fine performance goes down the tubes, too, in that long finale. The whole last 20 minutes is overwrought and ruins whatever value this story did have to that point, which wasn't much to start with because the other main agenda is to bash capitalism by featuring greedy oilmen.Actually, the reason I watched this was that it won the Academy Award for cinematography. Since photography is what I like best about films, I was anxious to see it. Well, you can add this to the growing list of Oscar-winning duds. It's okay, but nothing spectacular. Cinematographer Roger Deakins had two films up for the Oscar and both were far, far better filmed than this winning one. The only reason I give it a couple of stars is that Lewis is so interesting as an actor, and is here, too.If you like bleak stories about a scumbag guy who cares only about making money drilling for oils - even at the expense of his young boy who suffers abuse from him, and another preacher given the typical Hollywood treatment, and you're big into depressing soap-opera- like stories, you may like this 160-minute disaster. For the rest of you who have better taste, prefer a little more optimism and objectivity in life, skip this bummer.


                
