This is a most difficult movie to comment on, and I find it hard to put into words as to the reason. I think I enjoyed the movie, but how, why? Did I enjoy Daniel Day Lewis' portrayal as the leading antagonist? Most defiantly. DDL has provided us with many memorable performances and his role as Daniel Plainview is no less in intensity as was Butcher Bob, nor any less authentic as Nathaniel Poe. Did I enjoy other aspects of the film? Sure! The period piece was of considerable interest; how oil can transform your life, for better, worse or otherwise. The cinematography was beautiful and telling. I fully appreciate the hard, dirty, bone weary work that this occupation would entail. The rag tag day-to-day existence for those working the oil fields, and the land from whence it came. The score too was beautifully blended, adding to the epic scope of the experience. Paul Dano was very convincing too as the prophet/preacher of the small community where Plainview acquires vast tracks of land. His character was equally complex, and I felt he complimented DDL quite adequately. Even the story had many merits, as we came to understand the type of people who produced oil, and how the product of its labor and influence can impact those who were associated with its extraction. So one would think that the buzz and hype around it in February 2008 are worthwhile, yet I cannot seem to agree. There is something missing, something that falls short of the expectations. Too many people are of opposite opinion regarding this movie; it is either a masterpiece or drivel. I find it is neither, although I am much more likely to lean towards the former. For that reason alone I should be what, somewhere five or seven on a scale of 1-10? Perhaps it does, I just wish I could feel it. So should I give it a 7 and stop wasting time lamenting over it? Yes, a 7, for reasons I can explain but not feel confident about. It pains me to do so, therefore I can only conclude that my expectations for this movie were not met.


                
I'm going to argue against celebrating this movie. It isn't because it is not effective. It is. It is extremely honed so that every horse is hitched to the same plow, so that power is achieved.It isn't because we don't marvel at the actorly gymnastics of Day Lewis. Its because it doesn't matter. I will truly forget this film in the sense that none of it will change me, indirectly lead me somewhere or trick me into some discovery. In preparation for this, I saw "Siberiade," another oildrilling epic where kinship is central and the drive to the earth is a retreat.(The "blood" in the title is associated with family, not weeping veins.)Elements of that Soviet film will stick with me forever, though the film has less explosive emotion. (It does have a far more dramatic oilrig fire <U+0097> real instead of from ILM. And it has teasingly seductive songs, not the edgy, spineraising tension of here.)The one element that should have grabbed me was undeveloped. Here is a man who we see is broken. There are no events to follow. He becomes a success and remains broken. The only story for us to seek is why. We know he had peculiar feelings for his sister and left home traumatically. That he prefers isolation of the most remote kind. That given any opening for bond, for blood: HW, the discovered brother, the child Mary, he will grab it with both hands and look for disappointment.We know going in that the business of twins appeared only late, but it could have been central to this mystery of sucking and discarding both blood and oil. I really thought Anderson would exploit this ambiguity of identity. After all, he's made one and a half of the very best films which explores this. Films that are multilayered and reach out and penetrate instead of a barrelling locomotive.So.I would ask you to differentiate. First differentiate rubbernecking over a disaster from exploring and knowing a dangerous situation. Second, differentiate masterful storytelling from stories that have their own lives and catch fire in your heart.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 3: Has some interesting elements.


                
Director Paul Thomas Anderson made two magnificent films:Boogie Nights and Magnolia.After the exotic but very interesting experiment Punch Drunk Love,Anderson comes back with There Will Be Blood,his most ambitious film at the moment...but also his least achieved one.I do not think it's a bad movie but I think it's overrated.I admire the intention Anderson had with making something which goes beyond the common,but the film lacks of a completely solid story.On a lot of moments,I felt the film was going nowhere and,honestly,the film bored me a little bit on a few occasions.But still,it's not a bad film.Daniel Day Lewis brings a magnificent performance and all the awards he received are totally deserved.Paul Dano also brings a great performance.In the technical aspects,the film is excellent.There Will Be Blood is a failed film.But,at least,it failed for being enormously ambitious and I will always prefer a movie which fails for trying to go beyond its limits than another one which prefers to stay in the simple mediocrity.And that's what makes the movie generally interesting in my humble opinion.


                
In 1898, the lonely mining explorer Daniel Plainview (Daniel Day-Lewis) finds silver nuggets in the shaft and a couple of years later her is in drilling business. When the young man Paul Sunday (Paul Dano) sells the information that there is oil in the lands of his family in Little Boston, California, Daniel travels with his son H.W. and buys the ranches in the area. He finds oil and brings prosperity to the locals and increases his fortune. Along the years, Daniel builds an empire but H.W. loses his audition; he meets a man that tells that he is his step brother; he faces the opposition of the preacher Eli Sunday (Paul Dano) from the Church of Third Revelation. The powerful Daniel destroys his competitors but becomes lonely and insane in the end of the 20's. The overrated "There Will Be Blood" is technically perfect, with awesome performance of Daniel Day-Lewis. Unfortunately the rise of the oil man Daniel Plainview is too long, boring and without emotion. This character is not well developed in the beginning, and during the first fifteen minutes there are no dialogs. The other characters come and go without any development. It would be better off watching the fantastic "Giant" again instead. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "Sangue Negro" ("Black Blood")


                
I will be very quick and only confirm that: 1) Daniel Day Lewis gives an extraordinary performance, he fully deserves an Oscar. 2) the music score is brilliant in the sense that it perfectly highlights and accompany the movie in its development, helping to create a continuous tension throughout. (although by itself it would be quite a weird listening experience). 3) the main weakness of this movie is (and possibly that was a precise strategy) that it it is not involving the audience feelings. Even in the most desperate moments (= the abandoning of his son / the abandoning of his father), the main character's solitude and desperation are portrayed in a very dry and cold way, the audience (at least me) is not moved. 4) The plot has major holes which remain unexplained. 5) the character of the young priest does not show signs of becoming old later in the movie, when everyone else does. 6) This movie has been compared to Kubrick's 2001 Space Odissey, or to Leone's Once Upon a Time in the West for its epic, but such comparisons are nonsense. Those two movies rank among the masterpieces. This is a good movie, time will tell.


                
Hello Moviegoers, Thankfully in There Will Be Blood, there is not that much blood, I'm not sure how much movie there is though either.Okay the acting was incredible. Daniel Day Lewis, as always, is pitch perfect and IN-TENSE. Paul Dano was impressive and Ciaran Hinds was underemployed considering what a fine actor he is.But the movie was, well ponderous and obvious. The music was portentious and overwrought and at times downright weirdly inappropriate.Ya' know they set this up as some kind of epic story of greed in the robber baron era, but mostly the characters are just pathetic. And where were the women, no where in this movie.Well like I said the acting was outstanding, Daniel Day Lewis tears up the screen, but there wasn't enough story to keep my interest and the only character you can care about, the boy, gets short shrift. There Will Be Blood is at the incomparable Palm Theatre <U+0096> Rosebud, you wish.This is KPYGThis is 1340 KYNS


                
After watching this movie, I thought Mr. Lewis did a pretty good job, and the story was fairly interesting if nothing new. That's why I am once again flabbergasted at the reaction of the critics, press, and now the awards. This is as classic and timeless as was the Western, 3:10 to Yuma. Please don't miss the sarcasm. 3:10 to Yuma was a second rate western and an insult to the original. Both the story and the performances were rote and unconvincing. There Will Be Blood was a better effort. But my God people, Rendition, Atonement, The Quiet American ... THESE are movies !!! I'm afraid it's yet another Oscar year based on some criteria I haven't been let in on. No doubt Daniel Day Lewis did a good job, but great? There was hardly enough to his character to base that opinion on. The film depicted how the oil industry began and told us that yes, the same type of mentality which drew people to the'oil-rush', are basically the same as they are now. Manipulative, controlling, and capitalistic to the point at which it's their God given duty to give little or nothing while taking all if you can, cause goshdarnit, that's the daggum American way. If that sounds harsh, do a count of the Native Americans and Mexicans in this movie. They'd been 'dealt with' thoroughly enough at this point to find it best to lurk in the background of this movie. Kind of ironic, isn't it, what with the 'immigrant problem' now. You know, when a lot of the people wanting in are those the land was stolen from in the first place.Lewis played a cold, emotionless bastard, he portrayed that without equal. But that's all he did. His character was so one dimensional that it's over two and a half hours of playing the same note perfectly, while ignoring the exploration of all those other keys. There's nothing historical to be proud of here, no nugget of information previously unknown. It was simply a character study of a controlling man who's psychosis eventually pushes him past the point of no return. With a conscience as baron as the landscape, and the sole driving force to gain more, there was no opportunity provided for an actor no matter how talented to exhibit the range of emotions a supposedly Oscar worthy performance provides the evidence for.Mr Lewis is an amazing actor who's done work of that caliber before and no doubt will do so again. There Will Be Blood, a title which still has me puzzled, just wasn't it. All of this enthusiastic praise for this project does little other than further remove the public's credibility as far as the awards are concerned, or leaves them feeling stupid for being too thick to see something that was never there in the first place.


                
Sometimes a single virtue can outshine many glaring inadequacies. A lot of folks, understandably awed by Daniel Day-Lewis's titanic central performance, have mistaken THERE WILL BE BLOOD for as good a film as his acting would warrant. I don't think it is, for a single big reason, but the opportunity to see a master at work is plenty of excuse to see this movie anyway.The rest of the acting is alright, some of it better than that. The movie has a very specific look, which works to sustain the mood of menace and mounting tension. But none of the characters has an arc. Nobody grows except the son, and that happens for the most part off camera. The trouble is a lack of drama. Daniel Plainview's central conflict is within himself - everybody else he defeats with deceptive ease. Now, that's perfectly acceptable as far as theme and character go. But this is a story, and even more than that it's a movie: the conflict requires visual externalization. So nothing happens that really matters, until the last five minutes; and, typically, of the last fifteen minutes, ten of them are just an empty rehash of the previous two hours' Pyrrhic battles. Nothing matters to a man who wins everything, so the story doesn't matter to me, until it's over. And that's too late.In a short career, PT Anderson has already made a few movies that don't look like each other, and only a couple that do. That's nice, and shows a breadth of ability. This is his first movie that's no fun to watch, and that's okay too, because it's not supposed to be fun. But it's not anything else either. The joke of the picture is: here's a guy who would not be satisfied, who finally, Oedipally, must destroy himself to make room for his own following generation, because his son refuses to do it for him. I hear the joke, I get the joke, I just don't think it's funny.But this actor is his own show. He does not require a script; he does not need a director. In fact, something happens to directors who hire Daniel Day-Lewis: they get steamrolled by the awesome fortune of possessing such a spectacular camera subject. Scorsese and Mann (not on their best days anyway, it must be said), Nicholas Hytner and Phil Kaufman, everybody since James Ivory: they all have fallen down before the prospect of working with this immensely talented fellow. And you can't say it was the worst thing they ever did, this relinquishing of control. If you're going to give it up, you could do worse than give it up to this guy.
I had so been looking forward to this movie, for so long, and had to bide my time to see it.However, on a wet Monday afternoon in Glasgow my chance finally arrived.PT Anderson is right up there among my favourite directors of all time with Magnolia in my top 5 films, ever! News of Daniel Day Lewis' performance and his (as it turns out justified) favouritism for the Best Actor Oscar only added to my anticipation.The film's position as No. 23 EVER on IMDb's review list (my filmic bible) meant it had to be a total classic.So I'm afraid I have to beg to differ.Whilst much of it amazes there is just too much indulgence in this movie. The first 20 minutes when, famously, not a word is uttered feels to me like film w***. It is overlong as well and I felt the cinematography failed to reach the top drawer; it's simply too dark in places.The theme of greed is interesting but it feels a bit derivative of Atlas Shrugged by Ayn Rand - the famous book of the 50's - although I gather the inspiration was drawn from a little known novel called 'Oil'. And there are rather too many moments where Daniel Plainview played, mostly magnificently, by Daniel Day Lewis, is symbolised as the Devil incarnate sheathed in shards of flame and plumes of smoke. OK PT, we get it<U+0085> The context in which this greed is acted out is Oil Boom America (the first third of the last century). It centres around an oil prospector's run ins with an unnamed fundamentalist Christian outback church.The parallels between Bush and Iraq are not difficult to see.Whilst the congregation may be innocent worshippers, the relationship between the young pastor (Dano) and Plainview, is the real axis of the movie and it meets with mixed results. Partly because Dano's performance is not 100% convincing. Close, but no cigar.Indeed the denouement was, I thought, verging on the absurd.Daniel Day Lewis' descent into madness is well observed and he manages to avoid the excesses of Bill the Butcher in Gangs of New York. However, having seen most of the big movies of the year his was probably the best male lead performance - although I felt Ellen Page in Juno and Javier Bardem in A Country For Old Men were better, purer, more believable constructs.Which brings me to my final point. The Coen's movie beats it hand down on every level except for the score, which is stunning.Jonny Greenwood was responsible.Verdict? 7/10. (Still an A in old money, but I was expecting a straight 10)


                
I have to say right away that the first half to two-thirds of this movie are totally, completely, and unquestionably mind blowing. The film combines eye scorching cinematography, fierce acting, dynamic, unpredictable characters, bold imagery, revolutionary music, and an overall style and pacing that grant the movie a sort of tension and realism that are absolutely palpable. What I really liked is that for most of the film the story if of such epic proportions that it seems as if no actors could contain it. However, Daniel Day-Lewis internalizes his role to such an extent that the huge scope of the story is almost a reflection of his character's (and humanity's) dark complexities. He and Paul Dano give electrifying performances, and Day- Lewis's Oscar will be well deserved indeed. The film pulsates with its own evil, manic energy and boldness, thanks in large part to Johnny Greenwood's revolutionary score. Calling it music wouldn't be very accurate. Instead, I think of it as primal noises and tones, signifying Daniel Plainview's primal urges of greed and power. For the most part, this is a stunning work of cinema.During the majority of the film all the good elements of the film I listed above are firing on all cylinders. In one of my bigger film disappointments of the year, in the latter 40 minutes to an hour of the film, these components fall puzzlingly out of place. The story all of a sudden contracts into a psychodrama, standing in stark contrast the the two hours of allegorical oil drilling and evangelizing that preceded it. After this point most of the film takes place inside, depriving viewers of the beautiful cinematography they had been treated to. Paul Dano, the yin to Day-Lewis's yang, leaves the picture for a while, depriving the viewer of their delicious (and frightening) rivalry. The music gets less edgy and more conventional, eventually sounding like something you've heard before. And, most puzzlingly, while all these things are being scaled down, Daniel Day-Lewis's performance gets more and more over the top, eventually bordering on dark comedy. This is fine, I suppose, but I feel that in the context of the rest of the movie it just doesn't work at all.In a way, There Will Be Blood is a lot like oil itself. It starts off with the joy and energy of discovery, and makes the viewers very happy, just as it makes Plainview and others like him very rich. However, just like oil, ever so slowly it dries up.


                
Before I began watching this film, I read through the IMDb trivia for "There Will Be Blood". It mentioned that Daniel Day-Lewis got inspiration for his role by listening to recordings of John Huston's voice. Well, it's pretty amazing, as his voice DID sound just like him--and it's a bit weird. His acting throughout the film is exceptional--and I can see why he earned an Oscar for this performance.Despite this and despite this being a quality film, it's also an incredibly oppressive and dark film---and I am sure it will NOT appeal to everyone. The plot is just unrelentingly nasty and the final portion where the film appears to have a strongly anti-religious bent will alienate people. However, at the same time, it impressed many--and is currently a very highly rated film on IMDb.Day-Lewis plays a misanthropic jerk--one of the cruelest and nastiest in film history. He makes Ebenezer Scrooge look like a pussycat--and late in the film it becomes apparent that he not only hates everyone and is evil but he's also a sociopathic killer. This ending appears to come from out of no where...and once again is bound to alienate more than a few people.Overall, the film is a masterful performance by Day-Lewis and the film has many fine moments. I was also impressed that the latter portions of the film actually used real deaf folks using real sign language (this is not always the case in films)--and they were quite easy to understand if you know the language. Oddly, however, when I watched this movie on cable, it was NOT closed captioned!! I assume the DVD did have captions. Turnoffs would include pretty much the entire last 10 minutes of the movie. It just seemed too foul--too dark. And, I felt a bit cheated, as I'd spent so much time on the film and had enjoyed it up until then.
"There Will Be Blood" tries everything within its power to be a modern masterpiece. This is one of those films that one can tell was specifically designed to be loved by critics and to receive attention. However, in spite of all of its great strengths and great moments, it muddles down into a rather pointless film that leaves no real lasting connection.I will not lie and say that "There Will Be Blood" was not beautifully shot and doesn't have great characters. It does! The camera shots in this film are down right brilliant, and very close to that of Stanley Kubrick's style... almost too close. The soundtrack is also VERY good, because it sets the mood perfectly. From the very beginning of the movie in its 2001: Space Odyssey atmosphere, you can tell that things are going wrong and that tension is building. I would say that the first 20 minutes of the movie are ingenious. Everything about it is brilliant. The movie follows the life of a man named Daniel who starts as a humble silver miner, until he ends up discovering oil. At this point he starts earning more cash. When one of his workers dies on the job, he adopts the man's son. The majority of the movie follows Daniel and his attempt to get oil from a small-town. However, many difficulties arise, and Daniel becomes exceedingly desperate to get access to the last part of the land so that he can make a pipe through the land.What makes the film's plot good is its actors and the characters they play. You get a real sense of Daniel's decent into madness and rage. Over the course of the film you start to realize that he was actually always a psychopath, its just he becomes so rich that he stops caring if he shows it. This makes for a very interesting and well-written character. However, the movie still has one major glaring issue: Not only does it not amount to anything, but it doesn't really lead anywhere... or do anything. I am all for a movie that messes with the viewer's expectations, but the last 30 minutes of this movie really screw it over... and not in a good way. The movie uses all of the classic "Oscar movie" clichés: Let's see the main character years later as they grow old from wealth, let's see them go mad, let's have the climax of the film be an argument from one character to the next so as to reveal their true personalities, and the list goes on... if you've ever watched a drama like this before, you've seen this ending before.The main issue with the ending in this movie (and pretty much all of this movie) is that a lot of the movie's themes and content never lead to anything. Yes, they might be tied together with a plot, but almost every scene (except for the beginning) solely exists to make you feel like something much larger is happening. Since this movie builds so much tension, you think it would get somewhere... but it doesn't.Now, that isn't to say that there aren't obvious metaphors and that the scene's don't correlate with the characters. The very finishing scene of the movie seems to be showing years of Daniel's hatred towards humanity being released at once to a point where he is satisfied... however it also makes him a complete and utter psychopath.This is the other issue with the movie: the character named Eli. Eli is a preacher who is a minor rival to Daniel, but he sees Daniel as a brother, regardless if Daniel humiliates him constantly. The issue with Eli is... he is a 100% stereotypical cliché Christian nut-job. I don't understand why directors think that having an "insane Christian preacher" is original or thought provoking. Literally EVERYONE has done that, and it comes across as... well... simple- minded. Not saying that there aren't insane Christian preachers (there definitely are, and I have certainly met some), but there are also plenty who weren't, and basically everything Eli preaches in the movie is actually incorrect based off of biblical teachings.Now, you could say that this was intentional so as to show that Eli really was a clueless false-prophet who didn't know anything (which he seemed to be) but the movie doesn't seem to know that... the movie seems to just be saying "He is an over-the-top clueless Christian". This cliché is just so overdone that it is sad to see good directors think that it is clever. All in all, There Will Be Blood has some great acting, but it has some major issues as far as its ending goes, its rival, and what it is trying to say. Nothing in the film truly adds up to anything significant. It is a really well made movie, but that doesn't make it a great movie.
Miramax proves they don't need the Weinsteins to market over-hyped, critic's darlings. We're talking about the studio that stole best picture Oscars in 1996 from Fargo and 1998 from Saving Private Ryan, and got nominations from movies that were okay but not great like Chocolat. I even think there were far better movies in 1999 than the Oscar winner, American Beauty, but you be the judge of that. This movie, if marketed normally, would've tanked in the box office. Here's how they do it: Show it to a handful of critics by year's end, who'll start the buzz and put it in top-ten lists. Premiere it in one or two art houses in New York and L.A., who are obviously going to be sold out because people wanting to see what all the fuzz is about. The thing goes in crecendo, the movie wins some nominations, premiere it in more theaters. Wins some Oscars, do a wide release. By then, the film is bad-word-of-mouth proof. As in "Gangs of New York" Daniel Day Lewis' performance overpowers the film and turns it into a one-man show. Only his scenes with Paul Dano have some balance and are in fact the film's most entertaining exchanges. Not a bad film at all, just a bit overrated.


                
Sure Daniel Day Lewis was good in this, but his role in Gangs of New York was a lot better and he didn't win the Oscar for that. His character, Daniel Plainview, doesn't really do anything to stand out to me. And I thought his character was going to be a lot meaner than what he was.Daniel Plainview is an oilman. He buys up land in Texas to drill and teaches his young son how to run the family business. He becomes successful but often cheats families when buying land. He doesn't give them the real value of the land. His son is injured in an accident and loses his hearing. Before too long, Daniel ships him off to school in California. He also must deal with a preacher, Sunday, that he considers a fake. He has to say he is a sinner in church in order to buy this one man's land. You could tell he really resented the preacher for this humiliation. He gets him back in the very end.While his son is away, a man turns up claiming to be his brother. With his son gone, Daniel starts to let this guy get involved with the business. But the guy slips up and Daniel knows he's an impostor and shows him what happens when you cross Daniel Plainview.Toward the end of the movie, it skips forward in time by many years. Daniel is now an old, lonely drunk. He lives in a huge mansion and his son comes by. The son says he wants to move to Mexico to get a drilling business going there. Daniel calls him a competitor and disowns him. He is very mean to his son and reveals a shocking secret about his childhood.Overall, this is a dark film about a man making a living drilling for oil in the early 1900s.FINAL VERDICT: Worth watching. I just don't think it's Daniel Day Lewis's best nor one of the top films of the year.


                
Daniel Day-Lewis plays an early prospector named Daniel Plainview based in American at the turn of the 20th century. Along with a friend they mine with there bare hands and basic tools. Luck strikes and oil is struck, but before the success can be celebrated his friend dies leaving a baby boy for Daniel to take care of. Raising the boy as his own, Daniel prospers.To keep going forward more land and oil is needed so Daniel along with his son go on the hunt for more land when Daniel is approached by a farm owners son.And for a cash donation to him he let Daniel know about a oil rich farm owned by is father. Daniel and is son visit the farm pretending to be camping and hunting.Daniel makes friends with the farmer and buys the land at a low price.But only agrees to pay and does not actually pay anything. Mining starts and as exploration is taking place an accident happens and his son is involved in the blast and his deafened. Daniel is mad and annoyed at first about the accident. Its not long before the boy becomes in the way so Daniel arranges for his son to be sent to a school away from him. The years pass and success continues but Daniels state of mind goes a little crazy. The son appears as a young adult talking to his father in his study. Daniel by this stage is very unstable mentally and verbally blast his son and tells him he is not his real father and throws his son out. In the same study, the son of the first farm which Daniel said he would buy, and never paid for, turns up. He needs money especially the $5000 which Daniel agreed he would pay his father for the farm. Daniel crazed clubs the son of the farmer to death. Daniel losses the plot !Money and greed needs to be handled carefully.
This is the story of Daniel Plainview, an oilman living at the beginning of the 20th century. We are asked to invest a lot of time in getting to know this rather unlikeable man and I am not sure it is a good investment. As Daniel slips deeper and deeper into the clutches of his greed I found myself caring less about him and about the movie. Daniel is not complex enough to hold your attention for over two and a half hours, he is defined by his greed and little else. The only appealing qualities he ever displays are some affection for his adopted son and a man who presents himself as a long-lost brother. He abandons the boy when he can no longer use him for his own interests and he kills the would-be brother when he discovers he is a pretender. Daniel ultimately reaps the consequences of his monomania, doomed to wander alone in his mansion with no friends and no real interests.The overarching theme of how secular capitalists use religion when it suits them and how religious people use capitalists when it suits them is topical and casts a pall of cynicism over the proceedings. If such a theme appeals to you, then you will be delighted that the resolution between the capitalist and the minister is mutual destruction. On a less abstract level, we are left with stereotypes for greedy oilmen and fake evangelical ministers.Undoubdedly Day-Lewis gives a strong performance. For me his performance is undermined by that of Paul Dano as the faith-healing Eli Sunday. I suppose Eli was modeled after Billy Sunday, the Billy Graham of the time, but Dano is remarkably unconvincing in this role. No matter what your religious persuasion the successful faith-healers and revivalists can really get you going-- they are masters of mob psychology. Dano has neither the voice nor the demeanor to pull this off, his acting skills in this department pale in comparison to the people in real life. He is embarrassingly weak in the final scene.The period details of early 20th century life seem authentic and provide the film with much of its interest. In particular, capturing the details of working on an oil drilling rig at the beginning of the oil industry in the United States is done most impressively. There are some incredible scenes like the one showing how explosive gas fires were extinguished. Clearly a lot of effort and research went into the filming.Music plays a big part. The original score by Jonny Greenwood works well, creating subtle premonitory feelings. This is particularly effective in the beginning fifteen minutes where Daniel's first mining experiences are set forth, and not a word is spoken. Indeed after the first fifteen minutes I was anticipating something very special. The use of Arvo Pärt's "Fratres" establishes an appropriate mood and melds seamlessly with Greenwood's score, but the use of the Brahms violin concerto is so out of place as to seem positively bizarre.This started strong and finished weak.
Acting was great, cinematography was beautiful. But story was extremely lacking. Other than the corrupt preacher, we have have no backstory to any character and this have no explanation of any motivations. The tone of the movie was very odd to me-in particular regarding the music. Without the score by Johnny Greenwood, the movie could easily pass as a typical drama. The only reason any part of the movie seemed "scary" was due to the music. It solely gave an ominous feel, not the story.


                
The Promethean rise of a driven man in a young oil industry gives this movie moments that make it as good any movie seen in a long while. Rise and fall stories are a familiar trope in movies, especially American movies. There Will Be Blood takes a different and strange detour that is not really a fall, but a sudden sidestep into demented isolation.Attached, and ruinous to the movie, is Paul Thomas Anderson's obvious self loathing and loathing for religion in general and Christianity in particular. His pen, used to bludgeon, hammers any joy out of a Chinatown fable about oil, in the service of what seems to be therapy for the Director's personal seventh circle of religious hell. His, a hell hectored to a captive movie audience, who are expected to be entertained by his very personal denial of faith in an otherwise interesting semi-historical story of how little oil became big oil.What begins with a bit of religious weirdness a third of the way into the movie, becomes an ongoing relentless evisceration of all that faith or salvation represents to some people. It is all meat to the Director's abattoir of nihilistic expression of his personal loss of faith. Daniel Day Lewis, worth the price of admission to any movie, dominates every scene despite what many of the improbable scenes in There Will Be Blood require him to do. Filmed in sweating close up to excess, in shadow, or eerily in interrogation room quality bright light, he is alternately sublime and ridiculous. Allowed to be an oilman on the make, he is one of the remarkable movie characters of our time. Pulled this way and that by a tortured script that can't make up its narrative mind, with a father son subplot that makes the word 'excessive' seem inexpressive, he is left, at the end of the movie, as a drunken murderous reversed Torquemada.The bludgeon bludgeons, no rhyme, no reason, against a religious jones that makes a crack cocaine addiction seem a taste for a third chocolate chip cookie in comparison.In a country with declining church attendance, an increasingly secular country with the major sources of mass communication skeptical of all religious thought and practice, one wonders at the Director's angst. Maybe being named after two apostles is a heavier burden that can be imagined.The final scenes of degradation and violence caused me to almost turn my head. Why, what for, what in the movie or in Daniel Day Lewis' character brought us to such an ending? What personal experience brought Paul Thomas Anderson to such a nihilistic world view? This movie lover sat silent at the end wondering at what he had been subjected to and for what purpose? In There Will Be Blood, there is little exposition as to character motivation, and one personality who dominates the movie from beginning to end. I wish it had bee Daniel Day Lewis' Daniel Plainview, not Paul Thomas Anderson's self-loathing.
About 7 StarsDaniel Day-Lewis DOES deserve a nomination. Though the flaws of the movie can't be dismissed. Dano's acting is utterly eclipsed by Day-Lewis,which works against the telling of the story. Also, over the 40 year course of the story there's zero age progression on DD-L or Dano, who always looks 14. Did Anderson think that was cute?Little House On The Prairie meets A Clockwork Orange (but neutered to a virtual PG-13), with some vibes from the original Planet Of The Apes.Cinematography, Tempo and Acting are fantastic. Ambition is the most critical element in this movie; and I give it to Anderson... that he makes the point that The Meek Are Blessed, even if terrorized by the ruthless.This movie though is a major criticism against Americans; you can't construct a universe where the greatest businessman and religious person are reckless without saying "Hey, This is how the world is." It blurs the line between between ambition and corruption; like cheering for ignorance. I am not drawn into movies about nihilists. If you think christians and capitalists suck then this may be your movie. To be fair to Anderson, there are businessmen and christians in this flick that aren't nasty; they just have no ambition... so where's the socialist white knight, Anderson? Or should Americans just take a f-ing leap? This story works better as a story than it does as a movie: Movies are a visual medium; symmetry can't just break for the ending, then call it clever. For the better part of 2 and a half hours Anderson immerses us in sweeping vistas of the California wilderness... which leads to us spending the last 15 minutes in the main character's basement.(?) I don't understand how this made sense to Anderson while story-boarding.When I think of PT I think of Magnolia, Boogie Nights and Hard Eight. When I think of Quenton Tarantino I think of Pulp Fiction and Reservoir Dogs. For me this flick might be for PT what Kill Bill is for Tarantino.


                
A bowling pin.A bowling pin is used as a murder weapon at the end of THERE WILL BE BLOOD. It proves to be a perfectly effective means of committing a killing, but you have to ask "Why a bowling pin?" At it's center, THERE WILL BE BLOOD is about a confrontation between the rewards of capitalism and the glories of religion -- the material versus the spiritual -- so of all the possible symbolic weapons that filmmaker Paul Thomas Anderson could have selected for the killing -- a crucifix, a golden trophy, a mining tool -- why would he end his film using such a mundane thing as a bowling pin as a weapon? Maybe it is not that important, but it is strange that a film that carefully builds in mesmerizing power in the first half, only to see its sense of grandeur slowly dissipate in the second, would ultimately end in a scene so grim, yet unintentionally comic. What could have been and should have been one of the most powerful scenes in the film ends up being just curiously odd, with the horror of the action sapped by the lack of irony in the selection of the death tool.The film deals with Daniel Plainview, who rises from being a turn-of-the-century, dirt-poor prospector to being an oil tycoon. From prospecting for silver to striking oil to building an empire and helping a city rise out of the desert, the film reflects the building of America during an era when the Duponts and the Gettys and the Rockefellers grew into titans, slowly dragging the rest of the country up the ladder of prosperity with them. Director-writer Anderson generates both a sense of awe and giddy exhilaration as he charts Daniel's wheelings and dealings and manipulations, going beyond wealth to raw power. It is the American Dream in all of it's thrilling glory. The first half of THERE WILL BE BLOOD is masterfully told.But, as is the way with most visions of capitalism in Hollywood, the dream (or the dreamer) must be destroyed in the second half. That is to be expected; but as skillfully as Anderson shapes Daniel's rise, his means of destroying the dream is clumsy and lacking irony. Like a balloon that doesn't pop, but merely deflates, the second half of the film just shrinks to nothing. Daniel goes mad, but for reasons that are neither clear nor well articulated. The big gusher that secures Daniel's mega-wealth coincides with an accident that causes his adopted twelve-year-old son to go deaf. Despite his love for his son being unquestioned to this point, Daniel abruptly rejects the damaged child and embarks on a series of random plot twists. Nothing in the second half really flows logically, other than the assumption that success has driven Daniel insane. When he is shamed into reclaiming his son and manipulated by greed into receiving baptism, two things that might redeem him, they instead drive him further into madness. The film suggests that if religion is an opium to the masses, it is sheer poison to Daniel. That glib explanation isn't enough.But as poorly plotted as the film becomes, the biggest weakness in BLOOD is in the handling of the religious theme. Daniel's adversary throughout is Eli Sunday, a teenage preacher in the small Texas town that Daniel buys up and takes over. Though played well enough by Paul Dano, Eli is a weak character, not just morally but dramatically. The rivalry between the two is one-sided and no matter what Eli does, we never feel he will get the best of Daniel. I think Anderson sees the concept of religion as being just as corrupting as greed. He wants us to know right off the bat that Eli is, if not evil, at least fraudulent. He wants us to dislike him immediately and that is what Dano does with little subtlety, playing the boy evangelist as arrogant and devoid of charm, grace or sincerity. If we lose sympathy for Daniel, we never feel it at all for Eli, even when we should.Thus, the final confrontation falls flat. Going in we know that Eli is a false prophet, so when Daniel humiliates him and crushes him, there is no surprise and no sense of justice or victory on Daniel's part. Had Eli been established as a seemingly strong and noble character, and then Daniel succeeded in bullying him into denouncing God, that would have been a devastating climax. Or if the apparently weak-willed Eli had unexpectedly stood up to Daniel and confirmed that his belief in the power of God is stronger, that could have crushed Daniel and that would have been a powerful climax. But, as is, Anderson gives us a surprisingly violent ending where one evil character destroys another character of lesser evil, thus proving nothing about either greed or religion.Even with Anderson's craftsmanship behind the camera, the film is almost a one-man show, with Daniel Day-Lewis as Plainview propelling the story through even the sluggish second half almost totally on the strength of his dynamic performance. That alone guarantees that the film is never dull. Yet, for all of this forcefulness, I don't think Daniel Plainview ever becomes a three dimensional character. The film suffers from a dearth of interesting supporting characters for Day-Lewis to interact with, but more to the point, in showing how isolated Plainview is from others, the film never lets the character reveal himself to the viewer either. It is a big, glorious performance of a character who remains surprisingly small and empty.Anderson clearly wants THERE WILL BE BLOOD to be an epic just as much as Plainview wants to amass wealth. But just as Plainview finds that wealth without purpose is meaningless, Anderson shows us that the same is true about style without insight.
I have to agree that this film is a tad overrated. As a piece of art, this film is technically a masterpiece. The cinematography, soundtrack and acting are flawless and quite reminiscent of Kubrick. The issue I have is that it is a difficult film to connect with emotionally and it's pacing is off, often meandering and losing it's punch. I consider myself a bit of a film snob, but at the end of the day, a "best picture" should not only have artistic merit, it should be consistently entertaining. There Will Be Blood is worth seeing but is not re-watchable. No Country is a much better example of an art film that entertains and connects with the audience.


                
Okay, I'm not going to say this was the worst movie I've ever seen. However, the movie did have some problems which people are ignoring. I think movies that are "suppose to be good to the movie elites" and are low budget will get bombarded by compliments simply because people think they are suppose to worship it.Let me start with Daniel Day Lewis's acting ability. Sure, it was technically GREAT acting, some of the best i've ever seen. But, it was cold and emotionless. I didn't feel ANYTHING for him. Isn't that the goal of acting? It's an actor's duty to take the audience on a journey and reward them. Although Lewis was totally believable, creepy, and captured this old time character wonderfully, he didn't take me on a worthwhile journey. I didn't feel sadness for him, I didn't feel pain in him. I think I would prefer a worse acting job if the actor actually made me feel something for the character.Moreover, I think this is the problem I had with the entire movie. It was cold. How is a movie almost 3 hours, and you wind up feeling left wanting something to hold onto. We spend a long while developing relationships with characters to see them trashed in the end by an emotionless daniel day. I feel let down by the director, the actor, and the writer. Furthermore, if you want to have such a cold ending, why build it up for 3 hours? This movie could have had an hour trimmed off of it if they were going to have daniel day run around with a bowling pin murdering a preacher and telling his son that he's an orphan. Why build up all the subtleties and then thrown them in the garbage can? Besides that, the movie was pretty good. It was somewhat interesting to see well drilling in the early 1900's. The acting was overall pretty good. I just don't think this movie is nearly the 9 rating that everyone wants to think it is.
.....and he's the main reason I gave this film a 7.5. He puts a lot of heart and soul into his roles and this one is no exception. From beginning to end he exudes a dominant strength that IS this film. I can't think of any other actor working today that could have done a better job. The film itself is 'grimy', sparse, and feels real, the era portrayed with precision and attention to detail. The movie is well written and dialog is delivered with plausibility. Screenplay is workable and character interplay quite believable. I can't rate it higher, because overall it just left me feeling hollow, as though I had witnessed an exercise in futility, kind of a bummer. I think you may enjoy it as a rental if you enjoy a well made period piece, with top notch acting.................


                
I read somewhere that in nearly every film the main character changes in a profound way and the story is about how and why that change occurs.Well that doesn't happen in this film. Daniel Plainview remains the same from when he prospects alone for silver to when he lives alone in the mansion paid for with the oil he has found.He is unable to interact with others in any meaningful way and decides therefore to have as little to do with them as possible. What makes it sadder is that he is aware of this trait and would like it to be otherwise. Why else would he adopt a strangers child or open up his heart to someone claiming to be his long lost brother?These attempts at human contact fail however and he always returns to what he is good at - business and making money and makes his most important decisions based on purely commercial grounds, for example sending his son away to deaf school.However in the back of his mind he knows there is something missing in his life and starts to rely on drink to ease the pain. He shouts "Bastard in a basket" after his deaf son, who he knows cannot hear him. Obviously trying to convince himself that he has no love for the child. He seems to consider his son going into the same business, even at a small level as the ultimate betrayal.Lewis' performance is outstanding. However I found the darkness of the story tough going.
I don't quite understand why There Will be Blood is being given praise such as 'the greatest film ever' and 'best picture of the year'. This is certainly not the film I saw.Paul Thomas Anderson's epic tale of greed, pride, and selfishness is indeed a masterpiece in terms of technical achievement. While giving respect to classic film-making, Anderson's film feels very new. Large credit for this has to go to the groundbreaking original score by Johnny Greenwood of Radiohead. His score is unlike any orchestral composition you've ever heard, very eerie and almost tense. I know that one of the people I saw it with said they hated the score. I thought it served its purpose quite well. Besides that, the directing really is very well-done with eye-catching cinematography, great costumes, and good writing.But let's get down to the real thing: Daniel Day-Lewis. There is no denying that his performance as oilman Daniel Plainview in this film is truly the best of the year, really of many years. He creates a character that is truly heartbreaking and disgusting in his utter disregard for anything but his own success. Even when he can feel the disappointment in himself, he can't bring himself to change his ways. He still serves only himself and can't stand to see anyone else succeed. Paul Dano also serves up a brave and somewhat disturbing performance of his own as the hellfire preacher who opposes Daniel.The film however is far from perfect. Several subplots are hard to follow and one in particular is very confusing. I still can't quite make sense of it. Obviously some kind of symbolism was meant, but it didn't come through. And the film is very long, too long in fact. The first fifteen minutes are pure silence, a unique beginning that got old fast. While the story of Daniel is truly heartbreaking and intriguing to watch, many of the story lines are drawn out far too long. Some have called this "character development"- I call it slow moving. It's high-time for the end when it gets there.At heart, There Will be Blood is a character sketch of a really despicable man. The story is certainly worth watching, however unfortunately drawn out. Don't go in expecting a light and stimulating time at the movies- you won't get it. This film's a real downer, which is not necessarily a bad thing. But perhaps with this film you're just down too long. 7/10 stars! Jay Addison


                
