"I'm an oil man!" Asserts Daniel Plainview (Daniel Day-Lewis) to a colony of naïve citizens of which he is astutely slipping into his trouser pocket one by one. However (in this case) the man speaks no lie for his veins do indeed run rich with plutonium oil. A crude, black substance embedded deep in the merciless heart of director Paul Thomas Anderson's gargantuan North American epic- There Will Be Blood. A perpetually steady, emotionally-draining and dark character study of an oil guzzling tycoon that vigorously chews on the themes of gluttony and deception, faith and ambition, death and revulsion. Do not be mislead by its title, though. This is not some balls-to-the-wall slasher-flick (as the "chavs" sat behind me seemed to think at the outset). It is a gruelling, drawn-out dissection of a loathsome yet sinisterly-comical individual consumed and maddened by his own persona. And it's absolutely formidable- visual and melodramatic arrestment at its bona fide best that exudes cinematic precision and awe with satire to spare. But it's also a long-winded affair. So thrill seeking, gore-craving moviegoers walk away, now. I'm afraid there will be no blood for you. Sorry. Add to that list- chic-flick, rom-com and sci-fi enthusiasts. You guys may be better off buying another ticket. Taking another ride. Those left, steady yourself for, perhaps, this year's most thought-provoking feature driven by a leading character performance fit to rival the very best.Ushering in a near dialogue-free opening 15 minutes with a distinct fade-in, Anderson wastes no time in introducing us to the protagonist. Daniel Day-Lewis plays<U+0085>no scratch that<U+0085>Daniel Day-Lewis is Daniel Plainview. An ambitious, moustached miner who, while thrashing away at the crust of his motherland- at the turn of the twentieth century- strikes oil. A profitable discovery that fortuitously leads him to H.W (Dillon Freasier), a new-born infant of whom he slots forcefully under his oil sodden wing only to drag about the entire continent in search of large segments of land in which crude oil is stirring directly beneath. Soon enough, Plainview forges a blossoming "family" oil drilling corporation that soon establishes itself as a force in the industry and prospects appear even brighter when, in 1911, Plainview receives a generously eerie, yet pricey tip-off as to where there may be a sturdy supply of his beloved oil. A tip-off in which he pursues like a unwavering moth to an oil fuelled flame as he meanders ominously into Little Boston, California where the true colours of the indomitable oil baron edge disturbingly into light.Daniel Plainview is an angry, vengeful man whose promises and loyalties to those around him are as false and as futile as his love and respect for God. He "guarantees" the people of the Little Boston ranch; food, water, schools and, to the town's radically odd preacher Eli Sunday (an inspired Paul Dano), a newly renovated church of the Third Revelation. But he cares little for the reserving of his pledges and spends little time guilt-tripping over his numerous acts of iniquity. "I look at people," he says "and I see nothing worth liking." "I have a competition in me," he continues "and I want no one else to succeed". Self-centred sociopath?<U+0085>Yep, for Plainview is as putrid and as predatory as any character to ever grace the big screen. He putrefies slowly, though. The end product appearing more entity than man. Better yet: an egocentric emblem of evil that governs the screen in an implausible manner in which only an actor of Day-Lewis' calibre can. The sheer potency of his flawless portrayal actually carries the relatively toothless narrative in areas which could be further criticised for chugging along at a near crawling pace at times.Visually and acoustically, though, TWBB is outstanding- every nuance of every aural and cinematic component work so well with one another to help give the film such power and impact. It's just a shame that no real direction or purpose bled into the screenplay for which Anderson adapted from Upton Sinclair's 1927 novel- Oil. As far as storytelling goes, Anderson has underperformed here. His narrative lacks any legitimate path or hooks and, to be honest, the lack of defining moments- bar the infamous confession and milkshake scenes- within 158 minute running length is a little disappointing. But the manner in which Day-Lewis dictates the audiences' attention more or less vanquishes any negative thoughts regarding the muscle of the plot. Which is why it comes as no surprise that everybody and their brother have duly commended the London-born method actor's impeccable, Oscar winning performance: the epitome of everything grand about Anderson's fifth but not quite finest feature yet; profound, provoking, intense, immense.In spite of its flaws, TWBB is still an exceptionally powerful piece of cinema that'll remain etched in the minds of those who take to it for quite some time. Even if it's quality is not there for all to see, in plain view.


                
An immense steamroller of a film. Much that has been said about this jaw dropping film served to put me off watching it for a long time. However that just made it better when it finally happened! Day Lewis is quite brilliant and dominates every scene he appears in, indeed he even matches the majesty of the wild scenery and industrial landscapes so startlingly depicted.The score is a very important part of this film and drives the narrative to such an extent that I felt very uneasy at times, such was it's power. Indeed unease for me is the central emotion generated by this brooding film, one which asks many uncomfortable questions from the viewer and returns far from pleasant answers about the nature of humanity and our relationship with each other and the landscape we inhabit.Religion and it's place in modern capitalist society is another central theme and again a subject from which uncomfortable conclusions are made. In all an engrossing, affecting film which shall inhabit my imagination for some time!


                
Daniel Day Lewis is phenomenal in his portrayal as an early oil baron or should I say the earliest oil baron. In fact the synopsis of the movie is really that simple: the early life of an oil baron. Just when I have used the word simple I have to back up. The movie and certainly Daniel Day Lewis' performance is anything but simple. Lewis creates a complex and difficult character in the title role. Just when you think you have a handle on both the story or this character another twist appears that makes this movie juicier and more interesting.The movie was two Oscars in 2008 for cinematography and for Daniel Day Lewis for Best Actor. Lewis does his best to not only act, but to physically channel his character. He does a masterful job that continues to set the bar ever higher for actors of his generation. It was nominated for a total of 8 making it one of the top films of 2007.Overall it is difficult to classify this film as it has so many wonderful qualities. It is a terrifying biographical tragedy. The timing of the movie's release hits hard with today's newspaper headlines. The audience is simply slapped in the face with our country's dependency on oil and how oil barons in this era set a tone for the next 100 years. At times I found this movie chilling, masterful and compelling. Surprisingly however, I was never sympathetic to Lewis' character which I'm sure was very challenging for him to create. This is a must see film from 2007 and one is hard pressed to find many flaws, a credit to talented director Paul Thomas Anderson. ****/*****, a standard held for the higher films of the day.The posters for this movie are endless. There are some 23 versions of the U.S. poster alone. The second poster pictured here is the international version, which really gives more insight into the story line.


                
Industrialism and Capitalism can be a Dirty, Ugly Thing just like Sucking Oil from the Earth. Like a Vampire the Insatiable Oil Tycoons have not a Scintilla of Conscience about Humanity at the Price of Their Grandeur and Survival as Larger than Life Demi-Gods.This is an Ugly Film with a Lead Character that Exudes Ugliness. There is a Human Being with a Soul there in Daniel Plainview (Daniel Day-Lewis) that can be Witnessed on Occasion with His Infant Son and even up to and Including the Pivotal Tragedy of a Rig Accident. After that though, He is Completely Corrupted by Greed and Steroidal Ambition. He is now as Handicapped as His Son. The Film isn't any Fun and it is a Hard and Filthy Story about a Hard and Filthy Industrialist. An Almost Demonic Persona that Thinks He is Owed all He can Get because He gets His Hands Dirty.It is a Mesmerizing, Haunting Movie that is a Reflection of a Time when Simple Folks, like Sheep Herders and Ranchers are Easily Hoodwinked by Smooth Talking Money Men and Equally Silver Tongued Evangelist. It's the Second Birth of the Nation, the Beginning of the Twentieth Century.There are No Heroes Here and no one to Root for, it just Holds up a Soiled Mirror to Our Past as it Shines a Light on Our Present. Like the Blood of Our Veins, Oil is Still the Life of Our Nation. Director Paul Thomas Anderson Hardly Manages to Hide the Fact that this Commodity, in 2007, is Still a Source for much of Today's Suffering. It is not a Pretty Picture and Neither is This.


                
it's just an amazing movie and the best i have ever seen Daniel Day-Lewis in his best performance and acting wonderful output and story of Paul Thomas Anderson Andrew Sarris called the film "an impressive achievement in its confident expertness in rendering the simulated realities of a bygone time and place, largely with an inspired use of regional amateur actors and extras with all the right moves and sounds." In Premiere magazine, Glenn Kenny praised Day-Lewis's performance: "Once his Plainview takes wing, the relentless focus of the performance makes the character unique." Manohla Dargis wrote, in her review for The New York Times, "the film is above all a consummate work of art, one that transcends the historically fraught context of its making, and its pleasures are unapologetically aesthetic." Esquire magazine also praised Day-Lewis's performance: "what's most fun, albeit in a frightening way, is watching this greedmeister become more and more unhinged as he locks horns with Eli Sunday ... both Anderson and Day-Lewis go for broke. But it's a pleasure to be reminded, if only once every four years, that subtlety can be overrated.


                
You may hear that Daniel Day Lewis is responsible for making this movie a masterpiece. For the most part, that is true. His acting is some of the most phenomenal work I have seen. Considering his regular accent, mannerisms, and appearance, he really transformed himself into the character of Plainview. That is not to say Paul Dano wasn't wonderful. His quirky character sometimes explodes with shocking malevolence just as Plainview does and works fantastically as an antagonist.The scores are astonishingly eerie. From the moment the film begins, you see a lot of build- up that is supported by eccentric music. The only problem this movie faces is that it does not appeal to all audiences. Some may see the movie as slow and boring because the length of some scenes matches the pace of life back in the early 1900s: much slower than today. Long silences and quiet dialogue don't usually go well with some viewers. If you are not the type to watch a long movie that takes a while to get into, I don't recommend There Will Be Blood for you.


                
A stark parable of American Capitalism! Daniel Day-Lewis is perfect in the portrayal of Daniel Plainview, an oilman and a very complex character. The movie shows us how a man that strives on his ruthlessness of greed and corruption can also destroy himself. A masterpiece by P.T.Anderson for Daniel Day-Lewis! This is another example of why Daniel Day-Lewis gets so good characters. And he seems to be refusing roles which do not have at least one freak-out scene. And he's at his best in such scenes (The final 'I Drink Your Milkshake' scene in this movie alongwith a few others like the one with Pastor Eli).The music, cinematography, direction and acting in this film make for an epic experience. A few scenes are so breathtakingly beautiful that they leave an ever-lasting impression! Must Watch!


                
Based on a novel "Oil!"<U+0085>..A very strong & theatrical performance by Daniel. Music was loud and brought about a stillness and grandeur to the desert, oil and sweat. Daniel's swagger as a businessman (OILMAN) carried the movie till the end. Eli, the self-proclaimed priest character, was suppose to be the anti-thesis to Daniel's character, but the portrayal wasn't done as strongly as Daniel Plainview's character. Many viewers, after watching this movie, could be confused and left with bitterness. I was simply stunned. For me, the highlight of this movie was the screenplay and the depth of Plainview's character. 2 scenes bring out this aspect - one where he was drinking with his newfound brother, Henry, and claims that he does not like anyone else to succeed around him. You could feel the hatred, the jealousy and the scorn inside the man. Second, when he kills henry, buries him and sleeps on that very ground. Cold! Not a happy movie, but a good work of cinema.


                
I am going with Paul Thomas Anderson's latest, more mature work as the best American film showing this year, certainly guided and downright anchored by Mr. Daniel Day-Lewis in another legendary performance of screen-shattering proportions. I will hear of many accusing this master character actor of overdoing it at times, serenading the camera with eyes viewers needn't peer too closely into lest our own humanity become compromised. The truth is, for every over-the-top scene which almost always remains justifiable in Day-Lewis's astonishing hands, observant viewers will be equally if not largely rewarded by the boiling subtleties which ripple throughout, just beneath this menacing surface of a man.As engaging a character study the movie feels (and this it firmly remains right up until an overworked finale), There Will Be Blood shines equally as bright as a brave new step for period westerns. Not in some time has fictionalized American history been so bold with creative and thematic assertion, yet accessible enough to render this harrowing study into greed without generation, and one for the books.


                
The story begins in the late 1800s and continues into the 20th century. It starts out about mining for gold, but quickly shifts to the oil boom.Daniel Day-Lewis is Daniel Plainview, prospecting alone, finding small amounts of gold, but his big break, serendipitous for sure, comes when a heavy metal cylinder of ore falls to the bottom of his vertical mine shaft and breaks open the ground to expose oozing oil. Plainview is smart and ruthless and quickly changes his focus to the "black gold", oil, which he knows will make him richer quicker.As his drilling technique and wells start to pay out, unfortunate accidents result in deaths. One of them orphans a young boy, which Plainview begins to call his son and takes along with him. At first we think he is just kind-hearted but we eventually find out is was just part of his approach to get the cooperation of others and to help him buy up cheap land that appears to have oil reserves under it.The second major character is Paul Dano as Paul Sunday who approaches Plainview with information, for a price, that will yield much oil. It turns out that "Paul" is really Eli Sunday, local preacher, who wants the money for his church. (It isn't clear if Paul and Eli are identical twins, or Paul is an alter-ego of Eli, but it doesn't matter for the story.) So the long movie, almost 3 hours, traces the life of these two strong-willed men, who have a number of very dramatic encounters.Plainview is ruthless, he does whatever it takes to get at the oil he wants. He also has an anti-social, confrontational streak that shows itself often. Yet when he wants something, land and oil, he can be most charming. Day-Lewis was awarded "Best Actor" for this role and it was well-deserved. He is the main reason to see this movie.
I think that Daniel Day-Lewis is the best actor right now. Period. Every time I see him on screen, he captures misanthropy in a way that no other Hollywood pretty boy or girl can even approach. He is a throwback to a time when even famous actors actually struggled on the way up and had some personal understanding of hate, malice, struggle, failure and redemption. Not the "I didn't get paid enough for my last film" kind of hatred, or "I didn't get in the tabloids enough last week," or "My girlfriend left me and now I have to find another one." No, the "I have to literally kick my competitor in the head in order to feed my family" kind.A performance can make a movie. It sure does make this one. But what is the film about? An oilman at the turn of the century? Yes. Greed and betrayal and murder and hatred? Yes. A parable on what it took for hard men to succeed in hard times? Most definitely yes.But the question that is answered has nothing to do with any of the above. Those are incidentals to the real answer that the film provides. The question to be answered only comes in the last five minutes of the film. Everything before that is an explanation of why the film ended as it did.Now, you may not think that the question posed at the end of the film - why did the aging oilman do what he did? - is worth making a film about. I think it is worth answering, because of the insight it gives into a time and place and human nature. But the film definitely answers that question. Brilliantly. So, if you want the answer to that question, this film gives it to you. But telling you what the question is would spoil the film for you, because of the sheer randomness with which the film seems to end.As for the journey the film takes, well, it is a look at a total misanthrope who explains quite succinctly his philosophy of life to his "brother" - namely, "I hate everybody and want to make enough money to not have to deal with anybody. It is not enough that I succeed - everyone else must fail." Now if you think that is an uncommon feeling, well, maybe you're right, but I sure think I've met people like that along the way. And this film portrays pure misanthropy in what I think is a brilliant way. A long, roundabout, circuitous, mysterious way, but still brilliant.I recommend this film if you are in the mood for a very dark but profound experience into the human psyche. Or if you just agree with me that Daniel Day-Lewis is awesome.


                
There will be Spoilers.It certainly clicks the right buttons: a world dominated by gangster capitalism and exploitation shown in the image of one man? Check. A world where the most holy men are little more than charlatans and frauds? Check. A world where family is a little more than a token for genuineness, to be disposed of whenever it becomes useless or a hindrance (usually for economic reasons)? Check. A world where one must be a psychopath to make it 'to the top'? Check. And the funny thing is, was how goddamn predictable all that was. These hoary old clichés seem to come around in cycles <U+0096> this film is after all based loosely on a novel by Lewis Sinclair, perhaps every time there is an unpopular and blatantly corrupt Republican in the white house? That is not to say the film is bad - far from it actually and yes, Daniel Day Lewis is not as good as you have heard he is. He is far better than that, in a multifaceted role which demands both bluster and subtlety. But the really impressive thing from my Point of View was the dialogue <U+0096> not so much the words spoken but how they were spoken. Every conversation was delivered with awkwardness, or with stuttering silence, or was clearly performed within the movie like Plainview's "I'm an oil man" speech at the beginning. Talk ebbs and flows penetrated by the occasional silence with none of the characters except Eli or Plainview at their most hysteric or determined, speaking with great conviction or believe. There is though very little dialogue in the film as a whole.This gives off a strong sense of realism there as opposed to "Movie acting". Imagine the scene where at the end where Eli and Plainview confront each other, lesser actors with lesser scripts would have either gone the typical indie route by exaggerating each characters mannerisms to show emotions and/or individuality or would have gone the Hollywood way and minimized subtlety in favor of the obviously dramatic. Here is there none of that, Eli's character, facial expression and yes, way of speech during his "confession" do not feel like performances at all but looking into <U+0096> what? His soul, maybe? But that does sound pretentious. <U+0096> That is not to say that this in itself is much new but the quality at which achieves it puts it above most recent releases. Add to that your cinematography and your long dialogue less scenes which have an almost Leone-like quality in showing so much by silence you have something of a classic of realism. Pure visual cinema.Recently in his review Mark Kermode, the critic for BBC, said that the film was like watching a new grammar of cinema being made in front of him. I wouldn't go that far, it is more an evolution of what already exists done by the best around (Surely if the Oscars were a serious event, P.T Anderson would have won best director). It is just a pity the storyline is nothing new under the sun. Its psychology being limited, dated and incomplete going into "dollar book Freud" territory. Its politics are similar as already mentioned. In the end it is a film to enjoy for 2 and a half hours and admire; but it just can't inspire passion in you. Perhaps that is where too, the comparison to Kane come in.
I got this movie for my birthday and finally got around to watching it (as it was 2 1/2 hours long), and I must say, Daniel Day Lewis gets my vote for damn fine actor. It was a little slow, and if you were expecting a big showdown or something you'll be disappointed. It really was well written, and I have to say all of the acting was spot-on. The actor who played Eli did a great job of portraying a very eccentric preacher. And the entire movie had me spell bound as I knew next to nothing about oil drilling except what I've seen in movies like Hellfighters. I had no idea what kind of dangers lie in such a business, and not to mention the madness that ensues from being an "oil man." Since I heard it was based on Oil! by Upton Sinclair I knew it was going to be a bit crazy- and after seeing this movie I immediately thought I should read that book. This film is not for the young or those who don't understand strange twisty plots, as at times it gets hard to follow, and although few and far between the violent scenes can get somewhat gruesome. Overall a great movie, but not like the usual stuff that seeps out of Hollywood.


                
This film grips you like an engineer on a drunk looking for a fight. Day-Lewis - henceforce referred to as DL is a force unlike anything cinema has ever encountered. His raw unsettling role in this movie has such a threat of unresolved anger through it that you can barely tear your eyes from his. Remember Joe Pesci in Good fellas - well Plainview is all that and more yet he communicates it all with a twitch of the face or the raise of an eyebrow. Although the story is compelling it can drag in places but the wonderful Dl carries the entire film on his shoulders and hurls it back at the audience. A great companion piece to no Country for Old Men - two great modern westerns for the 21st century .Lets hope DL doesn't wait before he finds another skin to inhabit.


                
There Will Be Blood is a strong movie in virtually every area, but what impressed me most of all was Jonny Greenwood's score. As in Jaws, and perhaps even more so in this case, the music creates an atmosphere of suspense that no combination of writing, acting, scenery, costume, makeup, etc. could come close to achieving in its absence. Greenwood's (usually) minimalist post-modern orchestral score sets such a tone from the opening seconds of the film, as we see the early struggles of our antihero, Daniel Day-Lewis's Daniel Plainview. We watch a man driven by an unquenchable greed and hear a swell of strings foreshadowing the decades of suffering that his greed will impose (on himself and on anyone in whom he sees an opportunity for advantage).The character of Plainview is not a depiction of a pure psychopath, in the way that Javier Bardem's Anton Chigurh was in No Country for Old Men. He is a bit more nuanced, but the glimpses we are given into the fact that Plainview does in fact possess a capability for regret, sadness, and empathy make him that much less likable for his repeatedly ignoring such feelings in the quest to fill his pockets. Here is a man not to be crossed, and one whose protean unpredictability leaves all but his essential business associates ever at risk of crossing him should they happen to encounter him on the wrong day.The use of religion by the oil man and of the oil man by religion makes for one of the most interesting elements in the story line. Apparently the two were even stranger bedfellows in the days before Newt Gingrich's neocon revolution. One wonders what Upton Sinclair (socialist author of the source work) would have made of the current U.S. administration, or rather, one hardly needs to wonder. Naturally, at the time of its writing the source work (Oil) was a criticism of the big business syndicates of Sinclair's day, but you know, the less things change the more they stay the same; and if I were to attempt an exegesis on There Will Be Blood it would be to make a case that Paul Thomas Anderson intended explicitly (though not exclusively) for the film to remind us of some of the less honorable practices of the current administration. Perhaps I'm reading too much into it, but this is certainly the impression that I got.Anyway, back to the manifest content of the film -- I awoke the day after having watched There Will Be Blood with a handful of very vivid images left over in my mind, scenes of destruction and ruin, not bothered by them so much as impressed with the movie's ability to occupy my thoughts in so vivid a manner. Anderson, Day-Lewis, and Greenwood each deserve a round of applause for what they've done here. By their efforts, they have given us a movie that will be well-remembered decades hence.


                
There's not so much a story in 'There Will Be Blood (2007)' as a series of events that shape a character and his descent into soulless pseudo-insanity, with a strong undertone that seems to comment on the tyrannical nature of typically larger-than-life tycoons and the destruction of their selves in the search for that intangible metric of so-called success. This strangely gripping if bladder-fillingly long saga has a beautiful flair for visual storytelling compounded by a fantastic though heavy-lifting score, that's as ominous as the piece's prophetic title, and a one-of-a-kind powerhouse performance that sneaks up on you to end with one of the scariest character-driven scenes of recent years. There are stretches which stretch the pace, of course, and its apparent lack of narrative may be frustrating if you're not willing to reflect retroactively on its themes, ideas and, most importantly, character arcs. While the journey each individual takes may seem subtle on the surface, it is really within the expertly-written characters that the picture finds its purpose, an exploration of the people who don't always say what they are thinking but are thankfully clearly thinking something, and its a real treat to dissect every single moment that a simple side-ways glance or overt outburst of furious anger gives us a glimpse behind the eyes of some of the best characters in recent memory. 8/10


                
I really enjoyed this movie, which I thought was virtually flawless for the first two thirds: realistic, authentic, original. Starting with the scene in which the son tells his father he wants to leave to start his own drilling company, though, I found the acting became stylized, as opposed to naturalistic, a real shift in tone. I hate to say it, but it reminded me of Nicholson in "The Shining." Even the last line, after the murder, seems like a joke, perhaps the only funny line in the entire very somber film. Why the shift? What was the director trying to accomplish by changing from realism (which works well for this film of Naturalistic themes) to stylization. Any ideas?Folks have commented on the "Citizen Kane" quotes, which I think are done in really interesting ways. For example, if Kane is famous for deep focus, here we see Kane-like scenes in incredibly shallow focus. The music's fantastic, drawing attention to itself in ways that break the rules of traditional film-making, really adding dimension to the narrative and characterizations.


                
PTA really needs to get over himself. He is far from a great filmmaker. Although I quite enjoyed the movie and am glad I saw it, I think there are many flaws in the sketchy (as in lightly sketched vs deep) storytelling of There Will Be Blood. Where is the character depth, the motivations, the background and the context to these events and this man's tale? I did enjoy the tipping see-saw balance of power between Plainview and the Preacher. I do not, however, share everyone's accolades for Paul Dano. He did his best, but he was ill-suited for this role as a morally ambiguous preacher.Also -- SPOILER -- the part when Plainview rubs mud in the preacher's mouth came out of nowhere! Huh?-- end spoiler-- The only thing that maintained my interest in this movie was the intensity and ferocity of the magnificent performance by Daniel Day Lewis.Although I have to begrudgingly admit that the director was, in part, responsible for eliciting such a stunningly fierce and chilling performance, I doubt very much that even a crappy director would be left with a crappy performance from Day Lewis. I just don't think he's capable of giving less than his all. He is truly one of the greatest actors of our generation. Also the film's score is a complete joke and the fault largely resides with the choices of this oftentimes pretentious and perverse director. The score is far too attention seeking and emotionally inconsistent. Although I applaud a director that takes a risk with an atypical score for a Hollywood movie, this one misfires too often to be considered successful.Still, There Will Be Blood is definitely worth seeing, for Daniel Day Lewis, for a decent yet bare-bones story and for seeing what not to do when you are at the helm of a big Hollywood movie with a large budget.
"Rafflesia is a parasitic plant growing and feeding on other plants. It has the largest flower of all plants, but there is no biological explanation for its size, which could be many times smaller and still fulfil its function. The only explanation is that it's a product of luxury; a parasite doesn't have to economize." - David AttenboroughPaul Thomas Anderson's "There Will Be Blood", based on Upton Sinclair's satirical "Oil!", stars Daniel Day Lewis as Daniel Plainview, an oil prospector whom we first see trudging through a Californian desert. He's alone, presumably searching for oil.Whilst Anderson's earlier films owned a large debt to Altman and Scorsese, "Blood's" opening scenes strongly recall Kubrick ("2001: A Space Odyssey" and "The Shining") and Herzog, specifically Herzog's "Lessons of Darkness" (Anderson borrows several haunting musical cues from Herzog, along with creepy, silent shots of oil workers and oil wells).But "Blood" quickly breaks away from these influences and becomes something else entirely. Anderson's film is preoccupied with elaborate con games, virtually every scene revolving around confidence tricksters, fraudsters and hucksters, be they of a religious, familial or corporate/capitalist nature. In short, this is a film exclusively about seeing and hearing, about knowing who to trust and who not to trust and about the absolute truth never residing in plain view.Savvy to such hucksters, because he is himself one, Plainview is a misanthropic, giant of a man. He isolates himself from mankind and seems disgusted by human beings; he sees through them. This hatred then fuels his budding empire, which he builds with lies and a callous disregard of others. Later he adopts a boy and uses the child to seduce villagers, advertising himself as a family man and trustworthy baron."If I SAY I AM," Plainview yells early in the film, "YOU WILL AGREE." It is clear he has a god complex. The name "Daniel" itself means "God's Judgement". Indeed, Plainview doesn't explain himself to anyone. He sees himself as the final word over all things. Elsewhere he says that he wishes "to rule and never explain himself", likens his own body to the "Church of the Third Revelation" and threatens to slit the throats of all those who challenge him. "Don't tell me how to raise my family!" he later yells. And when other oil barons mock him, he growls "I TOLD YOU I WAS GOING TO DO IT." Earlier, when told by a preacher to allow him to bless a new oil well, Plainview deliberately does the opposite, asserting his will over others.In short, nobody tells Daniel Plainview what to do. To harbour the will of mere men, he believes, is to deny his own greatness. Plainview even has the power to end the film. "It is finished," he says, the screen fading to black under his almighty spell. It is this ego-mania, that itself fuels his oil empire, his desire to extract, expand and crush the will of others.In a preacher called Eli Sunday, Planview eventually encounters some resistance. Eli, himself a confidence trickster, seeks to set up a church. While Plainview styles himself as a family man and benevolent oil baron, Eli styles himself as a faith healer, prophet and miracle worker. Of course both men are self serving con artists. The film then develops into a battle between capitalism (profit) and religion (prophet), or rather, one in which capitalism replaces the "holy scripture" as the new religion, Plainview ("I have competition in me!") the triumphant, psychotic face of capital.Late in the film, Plainview's adopted son loses his hearing. Instead of using his voice, Plainview must now speak to his son through actions. But throughout the film Plainview's "words" and "actions" have been at odds. Now unable to raise his son in his image, Plainview thus sends the boy away. "My blood does not run through him", he says, dismissing the boy, cutting all genetic links.Hilariously, when others chastise Plainview for sending the boy away, Plainview promptly brings the kid back and pretends to be a good father. This is not love. This is simply Plainview putting on yet another show in order to prove them wrong. He's feeding his own bruised ego.It eventually becomes clear that Plainview both hates mankind, wishing to remain aloof and above "it", and secretly wishes to "belong". As such, he seeks "blood" and "family" to curb his loneliness (he only allows what he perceives to be the "superior blood of family" to enter his circle, a kind of genetic monopoly akin to the way he runs his business). And so when another confidence trickster approaches Plainview, claiming to be his long lost brother, Plainview quickly welcomes the man into his circle. But though he initially lets his defences down and accepts this man, the truth gradually becomes apparent to Plainview. This man is a con artist and has taken advantage of him! "Do I really have a brother?" Plainview asks, before shooting the man in the head.Plainview then seeks brotherhood in religion, but such hopes break down when Eli forces Plainview to confess in church. Here Eli wants to expose Plainview, but Plainview, of course, does not like being exposed. He is a snake who thrives on a certain invisibility. But now here he is, laid bare. This confessional scene is reversed toward "Blood's" climax, where Plainview forces Eli to confess that he is a sham and a liar. This confession is not enough, though, and Plainview bludgeons the man to death with a bowling pin. The game ends and Plainview wipes out the last vestiges of competition.8.5/10 – Though it lacks the scope of Sinclair's novel, "Blood" is a strong tale about pitchmen, be they carriers of Bibles or business cards. See "Elmer Gantry".
I was expecting a film to equal Magnolia or Gangs of New York (both 10's in my estimation). This was barely an 8.My mild disappointment begins with Daniel Day-Lewis' very eccentric performance. Maybe the director wanted to have an enigma as the central character, but throughout the film (and afterward), I was trying to get a focus on what Mr. Plainview wanted. I still don't know.The "conversion" scene in church, and the final scene in the bowling alley--plenty of emotion was being displayed, but if the motivation is beyond comprehension, how do we know this is not just scenery-chewing? The final scene in the bowling alley was very well-constructed, very powerful, but very baffling. After the film, as I exited the theater with other mid-week matinée patrons, I heard several commenting on how the film was not as good as they had heard it was. I can't help but agree.The film is very interesting, worthwhile, and thought-provoking. The technical aspects are superb. This is not DDL's best work. He certainly deserves an Oscar. But not for this.


                
The Academy has been keeping on eye on writer/director Paul Thomas Anderson (PTA)'s work as a modern voice of cinema. It has been ten years since Boogie Nights (1997) was nominated for Best Screenplay as well as two supporting role acting nods. Later, Magnolia (1999) also received a Best Screenplay nomination (PTA) and Best Supporting Actor (Cruise) as PTA took a talented cast and pushed film's boundaries with an excruciating pace and an ending that strangely remained sober in its farfetchedness. Punch-Drunk Love (2002) did not get any Oscar nomination and is perhaps not as accomplished as his two previous, yet it did win him Best Director at Cannes no less! It proved that he was an engaging director that could translate his familiarity with his work and characters to allow his actors (yes, even Adam Sandler) to give meaningful and memorable performances. It also ascertained his down-to-earth slow-paced style, even if the actual movie was 95 mins compared to his previous drawn out 150mins+ endeavors.In this context, PTA is back with a vengeance and gets 8 nominations for this film, including (again) Best Adapted Screenplay, but also Best Picture and Best Actor (this time in a Leading Role.) This one is back to the long narrative at over 2h30 and starts very slowly with a dialog-less beginning reminiscent of Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey (1968)'s overture. When the dialog begins, we get a glimpse of the great sound and picture editing that is to come and permeate the film throughout. The score consists of almost isolated notes that create and release the tension. It is quite suited to the piece as, like the story that it tells, there is nothing too melodious about it. Not surprinsingly, PTA chooses to tell the story slowly but surely. There is many long takes with beautiful cinematography and plenty of moments without dialog. When there is dialog however, it is potent and to the point. The story unravels as the many twists and turns come to past and everything is connected somehow. The real complexity is however revealed in the third and final act (note that the church is named the third revelation) where everything comes into question and stirs conflict while the dialog and acting turn from boiling to iron-hot. This strong ending is born out of the earlier scenes. It captivates and cumulates all the way to the last line: "I'm finished.'As for the acting, Daniel Day-Lewis gives a riveting performance as charismatic and enigmatic Daniel Plainview, topping even his remarkable Oscar-winning take on debilitated Christy Brown in My Left Foot (1989) and getting better and better as the story progresses. Paul Dano, from Little Miss Sunshine (2006) fame, gives a calculated counterpart performance as the town's eminent young religious figure. He gives some especially strong scenes and something can also be said for young Dillon Freasier's portrayal of Daniel's son.At the end of the day, this is a fine film with a hard look at America's and human's ambition and greed. It deals with themes of family, community, religion and entrepreneurship in an interesting and interwoven way. A great addition not only to PTA's catalog, but to the art of cinema in general.


                
This movie was my first exposure to the work of Paul Thomas Anderson and I now completely understand the hype surrounding his work. Despite it's apparent simplicity, I really enjoyed this movie. The movie focuses on Daniel Plainview, an oilman from the early years of the 20th century, and his rise to success. Along the way, he sets up shop in a small town called Little Boston and finds himself at odds with the town's preacher, Eli Sunday. On the surface, that appears to be all there is to this film. I found myself drawn in after the first 15 minutes of watching and I was immersed until it ended.The film moves slowly, but you never really notice it. It's got a longer running time than most films (roughly 2 hours, 40 minutes) but I never found myself looking at the time, waiting for it to end. All-in-all, the movie didn't really lose it's pace with the exception of a section in the second act involving the a surprise arrival into Daniel's life. Seeing as how this movie is primarily a character piece, its the performances that really drive the film. Having finally seen the film, I can honestly say that Daniel Day-Lewis absolutely deserved the Academy Award he won for his portrayal of Plainview. This is a man we see slowly becoming obsessed with his business and absorbed into his success until the final act. Day-Lewis is so charasimatic an actor, that despite some of the cruel things we see Plainview pull off in this movie, I still found myself pushing for the character. Paul Dano also contributes a great performance in his role of Eli, the evangelical preacher and thorn in Plainview's side. My favorite moments in this film are the interactions between Plainview and Sunday, particularly in the final act. These two men worked fantastically together and you could always feel the underlying tension and hostility when they conversed.One final note, I have to mention the great production value in this movie. If you had the benefit of purchasing the collector's edition DVD, be sure to take a look at the special features. It includes a 15-minute feature consisting of comparisons between pictures of the oil industry from that era and scenes from the movie. The production crew did an amazing job recreating early 20th century California. Everything from the wardrobe to the oil derricks, everything looks and feels authentic.If this movie is the kind of quality Paul Thomas Anderson puts into his movies, then I've missed out on way too much and I know I'll be going back to check out his previous works.


                
There will be Blood The new trend has emerged. Some good movies when released instantly become so highly rated that they break into the top league of IMDb top rated movies. I find that formula very strange that it does not discount the recentness of movie craze wave. This movie is at number 30 in top movies list of all times<U+0085>! Is not it amazing? Daniel Plainview (Daniel Day Lewis), an obsessive hard working miner learns and rises to become shrewd oil extracting businessperson <U+0096> when he is approached by a poor Sunday family with a prospect of selling their oil-filled Texas rural hinterland to him. Daniel presents himself as a social family man by projecting a boy HW (Dillon Freasier) - he has adopted from a dying miner <U+0096> as his own son. There is Paul Sunday (Paul Dano), an aspiring boy wanting to become a prophet <U+0096> who wants his vested interest of building a church fulfilled by the richness of Daniel who is using their land. Daniel despises Paul's religiousity. In an accident HW looses his hearing and that presents suttle changes in Daniel's personality of father and businessman. At the end of the movie, Daniel is shown as a grudgy filthy rich old man hating everyone around him. And movie ends up with a climax that is minorly representative of its title <U+0096> BLOOD.This epic saga is loosely adopted from Upton Sinclair's novel OIL. The young talented director Paul Thomas Anderson, rides big on the mega opus venture and fortunately on the strong and reliable shoulders of Daniel Day Lewis who agreed to do the role with this upcoming director.Even though the movie is a story about several characters <U+0096> Daniel Day Lewis captures each and every frame of the movie. He brings life to one of the most interesting characters. The physicality that Daniel Day Lewis provides to this role is so enormous that he is like a Demi-God in the art of learning good acting. His eyes, his movements are spell binding.Throughout the movie the character show-case a varied range of emotions <U+0096> white, gray and dark, and it is so interesting to watch the circumstances that bring out different sorts of characters. But in last 20 minutes, the character becomes totally dark <U+0096> though good, that becomes one dimensional and not as much appealing as the entire story.The music composed by Jonny Greenwodd is starchy and starkling. Many people have found it mis-placed and out of sync with the movie. I did not find that way. I found the music's presence to be quite conscious and intended.The title of the movie is mis-leading to many movie goers who expect quite a bit of blood, gory and violence in the movie, and what one finds is a trying absorbing (to them slow) narrative on the beautiful terrain of Texas deserts.Overall, a wonderful movie to watch.(Stars 8 out of 10)


                
I seen this movie before the Oscars and I just knew Daniel Day-Lewis would win Best Actor. Although the movie was shot really well and the music was good, there really wasn't much going on with the story. It certainly wasn't something that I haven't seen before, it was just set in a different context. To sum the whole movie up in just a few words would be to say. It involves a lot of oil found under a small town of poor, Christian believers. Where there is oil there is money, and where there is money there is greed. It also involves the relationship between a man and his son after a catastrophic event occurs. It certainly gives us an idea on how the oil business was ran in the early 1900's. This movie is sort of an analogy on how the world is being maintained today. Oil is a high commodity, and banks and oil companies are taking advantage of the situation. Although there were some slow spots, Daniels' great, unforgettable performance keeps it very entertaining.
Director Paul Thomas Anderson, "inspired" by Upton Sinclair's 1927 novel "Oil" and the career of Californian wildcatter Ed Doheny, has combined with the fine British actor Daniel Day Lewis to produce a truly remarkable character, Daniel Plainview, oil wildcatter and horrible human being. While Sinclair, a lifelong socialist, attacked capitalism overtly, Anderson is more subtle; he concentrates on the effect that the unbridled lust for wealth has on one man.We are told little about Daniel Plainview's background. He came to the West from Fond du Lac,Wisconsin (as did Doheny), probably off a small farm, spent some time working for the US Geological Survey, where he picked up some expertise in mineral location, and by the time the film opens (1898) he is mining for silver in New Mexico. Mining was and is a hard, dangerous business, and when one of his employees is killed in an accident Daniel takes custody of the man's infant son. Daniel strikes oil and by 1913 has several producing wells. His big break comes when Paul Sunday (Paul Dano), a farm boy from Southern California estranged from his dirt-poor evangelical family, tells him about oil seeping from the ground. Daniel swoops down on the family, buys their miserable property, starts drilling and hits a gusher. But this wealth is not without its costs.Daniel, who admits to his erstwhile "brother" that he dislikes most people, is a driven man who will do anything including murder to achieve his goals, and he makes John D. Rockefeller Senior, the ruthless founder of Standard Oil, look like a gentleman. Starting out as a small time wildcatter he eventually aligns himself with the big boys, Union Oil of California, having been exquisitely rude to their opposition, Standard Oil. But wealth does not buy him happiness; by 1927 he has come to resemble Charles Foster Kane, alone in his huge mansion (in fact the one Doheny built for his son), alcoholic, rejecting his son, and in despair.This saga is told in a leisurely fashion and some viewers will find the pace (stately) and length (2 hours 40 minutes) daunting. Daniel Day Lewis creates an enormously forceful character though we are left to work out for ourselves how he got that way. His Daniel is not religious though he pays lip service to the evangelicals along the way. His "spiritual" opponent, the Sunday's other son Eli (also played by Paul Dano), a Pentecostal preacher, turns out to be two-faced and the film ends in a final confrontation between the two.I'm not sure who the villain is meant to be - atheists and believers can both be ruthless capitalists <U+0096> it's up to the rest of us to make sure they do not get out of hand. Even so, the film is an impressive achievement from a director previously known for small, quirky movies like "Boogie Nights" and "Magnolia". The cinematography is wonderful <U+0096> you can also smell the oil - and the musical score atmospheric. Above all, the film captures the mood of the times. Now, of course we have to stop burning the stuff.


                
