The year I was born was the same year Predator and Robocop came out. When I was finally old enough to appreciate films, Little Nicky was in theaters. I know, believe me, I know; rocky start. And often I would watch older films, or specials on older films, and be dazzled. You know the ones. Remember when they made Spartacus? Remember sitting in the movies and watching Gregory Peck play Atticus Finch in To Kill A Mockingbird? Remember the first time you heard "I could've been a contender" through theater speakers? Well I sure as hell don't. But I'll tell you what, now I feel somewhat caught up. Let's begin with the obvious. Daniel Day Lewis. No one's arguing about this. The man is a veritable God among ants on the screen. He takes his role by the reigns and I don't doubt him for a second. In fact, at times, I was downright afraid of the man. Lewis gives what is easily, EASILY the best performance of the past five years. But let's get serious about it. Lewis' Daniel Plainview is the most convincing, awe-inspiring, and downright mortifying character to take the big screen that I can remember. Here, perfectly in his element and at his best, Lewis could go toe to toe with Brando and Kinski, playing a part that oozes enough skill and pathos to earn him a place among Hollywood's, and perhaps the world's, greatest performances of all time. He gives those of us who missed out on the craft, depth of character, and technique of classic cinema a chance to admire a tour de force portrayal of a memorable, identifiable, and completely despicable character, and it's so damned refreshing that I can't stop singing the man's praises. Paul Dano has been taking a lot of fire for this whole thing. People continue to spout their disapproval of the film's casting, saying that Dano has no business rivaling the seasoned Lewis on the screen. Listen, lay down your swords a minute and consider the obvious. The guy was cast opposite the performance of the decade, he's not going to outshine Lewis and you'd be crazy to expect him to. In fact, I think that he and Lewis' back-and-forths are the films highlights, as we see the juxtaposition not only in the characters themselves, but also in their acting techniques. And the cinematography? Welcome to the old days of film. The glory days of Hollywood. Anderson gives us one of the most beautifully shot and directed films in recent memory, truly at the top of his craft on this one. Every moment feels more epic than the last, until the film becomes such a towering cinematic spectacle that the end leaves the viewer exhausted. It's truly an experience not to be missed. Yeah, we missed out on A Street Car Named Desire. And Casablanca isn't gonna be in theaters again any time soon. But in the meantime, There Will Be Blood is just about as good, and will likely haunt our generation as much as the Hollywood studio epics of the past...


                
Who is Paul Thomas Anderson? There is something about him that does't belong to this earth. That could be a compliment or not, it's all up to us. That's what make his cinema so damn unique. At the end of the day it's all up to us. But the abrasive way in which he visits universes and throws his views to us is so powerful, so arrogant, so enthralling, so infuriating that the experience leaves you baffled and suspicious. but also enchanted, transformed. Here, Daniel's saga could very well be the saga of a Hollywood maverick. So little time for sentimentality. Daniel Day Lewis seems to understand it all and he adds his unmistakable humanity to another monster, after his butcher in Gangs Of New York. His performance goes beyond anything we've seen recently anywhere. From Upton Sinclair to Paul Thomas Anderson via Daniel Day Lewis an unmissable work of art.


                
*NOTE: first time doing a movie review.*Greed can lead to many things. Some good, some bad. It can often lead to a man's downfall. Set in the late 19th-century / early 20th- century, "There Will Be Blood" follows the story of Daniel Plainview. The story starts with the camera focused on a single man in a mine who is none other than Daniel. The movie opens up in silence. There is no dialogue, no speech. For 20 minutes I sat and observed a man in a hole mining for who knows what. In these first 20 minutes we are exposed to a number of things that set the tone for movie. We see a dry barren land, age old technology. You see a sweaty man working at a wall with his pickaxe in some dark and dusty hole. It's intense and dark. During these 20 minutes, Daniel strikes oil changing his life. Lives will be changed, decisions will be made, and there will be blood.This movie appears to be filmed on location in Texas and in California, which is a great way to convey Paul Thomas Anderson's message. Half the things in the movie couldn't be done on set. Unless it was done by some type of magic, then kudos to the team. I personally think that filming on location adds another dimension of realism to the movie, especially since it is a western type movie. Back to what the message is. Well, if I were to take a swing at what the message is, I'm going to say it's about the struggle for power and control. You can take this away from Daniel and his enemy, Eli Sunday (who starts a church in Little Boston called "The Third Revelation"). Both of them want it all, to be on top in their respective careers. However, the struggle and desire for power pits both Daniel and Eli together for control of Little Boston. It also provides a historical example for that time period. The message is conveyed fairly well in this movie. But that's not the only thing this movie has going on. I personally think the biggest aspect of this movie has to be the music. It's random, and gets you thinking. Mind you, there isn't any run in the park Benny Hill music. The music is dark, ominous and overall creepy. It sets up the scene and makes it interesting. A good example of this can be located within the first 20 minutes of the film. Creepy music starts to play when Daniel begins his descent back into the mine where the dynamite blew up. According to the creepy music, something bad was bound to happen and it did. The ladder Dan was using to climb down on broke, tossing him like a rag doll. Surprisingly enough, this is where he discovers oil. This makes me think that the music starts only when a significant moment is about to happen, which is it's own type of foreshadowing, for better for for worse.As we progress through the story, you start to see the central theme of greed bloom at a rather rapid rate. Greed takes a grip on our main character Daniel and starts to drive the story in a different direction. He begins get a crazy but in a subtle way. Then, he just becomes a different man. It was amazing to the see the actor, Daniel Day-Lewis, take on this role and own it. He put so much energy and power into this roll and really convinced me that he was going crazy. I fully support Paul Thomas Anderson's cast choice. Each person totally owned his / her role, and made the movie as un-cheesy as possible. The shots were clear, and it wasn't gimmicky. We knew where all the important people were at all times during each scene. I would totally watch this movie again if I had the chance. It was plot driven, it never sidetracked, and each scene was significant to the development of the main character. Out of 10 i would give it a 9 simply because there is no such thing as perfect, only what we perceive to be perfect. It was intense, unpredictable, and overall enjoyable. I don't usually watch these kinds of movies, but this one just might get me hooked to the genre.


                
If many of the comments here are to be believed then "There Will Be Blood" is an over-long and purposeless mess, but in fact nothing could be further from the truth. The story of Daniel Plainview's rise to power as an oil magnate in the early part of the 20th Century and his running conflict with the tub-thumping preacher Eli Sunday is a timely and incisive examination of one of the battle's that lie at the heart of modern America and exerts a strong influence to this day over the way that nation shapes both itself and the world around it. Essentially what the film examines is the battle between capitalism and the church for influence and power. Plainview represents the oil industry/capitalism and the obsessive greed and Darwinian competition that drives that system. His name is in fact at odds with his personality. On the surface he certainly seems a reasonable - even charming man - who tells it the way it is, but this masks the fact that he is actually little more than driven sociopath and exploiter of both his workers and the penniless farmers he buys his oil rich land from. He is motivated not by a regard for people (whom he admits to his "brother" he hates) or even family (his own son is discarded when his deafness undermines his usefulness and the arrival of Plainview's brother seems to provide a more viable familial substitute) - instead it is the desire to succeed and make money at the expense of others that really drives him. Indeed when offered a the chance to become a millionaire by speculators who wish to buy his operation Plainview refuses because he would not know what to do if he did not have his business to run. The search for profit is for him an existential issue - the thing that makes him what he is - and yet his inability to see any use beyond his business for that profit hints at a kind of built in madness in his brand of capitalism/the American Dream - an ultimate lack of deeper purpose bound to lead to pain and self destruction. In the hands of men like Plainview big business is a ravening beast caught in a blind and vicious circle of consumption, exploitation and expansion.On some levels the film's title seems to refer to the inevitability of this man (and the system he symbolises) committing horrible acts of violence. Certainly Day-Lewis presents Plainview as a man constantly struggling with his own psychopathic tendencies - his performance is run through with a terrifying undercurrent of violence and rage which seems to bubble just beneath the surface. The main question in the audience's mind here is not whether this man will become a killer, but when this will happen. Indeed, the film's ending confirms this by offering closure at the point that Plainview brutally murders Eli Sunday with bowling paraphernalia - his and the film's final line being "I'm, finished." Like the title it is a loaded phrase - Plainview's/Anderson's narrative is at an end, Plainview's life may well be over when the murder is discovered, but perhaps most significantly the line hints at the idea that Plainview is now completed - has finished his journey by becoming the brutal killer that he has threatened to be throughout the film.Of course if one looks beyond the surface character then the film offers a wealth of less than flattering commentary on the nature of the capitalist system Plainview embodies. Through the character a portrait is painted of an utterly brutal and self-serving system which sacrifices humanity for cold hard cash - and as such is itself sociopathic and utterly lost in moral terms.The church fares little better through its representative - Eli Sunday whose crazed rantings before his congregation of desperate and poverty stricken parishioners do little to endear him to the audience. He is also depicted as utterly greedy and exploitative himself. Throughout the film he seeks to use his connections with Plainview as a way to extract money from him - ostensibly for his church but, we feel, really for him. Indeed it is this greed - the sense that in fact the Christian church in the US is itself more motivated by devotion to Mamon than Christ - which ultimately leads to Sunday's demise at the hands of Plainview as he returns to the oil magnate in an attempt to wring more money from him and get him to pay up for the $5000 which Plainview has owed him for what must be decades. The film's bleak ending leaves us with the sense that if anyone has won the battle at the heart of the film (America) it is capitalism, but in the process it has become difficult to distinguish business from church. Both seem motivated by greed are led by mad men and operate on a kind of blind faith which has resulted in them completely losing their way in human terms.Given we live in a world where oil and religion are two of the biggest forces shaping our world (and hardly for the better given current realities) "There Will Be Blood" has to be one of the most relevant films around.
There Will Be Greed. There Will Be Vengeance. 'There Will Be Blood'. There's no easy way to approach Paul Thomas Anderson's latest effort, it's about as unsettling and disturbing as they come. With piercing subtlety, this haunting epic takes us to a dark place exploring business, religion, and above all else, greed. Completely enthralling and one of this year's most ambitious pictures, 'There Will Be Blood' is a near masterpiece that gives us perhaps the greatest performance we've seen in years.Paul Thomas Anderson. What can you say? For a man still relatively early in his career, 'There Will Be Blood' is only Anderson's fifth feature film, and his third that tops a whopping 150 minutes. Responsible for the script as well as providing stunning direction, there are few in Hollywood today who can make such heavy, pondering films and somehow hold the attention of so many. Yet despite quite an impressive running time, there's a rich and textured story to be told here that demands every minute of its time. No filler. It's a methodical and deliberate picture, but one that pulls us in from start to finish. The script (adapted from Upton Sinclair's "Oil!") is beautifully constructed, deep and startlingly realistic. Johnny Greenwood's barebones score is chilling and effective (sadly not eligible for an Oscar), and its cinematography is sweeping and wondrous.A soul-dead oilman, hellbent on succeeding and leaving everyone else in the dust. Whatever the cost. The hype is worthy and very much deserved. Daniel Day-Lewis delivers the performance of a lifetime, one that will surely go down in history as one of cinema's greatest. He is absolutely sensational, every line of dialogue delivered with such a ferocious undertone that will slice through even the toughest of audiences. A brilliantly layered and rich character, Day-Lewis brings Plainview to life with such jaw-dropping vitality. And while it's easy to focus purely on this masterful performance, it's important to keep young Paul Dano in mind as well. A blossoming actor, he shines in this fantastic role as a supposed prophet and healer. These are two actors, both on opposite sides of the spectrum, who understand the art of the craft and pull no punches. They drive 'There Will Be Blood' home.In the end, I find it difficult to call 'There Will Be Blood' a perfect film. A flawed masterpiece, perhaps. It's difficult to pinpoint exactly what happens, but a slight road bump seems to halter the film's final act. But any film that can lure Daniel Day-Lewis out of the shadows and back on the big screen is a notable achievement, and it's worth talking about. 'There Will Be Blood' is a deeply challenging film whose ability to rattle an audience is like few others.More reviews at rottentomatoes.com/vine/journal_view.php?journalid=219276&view=public


                
I had heard about what a great movie "There Will Be Blood" is. A friend of my family said that she didn't really like the movie, but described a certain sound in it.Well, now that I've seen the movie, there are a few things that I can say about it. First, Daniel Day-Lewis does a great job playing the completely maniacal, amoral, self-aggrandizing oil magnate Daniel Plainview. Second, Plainview's speech about how he'll bring all the modern amenities to the small town; that brings to mind the fact that the whole American west now does have all those things...they put all these things in the middle of the desert, prompting everyone to use a lot of water, resulting in water shortages. Third, the subject of petroleum calls to mind present-day international politics. Finally, I would say that Daniel Day-Lewis and Paul Dano each individually are better than the movie as a whole (not to diminish the film).Probably the most intense scene is the final segment: there's what Plainview does to his son and then to Paul Sunday (or is it Eli?). All in all, it not only adds up to a very good movie, but Paul Thomas Anderson ("Boogie Nights" and "Magnolia") is showing himself to be a very good director.


                
My Rating : 9/10Paul Thomas Anderson took the first few pages from Upton Sinclair's novel Oil! and ran with them taking creative freedom to bring us this modern day classic. Oil! is more focused on the political and socioeconomic side of the oil boom that occurred in California during the early 1900's and the class warfare that was being waged, whereas Anderson's screenplay is focused on a story of a man, his son, and their relationship which makes for better cinema than the original source material. Daniel Day-Lewis gives the best performance of his career (obviously in my humble opinion) as Daniel Plainview: a wealthy independent oil man, who battles with the big oil conglomerates along with a vengeful Evangelical Eli Sunday (played fantastically by Paul Dano) all the while trying to do right for himself and his son. Anderson delivers a cinematic masterpiece in every sense of the word and it should have won the Academy Award for Best Picture, but it was beat out by No Country for Old Men. Though No Country is a great film it is nowhere near the level of There Will Be Blood.


                
Paul Thomas Anderson is undoubtedly the greatest director of his generation, and There Will Be Blood once more shows his versatility as a director. Anderson's direction seems like a bit of a mix between Kubrick & Scorsese, and whereas a lot of earlier PT Anderson films seemed to lean more towards Scorsese ( Boogie Nights, Hard Eight ), There Will Be Blood leans more towards Kubrick, and feels unlike anything he has ever directed before.There Will Be Blood is kind of unconventional in its technical expertise. It uses a lot of angles one would never expect during certain scenes. An example of this is when Daniel Plainview ( Daniel-Day Lewis ) meets his half brother, in which most of the time the camera is behind Lewis, instead of using the more conventional shot/reverse shot method. Another example is when he reunites with his son H.W. after some time. Normally these scenes would feature mid/close up range to capture a more personal feel towards this event, but in There Will Be Blood this is changed into an obscure wideshot which is not satisfying at all while showing the pipeline in the foreground, like Anderson is visually telling the audience about what's more important to Plainview. These kind of techniques give this film a unique look and an odd kind of originality that is rarely found in films. It's pacing is reminiscent of Kubrick, but everything else seems to spring right from Anderson's artistic mind.There is no actual dialogue in the first fourteen minutes, and yet we learn so much about Plainview as a character. He is forced to crawl out of a well injured and alone for a single silver find which shows us visually just how destitute he is. His character arc is undoubtedly one of the greatest in cinematic history, as he evolves from this to the complete opposite while still maintaining a large degree of logic and sense. This is, in the end, a fantastic example of a brilliant study about the descent into madness due to greed and corruption.There are really no words that properly honor Daniel-Day Lewis's performance in this movie. He is absolutely superb. From his incredible imitation of a turn of the century voice to his charming speeches or facial expressions bursting with internal struggles, this is one of the finest protagonist performances ever to grace the big screen. Paul Dano ofcourse also shines in his two-way role of Paul & Eli Sunday, perfectly capturing the religious fanatic's personality. ( The time for him to shine is truly when he has to say he is a false prophet in the final scene, in which you can truly see the genuine struggle he is having by just looking at his expressions ). There are not many films out there that equal the quality of There Will Be Blood's acting due to this, and these powerhouse performances really transcend this already excellent film even further.It has a fantastic screenplay with a lot of exceptional dialogue. The final scene is a stand-out. That scene is absolute cinematic perfection in the intellect and sub text of its dialogue. The simple 'I'm finished' quote is still being debated to this day, as its meaning stretches far beyond what most can see. Some events like the arrival of Plainview's 'half brother' seem somewhat out of place and quite sudden, but we have to remember that this is Plainview's story and this sub plot works incredibly well as another pure elevator to hell for the sanity of his character.The cinematography is brilliant, with many beautiful images capturing that desolate and bleak look of the film perfectly. The drill fire sequence during night time is a perfect example of this, as the color of the fire lighting up the screen is contrasted beautifully by the silhouettes in the foreground. Most of the shots in the film are either slowly zooming in or zooming out, to capture that impending doom that always seems to be around every corner. Every frame, every shot, it all connects beautifully as it all has its own purpose. Not a single shot is wasted. The visual storytelling is very strong in There Will Be Blood, and it relies on the viewer's intelligence to understand this, as the respect P.T. Anderson shows here for his audience is very high. There are a lot of things one will need to figure out for themselves, because Anderson doesn't make his characters say blatant obvious things. However, this does not mean it is abstract or incoherent, because the visual story is still there for all to see.There Will Be Blood is titanically acted, intelligently written and most of all superbly directed by a master filmmaker. It is a haunting descent into madness, but it is in the unusual and unconventional way this is filmed that this really stands out as such a masterpiece.
This movie is absolute masterpiece in terms of story, direction, screenplay, cinematography, background music and acting. Daniel Day Lewis has yet again delivered a packed powerhouse performance. Firstly, Anderson has made a gem of a movie. Anderson's story telling style is quite unique; he doesn't rely completely on dialogs but rather on camera movements capturing the characters emotions and expressions. This style of story telling might make one bore with the movie but believe me not his movie. He knows his trade very well. I have only seen his other movie 'Magnolia' which I liked too but in this movie he excels not just himself but many other filmmakers of this generation too. He definitely seems a director to rely on delivering master pieces. Now, coming to the main man movie belongs too, i.e., Daniel Day Lewis, is undoubtedly the most talented actors of our generations and this movie only strengthen his place further among one of the greatest actors of all time. He portrayed "Plainview" so perfectly that I cannot even begin to imagine some other actor playing this role the way he did. Watch the intensity with which he delivers his dialogs, intensity when he is digging for oil, when he is protecting his kid and almost every frame he is in is a shot of greatness, how competitive he is, how chilling he is. Other actors too are good, especially Lewis Kid (as a child), Elli the preacher. I don't want to reveal anything here why Lewis is superb here; why direction is superb here, as to mention those I need to describe some specific scenes and moments in the movie that with the help of the director, and Lewis who takes them to the extreme height of perfection and superiority and which might not give you a full satisfaction of seeing those for the first time in the movie and I don't want to take any such moments away from you. So it would be in your best interest that you watch the movie and decide yourself why these gentlemen's were so amazing in TWBB and why the movie is a masterpiece. Just Watch it.!!!!! To quote Plainview: I am finished.


                
There are not many movies being made these days that can do what this one does. It not only entertains, but has you thinking about it for days to come. There are so many nuances and eddies of plot in this movie. The characters are believable, multi-layered and absolutely mesmerizing. Daniel Day Lewis won a deserved Oscar for his performance, they should have given him two as his performance was that good. Once again black gold(this movie) is overlooked at the Oscars and fools gold wins the best picture award(No Country). Who ever is doing the choosing these days for the academy is either blind, deaf or both, or maybe just stupid. The departed last year and now No Country, both of which are good at best but not great! The Academy of Movie Picture's best picture award should go to a movie that is great! There will be Blood is a great movie!


                
Daniel Day-Lewis has got to be one of the most dedicated actors of our time, giving us one great performance after another particularly in these four; "My Left Foot", "In the Name of the Father", "Gangs of New York" and now "There Will be Blood" in his darkest role ever. One a whole his performance in this film reminded me of Orson Wells from the great "Citizen Kane".This is one of the greatest performances I've seen in a long time; it is so great that it is absolutely terrifying at times. For insistence there is a scene where his competition is trying to buy him out and tells Plainview that he can spend more time with his son but Plainview feels that he's trying to tell him how to raise his family and he says the following: "One night, I'm gonna come inside your house, wherever you're sleeping, and I'm gonna cut your throat." Now that just put chills down my spine and the way he says it with that 'John Huston' kind-of accent is just brilliant. There is also a great scene where he is burying someone in the middle of nowhere in order since he felt that this person was after his money. It just simply reminded me of Humphrey Bogart in "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre" when trying to kill Curtin, looking out for his share of the gold along with some other scenes since the director (Paul Thomas Anderson) went to sleep every night watching "The Treasure of the Sierra Madre" while filming "There Will Be Blood", and you can tell.The film basically is about a man who is looking for silver but instead finds oil and is now determined to be the best in the business and make sure that he ranks on top and above the others along with his partner H.W. Plainview, his young son. In the process he finds difficulties in gaining all the land he desires and in building his pipeline. Every single scene is extremely well made and shows us Plainview's ruthlessness slowly turning into madness.One of the film's finest scenes is the opening scene when Daniel Plainview (Daniel Day-Lewis) is on his own in the middle of nowhere and is trying to wrest silver from the earth with a pick and shovel and a stick of dynamite. There is no music in that scene, you just here the sound of the pick hitting the rock and Plainview moving around in the hole and it works perfectly. Not to mention the cinematography is absolutely gorgeous in almost every scene.This film is defiantly film making at its best but it could have been a lot better since it had quite a few flaws in it and the major flaw is the annoying Eli Sunday (played by Paul Dano from "Little Miss Sunshine"). I didn't care one bit for his performance and in fact it even got on my nerves at times, especially his 'church scene' where he 'casts the devil out of people' in his little chapel.This is Paul Thomas Anderson in his finest hour as a director, his best film since "Boogie Nights" one of the best films of 1997 since I wasn't a fan of his last 2 films: "Punch Drunk Love" & "Magnolia".


                
There aren't many films I consider as American epics. There are several Westerns and a few others that are uniquely American but they are rare. This is one such rare film.There Will be Blood is an epic that spans the life of an oil driller from the early 1900's. The plot is a bit predictable and there is very little dialogue so this film appears to move slowly, yet keeps the viewer interested.Superbly-acted, the characters are very realistic and recount the struggles faced by pioneers of that era. I can't recall too many other films where I felt empathy for a one with questionable ethics.As some have suggested, the film is depiction of "true" capitalism, that built America over the last few centuries, with its inherent requirement of hard work ethic, ruthless pursuit of profit, and, at times, setting aside family values.If you like art films and are interested in Americana, this is a film worth checking out.


                
Paul Thomas Anderson had proved himself a masterful filmmaker with titles such as "Boogie Nights" and of course "Magnolia," and the wonderful, surreal comedic Adam Sandler outfit "Punch-Drunk Love." All of these tales involved broken people who we were able to care for. And then comes "There Will Be Blood," a film about broken people who we do not care for, but learn to hate strongly. Anderson does not go out of his way to make this film intricately plotted, but instead simply focuses on two influential forces in America, forces that have been with us since the countries founding: Ruthless business and greedy religion. The primary focus is on Daniel Plainview, a man whose voice flows like molasses. He is the single most deplorable character in film since Scarface, and he's even less forgiving. He adopts a child in the name of having an heir to his business, only to later abandon him. He is the man who looks at people and sees "nothing worth liking" as he himself embodies the very greed that is wrong with mankind. And then there is Eli Sunday, the young preacher played by Paul Dano in a breakout role. He cares less for ministry as he does for himself. Any true man of faith (myself included) should see past the mask that this false prophet puts on and realize that the church he builds is for his greedy goals and monetary gain, putting him pretty much on the same level of Plainview in nastiness. The pressure builds and builds, and at the end the viewer is left breathless. So sit and watch this, set aside an afternoon to turn it over in your mind, and brace yourself, for there will, indeed, be blood.


                
Why Daniel Plainview becomes such an evil character - that his personal motives are not clearly stated - is too much of a question for many people. The "answer", if in fact there's any real mystery, can be found in the film's superb cinematic method. This method is the curious angles, the vast vistas, the jump cut edits, and the subtle rhythms that form an eloquent but mute narration that tells a much more vivid story than any dialog or exposition ever could. It's in the near silences of pure movie action that we are able to glimpse the the dark forces that drive Daniel Plainview. People unaccustomed to or ignorant of the pleasures to be found in the act of reflection and contemplation will likely find these moments of the film to be very boring and too self indulgent. That's a tragedy, for them, because it's a great thrill to be included in the creative process, to be counted on to complete the story in our own minds where the creations of our own imaginations are so tremendously satisfying. Apparently, so many people are just too intellectually limited, to damn impatient, to appreciate this film's subtle power.Daniel Day Lewis has created a genuinely sinister persona, a compellingly complex villain, from just a few scraps of curious behavior. When we first meet him as an ambitious young man he already is something of an oddity. Daniel's character, his temperament, is powerfully restrained, disciplined, but volatile, explosive. Though his outbursts are few, they are impressive, and the threat of their recurrence at any moment darkens all his encounters. But his fiery disposition serves him well in forging his own path, in carving out a life for himself in an unforgiving, harsh environment. And it's precisely this fierce individualistic streak that both fuels his professional progress and sabotages his personal relations.His great ambitions - an obvious parallel of those of our republic's early years - seem reasonable and worthwhile. And, as Daniel is fond of professing to the naive, vulnerable locals whom he so willfully defrauds, all our achievements are worthless if not done for the benefit of the family. His family, a chanced upon orphan boy, serves him well as an effective prop in his nefarious deceptions. But he does love the boy, and he does otherwise treat him quite well. It's complicated.And it gets very complicated when he chooses to send the boy away to school following a tragic accident. It seems a reasonable enough decision at first, difficult as it is for us to witness. Daniel is blind to the error of this choice till it is made clear to him in a miraculously complex moment of self realization. This moment of clarity occurs while he is performing a very public ruse before the local congregation, pretending to be born again as a ploy to gain possession of a local man's land. As he begins his renouncement we sense that there's a sly devil at play within him. Daniel barely conceals his raging contempt for the young minister who is sincerely relishing this very public humiliation of his bitter rival. But soon Daniel's defiance seems to relax, his hidden rage transforms. He is, it seems, experiencing a genuine revelation, as he roars louder and louder the words the minister feeds him: "I have abandoned my child. I have abandoned my boy!" "Yes, you have abandoned your boy" I was almost saying out loud, as the truth of his action is suddenly revealed. And he has this charlatan minister to thank for his redemption. Daniel realizes this and he smiles as the howling minister violently slaps him in the face harder and harder, again and again. Soon, the passion of the moment recedes, and Daniel is accepted into the community, and sits exhausted in the pew with a warm embrace from the young girl who happens to be the daughter of the rancher he first conned and is the sister of the disingenuous minister. Daniel has simultaneously gained a profound insight into his own character and has amazingly dodged the corrupt minister's envious wrath. Has he beaten God, the Devil, both, or maybe neither. Then, without any obvious cues or overt indications, I was then somehow increasingly aware that Daniel's psychic triumph will now only lead to a harsh retaliation against the minister. Just what form that retribution will take or when it will occur is unclear. This all is transmitted so very subtly, so very artfully, without any dialog, just through Daniel's remarkable performance. This subtlety is the reason so many viewers are so underwhelmed by and contemptuous of this mature, intelligent film. There is then a profound sense of impending doom infusing the remainder of the film. It's just a matter of time now till destiny is fulfilled, till providence wins out. And when it suddenly, unexpectedly does, it's doubly shocking. How and why Daniel does what he does is so grimly, so exquisitely satisfying, that I was shocked with myself, with my primal reaction.This self revelation, that I can be shocked by my own impulses and desires, is a deeply disturbing aspect of the human psyche that PT Anderson has chosen to illuminate. It's the point, it seems, of the movie. And then I was stunned to realize that what I had just witnessed may well have been merely the hysterical delusion of a crazed, relentless, senile mind. Did what just occur "really" happen, or was it a brutal dream, a waking nightmare? This remarkable, challenging question of whether or not we can trust our own eyes, apparently, is lost on just about everyone who has seen this film. And that's a very big, very critical loss. But I think I shouldn't be surprised...
You can criticize this film at points, but the performance of Daniel Day-Lewis is astonishing. He certainly has made a career of being menacing. His very presence commands the screen. The sociopath that he plays here is one of those, taking everything he can, having no regrets for his cruelty at any point. He does betray his son and still blames anyone who mentions him, assuming they are judging him. They have every right to. It's interesting that it isn't just the righteous who land on their feet. Daniel is willing to do anything to get what he wants. His passions and obsessions are right there. Anyone who hooks up with him has to know that they are simply pawns in the game. This film is filled with memorable scenes and subtle threat. Levi, the minister, is certainly quite complex and as ambitious as Daniel. His pliable face works for me, though some say he is too whiny and obvious. To me, this is what would work in this setting. For most of the movie he is Daniel's equal in the role of charlatan. The bowling alley scene at the end is worth the price of admission.


                
When one of the finest filmmakers teams up with one of the most accomplished actors of our times, you know you're in for something unique.P.T. Anderson has made us wait far too long since his last feature, Punch Drunk Love (2002), as has Daniel Day Lewis, (only one indie film since Gangs of New York). Intelligently cautious about selecting their projects, Anderson wooed Lewis to his script based upon Upton Sinclair's 1927 novel Oil! A title the film kept while shooting. The current title is a little deceptive, as the blood refers to the relationship between father and son which makes up the core of this film and not greed versus faith as the marketing would have us believe.Daniel Plainview (Lewis) is an oil man, something he is proud of and yet has isolated himself from the world in order to follow his dreams. When the world catches up, unexpected interactions come into play. Like Faust, Plainview loses more of himself as his wealth increases.This is a fascinating story in the vein of 'Giant', a rare dramatic background of oil drilling, though this is more reminiscent of Citizen Kane than anything else.Anderson, perhaps all too aware of the similarities, steers clear of the journey of a tycoon, whose soul is slowly shedding and strips it back to mere one on one interactions, unlike his previous films such as Magnolia where numerous characters shift across the screen in a lush tapestry. Indeed, much of the action takes place outdoors, in isolated settings and this is no coincidence. Anderson knows what he wants and he expresses it; Plainview with his son, with his brother, with his young mirror image, the evangelist, Eli Sunday (Paul Dano). Daniel Day Lewis is the showman and Anderson gives him the stage.Anderson's style is dominant, his trademark long steadicam shots, tracking in and out of poignant character moments and a stunning soundtrack by Radiohead's Johnny Greenwood, (sadly overlooked by the Oscars), which brings attention to itself but that's the point. Anderson has always favored a heavy soundtrack, the odd effects of Punch Drunk, the disco tunes in Boogie Nights, and the Aimee Mann laded Magnolia.Blood is a remarkable actor's film, delving deep into theatrical tradition. You can almost hear the 'Rosebudian' whispers of Orson Welles as he spies the black seeping up from the desert with fascination and the subsequent malevolence it inflicts on those that are near it.


                
There is a way to turn storytelling into true art through the use of a camera. Paul Thomas Anderson understands exactly how and he has proved again and again that he is a master of powerful, moving, aesthetically brilliant storytelling. His most recent film was the 2007 period piece There Will Be Blood. The film is about business man Daniel Plainview, played by Daniel Day-Lewis in one of the greatest performances of the 21st century. Plainview starts out as a dirt poor oil field worker who grows into a deranged and greedy oil man who plays a vicious game of deceit and treachery with a poor town whose devout faith is the only thing that keeps them all going. It is the complex tale of one man's rise to power and descent into greedy insanity. It boasts a kind of intelligence that modern American cinema rarely achieves. This is a film that feels like it should have been made decades ago during the fruition of the American movie industry, yet instead it was made in 2007 and has successfully revitalized the potential of American filmmaking.There Will Be Blood succeeds so extravagantly as a careful blend between artistic imagery and cinematography and sincere storytelling. This films story is strictly for intellectuals. It doesn't spell out anything for the viewer and it doesn't hold your hand as you watch it. You have to absorb the film rather than just watch it. It is subtle and quiet and yet so enthralling and so moving. The film's incredible focus drives home all of its meaning and messages. It isn't just the story of one man's trial and tribulations in the oil industry. It is a story of greed, obsession, cruelty, and faith. The film cleverly blends two different lifestyles, one of the stalwart business man and one of devout religious passion into an ingenious story of ambition versus faith. Few films are able to so intelligently tell a story of such calibre against such an unlikely backdrop.It is one thing to be able to piece such a sophisticated story together, it is another to tell that story in such an artistic and captivating way as Paul Thomas Anderson's direction of There Will Be Blood. The cinematography of this film is incredible and Anderson's camera work is astounding to a cinematically intellectual eye. His camera movement is so subtle yet so brilliant in its quiet complexities that you are driven to feel so much more emotion and captivation while watching this movie than you would expect. The sweeping pans, the immaculate wide shots, the enthralling close-ups, are all what make There Will Be Blood such a subtly excellent work of art. This film demands a higher level of appreciation and I can easily say that it isn't for everybody. It works on such low key levels that it unexpectedly grabs hold of you carries you along for almost three hours of pure captivation.There Will Be Blood is a prime example of modern aesthetic storytelling. The film is practically flawless in its execution and it achieves all of what it set out to do. It makes you think and it also mystifies your eyes as you gaze into its immaculate lens. And with the addition of Anderson's fancy script and Daniel Day-Lewis' magnificent performance you've got yourself a modern American masterpiece.


                
There will be Blood is an example of quintessential cinema, also it is an entertainment as an adventure film and this is Daniel Day Lewis's second greatest performance after My Left Foot. Even if it is not superhuman like My Left Foot, it was amazing. As for direction, as said, this is a masterful work with a powerful story telling. Honestly, I had not supposed that Anderson was such a master director, despite I have seen Magnolia which is a masterpiece for me. At this point, it is frustrating that some people find the movie very boring, slow paced and even some say that nothing happens in this movie! This is funny, because There will be Blood is not an art house film-I don't mean that art house films are boring, but this is an adventure film like Gone with the Wind or something. This is an adventure with a rare and important plot which had not been handled before: oil! As known, Anderson inspired from the another masterpiece The Treasure of Sierra Madre. The story is very adventurous here and Daniel Day Lewis is Bogart? Anyway, the moments take place in the train station affected me a lot, for me it is may be the zenith of the movie. It was touching but in a silent and deep way. However, I had a problem with this movie which is the final act. This is the only disappointment for me. The final act clashes with the atmosphere, the tone, the spirit of the movie that is built throughout. it is like the movie steps into a new age and the movie turns into something postmodern and this post-modernism doesn't fit the movie. Then, Daniel Plainview starts to talk about milkshake, milkshake??? Also, the twin stuff was far fetched and not convincing.


                
Just got done seeing this film for the first time, and it punched me dead in the face. Daniel Day-Lewis' interpretation of the main character Mr. Plainview is an absolute tour de force. His crystallized greed and over-the-top bitterness jabbed a nerve ending in me. I can understand how some viewers might call his approach too much, but considering the source material (a moralizing novel written to generate an inflammatory response), it felt right. the atonal musical score has been a bone to pick for many viewers as well. for me, although it did not seem to fit with the time period of the movie, it felt right to me as well. It reminded me of some of the music that filmmaker Stanley Kubrick put in his movies, and since Kubrick is my all time favorite director, i'm probably a little biased. but i think this movie is meant to be a work of art that tries hard to provoke an emotional response. the film could be seen as a moralizing tale, a cynical comment about the potential depths of mankind's greed, a stern warning, or a dozen other things. i got a great deal out of the film, and i think it will age pretty well as the years go by. it may feel admittedly boring and too drawn out at times, but it came across to me as a richly textured piece, showcasing Lewis' performance. BRAVO!


                
Yes, I liked this film. A lot.But there are some aspects I found disappointing or even objectionable: Why was the intensity of the film destroyed at the end in the bowling alley/mansion scene with the Milkshake nonsense. Laughter, the best mood breaker. It seemed to almost mock the submersion which the film had demanded up until that point. As if to say, so what? Eli's dual personality is left up to the visual evidence he is the same person as Paul and the subsequent descents into lunacy, such as his attack on his father. Wouldn't it have been a more forthright treatment if Plainview had looked into his eyes when he first introduces himself as Eli and said something. Such as, "Oh really?" Daniel Day-Lewis is in every scene. A cinematic breakthrough some will shout. I felt that some perspective from without, from someone else's point of view, would have helped better define Plainview.I've never read the Sinclair novel. I'm wondering if there's any insight into Plainview's later life, after he "makes it" and builds his house. It would have been a better use of time than the so, so long unspoken mine scenes at the beginning.I suppose those were used to set up the harshness of the business, the physicality of success in oil and the likelihood of mishap. Okay. But why so very long? Yeh, we understand we can't see at the bottom of the shaft. Let's move on.Daniel Day-Lewis' performance is excellent, but one dimensional. The script and his approach doesn't allow us any view of Plainview's doubts, did he ever have any? Or his humanity, was it beaten out of him? Also, the score was a complete imposition. Slowly increasing sound level equals increasing tension. Oh, come on. More subtlety would have been appreciated.God and greed and guts and good, very good. But just short of being the best film of the year.
"There Will Be Blood" is nominated for 9 Academy Awards, and let me tell you, it's deserving of every one of them. The composition of directing, cinematography, musical score, and the acting of Daniel Day-Lewis make this an experience; one of the most riveting in cinematic history. You will likely be shocked, or befuddled, when it's all said and done.Daniel Plainview is a character of complexity. His true nature is a mystery, especially early in the film, and you never quite know what goes through his mind. Daniel Day-Lewis gets this part, and his portrayal of Plainview is masterfully dark and engrossing. He becomes a figure of cruelty, and coldly dispenses of people when they no longer suit him. Yet ironically, his sanity seems to be held intact solely by the singular relationships he does have. Plainview maintains a "business partner" because he claims it helps legitimize him to the community. In reality, his motives are selfish. He needs an ear to bend with the hatreds that swell in him, someone to shoulder the weight of his personal demons. He is a classic people user, and when there are no more left to suck from, he devolves into a loathsome recluse. There is no need to hold an award ceremony this year, at least, not for Best Actor. Daniel Day-Lewis will win the Oscar without so much as a contest.There is an unnerving atmosphere that pervades this film, and to credit the vision of Paul Thomas Anderson, it leaves you with a constant feeling that something bad is going to happen. So much of this feeling is stirred by the incredibly alarming music. It is chaotic, and at times even feels out of sync or inappropriate for the moment. This serves a purpose, however. Every musical sequence was unique, and many were employed to clue the viewer into something beneath the surface. I can't say enough how integral the score was in maintaining the unsettling mood of this picture.The cinematography was beautiful. I remember one part specifically when Daniel and H.W. were driving through town in their Model T. I love this scene, and it was so well executed I almost could believe it was actually shot in 1908. Another striking sequence that really stands out was when Daniel carried H.W. from the burning oil well. The way the camera follows him in one uninterrupted shot, the music plucking away violently. There is a sense of something amiss, and the suspense of the moment is fully realized through its impeccable design.Day-Lewis gives a mastered performance (the character Daniel Plainview rivals even Amon Goeth of "Schindler's List" in the breadth of his villainy), and Thomas Anderson delivers what will stand as one of the great films of the 2000's.


                
I have a definite issue with this film, that is this movie is not for everyone. You need to settle down to see this almost 2.5 hours movie and I can guarantee you if you have the acumen of watching and understanding and differentiating between a good movie and bad movie , this one will undoubtedly fall into the first category. I want to remember this movie also because of such a solid performance from almost everyone. Daniel Day-Lewis with his long swallowed English accent and impeccable looking like a fortune hunter in early 20th century and Paul Dano with his malicious tone and power monger preaching style for "the church of 3rd revelation" would be remembered for days to come. The story line is just rock solid for a period film based on 100 years back. This has got several pickup lines althrough also but then you need to watch it out yourself. First 10 minutes of this movie has hardly any words and that just makes the base of the film so firmly that once you get into it you will love to see what is happening next. The story of a commonplace man, struggling for getting rich, his compromises with local people's faith in God, struggling with his inner demons, mishaps and successes, dialogs, cinematography, direction everything together make this film a definite 9/10 in my personal rating.


                
Similar to the film CASTAWAY in which Tom Hanks carries the entire production, THERE WILL BE BLOOD has that same air due to the phenomenal performance by Daniel Day-Lewis ...with one big exception. Hanks was alone, so there really was no other supporting cast to compare him against while on his little island (unless you count the volleyball, 'Wilson'). Daniel Day-Lewis was surrounded by a fine cast, but he outshone everyone of them by leagues.Not surprising, Day-Lewis won every acting award in every awards ceremony in 2007 (from the Oscars on down).More of a story about greed, There Will Be Blood is also a battle of wills: one with god-fearing faith and the other without. The faithful is represented by a fire-breathing preacher named Eli Sunday (Paul Dano, LITTLE MISS SUNSHINE). Apparently an identical twin, Eli's brother Paul finds the successful oil tycoon Daniel Plainview (Daniel Day-Lewis) and offers up his family's ranch in California as a place where "oil runs on the surface of the ground." Daniel and his 'son' head onto the ranch and discover that there is, indeed, a lot of oil to be had. Making an initial promise to Eli that they'll "build a new church" for the local congregation, Daniel sets to work buying up all the surrounding property and dropping his first rig into the ground. Problems quickly arise with Eli, however, who has his own form of greed: the greed of religion. Wanting his money to build his church, Eli inserts himself into Daniel's business and the two quickly bump heads. Bad things begin happening around the new oil derrick: a well-man dies, an explosion and fire, and the sudden head injury of Daniel's son, H.W. Plainview (Dillon Freasier).The greed of Daniel Plainview knows no bounds, and the internal corruption that it causes is eked out in terrible portions. When Daniel put his son on a train and abandons him, we see that there's much more beneath the surface of this fractured man. Morality isn't something he's familiar with. Eli quickly zeroes in on this and all but forces Daniel to be baptized and saved in order to continue his successful drilling of the area. This is something that will come back and haunt both Eli and Daniel at the end of the film.Again, it is the awe-invoking performance by Day-Lewis that carries the film throughout its 158 minute length. The other actors do fine jobs, no doubt about it, but they pale in comparison to Day-Lewis' John Huston inspired performance (his voice was impeccable).This is a pretty dark film with not-just-a-few allusions that lean toward biblical text (many of the character names are taken straight from the bible, including Abel, Mary, Daniel, and Eli). The allusions go deeper than simple names, however, and watching There Will Be Blood one can't help but see them. The great part about this is that the ending doesn't wind up where you think it should. Forget redemption. You'll know how harsh Daniel Plainview's life has become when you hear him say, "I'm finished." {shiver!}
Winner of two Academy Awards for Best Actor (Daniel Day-Lewis) and Best Cinematography, "There Will Be Blood" is based upon the 1927 novel "Oil!" by Upton Sinclair and takes place in California during the early 20th century with an oil prospector making his fortune. Daniel Plainview (Day-Lewis), the aforementioned oilman, is a shrewd businessman and sees death early on as a part of life in the industry but it is only after he is challenged by a deceptive evangelist does death go from inadvertent to unmistakably discriminate.In a cacophonous mix of cutthroat business and zealous religion, a war is instigated when a young man named Paul Sunday (Dano) comes to Daniel and offers to point him in the direction of a surefire fortune in exchange for a handsome sum. Paul's hometown village of "Little Boston" is a figurative gold mine, the family farm and the hundreds of miles surrounding it an untapped wealth of crude oil. Under the guise of pheasant hunting enthusiasts, Daniel and his son H.W. (Freasier) start investigating the property and their suspicions are quickly confirmed. Within no time, a deal is on the table but Paul's twin brother Eli (Dano), a local preacher, impedes the contract by not only demanding a generous portion of the proceeds but also the chance to expand his modest congregation. Hiding behind the faade of Christianity, he is motivated by greed, only to be unexpectedly matched by the cruelty and cunning of Daniel.The film is more than deserved of both of its Oscars, namely Day-Lewis's riveting performance as Daniel Plainview, a man who is torn between the love for his son and his love for self-affluence (or so one thinks). The 52-year old Oscar winner's performance is matched by that of his 24-year old co-star Paul Dano as Eli Sunday. Though he was cast as both of the Sunday brothers, it is as the sanctimonious Eli that Dano makes a pointed connection with the audience. He is the character whom viewers love to hate, using religion to veil his egoism and his struggle for power, so much so that he aids in lending sympathy to Daniel, a man whose motivations are equally insatiate to his own.Stunning cinematography comes courtesy of Robert Elswit, a man who served as director of photography for P.T. Anderson's much-discussed '99 film "Magnolia". Filmed in greater part in Marfa, Texas (neighboring with the cast and crew of "No Country For Old Men"), Elswit recreates and highlights the best of old California's sweeping vistas, its rustic mountain ranges, rolling hills and dry desert-like tundra the picture-perfect backdrop.Paul Thomas Anderson has a short but unique body of work and this film has created the official apex of his career. It is also a sign that there will be many more interesting projects to come from this 38-year old writer/director/producer. Dusting off the ashes ten years after the outrageous cult favorite "Boogie Nights", "There Will Be Blood" is a definitive sign that this director has matured.Out of a total of 10 stars, I give it a 9. I can only hope it will parallel to Joel and Ethan Cohen's magnum opus "No Country For Old Men".


                
P.T. Anderson's film is the saga of the making and destruction of the enterprising Daniel Plainview (Day-Lewis), with crucial bits left out for us to guess. Starting out as a lone prospector, he expands his small fortune by drilling oil, and, for some reason, he adopts the infant son of a fellow oil-driller (a partner it seems) who is killed on the job. Rather than suspect (as one of the other posters here does) that Plainview takes on the kid to trick prospective clients with a pretty face, I believe that his love for the boy is quite genuine, the sole redeeming feature <U+0096> apart from his obvious head for business <U+0096> in the man. His pride, however, grows into downright hatred for other people. We are never told directly why or how, since dialog is pretty scarce and what there is, is hardly to be taken on face value. I think Plainview just plainly hates and fears to be made a fool of and, paranoid as he is, he tends to think that happens more frequently than is actually the case. As I see it, Plainview's love for his adopted son, H.W. <U+0096> brilliantly played by young Taylor (I can't tell from the IMDb cast list which Taylor plays the boy aged ten, but he is certainly up there with Jack Rovello <U+0096> young Ed Harris in "The Hours" <U+0096> and the boy in "The Bicycle Thief", which is to say, top notch child performance) <U+0096> remains constant throughout. He is accused by the phony evangelist Eli of abandoning his son, but as we are given no specific reason, I prefer to think that he sends the boy off to a home for deaf children and also to keep him out of harm's way after his accident at the oil well. We gradually witness Plainview's mental downfall, first when he threatens to cut the throat of a business man who peacefully proposes to buy his oilfields, later when he actually kills Henry <U+0096> the man who made him believe he was his half-brother - and finally in the humiliation and killing of Eli. Although Eli does not inspire much sympathy, he is killed when he is at his most pitiable in what is indeed a gruesome scene. The murder, however, occurs after Plainview's break with his son, when he is emotionally exposed <U+0096> this being offered as an explanation of Plainview's enigmatic mind, rather than a defense.TWBB is a wonderful slow-moving film with a sort of 70s feel to it (I was time and again reminded of Jan Troell's "Utvandrarne" from 1971).
