When I wrote this review I was feeling like I myself am there "In the fifth dimension beyond that which is known to man."To say that the Serling's show is good — it's to say nothing. In the 60's, when television was not yet a part of the everyday life of humanity, as it is now, many were stunned by approach to thing, what seems to be pure entertainment for the evening at a bottle of beer. That's how the things was at first. But Rod Serling would not be Rod Serling, if he had been so simple, naive and vulgar. By itself, the TV series "The Twilight Zone" — it is something, that hardly anyone is still able to repeat. And although it was already almost nearly 56 years since had been shown a pilot series of this intellectual sight (which is, unlike most modern shows, really valued intelligence of its audience) which turned an idea of <U+200B><U+200B>how to do a good and quality television work — I still never saw anything like that. There were many sequels, reimaginings, imitations and so on, but it was not even close to original. "The Twilight Zone" — the one and only thing in it's genre (unless, of course, you will be able to define it). Now I would like to say about the actual show itself.Each series is a little history on the theme "You are about to enter another dimension." No matter what the time is there. It may be past, present or future. Perhaps it is our planet, but it may be completely different, it may be even a parallel world — and everything is going in this vein. And, of course, the main characters and the characters of the series — the actual people. In a relatively short history "The Twilight Zone" has managed to light up a huge number of stars of the first magnitude (for many people involved in the project it was the first success, which led to further career). Telly Savalas, William Shatner, Burgess Meredith, Dennis Hopper, Jonathan Winters, Peter Falk — you can't count them all. Talk about drama and acting component may be a long time but I will confine myself a couple of words — they are gorgeous. Each new series — a look into the depths of yourself, it is a casual but creative self-analysis. And in our time it's not typical for all television programs, and (most important thing in my opinion) — an attempt to show the people in those circumstances, and those roles, in which person may have never been and never will be. The creators wanted to give us something, that we usually avoid — awareness of who could we were, perhaps not specific people, but rather specific types of people, in quite ordinary situations, but clearly not in the everyday surroundings. Show is asking questions like "Who are we in this (and, possibly, in the other) world?", "What is evil and what is good?" and much more of familiar and eternal questions, but not in familiar way.People always believe what they were taught to believe since childhood. And if you seem for a moment that you see something unexplainable perhaps it is your imagination and perhaps your journey on the "Twilight Zone" is not over "If you need a drug to become a good writer, then you're not a good writer."© Rodman Edward Serling


                
You are traveling through another dimension, a dimension not only of sight and sound but of mind. A journey into a wondrous land of imagination. Your next stop, the Twilight Zone! Rod Sterling's 1959 to 1964 Twilight Zone was just awesome. For a longtime fan such as myself, I love the mixture of self-contained drama, psychological thriller, fantasy, science fiction, suspense, or horror, often concluding with a macabre or unexpected twist. Shows back then, rarely had adult drama themes such as racism, government, war, society and human nature. Without Rod Sterling's influence on television's writing, many of the shows we love today wouldn't have been made. Each episode was different than the rest, so it was like watching a free short new movie every week. The only things that mostly stay the same were the amazing creepy theme song and opening video of empty space with random things moving around. The first season had Bernard Herrmann's original opening theme music lasted throughout it. Then its follows closer to the song that most people know of today by Marius Constant's more jarring and dissonant new guitar-and-bongo theme. Most of the episode would have an opening monologue about what is about to be view by creator and narrator Rod Sterling. Throughout the years during its run, the show had some of the greatest actors to ever guest-stars. Names such as William Shatner, James Coburn, Burgess Meredith, Robert Duvall, and others. Most of the episode were pretty good, but there were some really bad episodes. I wouldn't say, the pilot pitch episode "The Time Element" about a time travel adventure with a man who travels back to Honolulu in 1941 and unsuccessfully tries to warn everyone about the impending attack on Pearl Harbor was that great in my opinion. This episode was used to pitch the show. It was great, but nobody saw it beside producers until, much, much later due to network standards in 1957. So instead, most people saw 'Where is Everybody?" episode, a few years later, when it was the first aired on CBS. It was about a man with no memory of who he is finds himself in a strange empty town. It was a pretty good episode. Even as the show proved popular to television's critics, it struggled to find a receptive audience of television viewers. It wasn't until Season 2, where fans grew more and more. After 5 season, Twilight Zone was canceled after all, it was too far over budget and that the ratings weren't good enough. It left behind some of the best episodes ever written. My favorites are The Lonely (Season 1, Episode 7, 1959) Cory is punish and left on a bare planet left to fight an enemy that only one person fights. Cory love Alicia the robot. The Masks (Season 5, Episode 145, 1964) If u want the money, you have to wear the mask. 'Time Enough at Last' (Season 1, Episode 8, 1959) He need to read a book, and it's not fair! It's not fair! I had all the time of the world. The Monsters are due to Maple Street (Season 1, Episode 22: 1960) Paranoia and panic will be the easiest way to conquer people, allow them to destroy themselves. Obsolete Man (Season 2, Episode 65, 1961) A man fight against a totalitarian state, just because he is a librarian. Eye of the Beholder (Season 2, Episode 42, 1961) like the old saying says, beauty is in the eye of the beholder. The best episode ever on Twilight Zone for me is Walking Distance (Season 1, Episode 5: 1959) Man walks back into his child. Check those episodes first. There are some two revivals, one in 1985, and the other in 2002. I would say if you can't find this 1958 series, watch the 1985 version. As the 2002 version has mostly remakes of the 1958 series and not a lot original material. Overall, a great show worth buying every season.
The only show better than this is Mystery Science Theater 3000, but that is different. MST3K made you laugh, and it's humor was based on bad films. This, however, makes you scared (maybe) and its quality is based on twists, and story. No show has emulated it... successfully.My favorite episode that I have seen the whole thing of (there are many I haven't seen, remember) is the one with the stopwatch that takes its name literally. That makes you think what power can do to people, and how you have to pay. My favorite that I haven't seen the whole thing of is the one with the genie. All I've seen is the ending, (spoiler for that episode) but the fact that anyone would BECOME a genie is cool. (spoiler over) And the greatest I haven't seen (I've read the script somewhere) is "The Monsters Are Due On Maple Street." That makes you think about humanity's flaws... but that's just me.If I had that genie, I would have Rod Serling come back and make more episodes!
Forget Star Trek and those other space exploration stories. The Twilight Zone is introspective and deep.


                
One of the best series ever, and one of the best horror stories (though it's not too scary). Very good scenes with special effects. Highly recommend.


                
It changed the face of television forever,and gave a start to young directors and actors.


                
Unfortunately, I did not get a chance to find all the seasons of this series that is becoming very rare. 
Although it was created 60 years ago, I still could catch the metaphores of everyday life. I was also a pleasure to find some of the actors that played in series of my childhood (like in bewitched) in completely different roles. 
I would like to tell the Young generations to ignore the fact that it is in black and White and to jump on this show that did not get older.


                
Highly recommend this. It allows one to enter a 5th dimension through various individual stories. Prepare your mind before watching an episode, as it will make you reflect for hours.
So much is said by many others about the original Zone. I'll organize its components that I feel should and do attract viewers old and new, to this day, through the October 2009 golden anniversary of its premiere, and with hope for many, many generations to come<U+0085>The Actors. Five seasons' worth, and not one recurring character. Television was a decade old, give or take, and the players were likely trained on stage, radio, the silver screen, or all the foregoing. If they weren't already stars they were proved character actors or soon on their way to stardom. And even the working actors in the bit parts doubtless remain proud to be remembered for having entered the Zone.The Camera-work. In glorious black-and-white, at times very much noir, with most FX "practical" and in-camera, and in particular the work of one George T. Clemens, reportedly a descendant of Mark Twain.The Direction. One of the very few times I don't struggle with its consistently turning the material into something very, very different. Just one of many examples: "The Eye of the Beholder" is at heart a very simple story, but don't just view it, STUDY it<U+0085>The Music. And I don't mean only Marius Constant's instantly recognizable theme. Bernard Herrmann. Franz Waxman. Jerry Goldsmith. Van Cleave. Fred Steiner. Enough said.The Format. Try pitching and producing an anthology series on today's prime-time commercial 'tube. Just try. And bear in mind Rod Serling was the first WRITER to essentially have his own television show.The Writing. With 156 episodes to choose from I simply cannot generate a list of the best or even borderline favorites without feeling I've left off too many that I shouldn't. It's easier to generate a list of episodes that aren't quite as memorable, but that would be even less helpful. How can this be?First, it's sufficient challenge to write a coherent drama that fits inside 30 or fewer minutes, let alone one that sustains interest and resonates long afterward. Small wonder some episodes were adapted from radio; less wonder some were later adapted FOR radio. I recommend the "Definitive Collection" DVDs for among other things showing how each episode, whether a half-hour or (fourth season) hour long, paces itself with about one-half to one-third of today's commercial interruptions. In the true sense of the word each is a "teleplay."Foremost, even though Mister Serling and his cadre of fellow writers often had Things To Say, such were said in a manner that both appealed and left something to the viewer's imagination. That's my personal theory as to why a great many episodes, whether good or bad, dated or didactic, or simply leaving one royally indifferent, are remembered nonetheless. The viewer with a highly developed or overactive imagination to begin with quite quickly and thoroughly gets "hooked and cooked." The writers and all the other participants HAD to have recognized this.A Postscript: I met Mister Serling on his college lecture circuit in the fall of 1972. Night Gallery likely had wrapped by then, and he had a lot to say about the medium in his lecture, some of it not the least flattering. As soon as his lecture ended he spent at least twice as much time answering questions from a queue that stretched the length of the lecture hall and into the hallway. Later standing with friends in another hallway I overheard him marveling aloud and enthusiastically to the faculty moderator about the audience.If he had doubted his effectiveness as a host, given the chance to stand in that queue I'd have publicly thanked him for his 15-or-so seconds each week in which he previewed the next broadcast ("And Now, Mister Rod Serling"), for that simple act effectively helped pull me out of hiding after having just watched the present broadcast. The measure of the man was that it was all so obviously as much entertainment to him as it was to us.


                
Every single episode of this series travel us, to a different adventure, which everybody can enjoy. Not only, the episodes are very unique for its time but also deliver a strong message. Sometimes it teaches you strong values for life, other times it reveals an irony or delivers salvation to the main character. The characters all are smartly developed and the script is even better. The acting is extremely wonderful and honestly there are very few episodes which i didn't fully enjoy. I am not surprised that Rob Sterling , the creator of the series was voted the most iconic sci-fi author. Although the series, is quite old it is still a thrilling experience which i recommend definitely.


                
Some people never take old sayings to heart until it's too late. While in the midst of watching the fourth season of "The Twilight Zone," the proverb "If it ain't broke, don't fix it" came to mind. The perfect 30- minute format of the show was stretched to an hour to fill in the time another show left open. "Stretched" is exactly how this season of the classic television show feels.Don't get me wrong. "The Twilight Zone's" fourth season is still quality television. The stories are entertaining and still have the great twists audiences expect from the show. The extended running time just leaves viewers with a sense that a bit of fluff had to be added to each episode. Rod Serling said it best when asked about the extended time slot."Ours is the perfect half-hour show... If we went to an hour, we'd have to fleshen our stories, soap opera style. Viewers could watch fifteen minutes without knowing whether they were in a 'Twilight Zone' or 'Desilu Playhouse,'" Serling stated about the change.Every episode features a guest star that either went on to bigger and better things in Hollywood or were already established actors. There are appearances by Burt Reynolds, Dennis Hopper, Robert Duvall, Bill Bixby, and James Doohan to name a few.Although Rod Serling handles the bulk of the scripts for the different episodes, other highly regarded writers contributed their talents. Richard Matheson ("I Am Legend," "What Dreams May Come") and Charles Beaumont ("The Masque of the Red Death," "The Intruder") both returned and filled in the gaps left by Serling. Earl Hamner, Jr. ("The Waltons," "Falcon Crest") and Reginald Rose ("Twelve Angry Men") also came on board to take over writing duties when Beaumont left the show because of a sickness.
The Twilight Zone was created by Rod Serling.Serling(who also provides the narration for the episodes and introduces them)brings us a series which is both creepy and intelligent.There's no spoon feeding of plots here,we are forced to use our brains to try and comprehend what we are seeing.Serling also wrote many of the episodes along with Charles Beaumont and Richard Matheson.The series iconic theme tune is known the world over, even those who have never seen a single episode of the series will recognise it.Running from 1959 to 1964 The Twilight Zone told the tales of mostly ordinary people who are thrown headfirst into bizarre and frightening situations far beyond their control. Each episode ends with an ironic(and often unsettling)twist that'll leave you open mouthed in shock.The series had some very famous actors from film and TV as guest stars including Burgess Meredith, Robert Cummings,Jack Klugman,Agnes Moorehead,Martin Balsam, Cliff Roberston, Anne Francis, William Shatner,Simon Oakland,Dick York, Robert Duvall, Telly Savalas, Dennis Hopper and Martin Landau.The series writers dealt with subject matter that others would never even have dreamt about writing.There are gems to be had in all five seasons especially the many acknowledged classic episodes including Nightmare At 20,000 Feet ,The Monsters Are Due On Maple Street, Time Enough At Last,Perchance To Dream etc.There are many hidden gems too though including The Hitch-hiker,The Howling Man, The Passerby,The Oddysey Of Flight 33 and the truly disturbing Deaths-Head Revisited.Chilling,creepy and thought provoking The Twilight Zone is that rare thing,a TV series that is as fresh and relevant now as it was upon it's release in 1959. The series deals with topics including paranoia,mass hysteria,racism, mistrust of strangers and being out of control of ones own life and destiny.
To get to know this episode... It is about an old man with a strong relationship with his dog leave the house at night for "coon hunting". He lives in a house in the forest with his dog and wife. His wife warns him before leaving, because she has a bad feeling that something bad might happen. He doesn't mind her, and leaves. After wards, his dog chases a raccoon into a boggy lake. The man follows the dog right in the lake. They don't come up until morning, the man and the dog walk home and find 2 men burying a crate onto the old man's land. He gets angered at them, yet they cant hear him. After a while of no attention, he soon finds that he and his dog is dead, so they are taken off by a man who claims to be St. Peters. He wants to take the man, but not his dog. The dog is angry at the man claimed to be St. Peters, the man refuses and takes a walk on what is call Eternity Road. He leaves with the dog and finds an Angel on they way. They soon find out that the man claimed to be St. Peters was a demon, leading him to Hell. The Angel helps them and leads them the way to Heaven. As the story goes, once the dog smells that brimstone, you should be going. Most likely you wont make it to Heaven, therefor "Some People Aren't so Lucky...".
