The acting is very nice but the script is shallow, over the top and pointless when you look at it from beginning to the end as a whole.The so-called "true story" gimmick rescues it by keeping it attached to a possible reality.Actually in some way that is synonymous to cheating.Massive plot holes and side stories leading nowhere shows it was made for just TV for a predesignated duration.After all unreasonable escalation of the tension and curiosity, plot concludes with a disappointing ending.Another overrated series at least....


                
After seeing the brilliant Season 1 and 2, Season 3 was nothing but a disgrace. A shameful insult of viewers' rationality and patience. Like a child with no manners shitting everywhere, and thinking that because we love it so much we will tolerate anything it does. I literally have to force myself to finish it, only holding on to the hope that it will live up to its name, but it didn't.


                
In the era of remakes it was Fargo's turn to become a TV show. Aiming at audience that appreciates their work and that was presumably too young to witness the movie in the ninety nineties, the Coen brothers embarked on another ego trip. This time they were executive producers, but even so their signature is all over the show.The writing is in line with everything the Coen bothers have done. A bunch of wannabe weirdos, deadbeats and idiots are in a story that won't lead us anywhere. Most of them are in their thoughts, barely communicating with each other. The amazing thing is that eventually a lot of people might consider this as the ultimate entertainment.I'm not sure whether i've seen too many movies and TV shows or i'm simply too old to be the target audience, yet i wasn't able to connect with Fargo. It could be that i take movie watching too seriously and cherish the time i invest into it, but Fargo was wasting my time. And it remained unclear whether this should be a black comedy, a crime drama or both.


                
I made the mistake of buying the series on Blu-ray. Jeez! It apes pretty much every Coen Bros movie, from Blood Simple to No Country for Old Men- and steals numerous beats from Fargo the movie- which I love dearly. I would have bought into echoed beats from the movie, mind you, but many of them are merely lifted- with no organic purpose to the story at hand. Then there's the bad guy- Billy Bob Thornton. Loved Billy Bob in numerous roles- particularly The Man Who Wasn't There. Love that movie! But here...jeez again! No! And I was down for an amazing series- hence jumping the gun and buyin' the damn thing. It's impossible to connect to this story - episode after episode; the bad guy appears to be a step ahead of everyone, and shows no concern for any flippin' thing. Why's he doing stuff anyway? I still don't know, nor do I care. Most annoying character- Martin Freeman as Lester Nygaard. Most appealing character, Bob Odenkirk. Characters that I feel utter indifference toward- everyone else. Anyhoo- yea, I hated it. Long live Fargo the movie.


                
The show is slow and boring. Things/incidents occurred are quite stupid and don't make sense. But I still liked the show because I thought that's what make it special/unique for a true story.Now I'm in the middle of Season 3 and found out that the show is based on nothing of a true story. It's all made up. That makes it garbage for me, especially with that fact that the message of true story appears on every single episode of all 3 seasons. It's become a BIG FAT LIE to me then. I wanted to give 8, but 2 it is then.


                
Season one and two were great!However, I stopped watching season 3 after the 4th episode.What a disappointment...
No doubt there will be plot somewhere and probably it'll be clearer in later episodes. However,I got so bored - I gave up on it. Wonder what makers had in mind whilst creating this meaningless stuff.Hopefully Season 4 wil be better.


                
I was never a huge fan of the original movie (I find the Coen brother's movies overly smarmy), but it's a humanistic masterpiece compared to this nihilistic trash disguised as a TV series. Most of it is ridiculously, pointlessly violent, almost on a Game of Thrones territory, where it seems that people get killed indiscriminately just to "sex up" the plot. Everyone on the show is a shallow, nihilistic piece of trash who has no soul whatsoever. There was an odd charm to the movie that is nowhere to be found in this TV show. The Coens had a flair for funny, deadpan dialogue (despite its smarminess) in the original movie, and the dialogue in the show is just plain nasty and ugly. It's nowhere as clever as it thinks it is. Here it's a bunch of characters acting all heartless and macho without any intelligence or comedy. Just pointless death after pointless death. Soon, they'll be nobody in Fargo because the writers will have killed everyone off.And anyone claiming this is the greatest TV show ever made obviously hasn't seen that much TV.


                
Do not pretend to be a true a story and then make it up entirely. This might as well be American news, as it pretends to be true but is 100% BS. Entertaining... but entirely false. So the acting was good and the actors are a good selection but you guys are faking the wrong genre. It's getting harder to believe any "true stories" that come out. This series blurs the line.


                
A series of events that don't lead to a specific conclusion, there are many questions that are left without an answer, no grand finale, with a boring plot. At least the end should be shocking and great but it was really disappointing... Don't waste your time


                
I've watched series 1 and 2 - that's as far as I go with Fargo. Life is too short.
Basically the format is the same in : what might have been a passable 1 and a half to 2 hour movie is padded out mercilessly and expanded into as series of 10 episodes. It's like watching paint dry. Can I have my life back please? 
There is no point to any of it that I can fathom. The attempts at profundity come across as pretentious and trite. The stories are frankly just daft. And I can't believe the ratings are so high, that is really depressing.


                
