I enjoyed the first two series but this third series was a shambles. I feel that the creators literally lost the plot before shooting and decided to have fun with the public and see how far they could push the whole Fargo shtick while making it up as they went along . Let's super-size it with our usual slow gratuitous camera shots and add annoying wrist-slashing music...and while doing that, lets detour from the plot every few episodes and have nothing to do with relevance. The public will think they're so hip for hanging in there and following the dichotomy of madness, they'll think they are so smart...that they just "get it"What gets me is how contrived all these unnecessary elements really are. They where placed into every episode just to be different but at the same time a lot of it went nowhere and just served to pad the series out to get the allotted episode count made. It was never about the story, it was never driven by the story...it was driven by writers contriving to overindulge themselves in their own bubble of borrowed egocentric rantings. The kind of people whose whole creative mindset is derived from other peoples work on film before them, rather than something they read, imagined or experienced themselves. Do we need another stereotypical English bad guy with rotten teeth that we have to keep zooming in on? He doesn't have conversations with other characters, his teeth tell convoluted stories instead....that'll kill some time. Let's have a relentless ruthless Russian guy for a change....oh and don't forget his ruthless Asian side-kick who doesn't talk...how original. Let's have an episode detour in 1950s Hollywood that doesn't have anything to do with the plot. Let's watch two people shoot each other and then have the camera pan over them for a year and a day and end it with a cliché bullet hole dead centre in the forehead. What a surprise!Let's spend two episodes chasing someone who isn't a threat to your organisation, in fact they're out of the picture on their way to prison...but lets break them out of the prison bus and chase them all over the winter landscape. Let's queue-up some drawn out Fargo-style hacking, stabbing and shooting and then have them stumble into a quiet bowling alley in the middle of nowhere.In the bowling alley you'll find an old Jewish guy who seems to know everyone on the planet and likes to tell them each a story of a Soviet pogrom against his people 100 years ago. He then offers you car keys that are under the mat to escape the bad guys. Do yourself a favour and take the keys and drive away. The whole series was utterly annoying and meaningless.
Like many of the reviewers I thoroughly enjoyed the first two series and was anticipating another epic when season three came out.What a let down! I struggled through to the bitter end, just to see what the result would be. That, in itself, was a fiasco. It is still unclear to me what the final outcome was.Quite frankly I was bored after the second episode and only continued because of the "I've started so I'll finish" mentality that I have when it comes to books and TV series!It is a shame because the cast was good, the scenery was good; it's a pity that the script didn't allow the cast to do it justice.Quite frankly I do not understand how this series received so many high scores from reviewers. Maybe their TVs were receiving signals from a parallel universe, one in which the story-line, the acting and the script is always perfect.


                
I deeply regret having watched the entire season of this series. It seemed promising at first: The pilot was rather good and the next few episodes were as well- they did a great job at building up tension and after some point I just really (!) wanted to know what would happen next. But that's basically the only thing Fargo did right. After some episodes, it quickly becomes evident, that this series is completely empty at its core: From the beginning the plot doesn't make all that much sense and the longer it continues the more arbitrary and implausible it get's, it's like you can palpably feel the screenwriters making up arbitrary sh*t as they go along. While the overarching narrative in the end turns out to be a more or less protracted sequence of random events, single scenes were always completely predictable. In fact I have rarely seen such lazy, transparent writing in TV-series (I don't watch all that many, though). To clarify what I mean, take for example the villain: I'm not going to talk about anything specific he does here, but let's just say, that after the first episodes showed you how he goes about his evil business, you know for certain that this character will succeed at everything he does. He's practically set up as a god- he can do whatever he wants and will get away with it. And while he is the most entertaining character in the series this game of him doing something outlandishly brutal without facing any consequences get's shallow and predictable pretty fast. It's like watching a dumbed- down 10 hour version of No Country for Old Men without the excellent cinematography. Lester, another important character, is completely the opposite: Whenever he does something, we suspect that he will screw up. And the series teases us with this: So there are dozens of lengthy scenes were we see Lester sneaking around or the like, trying to bring us to the edge of our seat at the prospect that he'll maybe get caught. It worked the first few times- but it get's repeated all of the time (!) throughout the series and I found myself skipping a few seconds now and then, because I knew nothing would happen to Lester yet, but that the director just wanted to create tension by repeating the same aforementioned worn out formula. I talked about the story being essentially a sequence of random events and briefly want to get back to that: Namely that he major catalyst of everything that is happening in Fargo is basically the utter stupidity of various characters in the series. Crimes simply don't get solved, because police are too stupid and lazy. We just have to accept that. Characters put their lives on the line because they repeatedly act insanely stupid. And we also just have to accept that. You can just see the invisible strings attached to everything that happens in this series- everything is obviously artificial and could never occur like this. And just to be clear- I don't inherently have problems with "unrealistic" events in films and TV-series (if that were so, I couldn't watch any) but one has to draw a line somewhere. Here it's like the action scenes in many blockbuster-movies: You see the protagonist whirling around, beating up dozens of bad guys simultaneously, all the while defying the laws of physics and maybe dropping a few cool one-liners. Quickly you'll realize: "Nothing will happen to this guy, because the screenplay says so." That's kind of the feeling I had watching Fargo. People got away with things they couldn't possibly get away with all the time; people acted like no real person would ever act. What happened didn't happen for any comprehensible reason or because it seemed logical- what happened in one episode did so just to provide a segue into the next. So even though I really watched all 10 episodes I got nothing from that except many cheap thrills peppered throughout the giant plot- hole this entire series is. Fargo is as vacuous as it gets, I really wasted my time on this one- hope you don't waste yours.


                
I've been looking for a TV series to binge on (since I've finished everything else, having withdrawals!) Saw all the excellent reviews about Fargo, thought I'd give it a shot. Feeling very disappointed... I'm on Episode 5 season 1, and finding it hard to push myself to finish the first season. Overall, I find it on the boring side, the stories are NOT funny to me (and I wonder if it's just funny to people from the Midwest? who get Midwestern humor? I don't know) But I'm finding the stories and humor and characters annoying. Officer Molly, supposedly one of the likable characters, is one of the most annoying to me. With no one to like or root for, this show is overall just extremely annoying, and I do not understand why people like it so much? (unless you identify with the Minnesota culture & humor and characters). I will keep watching but right now, I am not enjoying it! I'll give it a few more episodes.....


                
The opening statement is a lie. Most of the events in the show are fictional and have no factual basis whatsoever.It's a shame that a media production claiming everything "has been told exactly as it occurred" contains so few elements of truth.The 1996 movie with the same name started with the same lie and became a success. However in today's internet era it has been much easier for people to find the truth. The producer need to be reminded of that FACT. Overall this show is of quite good quality and more enjoyable than most other shows. I would have given it a 8 out of 10 had not been for the deceptive beginning message.


                
For the first nine episodes this was first rate. Thornton was Thornton which is always a treat. There were a few loose ends. Example - What was the job Malvo was on at the beginning of the first episode. There are many more of these flaws. Martin Freeman was lame perhaps because I remember him from the British series Hardware where he was really really lame. Colin Hanks was barely average. Allison Tolman rated up there with Thornton. She was excellent. The ending in the last episode was junk. The mailman(Hanks)shoots an unarmed man multiple times and is then hailed a hero. Crap. Yes the unarmed man was scum but come on the mailman's deputy sheriff wife was so intent on upholding the law why would she accept this obvious case of cold blooded murder by her husband. It is really too bad because it ruins the entire series.
Season one was good it really didn't present itself as a comedy the comedy was subtle then you get to season 2 the story line is great a drug dealing family and a hostile takeover blah blah but the characters are boring and stupid now it is definitely a comedy. the dialogue in season two is full of 'okay then' and weird sounding characters who are flat there is no character development whatsoever. season 3 also had a great story line but man i just kept watching just for the sakef watching but it wasn't engaging there was a great cast but noah filled it up with ókay then'.


                
The Show was at The beginning Slow and i thougut Maybe it needs More Time to get into it but After Episode 5 I couldn't force Myself anymore to Watch this stupid Show! So overrated.


                
Halfway through season 1. Can't take how obnoxious Lester and Molly are. Didn't know it was OK to question a murder suspect without reading their rights and while barely conscious in an ambulance. This is supposed to be good detective work? She's nothing like the character in the movie.


                
