I so wanted to like Fargo. I had such high expectations of a venture co- sponsored by the Coen brothers, Billy Bob Thornton and Martin Freeman and supposedly based on a great movie. And yet I was disappointed. Admittedly, it isn't a total disaster, unlike some police series which are bad from the word GO (Justified jumps to mind immediately). Most of the acting is OK, though a bit on the heavy side, especially Billy Bob Thornton who is TOO evil to be credible, who smiles too much in such a malevolent manner as to be a caricature of evil, in short – not too credible (oh for Sir Anthony as a really frightening monster as HL). Martin Freeman grows into the role as does Allison Tollman while Colin Hanks is just another pretty face. As for the plot, It doesn't remind one so much of the movie Fargo as it does of High Noon. The Lonesome hero(ine), aided by a timid sidekick, surrounded by inept policemen (are they all so daft up North?) and clownish FBI agents battling alone against Evil. Molly Solverson is no Will Kane, but the setting is suspiciously similar and the ending is quite obvious from a long way out. On the plus side, the photography is gorgeous, the locations are magnificent (as if it matters if it was shot in North Dakota, Minnesota or Canada) and the array of weaponry is impressive. But what really irritates me is the lack of books. "Books?" you would ask, "What the heck?". Well, quite a few interiors are presented and in NONE of them are there books or bookshelves present. Not even ONE book lying on a coffee table, on a desk, on a night table. Only the omnipresent TV set which is always on, always drawing attention to itself. Is that America, home of the best universities in the world and of some of the best publishing houses or is it typical only of the hicks up North? Or, does Mr. Hawley have issues with books?


                
great story, good cast, writing stinks to high heaven. they are dragging each episode out so slowly , I could go out for a sandwich come back and not have missed much.come on guys, lets speed it up, your losing a good story by slow motion writing.why would a boob be kidnapped , break loose from his captors and then run through the woods. come on, the captors car was sitting right there.the 2 dopey police chefs question the unsub as though they were trying to get a job at Disney world.
Halfway through the first season of Fargo, I was hooked, I thought it was acted brilliantly in many regards, and overall I felt it was pretty deserving of its gaudy nine-star rating... But sometime shorty after that my feelings towards the show began to change... The violence grows more gratuitous and graphic with each passing episode.The real problem I have with Fargo more than anything else is that it claims "This is a true story. The events depicted in this film took place in Minnesota in 2006. At the request of the survivors, the names have been changed. Out of respect for the dead, the rest has been told exactly as it occurred." The movie Fargo made the same claim, and it was also a complete work of fiction.I don't like being lied to! I don't like it when people fake the truth. Truth really is stranger than fiction, so if the Cohen brothers want to make a compelling series that's actually based on real life murders, then there's no shortage of bizarre tales that are also true... But if you want to make a work of complete fiction (like Fargo), then that's cool too.. But the Cohen brothers FAIL in both respects by claiming something is true when it isn't, and then proceeding to make the show evolve into something so unrealistic that anybody with half a brain would know that there's no freaking way this was based on a true story.Also notice the feminist propaganda at work... The woman deputy in the show is so smart, but all the male officers are depicted as either being completely incompetent, or they're total wusses... Another small propaganda angle I noticed was that on multiple occasions police officers searched suspects homes without a warrant. Now warrantless searches are a part of real life for all of us since the Patriot Act, but Hollywood still needs to do their part to normalize the death of individual liberty in America.


                
SPOILER ALERT* Just a little. Why DOA you ask? A show about murder (or any television show for that matter) has to start off with a bang. Either literally or figuratively. S2:E1 of Fargo starts off with a barrage of information- of which only a few facts can be gleaned (sorry I don't speak Minnesotan)- family business, deals being made, brothers in hierarchy (natural tension) and finally, the patriarch dying. (All in two minutes) While this does set the scene for the rest of the season, do I care? No. The action happened so fast, it was comedic (and not in a good, dark Coen bros way.) Cold murder in otherwise unsuspecting places? Classic "Fargo." Dark humor? Classic Coen Brothers. While the first ep tries to stay true to that vein, the believability falls flat. Specifically, in the scene where a cherub Kristen Dunst (playing Peggy Blomquist- great name, invoking mundaneness) hides a man she hit by her car, and then pleads with her husband not to investigate, one wonders, wouldn't she be scared of a man bumping around her garage? When he does investigate and ends up killing the man, he goes for the man's gut and stabs him with a garden tool. Why wouldn't he just knock him out? And if you're thinking, "shit happens," then why wouldn't he be in shock? While I am a Jesse Plemons fan (Breaking Bad), he was just delivering his lines. His character, Ed Blomquist, merely concerns himself with his wife, Peggy. Not believable. Writing: Let's look at the writer to get to the bottom of this. Noah Hawley: Wrote all ten episode of Season 1. So what's the problem, then? (Can you tell I enjoyed Season 1?) Is there a room full of ghost writers? If so I suggest Hawley comes back to work. Directing: While I hate to attack the director, (I am one) I can see no other source of why it's bad. Michael Uppendahl and Randall Einhorn co-directed. Makes sense for Uppendahl- he directed American Horror Story (very campy) and Glee (definition of Camp). He did direct Mad Men though, and will I have heard good things, I haven't seen it. Einhorn on the other hand, has directed primarily comedies (Nurse Jackie, The Office, Wilfred, It's Always Sunny). Cinematography: Good. Visually beautiful, compositionally and in color and light. Yet, if the story is lacking, what is cinematography going to do? Sure, I can have this on mute and have it running for a dinner party for conversation starter, the equivalent of a coffee table book. Shots that pose problems: The split screen- technically used to show the viewer two pieces of information at once, it can be utilized to do amazing things for story and perception, considering this technique interrupts the eye's natural "stream of reality" with one screen. (Read a great list of top ten uses of split-screen in films.) Instead this episode shows Peggy Blomquist doing her makeup nervously, as a flashback, in contemplation for what she has done. The problem? It's boring. The shot where we see Kieran Culkin (Yes, his brother) playing Rye Gerhardt from a window outside the diner, nice, compositionally. Does it further the story? Does the fact that he appears in the last window, suggest he is a tad askew in personality, suggesting that it makes sense he just shot three people when he didn't need to? Could be. Shot to watch for in ep1: The slow motion sequence of the kitchen diner door swinging, while Gerhardt kills two people in seemingly one second, is beautiful. It exemplifies violence and how quick a situation can turn sour. Final Verdict: If you came for the stars, stay. (I might stay for Jean Smart- she barely got any lines this ep, and was hilarious in Designing Women) If you came for the story, hope that it well get better. If you value your time, leave, at least until someone else blogs that it did get better.
Great actors, ok music, and a good idea. Sorry to say, season one could be just one hell of a two hour movie, instead they´ve smudged it out over ten episodes that I regret even watching. Drop this and watch the original movie. It´s genius.
It´s supposed to portray real people, talking about mundane stuff, and sometimes they have like, these, you know, philosophical moments, kind of.
It does not work, to say the least. The characters are weak, and the police and FBI officers are so stupid, it´s only painful.
The first few episodes are funny, until we have more of the same, and the same again.


                
