This is a great example of a TV show that cannot sustain it's quality after a couple of series. The first couple look great with some good acting and strong story lines but the third series falls apart.All the actors do a great job, especially Ewan McGregor as 2 parts, but the series 3 story is too slow, too simplistic and the bad guy is given too much time to waffle on with tales that don't enhance the story - they just bog it down more.The setting in the snow are superb, you can really feel the chill, and there are some great set pieces but ultimately the series seems to have been given different writers by the third series.To summarise, watch the first 2 series - they actually come to an ending, but only watch the third series if you're intrigued by how the show develops. You don't miss anything by not watching the third series and the ending is another cop out with no closure. What a shame.


                
This show is such a disappointment. I really wanted to like it since I have a deep respect for the lead actors but it simply doesn't have it. After watching True Detective I sure make comparisons between the two and the bottom line is that Fargo looks simply mediocre in comparison. The writing isn't as good, the premise isn't as interesting, the pacing is questionable at best and at the end it simply doesn't make any sense. It tries too hard to be quirky to the point I felt simply baffled but not amused. At the end I watched the last two episodes just because I could while I was working not because I was interested or something. It's just meh.


                
I would have given this show a 9 or even 10/10 if it was not for season 3. Seasons 1 & 2 were so well written, acted and directed that I could not wait to see what will happen in the following episode. Unfortunately, Season 3 was exactly the opposite. The story is poorly written and the plot is loose. There is nothing captivating in season 3. As if that was not enough, the meaningless animation in episode 3 was horrible. I could not understand its relevance to the plot. I am going to watch and probably fast forward the remaining episodes just for the sake of finishing it. I heard there will not be another season; smart decision that is taken one season late.


                
Top-notch series formed by 10 episodes and it revolves around some Minnesota citizens and visitors . Every episode starts with the on screen words : "This is a true story , the events depicted in this film took place in Minnesota in 2006 . At the request of the survivors, the names have been changed. Out of respect for the dead, the rest has been told exactly as it occurred" . It deals with a drifter named Lorne Malvo (Billy Bob Thornton) arrives in small-town Minnesota and influences the population with his malice and violence , including put-upon insurance salesman Lester Nygaard (Martin Freeman) . There takes place several killings being investigated by astute cop Molly Solverson (Allison Tolman) and Gus Grimly (Colin Hanks). The chatty competent police attempts to put the pieces of the puzzle together and she is soon on the trail of the truth . Besides , appearing two hired killers (Russell Harvard , Adam Goldberg) who carry out astonishing murders . A riveting mixture of black comedy , drama , violence , gore , giggles , and some very off-kilter as well as excessive dialog , not without its dull patches . FX's Fargo is one of the best TV surprises of last year by co-opting the tone of the Coen Brothers' classic film, but still adding a unique stamp on the material . The 10-episode anthology series is putting together a terrific cast , as part of the growth of the show includes an expanded casting , this has an ace acting by Billy Bob Thornton as cold killer , Martin Freeman as botcher insurance sealer and Allison Tolman as obstinate police much more astute than her staff . Both of whom carry out excellent interpretations and imitating perfectly the flat-accented Mid-westerners . They are supported by an awesome secondary cast who give equally extraordinary performances such as Colin Hanks , Keith Carradine , Bob Odenkirk , Barry Flatman , Rachel Blanchard , Susan Park , Kate Walsh , Glenn Howerton , Tom Musgrave , among others , and special mention to Oliver Platt as a supermarket magnate . Set through the frozen tundra of Minnesota but filmed in Calgary , Strathmore , High River , Alberta , Canada . Being marvelously photographed by professional cameramen as Dana Gonzales and Matthew J. Lloyd . And under enjoyable sounds with evocative musical score , including wonderful songs by Jeff Russo . This malicious dark comedy was compellingly written by writer Noah Hawley and efficiently directed by Randall Einhorn , Adam Bernstein , Colin Bucksey , Matt Shakman and Scott Winant ; all of them confirmed that both the series and movie from the Cohen Brothers take place within the same universe . This is a nod to the way that the 1996 source movie Fargo started , also by claiming that its events were based on a true story . However, neither the movie nor the TV show are actually based on true events . This Fargo (2014) is actually the second TV show spin-off of the movie Fargo (1996). The first was in 2003 starring Edie Falco , a pilot was shot and aired but the series was not picked up. To be followed by a season 2 , it will take place around an incident in Sioux Falls, South Dakota in 1979, and focuses on a young Lou Solverson played in season one by Keith Carradine . And starred by Ted Danson, Jean Smart and Patrick Wilson have all signed on as series regulars for Season 2 of the this FX drama . As Fargo has booked some big names for its sophomore season. In addition , Jeffrey Donovan , Kirsten Dunst , Brad Garret , Kieran Culkin , Todd Mann , Cole Kitchen , Nick Offerman and Jesse Plemons are among a number of actors who have booked as recurring guest stars . The writer ¨showrunner¨ Noah Hawley mentioned that season two would be "a lot bigger" than the first season , he says that the new season will not only draw inspiration from Fargo, but also from other Coen Brothers movies such as Miller's Crossing and The Man Who Wasn't There .


                
I like this show overall. It's enjoyable. But.. The plot is pretty silly sometimes, especially because our main character isn't so smart and keeps playing into the cops hands in a sorta 'comedic' way. Which also sometimes makes this show predictable. And you have those moments that make me feel like "this couldn't happen in reality.. they cant be that stupid" or "Why couldn't they do that". While I am aware that this is a TV show and it doesn't have to be true to real life, sometimes those parts can be frustrating rather than funny. By that I mean, this show still does have good things going for it, But sometimes the humor just feels out of place and makes the story lose it's credibility and the 'thrill' of the case being solved, because it makes things feel more like a series of coincidences, rather than a well thought story.
For those of you who haven't watched the show yet, I will recommend watching only the first season of Fargo (the seasons are not related to each other). The first season was absolutely brilliant and that is the sole reason why this show has such high ratings. As for the second season of Fargo it started slow but the season ended on a high note with some weird and twisted change in plot. Season 3 was absolutely a waste of time. My season wise ratings of this show: Season 1: 10/10, Season 2: 07/10, Season 3: 5.5/10.


                
How do you judge a series? As a whole? Per episode? Per season?The first season is probably an 8 or a 9Second season is a 7 or an 8The third season is a 5.


                
The Movie Fargo was unequivocally 5 star cinema. The TV version is a derivative of that film, so it has quite a challenge to live up to. All in all, compared to the film, I would give it close to 7 stars and improving, especially with episode 6. Despite all the extra time to fill, the masks of evil portrayed are overtly simplified rather than fleshed out. Instead, the extra hours are crafted to showcase acts of violence: violence that is varyingly diabolical, cruel, collateral and/or tragic. I concede that the characters killed in graphic detail are those that are drawn as idiotic cartoon characters, while animals and "innocents" have been the spared the almost lewd blood gushing effects. However, from my viewpoint, all this violence does not intrigue but instead repulses. Fargo's "good" and lovable characters, Molly and Gus, have short quirky chats over meals and coffee. Imagining what's going on inside their heads is my favorite aspect of the series. Colin Hanks played a not wildly dissimilar character as a Dallas P.D. cop in short-lived TV comedy, "The Good Guys", 4 years ago, so he feels like an old friend. Mr Hanks is perfectly cast here, as is newcomer Allison Tolman as a heartfelt and intelligent Molly Solverson. Martin Friedman, whose central portrayal of Lester Nygaard is also excellent, despite being hard to feel much sympathy for (until episode 5 when his propensity for being a victim hovers on terminal). At the close of episode 6, Mr. Friedman has the truly brilliant understated acting moment of the series, so watch for it. Billy Bob Thornton plays Malvo (short for malevolent?) mostly in deadpan, but becomes astutely animated in a wicked bit as "The Pastor". As the most deadly of human animal species (the brilliant sociopath), Malvo seems invincible, like a human "terminator". He appears to have no urges that amount to human weakness, and I don't think he ever eats or sleeps. Maybe he's too overstimulated by his motivating talents: stalking "prey", simulating plagues, murdering people, etc. Not to mention practicing the fine arts of humiliating and terrorizing people. (Gee, what a fun guy!) Thornton's portrayal of the aloof Malvo is uncanny; Without BBT's uncommon skills, Malvo might be just another cold-blooded maniac. Despite high marks for the lead actors, the episodes I've seen have been hurt by a deluge of clownish villains and thugs,preposterous "biblical" terrors, and gratuitous violence with full-screen grisly murder detail. Very low common denominator stuff. Still, the story telling makes this show worth following, and it seems to be getting more imaginative with each episode.


                
I was never much of a BBT fan but something about his acting style blossoms when it's strung out over ten episodes of a TV show; he commands every scene he's in, you can't take your eyes off of his creepy face. His performance as Malvo is brilliant. No less capable is Martin Freeman as Lester Nygaard, who captures every sad-sack mannerism of a lowly Midwestern insurance salesman, and then some. Whenever something horrible happens, you can see the wheels turning behind his face as he tries to weasel out of it. I had a hard time figuring out which of these two characters is the more evil, since they are both unlikeable. Allison Tolman is delightful as a folksy, frustrated deputy, and Tom Hanks's son gets a role because he's Tom Hanks's son.The early promise of the excellent writing starts going off on tangents halfway through; the Oliver Platt plot line went nowhere, and I half expected BBT to just shoot his employer and drive off with the loot, it would have been easy for him to do that but he didn't. Then for no discernible reason the show jumps a year into the future. And Malvo, a mysterious superman who is everywhere and nowhere at the same time, who manages to change identities and slip through the cracks in the system, and on top of that be a total badass, makes several clumsy, stupid mistakes that are not consistent with his character. I have a hunch that the writers ran out of ideas for the last episode and called it a day. Seriously, Malvo doesn't pick up his gun the moment he hears someone in the house? He drives around town in a bright red BMW? Sloppy writing.This show is enjoyable for the excellent performances all around, but the plot kind of wanders and there are some unresolved plot lines (season 2?).
Fargo, in its best moments is beating Pulp Fiction at its own game, and that's quite a feat, but these are few and far between. I especially liked the undertaker with his own costume and sidekicks like some american wrestler. There are some other references and homages, like the one to the "Big Lebowski" (in S3) which is rather weak and superficial. The character of Mike Milligan (in S2) is also a poor and exaggerated imitation. There is some clever writing and appealing stylization in parts, but it's spoiled by a rather heavy hand in others. The "true story" angle is overdrawn and simply annoying, especially when a flying saucer immediately follows. Another great annoyance are the Jewish gangsters and the whole Jewish undercurrent. I get it, this was made by Jews, enough of this mishegas already. Not everything has to revolve around some recently mythologized ethnic identity, just as not all world events of all time have to revolve around the USofA, though try telling that to the Mormons. On the flip side, there is the brilliant parody of Reagan which has been done and overdone in the past but never with this degree of accuracy of bite. Very promising but too much stylization and pretense and not enough of that bite, suspense and for gods's sake, subtlety. A lot of it is cartoonish and not in a good way. What a shame.


                
A lot of people have already sang this shows praises and it is deserving of them as I enjoyed it very much. Much more than the movie in fact.I had to write this though because nobody seems to have a problem with the ending and I don't understand that. We had a great storyline in which the characters interactions all made sense and yet still led to surprise and intrigue, followed by the last few episodes which frankly did not do the rest of the show any justice at all.So one of the best contract killers I've seen is killed by an ex-cop that thought 'I'll just follow that wolf I saw in the road, randomly, for no reason, in the middle of nowhere'.Then he by chance finds the killers cabin, but waits for him to leave, doesn't call the cops, just sits there hoping that when he returns he won't do what he's always done and kill him to death? Then is lucky enough for the professional to get back injured, and put his gun down out of arms length? Shame, kinda ruined it a bit for me. Like the writers quit and someone asked their teen to think up the final episode.
Look, this is a fine TV series. But it's not Fargo. Fargo (the movie) is legendary because two talented guys, who had just bombed with a PG flick, took something like $8 million and some strong writing and made movie history. With Fargo (the TV series), $8 million probably doesn't even cover BBT's salary. Frankly, the show is high quality. It looks like a 2014 big-budget series on cable. But other than the character's accents --which have been beaten to a bloody pulp-- and a few rip-off situations, this show has no connection to the legendary film. Call it: Dakota. Call it: Blood Simple (no wait, don't). Call it anything else. But don't call it Fargo. Innovation at 90% is admirable, but it leaves one to wonder: what is the agenda of that other 10%?


                
First season is best, second one is good and third is worst


                
I love this. New and old, great on so manny leves.
But you can not start with the episodes with, the text that this is true. It is not, it cant be. I dont care if you lie to the police or your mom. But a network like HBO can not do this. What is next. That HBO supports trump and becomes the Fox News of serries. I hate that they lie like that. STOP IT.


                
This is worth watching. The story although not a true story but it was told in a realistic way. No angels and no demons, no cowards and no heroes, just human beings. You can easily relate to the characters as they are so familiar you actually feel you know them, and that's what makes them so believable. Of course the location has the greatest effect on viewers, the white snow and the cold weather makes you so numb, it's almost painful. The music was so sad, it was more like the world crying that all this evil might just pass unnoticed and unpunished. The cast was super and being a miniseries it gave them more time to act and actually become the characters. Billy-Bob Thornton, Martin Freeman, Allison Tolman, Colin Hanks and the brilliant Bob Odenkirk. Again I advise you to watch this, not for the crime or the police story, but because it's so REAL!!


                
This is supposedly based on a true story. I can't quite believe it in the sense the ineptness of the local police and the FBI! Or is it that the story writer wants to show them in a bad light.How come they do not follow up on the call from Lester to Malvo? How does an individual with such a closed mind succeed the murdered chief? How stupid does the police think Chazz is to hide the evidence in his own garage? How does the FBI account for ignoring 7 phone calls from a local deputy who repeatedly asserts that she can identifying the wanted man? How does the killer get FBI code to rescind the order for backup? Are the US law enforcement agencies so inapt or complacent? At this rate even 10 million agents in Homeland Security won't be enough to catch real terrorists!
I have watched in many times. Again the accent is dragged me into this.''oh yeah you betcha''


                
Good cast. Billy Bob kind of makes the show. There is a sense of awkwardness throughout the show that makes you want to continue watching and see where the characters will take things. You start to develop mixed feelings towards certain main characters. The show does a good job at being unpredictable. Lots of unexpected turns. Its not a very straight forward plot. Worth the watch if you are into slow building stories.


                
Just watched the last 2 episodes of Fargo Season 2. Overall, I enjoyed the season but felt it went downhill with the last 2 episodes. I found the Freeman commentary annoying - did they think we needed things to be explained because the audience is too stupid? I also thought the appearance of the UFO was an extremely silly plot device.The final episode was weak with some pretty poor dialogue. As demonstrated on countless occasions it's very difficult to end a series or film in a fully satisfactory manner.Despite this the series was worth watching, with some very good acting, action and dialogue throughout.
