Perhaps I've seen the film version of 'Fargo' too many times. The source material for FX's latest new series is a film I know so well I can quote great blocks of its dialogue word for word. My late Dad and I used to routinely quote Coen brothers' dialogue to each other in general conversation. ('Son, you've got a panty on your head!' et al.)Because I know the film so well, I'm afraid I spent the first half of the pilot episode comparing the television series (unfavorably) to the movie. What kept me interested enough to continue watching, though, were the top-drawer performances of Billy Bob Thornton as the havoc-inducing psychopath and the outstanding Martin Freeman on loan to the New World from across the pond. Billy Bob never fails to be interesting in any role he plays, and 'Sherlock's Dr. Watson nails both the Minnesota patois and the frenetic desperation of the put-upon everyman-turned-murderer he's playing. The pay-off for sticking with the pilot despite my reservations was huge. The plot developments in the third act are both heartbreaking and genuinely shocking. I can say that I'm really looking forward now to more excellent work from Billy Bob, Martin Freeman, and the newcomer cast in the role of the young female cop. Film devotee or no, the TV series has now totally got me.
Season one and two are just amazing. However season three has too many 'humor-ish' moments in it. I personally think that the first two seasons were well balanced. And with the latter i mean a balance between serious thriller-ish elements and exaggerated/funny elements which made it NOT too much of a spoof (parody). Season three feels like a complete parody, or a bad pastiche of the first two seasons which is a shame because the first two seasons were really amazing.


                
I've loved all the plots up till the latest season, which didn't engage me as much - despite Ewan Mcgregor being awesome. Still - this is just one of those series that will have you coming back for more. The original movie is a cult classic and I was so thrilled when I heard they'd be making a TV series for this.


                
I really enjoyed Fargo the TV series, series 1 and 2 were amongst the best TV dramas I have ever watched. I felt Season 3 was the weakest, and I see the creative mind behind it Noah Hawley is concentrating on his sub par series Legion from now. So 3 seasons seems to be the end. Even Season 2 had its moments, but Season 1 and 2 were superb. I speak of Noah Hawley because he seems to have lost the plot a bit. Legion started off well and totally lost it, as far as I am concerned, and even in Season 3, he introduced some supernatural unexplained events, that for me didn't work well whatsoever and added nothing to the story, but a moment of wondering, what on Earth is happening here ? But for anyone new thinking about watching, overall I would give a big thumbs up. Like True Detective and its mind blowing Season 1, I guess we couldn't expect the sheer genius to last, but even Season 3 despite not being near as good as Season 1 and 2, was still entertaining. And in a way, I'm glad this was the last season.


                
well I really liked it I mean the scenario is marvelous. Butconsidering the show is based on a true story, how will the show proceed in season 2 after both Lester and Lorne Malvo is dead? Because the story is about them and if the show was a Minnie series then it would make sense. two main characters who lead the story line are dead how can there be season 2? well I really liked it I mean the scenario is marvelous. Butconsidering the show is based on a true story, how will the show proceed in season 2 after both Lester and Lorne Malvo is dead? Because the story is about them and if the show was a Minnie series then it would make sense. two main characters who lead the story line are dead how can there be season 2?well I really liked it I mean the scenario is marvelous. Butconsidering the show is based on a true story, how will the show proceed in season 2 after both Lester and Lorne Malvo is dead? Because the story is about them and if the show was a Minnie series then it would make sense. two main characters who lead the story line are dead how can there be season 2?well I really liked it I mean the scenario is marvelous. Butconsidering the show is based on a true story, how will the show proceed in season 2 after both Lester and Lorne Malvo is dead? Because the story is about them and if the show was a Minnie series then it would make sense. two main characters who lead the story line are dead how can there be season 2?
I watched both series back to back, Fargo I (F1) immediately followed by Fargo II (F2).Do not expect realism; forget naturalism. In Season Two, the producers follow up the regional melodrama with an absurdist version.The land plays a big part in F1. Wintry Minnesota becomes a character in itself. At the end it actually swallows up one of the villains. Every character can be placed in relation to every other character through his/her relation to the land.In F2, the land recedes; the action could have been set anywhere. Ungrounded, the characters and their regional speech patterns border on quaint.The thing is, these guys are interested less in people and consistency of character than in ideas and expressiveness. Accordingly, the writers have let their satirical and sardonic tendencies run wild and created a gallery of grotesques, an array of one-dimensional baroque and extravagant types who refuse to coalesce into a whole. Disconnected and alone, no one seems to be in the same picture as anyone else. Then, too, the vagaries of the script mean that often you are left as baffled and disoriented as the actors struggling to deliver the script's gnomic utterances.Appropriately, the acting is all over the map. Jeffrey Donovan's unconvincing, and his accent seems half-way between Boston and Fargo. Bokeem Woodbine lacks depth. The bit with the lawyer standing off the lynch mob? Ridiculously stylized. I could go on. . .. Forced, unnatural, disconnected, uneven: these are the words that come to mind throughout -- deliberately, for expressive purposes.Zahn McClarnon's Hanzee Dent is a special case. His is perhaps the most interesting character, because the most powerful and most mysterious.Another source of the odd tone is the world of dreams and that's connected to Reagan's inability to relate to life except though film -- also a kind of dream. The two sleep-walkers played by Kirsten Dunst and Jesse Plemons satirize the American Dream,.There's a lot of bloodshed in F1 and F2. but in F2, violence shorn of pity and terror by the creaky plot becomes almost cartoonish.In the end, the positive characters, unlike Keith Carradine in F1, can barely maintain enough gravity to balance the farrago of stupidity and evil on display in Season Two.
FARGO is a very trippy multi-season miniseries involving mayhem and murder -- like the movie, which is also quite good. The series is so strong that one wishes to be able to physically manhandle the characters, or at least whisper in their ears. I wonder how the people up north like it -- whose accents and regional expressions are a major part of what's going on? It can be quite a roller coaster ride -- aggravating to the max, fun, funny, dark, grisly, sexy, erotic, violent, profound, philosophical, eccentric to the max . . . mostly never boring. It often has subtle messages, somewhat like a cautionary tale or a morality play . . . or commentary on how things are, vs. how they perhaps 'should' be. Many times it's not at all plausible. Many times it seems to be ripping off/imitating Q. Tarantino's films or quirkiness. It's a hoot *and* a holler! There are too many characters to individually comment on. As I said, the casting is first rate, as is much of everything else. It's hard to put down once you pick it up. I'm looking forward to Season 4.


                
Season 1 is slower, Billy Bob's character Malvo is a bit too much for me. And the Biblical parallel story in the middle seems more of a filler to me. Martin Freeman's character arc is compelling, although repugnant. I can see great care in the first episode, in that to it very much resembles the movie. That's a setup. Setup for the payoff to the violence at the end of episode one. Or maybe even a setup for season 1 for Allison Tolman's character to arrive at the possible parallel (or some reference) to that of Francis Mcdermottt's character in the original movie.Season 2 moves at a breakneck pace when compared to the first , but there maybe one of two plot holes near the end. And I thought the execution by the forest is in some way similar to that in the Cohen's movie Miller's Crossing. At least I thought of it right away. Not as elaborate but reminiscent of. And for me, certain character motivation is not as clear or probable. Like the native Indian's mindset near the end, which needed a voiced over - a sign of lack of clarity.Very enjoyable overall because the story is solid, focused and meticulous. And acting is first rate.
Fargo TV Series (2017 Season 3) Every episode of this acclaimed show, presented on FX, starts with the disclaimer, "This is a true story. At the request of the survivors, the names have been changed. Out of respect for the dead, the rest has been told exactly as it occurred." Well, that is nothing more than a teaser, made up by the producers. I've researched this as much as possible and every fact check I've read agrees that the show is not based on 100% true events. Not even close! In comparison with season one, which was fantastic and season two, which was even better, this year doesn't quite measure up. I still recommend it; it's a great adventure into the quirky world of Fargo, which requires all of your attention and concentration to every nuance of each script. The twists and turns almost require that notes be taken to sort out the multiple, over-lapping plots and the cast of characters. There will be no spoilers here; that would be sacrilegious and a disservice to the watchers. Currently, eight episodes have been shown on FX on Wednesdays at 10:00 PM EDT/9 CDT. You can dial up the first eight on demand and binge watch if you like; also available on-line. The cast is terrific, starring film actor Ewen McGregor, who plays dual roles of twin brothers. The wonderful Carrie Coon (HBO's "The Leftovers") will remind you of Frances McDormand who portrayed the police chief in the original film. Coon really shines. Mary Elizabeth Winstead ("10 Cloverfield Lane", "Braindead") is both alluring and gritty in her role as a small time grifter. David Thewlis, the British actor known for "Anomalisa" and the new "Wonder Woman" flick, plays the creepiest of scoundrels here. Michael Stuhlbarg ("Boardwalk Empire, "Trumbo") is both funny and angst- ridden as the accountant, Sy Feltz. This series fulfills my need for the unusual, thought-provoking and intelligent TV in a sea of vomit that is broadcast television and the public's weird fascination with cartoon character big screen fare. My hope is that FX continues this series with a season four in 2018.


                
I started watching this series because I like snowy locations and also love listening to the chirpy upper Midwest accent of the United States.I was rather hoping to add this accent to my repertoire but I suspect I'll never completely master it. It's way too hard. I have, however, become completely hooked on the show.If you like snow, ice, and people locked in the trunks of cars you'll love Fargo (Channel 4). There's a whole heap of snow, waist deep in many places, and almost everyone gets locked in a trunk at some point. If they ever had a car boot sale in Duluth they would first have to clear out all the dead bodies.Fargo is based on the Coen Brothers' film of the same name, but the storyline is completely different from the original movie. It stars Martin Freeman as a geeky, cowardly wife-killer called Lester Nygaard. From office Romeos to questing hobbits, Freeman has always tended to play nice guys in the past, so even when he turns up as a hammer toting murderer it's quite difficult not to warm to him.Lester's call to adventure comes when he's in a snowy supermarket car park and is thumped on the nose by an old school adversary. Our hero trudges through the snow to visit his local casualty department and like me turns out to have an extraordinary talent for standing or sitting next to nutters.I have tremendous sympathy for this trait. In my own life there's a nutter in every bus queue and a nutter in every restaurant. Only yesterday I sat next to a spectacular nutter on the Piccadilly Line. The train was packed, the nutter could have gone and sat anywhere, and yet he came and sat next to me.But Lester's nutter is no ordinary nutter. This nutter is a fully blown, card-carrying, axe-wielding psychopath by the name of Malvo (Billy Bob Thornton).Don't be fooled by this character's comical haircut and folksy sense of humor. Malvo's a violent control freak and the only thing he loves more than killing people is getting away with it. Even when the police know exactly what Malvo's up to they still seem powerless to do anything about it.Mind you, the Fargo police force do appear to be fairly stupid, particularly Gus Grimly (played by Tom Hanks' son Colin). Gus makes Forrest Gump look like Professor Brian Cox and his chubby colleague Molly Solverson (Allison Tolman) is not much brighter. The only real brains in the outfit seem to be that of Bill Oswalt (Bob Odenkirk who portrayed infamous bent lawyer Saul in Breaking Bad.) Fargo is small town Americana at its best, and the world that's created in this show is hypnotic and highly addictive. Malvo's unquenchable malice and dark humour are immensely watchable and it's not long before you are so drawn into the surreal Fargo universe that even plagues of locusts and showers of blood become as routine as a day at the office with an insurance salesman.Fargo is no doubt going to get much snowier, much weirder and much more nasty before the season finale, and I for one will be glued to every second.
-edit- I've watched this anthology twice now, and my review requires some modifications. It takes some time to get used to 'the new Jerry Lundegaard', Lester Nygaard, played by Martin Freeman, but episode one takes off at breakneck speed, so I had to make do. As much as Freeman can not touch William H. Macy, and this series can not touch the original 'Fargo', it still has a lot going for it.Lorne Malvo is a terrific baddie, coming off as a northern interpretation of Anton Chigurh (you know, that Coen baddie from 'No country for old men'), and Billy Bob Thornton does a class A job. I didn't álways care for Malvo's (apparent, until the end, that is) indestructibility and his (quasi) philosophical rants, but he was morbidly funny or eerily intense most of the time.Martin Freeman took some getting used as I said before, but his character transformation was quite unique and intriguing to watch. 'The new Margie' and Gus Grimly formed a good couple, it was great seeing Keith Carradine again (after his unjustly demise in 'Dexter'), Oliver Platt has a great part here and there are plenty of other, smaller roles that are striking (Don Chumph!). The story of 'Fargo' is pretty unique, with a leading character doing quite the 'counter-transformation'. Those two FBI-guys weren't all that interesting though - and how they all came by Lou's diner at the same time, was a little far-fetched, as were a few other developments, such as Lester going in and out the hospital (let alone him being in the same room with an unconscious man with his head in bandages...) without much trouble.The obvious 'rehash' scenes from the original 'Fargo' felt quite surreal, but also unique and - ultimately - satisfactory. I'm not sure they should have used the same title and (at times) soundtrack, but alas. Furthermore, there were some details here and there, that just didn't sit right. For instance, how was Gus Grimly able to just execute Lorne Malvo without any consequences (he even gets a medal for it!)? As much as it would seem justifiable on some level, that is just not a realistic outcome. On a dramatic level, it felt a bit awkward to have this responsible husband (who just told his pregnant wife how to do her job by playing on her feelings - again, justifiable on some level) go out to this almost non-human enemy without any backup... and why didn't he call her hands-free from the car? - that's not responsible at all! It would have been nice if they had shown Chazz finally being cleared, also. Details (and there are more), perhaps, but still.Anyhoo, 'Fargo' (2014) still has lots to offer, of which Lester's 'learning curve', Malvo's manipulative manner and black sense of humour and the overall atmosphere (somewhere between funny, gruesome and endearing) are my favorite elements.A good 8 out of 10 for now.P.s.: what's will all the junk food?
When you first start watching, the pastiche is so thick you fear you might not be able to ignore it.But, in my experience, as it simmered along, I found that the story development swept me up and bore me along. I was able to stave off the sense that they were trying to ride along on the weighty prestige of the original movie--or movies; pretty sure they were tapping "No Country..." as well.It's pretty much character development, touch-and-go story development, and superb production values.Speaking of those values, though, the fey approximation of the original soundtrack music had a cloying effect that wouldn't let go, unfortunately.But it was a great venue for the talent, turned to good theater.Loved certain of the casting choices, e.g., Key and Peele! Odenkirk! Goldberg! And everyone else does a sterling job.


                
Ummmm ..WOW. I too have been looking for a replacement for Breaking Bad. I found it. It is not as good as Breaking Bad....It has some plot holes...some predictability...But DANG, it has me wanting more. I don't know if I like the stunt casting...but so far it works. The time jump to a year ahead was an inexpensive plot ploy that BB would never had allowed. If Fargo wants to me in the same league as Breaking Bad....it needs to have a more Long Term perspective.....Time jumps suck and brings down the integrity of the "Whole"Watch this show from the beginning....(just like.......)Character development is slow coming at times....But eventually satisfies...Watch it....but watch more than one episode at a time
This show won't necessarily have you on the edge of your seat for the next episode. It's in a way a show you can enjoy at your own pace. The acting is punchy and witty. The violence is sudden and shocking. Each season is standalone. Worth a watch


                
I rated this 8 because season 1 was awesome and the second season wasn't bad, but season 3 was disappointing I am done with this show now.


                
First of all, i must say that "Fargo" is a very enjoyable TV series: with lots of style, drama, emotional moments, plot twists that surprise, and characters that show amazing depth and versatility. I guess for some of that we should thank the Coen brothers who created the original feature film and produced this TV series. But obviously this "Fargo" is beyond just mimicking its older namesake, it creates the whole new atmosphere, much more dense, dramatic, with an almost mystical sense of danger lurking just around the corner.And while i believe that all these features are major traits of a great cinema, i couldn't help thinking that the new "Fargo" kinda tried to sit on two chairs at the same time.One of the "chairs" is the comedic approach inherited from the Coens' "Fargo". In my opinion, almost all of the Coens' movies are comedies, although sometimes in a dark or metaphorical sense. No matter what happens on screen, you just feel light about it. I certainly felt when i watched the original "Fargo". It's all in the little details and whims that turn the otherwise ruthless and scary things into the funny ones: you just can't help smiling, so surreal and unbelievable is the stuff you see happening, that you just can't take it serious.But at the same time the new "Fargo" tried to sit on another "chair". It decided to be real serious, in a very dark way. Enduing the main "villain", Lorne Malvo, with an almost infernal, out-of-this-world image. As if whoever crosses paths with him, no matter on what occasion, is doomed to take a suffering for it.I also don't have any problem with dark movies with a mystic feeling. After all, i absolutely adored the first season of "True Detective" and consider it a gem of its genre. But that's the problem: the classic Coen'esque look and feel don't mix up good with such true dark stuff. I mean, of course we had No Country for Old Men, which had another infernal villain, Anton Chigurh, but that was quite an exception in Coens' filmography. It felt different. And its characters felt different, as if they realized what they are up to and were prepared to take it on.The original "Fargo" was an another dish entirely. Characters looked as if they live in their small convenient world with no care about what's outside. Even the criminal dudes. And that light-heartedness is what could excuse any illogicalities in their behavior. People just tend to make mistakes when they aren't focused. And while in the original film it sometimes felt like a whimsical stupidity contest, giving the movie its funny twists and turns, in this TV series one of the sides was completely serious and unforgiving.And that's exactly what bothered me the most. That it was a bit too convenient to place Lorne Malvo against those who can't get their sh@t together. A sheriff who ignores obvious evidence since he simply believes in people's best. A loser cop who finds the guy, finds where he lives and finds a competent person in the force who believes him - and yet decides to go investigate all by himself. A god-fearing merchant who stops his son one sentence from revealing a major piece of information that might affect his following actions. A desperate insurance salesman who chooses the most suspicious and stupid ways to lie about what happened, failing to create a believable story, but then all of a sudden becomes a covert ops specialist, escaping from under custody, stealing a car, framing his brother and returning back as if nothing happened. The framed brother who happens to have no goddamn alibi for the moment the crime he's accused of took place. A fitness instructor whose blackmail is uncovered by some pretty shady dude and who is forced to raise the stakes, but doesn't even think about coming clean or at least running away. Et cetera, et cetera. The list of foolish actions could be as long as the series itself.So while the suspense of this TV series does feel genuine, the ways it's created are rather unnatural. Each one of them alone could be justified by the human nature and all. But all together, they create an image as if Darth Vader decided to storm an asylum for the demented, and we are expected to consider this a challenging mission and root for the dummies. Spoils the fun.
season one was great it had such a great feel to it.. much like the movie.. season two on the other hand doesn't feel the same.. its OK, but as of now i could stop watching it and not really care.. the first season I had to watch.. i think some of it is because of the writing and characters, and also the acting.. Jeffery Donovan doesn't fit the part at all.. the reason i loved season 1 and the movie is everyone is eerily calm.. Donovans character is too angry and loud.. and to be honest he is pretty much the only one in the entire show who is...and for me it ruins it.. i realize thats a weird reason to dislike a show but it doesn't feel the same with his attitude.


                
I was looking for the "quotes" section that I've seen on IMDb, that I've seen before on this site, but perhaps they only exist for Movies on the site.So, I went ahead and posted a couple of real beauts here. Apologies if I've missed placing these in the correct location.PS Since these are quotes, they might "spoil" some of the show for you, so don't read ahead if you don't like spoilers.Two great lines from the new series, Fargo:"I've taken shits that I want to live with more than them." "grieving widow", former stripper, Mrs Hess says of her two sons, just after seeing one son accidentally shoot another son in the ass with a cross bow, for the 2nd time, apparently.And contract killer says to young drug dealer when being offered a zombie kit "it's already a dog-eat-dog-world, friend, I'm not sure what worse a bunch of zombies could do."You be the judge. There are 3 episodes so far.
I had problems watching Fargo the first 30 minutes, being a fan of the original motion picture. It's so weird to see the Fargo theme withoutits characters. Luckily, this show draws you in pretty quickly.I'm personally not a fan of Lester Nygaart's character until now. I guess this is not just Martin Freeman, but mostly writing and direction. I thought it was almost unbearable to watch him being bullied by his wife. It just doesn't seem like a couple who could have been married for so long. Why is she so mean, at the same time accepting her marriage? Even divorced couples aren't that hateful. There is no love at all which isn't very plausible. I also didn't like the scene where Lester is desperately trying to sell insurances to a couple. It felt like a bad rip off from the original movie with William H Macy as a frustrated car salesman. At least that character was played with frustration under the surface, whereas Martin Freeman was trying too hard, "playing" to much instead of "being".Luckily the writers dared to write an original storyline (unlike the dreadful From Dusk Till Dawn series), and the inclusion of Billy Bob Thorton was a great move. That guy cracks me up and is a great "replacement" for the original movie's bad guys.I'm curious what the next episodes will bring but generally I really likes the first episodes, albeit with a couple of weak scenes and directional mistakes.
This is a dark comedy series that is "based on true stories" which I think is in itself a story. The fact they state this at the beginning when it isn't a true story is irritating, but never the less, the series is fun and varied. 8/10


                
The 1996 Coen Brothers film was a great Oscar winning black comedy thriller, and when I saw the trailer for the television spin off I knew it was going to be a big hit, I was definitely up for seeing more wood chipper inspired deaths or other violent activities in the snowy surroundings. Basically set in 2006, drifter and hired killer Lorne Malvo (Billy Bob Thornton) is passing through the snowy town of Bemidji, Minnesota, he comes from Fargo, North Dakota, he is conning God believing and wealthy businessman Stavros Milos (Oliver Platt) into paying a high amount of money to stop him ruining his fortunes and killing anyone close to him. While passing through he gets into a discussion with insurance salesman Lester Nygaard (Martin Freeman), following this exchange Malvo murders the man who has been bullying him, and he helps him cover up the murder of Lester's wife, and the chief of police who Malvo killed. Deputy police officer Molly Solverson (Allison Tolman) against the authority of Police Chief Bill Oswalt (Bob Odenkirk) is investigating the series of murder that are occurring, thinking that Lester is somehow connected to the killer, and Duluth police officer, later turned postman, Gus Grimly (Colin Hanks, Tom's son) becomes involved after being threatened in an encounter with Malvo. Throughout the series Malvo continues his killing spree, both while hired and anyone who gets in his way, Lester becomes increasingly desperate and demented as he tries to hide his connections to the crimes, Molly and Gus get closer as they work together, marrying and Molly being heavily pregnant, and they are often sidetracked from trying to find and catch the killer, and we also see FBI agents and hit men getting involved with these occurrences. Also starring Nashville's Keith Carradine as Lou Solverson, White House Down's Joey King as Greta Grimly, Russell Harvard as Mr. Wrench, Joshua Close as Chaz Nygaard, Adam Goldberg as Mr. Numbers, Susan Park as Linda Park, The Perks of Being a Wallflower's Kate Walsh as Gina Hess, Keegan-Michael Key as FBI Agent Pepper, Jordan Peele as FBI Agent Budge, Gordon S. Miller as Dmitri Milos, Spencer Drever as Gordo Nygaard and Kevin O'Grady as Sam Hess. Thornton is astonishing as the malicious and seemingly untouchable killer, Freeman putting on a perfect American perfect is great as the ordinary man stuck in the middle and weaselling his way out of it, Tolman is fantastic as the female police officer who is ignored while being right and determined to solve the case, and Hanks is terrific as the police officer also tested as he tries to help the dangerous man he encountered. The series was really gripping with the frequent and always over the top sequences, including a blood shower, a store swarmed with locusts, an unseen gun slaughter going through a building, a shooting in a lift, and many more bloody and over the top moments, it was this mixed with the investigation and hiding secrets plot lines that kept me watching and loving it to the end, I am not surprised they are considering a second season, it is a brilliant dark comedy-crime drama television show. Very good!
I have only seen the entire season one which is a self contained story so my comments are restricted to that. * This does contain spoilers *This is a nice piece of fiction even though there are some unfortunate glaring holes in the plot. But then this is Hollywood stuff and unfortunately the writers seem do this kind of thing constantly in fictional TV series. The acting for the most part is excellent most especially from wife killer Martin Freeman and Allison Tolman(who plays deputy Molly Solverson). The performances by these 2 were just superb and the show is well worth watching just to see these 2 in action. Instead of treating the audience as mindless zombies perhaps the writers could have been a great deal more realistic with their script. For example:1. We are expected to believe a Duluth police officer would let a clearly suspicious person off the hook when he declined to provide his licence and registration papers while sitting in a stolen car and issuing threats to the officer. In reality the guy would have been ordered out of the car at gun point and told to lie on the ground while handcuffed and back up would probably have also been called in. In the real world armed Police tend not to let you go when you refuse to identify yourself and then physically threaten them.2. The Lorne Malvo character is nothing but a contract fix it and contract killer but is given a false identity for one job as a Minister of religion. When captured by the Duluth police (and later released) the police check his story and identity. They make a few phone calls and then believe he is legitimate - a real Minister of a Church. Since his identity was completely fabricated this is just impossible to believe. 3. Early in the story Lorne Malvo, who is a complete psychotic, kills the local police chief in Lester Nygaard's house and with Nygaard as a witness. But he does not kill Nygaard when Nygaard is still clearly a loose end. Contract killers like this character do not leave loose ends.4. We are expected to believe that Lorne Malvo, psycho hit man, can masquerade as a dentist (and is shown actually working on patients) for 6 months while plotting on getting at and executing a person in witness protection. This is just beyond belief.5. At the end of the story we are expected to believe that Nygaard would confront Malvo when he sees him in a Las Vegas hotel threatening to blow his cover in the presence of Malvo's girlfriend and work colleague whereas in reality he would have no reason to go anywhere near the guy. Of course we never see how a psycho hit man with zero friends can pull a hot looking young GF in the first place. Also quite unbelievable.6. Then when Malvo has his cover threatened we are expected to believe he would kill his girlfriend, colleague and the colleagues wife in the lift whilst not immediately killing Nygaard at the same time when he is 2 feet away in the same lift and there are no witnesses. In reality he would have disposed of Nygaard at the same time as the other 3 as there was every reason to and no reason not to. So then we are treated to days of Malvo taking the risk of being identified while tracking down Nygaard in his home town to trying and kill him when he could have done away with him in 2 seconds in the Las Vegas lift.I do not know why writers put scripts together with such obvious over the top flaws and expect it to look credible but that is Hollywood for you.Then finally we have to endure the beginning of each episode with the captions that this is a "true story" with the events happening exactly as depicted in Minnesota in 2006. Maybe some viewers will actually believe this nonsense when in truth the entire show is a work of complete fiction. Once again, the writers and producers are trying to treat the audience as idiots.Without its flawed script this show would be worth a 10/10 but as is it is only worth an 8.


                
Reason I say that is that I thought season 1 was good tv , it had the same feel as the film and got the mix of comedy and drama spot on. Freeman and Thornton played excellent roles and the chemistry between them was a joy. Ok some of it was a bit silly and over the top but overall a great season. Season 2 I thought was truly dreadful and bordering on purile and in the end I just had to abandon it. Season 3 didn't live up to season 1 but much much better than 2 and certainly worth a watch


                
I can probably list so many adjectives to describe how good this show is because it delivers so many things. Intrigue and creativity are at the top of the list. From a strong season 1 and some stellar performances, this show went to even greater heights with excellent writing in season 2. Netflix has produced a high quality show that is enjoyable and makes me want more.8/10


                
Season 1-2 were great. Season 3 was good but the twins thing ruined it a bit for me.


                
