You don't have to have seen the original Coen film to enjoy this series, nor does it spoil anything for you if you have seen it: the new TV-show 'Fargo' is entirely its own beast. So far, the only thing the series and the film do have in common is the title and the (fake) premise that both are - allegedly - based on true events that happened somewhere in Minnesota.The writers (and the actors!) do a great job in creating new characters that are as strange and somewhat over the top as most of the iconic Coen creations we've come to love over the years - and Billy Bob Thornton's 'Lorne Malvo' (from season 01) has the potential to reach cult status. Watching bad situations get worse as bad decisions lead to even worse ones and the lives of ordinary people spiral violently out of control is - I shamefully admit - a lot of fun to watch, and it's told here with such a wicked sense of humor that I've so far enjoyed every minute of it. The cast so far has been outstanding (this is an anthology series, so each new season will have its own cast and a new storyline) and the production values - especially the cinematography - are fantastic. Now whether 'Fargo' will appeal to a larger audience despite its quirky characters and non-mainstream look the way a show like 'Breaking Bad' did remains to be seen, but I would strongly recommend this to anyone who enjoys black comedies in general as well as pretty much anything the Coens ever did. Great, pitch black entertainment - 9 out of 10 from me.Favorite Films: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054200841/Favorite Low-Budget and B-movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
Six months ago I finished watching Breaking Bad and I really think that's the best thing I've ever watched and I always felt it is nonpareil in terms of excitement. From then on I couldn't forget it, I missed it. I started watching several shows later, but nothing came close to BB. I went on a search for such exciting crime dramas and then I saw few people on reddit talk about Narcos and Fargo (most of them) to experience something similar. At first, I googled them and decided to watch Narcos as Google knowledge graph mentions Fargo as a comedy series. So, yeah Narcos was enthralling, but didn't really feel 10/10 especially with too much Spanish. Then I decided to give a try on Fargo and boy oh boy! It's simply sensational.Season 1: The first episode itself left me exuberant. This Martin Freeman guy, right from the day I saw him as Bilbao Baggins, everything he does impresses me and in Fargo there's nothing less. And the others were excellent too, especially Billy Bob Throtton, that man is really one hell of an actor. He is an assassin, every scene of him is jaw dropping with some chills. All in all, Season 1 of Fargo was really the one I was waiting for these whole 6 months and I didn't want to end this beautiful experience, so I immediately decided to watch Season 2.Season 2: Everyone who watched season 1 will have some idea about how season 2 will go on. It opened off very well and the first episode here too ends dramatically. The next 2 episodes were slow-paced and I thought this might turn out like True Detective Season 2 as it couldn't really recreate the magic of the first season (just my opinion). So, right when I thought it's sinking, it just gets better and better from episode 4. There won't be a moment you could take your eyes off till the last minute of the season finale. I'm glad they renewed it for the next season and I really can't wait for that.The music utilized over the two seasons is absolutely mind blowing, the way it relates to each and every scenario is just spectacular. Along with this awesome music, the outstanding piece of poetry depicts the ongoing lives of the people in Fargo. The direction part is really masterful and you can clearly see that in the second season". Even though it was quite extraordinary I wouldn't rate it higher than Breaking Bad as this one has little flaws and I didn't really like the ending of the second season(Although some people loved it) but if you're just looking for some real piece of art then Fargo is a must watch.


                
Since Breaking Bad ended i have been craving for something as good, so let me share the good news with you guys. This show is it. Three episodes have aired so far and I am mesmerized. The story, the photography, the surreal landscape, the comedy, the drama, the suspense, its all excellent. Some of you may feel that I am going overboard with this, but I think this show may surpass even the movie on which it is based, and that is saying something.The whole cast is doing an amazing job, specially Billy Bob, i mean it seems as if the guy was born to play the role of Lorne Malvo. The quiet menacing look he gives and the relaxed confident way in which he moves about town, slowly pulling all the strings, making everyone dance to his tune. His devil may care attitude, and that smile of his. He deserves an Emmy for sure.Allison Tolman plays the slightly overweight (but not pregnant) cop and she nails it. Ditto for Martin Freeman as Nester and Colin Hanks as Gus. I have been a fan of Martin since i first saw him in Sherlock. He has that quintessence that has almost vanished from modern Hollywood. He can play the vulnerable every-man very well, but I am feel that his character will grow in this series into something more sinister.Anyways, enough from me. Just watch this show and judge for yourself. 9/10.Game of Thrones and Fargo, the best two shows on TV.


                
I loved the movie. And with the first episode, I fell for the series, too. As new episodes played, my heart skipped many beats and lo & behold, it ended without a bang. While, at least 5 episodes are a full 10/10 for me, the finale failed to spark.Starting off with strict references to the 1996 film, it talks about a psychopath who is on a mission in another city, played charismatically by Billy Bob Thornton. I loved his air & nuanced performance. Then comes Martin Freeman, out of the neighborhood Sherlock sets, as that jittery underachiever who has a nagging wife. Things start to climb up when Freeman's character bumps into his high-school friend. Next, he meets Thornton's character & boom! What follows is an interwoven plot which refers the original film.Crime has been brilliantly showcased in this series, including the finale and that is the main point. What follows next is as horrendous as the last minutes of the film. One after another, the thrills catch up with our heart's pumping pace as the characters grow out of their shells and reveal grave, suppressed expressions. It reflects human psychology brilliantly and in just the last 20 minutes. We feel sad, funny, pity, excited - for the images on- screen are brilliantly written. Music is very supportive.Yes, this is better than the complex True Detective. It is hard-hitting, folks and what more could a dark crime plot ask for a setup than Minnesota. Noah Hawley writes with his brain open and succeeds in making a point or two. His tale is driven my 2014's best background score. If you doubt that, try searching Google for the "Mr. Numbers & Mr. Wrench" track and you will see how nuts is the web for the music.BOTTOM LINE: I was skeptical after the first episode but now I am positive. It is 9/10 and the latest addition to the series with an anti- hero.Can be watched with a typical Indian family? NOGore/Violence: Very Critical | Sex/Nudity: Strong


                
The premiere episode of the 10 part mini series for Fargo is off to an overwhelming start. I was filled with joy to first discover the Coen Bros. masterpiece Fargo was set to be remade with characters and setting reminiscent of its predecessor. Conversely I was a little hesitant as Fargo was notorious for encapsulating a dark, sardonic environment bursting with near bravure acting, and this mini series may taint the well known image it has created.But I immediately put those fears to rest when Fargo shed its light onto the screen. We are drawn to a similar snow filled landscape that is covered in a perpetual array of white desolation in the first scene, which draws inspiration from the environment created by the cinematography of the original Fargo.What really was a show stopper for me was the acting and the witty dialogue that encompassed both a dark yet humorous tone. We are introduced to Martin Freeman who plays the role of Lester, a dim witted, quirky insurance salesmen who's peculiar movements jitter across the screen. The body language and accent strongly resemble Jerry Lundegaard. Billy Bob Thornton does a fantastic job as a dark remorseless figure capable of brutal violence at any moment, just his speeches are cringe worthy. If Fargo continues the next episodes to come as pleasing as the first, we're in for a real treat.


                
Wow, I remember when this show first came out I was very skeptical they could make an interesting show many seasons long based on the movie. It has the same vibe as the movie, takes place in or around Minnesota has similar characters but is it's own thing apart from the movie.I just finished watching Season 3 and wow it was a doozy. I love this show, it is rare for me to get into a show where I don't notice the episodes flying by. There is some really strong writing with this show. I won't get into the details but will say you end up really caring about the characters, good or bad you want to see what happens to them. In some cases you are rooting for them to win and in others you are rooting for their demise. A lot of times neither plays out.I don't normally go for religious undertones in shows/movies mostly because it is kind of cliche the ol good vs evil thing. This season does it a bit but does it well. I really enjoy this show and can't recommend it enough!


                
I was very sceptical when I first heard that they were going to reboot Fargo, because it is such a popular thing now to reboot movies into TV shows. Most of these movie to TV reboots have either been a disappointment or just 'ok' (From dusk till dawn was a disaster. Bates motel is not great. Hannibal is okay. and many more like it.).So back to the show. The script, the writing, the flow, the characters, actors were stellar, not too mention the excellent capture of the Fargo (movie) experience. It was as if the Coen Brothers did it themselves. It is everything you would expect watching a Coen Brothers' masterpiece. Another point that I would like to make is that this Fargo proves that you don't have to excessively use profane language to create or capture the essence of the character, rather how it shows the characters' personality when they are prompted with uneventful situations. 10/10 for me. I love it and I think I'm going to watch this religiously. Super recommended. And don't worry if you haven't seen the movie, it has nothing to do with it, it is completely separate. (But watch it anyway!)I certainly hope the future episodes would live up to the first episode.


                
Great pilot.Very true to the spirit and tone of the movie - love those accents and adorably eccentric characters up there in Fargo.Billy Bob is one of those creepy villains whose silences and simple turn of phrases speak volumes. Great twists and turns - very unpredictable. Knew there had to be a reason why so many accomplished actors are a part of this production.Writing is excellent. Character introductions are particularly well done in Fargo - masterfully so. Adam Bernstein's experience really shows in this production. Exemplary - keep it up.


                
I highly recommend the first two seasons of Fargo. The third season seems to try too hard with the twin gimmick which for me didn't pan out. Regarding the first season, it should be noted that I am not a fan of Billy Bob Thornton, but he was so good at being bad that he won me over. Definitely two solid seasons with great casting and interesting storylines.


                
No, nothing about Fargo is based on a true story. No names were real and it was told with imagination.But man, this is really a good show.Before I begin, each season of Fargo has it's own story arc and conclusion, therefore, each season isn't a succession of the last one, but rather a complete story of it's own, with some ties with the entire mythology of Fargo. Without doubt and everyone will agree that the 2nd season of Fargo, set in Luverne and Sioux Falls, with Patrick Wilson, Ted Danson, Jesse Plemons and Jeffrey Donovan; is the best one. This season has none of the awkward personalities that prevail the film Fargo (1996) nor the first season (Duluth). Instead, what you get is a real crime story; with organized crime families, corruption, believable and flawed characters, great progression, great pacing and great direction. I would recommend people begin with the Luverne first. The first season, set in Duluth, resembles the film in style and direction, filled with quirky characters and odd dialogues. Like the 1996 film, it is one of the things that I never managed to get settled in, but it was never really a bother. This is immensely due to the expert casting and the talent of the actors involved. And this is what makes Fargo works. It's a weird story, written in a charming way and told by talented casts. While the film had Steve Buscemi, William H. Macy and Frances McDormand, who carried the entire film even in it's weak moments; Fargo season 1, was carried by Billy Bob Thornton (creepily great), Martin Freeman (in one of his finer performances), Colin Hanks (a little underrated) and Alison Tolman (very convincing); all good performances, all entertaining. Their performances is just as important as the story being told; a story that would have collapsed if it was cast by less talented players. And the story, at least for Duluth and Luverne, is very well written. Kudos to Noah Hawley and the writing team to successfully crafted crime stories set in the Mid West of the United States that is interesting and entertaining. And the production quality is top notch; like you're watching a 9 hour film. Well worth it. Recommended.


                
I watched the show last night and I was begging for more. The killing and murders at times seem over the top. However, that being said, I loved it. It is much like the movie "Fargo" and then again it is not. People are getting killed from the get-go. I know it is only the first episode but based on that I would rank it up there with "Breaking Bad" as one of my favorite shows. I hope the Drama and tension keep building. Billy Bob Thornton is a sociopath and Martin Freeman (from the Hobbitt) is fantastic as the hapless character whom much of the first episode orbits around. Great TV. A big thank you to FX. I cannot wait for the next episode.
Each season is a separate story so no need to have seen previous seasons to understand the plots. Similar for all seasons that the environment is a often cold and dark Minnesota.All seasons has been a very enjoyable watch. There is no adrenaline octane action, rather a quite slow burn forward with fantastic and weird characters. And once in a while grit and violence. Violence is sudden and unpredictably shocking. Dark comedy at its finest. I feels very original and interesting. Brilliant cast, excellent storys and also with a great amount of humour. This show delivers on many levels and is a real top quality drama.I almost stumbled on this show since it is not so overhyped like many others and what a treasure to find. In the same league as Breaking Bad. Highly recommended!


                
I love Fargo! I stumbled across it and I was absolutely enamored by it. Season 1 was absolutely amazing and a lot of things worked. Billy Bob Thornton was amazing as Lorne Malvo; a cruel, menacing assassin that operated in the Midwest. The plot is amazing and I have to give the credit to the writers. The writing is so unexpected and so witty, it is my favorite of a show that I have ever seen. The writing team is very, very close to the caliber of Breaking Bad. They write dialogue that is so funny for Martin Freeman, it is hard not to cry. Martin Freeman plays a total coward in the form of Lester Nygaard. His accent is very funny to listen to because I think it is spot-on. Other people have said otherwise, but I really liked it. The character Molly Solverson is absolutely amazing. She sticks to her guns and trusts her instincts when it comes to investigating. There are also a lot of subplots, but they are told in a very concise, succinct, and thought out way. Noah Hawley is an absolute genius!Season 2 is arguably even better than Season 1. There are more characters and some morph and really change during the course of only ten episodes. I loved the setting of the 1970's and how close it feels to the first season as it talks about Lou Solverson, the father of Molly. There are a lot of surprises that I also really enjoyed throughout the season. Jesse Plemons and Kirsten Dunst play a very convincing bored, suburban couple. I am a huge fan of Jesse Plemons and I really liked his performance. The writing is better than the first season as well. There is a huge climax in episode 9 that is absolutely unbelievable. I loved the second season more, but I feel that is more in the eye of the beholder.Season 3 has been the only season that I have not liked. The acting is superb; Ewan McGregor is amazing as two characters. Mary Elizabeth Winstead is the standout of the show I would say. The plot is just far too simplistic though. The thing that made Fargo amazing in other seasons was the 3-4 different subplots occurring at exactly the same time all building to an amazing climax, but this season did not have that. Season 3 only followed a feud between brothers and an evil, conniving business shark played brilliantly by David Thewlis. Of course things escalated, but it did not feel crazy or as haphazard as other seasons. However, episodes 8 and 9 are some of the series best. Those two episodes are absolutely amazing, but it took forever to get there and the finale was a bit of a letdown. Hopefully the finale will be revisited further down the line because I am really curious about a character's fate, but there were also a few other things that could have been handled in a better way. There were still big tones or overarching themes, which is a huge piece of the mythology of Fargo. Season 3 just did not meet my expectations, but hopefully other people were not disappointed.I suggest this show for absolutely anyone and I am so mad I have to wait so long for Season 4! Please watch it!!!


                
I am yet to see a few other promising TV series that were broadcast this year, but I have no doubt that as good as they may be (and some are according to echoes so far), this 3rd season of 'Fargo' will still be among the best. The ten episodes continue to explore the universe of the mid-North United States which was first created in the Coen Brothers 1996 film although for the first time in the history of the film and series the story does not happen in Fargo, North Dakota but in Minnesota. No need to worry - the place is as cold, as white, as populated by frozen infinite landscapes as in the titular place, and the story is at the same time cool and disturbing, populated with a landscape of characters that confront good and bad and bring together the fantastic and macabre with the day-to-day America. The guidance of Ethan and Joel Coen who sign as producers of the seasons is felt in the coherence of world which is being brought to screen despite the different locations, characters and casting.The good woman cop in the small town is now called Gloria Burgle (acted by Carrie Coon in a manner consistent with the previous similar characters in the series), she has now a teen-age son and is divorcing her husband who left her for a man. When her step-father is assassinated one of the murders taking place in the area becomes personal. The bad guys are divided on different levels of evil. We have the local businessmen with their local conflicts and misdemeanors. We have the corrupt parole officer who sins into falling in love with one of his parolees (acted by the beautiful and amazing actress Mary Elizabeth Winstead) and from here on things can only spiral down. And the the top of the scale of evil we have the agent of the mob trying to launder many millions of dollars while taking over local businesses, The performance of David Thewlis in this role is fantastic, it's one of these role and faces which one will never forget, and will probably never encounter again because the role is all composition. The quartet of exquisite acting performances is completed by Ewan McGregor who acts two brothers who are so different in character that it took me reaching the 3rd or 4th episode to realize the same actor is playing both. It is very seldom that such a level of acting happens in TV series.A lot can be written (some was already written) about the action, how it is constructed, how much role the coincidences play, whether there are big holes in the story, continuity problems or gaffes, or whether some of the shorter (the East Berlin opening, the Holocaust survivor intrusion) or longer (the full episode about the comics SF writer grandpa) side stories add value or distract the attention. In my opinion most of the material that was criticized was intentionally made as it appears on screen. Have really the stories described in the season happened in reality, as claimed at the beginning of each episode? I doubt. They are not that much credible in details, but they are true to the world of the Coens. Life is complicated, sometimes funny, sometimes sad, many times scare, we do not understand all that happens around us. So is the universe created on screen by the Coen brothers in the original movie and continued by the TV series. I love it as it is because I love life.


                
Season 2 review:Coming off of no doubt a flawless season 1 filled with amazing characters created by Noah Hawley and one of the best villain played by Billy bob Thornton, how can you possibly top season ones season?? I mean it was perfect!!!! Easy. Noah Hawley decided to have season 2 set in 1979 as a prequel. Where true detective failed in its sophomore season, Fargo succeeded. Better characters are introduced to us this season and just when I thought there couldn't be a better villain than in season one...the curtains lift to introduce us to mike Mulligan who is absolutely brilliant and just as good with top notch dialogue and humor. There are many easter eggs in this season to connect to the first season and a wink at the film just as the first season. This season is superior to the first and has now been renewed for a third I can't wait to see the direction and characters. Each episode is filled with laugh out loud moments followed by drama with an unbelievable soundtrack. If ever you were to label a season a masterpiece the second season is such. It's the most fun I've ever had watching TV and finding and connecting the subtle clues thrown in. This season will win Many awards and has now staked it's claim as one of the best shows in history. If you haven't watched you are incredibly lucky I wish I could binge up to date. Congrats to Noah Hawley showing show runners how you come back BETTER then EVER


                
This season attempts to be ultra-artistic, bringing out very obscure moments and scenes, even the entirety of episode 3, that feel like a waste of time. Side stories and random moments that never fall into place and instead fade out of existence doesn't make great entertainment nor art for that matter.
I liked the movie Fargo, but this series is so much better. The cast, the acting, the tension, the irony and incredibly dark humor is what makes this show so good. I'll break this review down by season
 
Season 1- 10/10. The best season of Fargo. Billy Bob Thornton, Martin Freeman and Alison Tillman, are all phenomenal, and heck even key and peele make this show better. The story is simple but unfolds and takes twists and turns that make it great. Every scene Lorne Malvo is in, he steals and is truly one of the best tv characters ever. Bob Odenkirk's incompetent police chiefs make me burst out laughing more than a few times. Overall one of the best seasons of tv I have watched. Second season 9/10. Great season. Again cast is phenomenal. Especially plemmons and dunst. The 70s backdrop also makes for some entertaining Easter eggs and references to go around with another great story of crime. One the best episodes come halfway through the season and the tension that creator Noah Hawley creates is unparalleled. My only complaint is that the finale was a little bit of a downer after two incredible episodes right before it. Season 3- 7/10. Mcgregor and Winstead shine, but I think this show lost its edge in this season. The story and characters weren't very interesting, and there wasn't the surprise factor the other seasons had. Still quality tv though. I'm hoping the eventual 4th season will learn from this seasons mistakes and create something fresh because the show's formula ran out its welcome in this season.


                
Reviewing this series really should mean reviewing each season distinctly, but I'm too lazy for that and my overall for each would be equivalent anyway. Each Fargo season is an original story, well written and superbly acted. I found myself intrigued at each beginning and sad that it was over at each conclusion. Each story is nicely eccentric in the mold of the namesake, yet not at all derivative. All of the protagonists and antagonists are engaging, fascinating, and fun to watch. Extraordinary work. Just excellent. I can't wait for them to make another season.


                
Fargo! This word seems to have a Midas touch. Whatever it is associated with, it makes them a masterpiece. Be it 1996 Hollywood movie or ongoing TV series having the same title, they all have been phenomenal.Fargo the largest city in North Dakota, America sited along the verge of Red river. It is famous for heavy snowfall and stormy weather but the crimes as knotty as depicted did their best to keep the atmosphere hot.Since I am here to talk about the ongoing series; particularly recently concluded second season; so let's stick to the plan! Even though both seasons have different setup and story line but the connection between characters is quite interesting. The whole story has been portrayed as an impeccable poetry which keeps you engaged till the very end. Not even for once in all ten episodes, it allows you to blink an eye.The cinematography is something you don't see every day. Every frame looks like a well brushed painting. It reminds you Wes Anderson's work such as The Grand Budapest Hotel.The characters and their backdrop are very carefully written. Every incident leads to another and there are no loop holes in the script. The shrewdness of Mike Milligan, rivalries of Gerhardt family and the savagery of Hanzee dent are something which can haunt you in your dreams. The behavioral change in the Hanzee's character comes as a shocker. All the actors leave their mark on your mind when you watch it. To name a few; Patrick Wilson as Lou Solverson, Zahn Mcclarnon as Hanzee Dent and Bokeem Woodbine as Mike Milligan; have done a terrific job. You will fall in love with Cristin Milioti as Betsy Solverson. Had her character been removed from the story and the whole show would have been a mediocre gang-war drama. She will definitely bring smile to your face. To wrap up, I would say that 'Fargo' is a magical show. The urge to finish once started is irrepressible. If you haven't watched it already, I don't know what you are doing with your life.


                
I decided to give this a watch as I enjoyed the movie so much and love Billy Bob Thornton. I was not disappointed. It starts slowly with mild humor but soon the darkest humor starts to build. There have been only two episodes so far but the story lines are so well written and the comedy is so dry and razor sharp, one can't help but laugh. I hope that Colin Hanks will have a continuing role as this seems to be the perfect vehicle for him. This is some of FX's best. I'm finding that more intelligent TV is possible and this proves it. Billy Bob Thornton, in one scene, is showing his contempt for a thug who is threatening him in one of the funniest scenes I've ever seen on network TV. Although there is a lot of violence, somehow they make it all so funny! This is a show that is bound to get better and better with character development. I would love to see Billy Bob stay with the show but somehow I doubt he will. I can't imagine he would be satisfied with a weekly television series. I would watch it just to see his humorous character each week but the other performers will not disappoint. Lets have more shows like this please.


                
After Dexter finished, I was in denial to see any other series. Not even the trailers.Fargo...WOW...Billy Bob Thornton...WOW...mind-blowing. I have no words to describe, how excellent is the story, the actors, each episode which doesn't leave you with a big question-mark on your forehead as a sucker (as so many other series do, because they think that this will make bigger numbers and more success - thumbs down-), but it leaves you filled and comfortable to expect with more open eyes/heart/mind the next episode! Genius!Seems October 2015, wayyy too long, for the next season to begin. Which will be a new story, with total other characters and so on. GENIUS. I loved the idea and only. A MUST watch.And why did I vote 9/10? Nothing is perfect, right?


                
The aesthetic of violence, The credit (maybe) of this fascinating expression goes to Quentin Tarantino, He makes his movies exactly as he said, and here we go, we can find another masterpiece of violence and totally different of Tarantino's work.I've seen the first and second season two years ago, and fall in love with the show, since then I'm waiting for season 3, before two days I knew there already a third season aired in April ( my mistake I missed the news) so in couple days I finished ten episode, and I felt nostalgia to re-watching some details that I loved in the show and the movie also (1996) first of all I'll write about the accent, I'm so far away of being an expert in American accents, because it's not my first language, I never noticed that there's a certain accent belongs to a certain area, but in Fargo ( always the events took place in Minnesota) I liked the very special way they pronounce some words that makes their accent, words like: u know ? No, yea? sorta, OK then, etc ... and it's impressive that all actress and actresses did good performance with the accent including British actress (it's difficult to me all the same)there's a pattern in making the characters or the events ( broken relationship between siblings, a police officer who strangling with a stupidity of bureaucracy, a pure evil in culture sociopath, murder by mistake or in purposed leads to Carnegie in the end) EVERY season is a different story but they're connected somehow together, in season 3 the most powerful thing they give us when the deaf Guy from first season shows up, it wasn't waste of time after all
Loved the way they fulm d such a twisted tale. The tv series by the same name was equally masterful.


                
All that begins, culminates; atom into atom, ice into ice, skies into skies, oceans into oceans, blood into blood, bones into bones. And while traversing this endless loop you chance upon the people you are destined to meet; to achieve a bit, to lose a little, to make a mistake here and there, to commit a sin or two.Well, meet Lester Nygaard. He is not your regular protagonist aka hero.He is just an average American man with just an average wife, feeding his family through just an average job, brooding over just the average household troubles, and of course the not so average washing machine. The worst of all his possessions, however, is his naïve gutless heart. Bumping into Sam Hess wasn't a chance encounter, it was a call of fate. A broken nose leads him to the hospital in Bimidji where he finds the wicked Lorne Malvo seated very casually with his partially amusing, partially menacing demeanour. Now when you see Malvo at first, your heart would probably skip a beat or two. That man deserves it. He is tempting you see; with his black eyes, with his precisely chosen words, with his sinful thoughts. Could remind you of the one-who-can't-be-named, you could say? This man will not only offer you the forbidden fruit, he will watch you gulp it down your throat while he dusts his hands off standing far in a corner, or perhaps stares at you from behind through the looking glass. He knows how to flaunt the worth of the sin you are yet to commit. It is difficult to be careful in front of him because the apple that you just ate? It will swell your heart with an other-worldly courage and the gutless stomach that you always whined about? Oh, it is seething with the darkest of your dreams now.When Lester met Malvo, little did he know that the highway ahead is crooked. The Yes never made its way out of Lester's mouth but Malvo could see through the red crystal beneath his shivering chest. And in another night, Sam Hess was en route his journey to death. What started with a few minutes of confused silence of Lester gradually turns into a vicious cycle of long old troubles being resolved, some through blood, some through bullets.What if they're wrong and you're right?A hammer into Pearl's head, once, twice, thrice...a few more till she drops dead on the floor. In his panic, Lester makes a call to Malvo, the scavenger who is delighted to have finally made his first hunt. A few minutes later when you see Malvo there, your heart takes a back seat, feeling a bit of pity for Lester followed by a sigh of relief, except Malvo isn't there to rescue him. By the time Molly, the deputy police officer reaches the house, Lester is six feet down in the shit he never intended to create. A dead officer, a dead woman; he chooses to bump into the wall and collapse.The most charming element of the show is that it is full of unintentional escapes, some leading you home, some into the wild. But nothing ever rests, mind you! Every detail grows into building towards the next grand climax, and what follows is more dilemma, and chaos. In the most iconic scenes, however, the violence is barely visible. You won't find a distorted skull, a rotten body, or a pool of blood grossing you out. Instead, what would hit you hard will be the multiple layers of haze plunging you into the wayward fate of Bimidji, leaving you somewhat hollow.When Lorne ruthlessly kills every mobster in the headquarters, it is beautifully filmed from the outside. The screams get louder, the suspense thickens, but all that is visible is the camera moving along with Malvo, window to window, floor to floor, revealing nothing until the glass breaks and you finally see the mess inside.Since you have been a witness of this sublime whodunit, you know the truths, however absurd they may be, but in the randomness of all the happenings, every single encounter has missing pieces and that is what leaves you helpless. It's all there, but it still isn't, as told by one of the FBI agents. It concretes the recent twist as the two agents make their way into the story. Not sure if anyone else got reminded of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern from Hamlet there, though *Shrugging*.The brutality proceeds hiding beneath the cloak of the ordinary, everyday suburban life. Life and death can both feel random and meaningless, that's the point Fargo sends home with each turn that it takes.Neglecting the screams of what he burns and whom he kills, Lorne Malvo heartlessly steers the ship towards the deadliest shores, posing a riddle after riddle.Why does a human eye see more shades of green than any colour?The boy who is raised in the woods and the wolves who encircle him.A fox, a rabbit, a cabbage.The savage chronicle of lies, regrets, puzzles and deception lusts for the viewer's pity and hatred at the same time. The road keeps getting narrower, and muddier.The most cinematic scenes from the series are, however, the many ways Stavros Milos encounters his losses, inch by inch. The biblical fables infuse more drama into the killings - the flashback from his past, the bloodbath, the flood of flies, King's death, the raining fish. God is real, he cries, oblivious to the fact that it wasn't God all this while, but the wolf residing just around the corner.By the end of this 10-episode long season, Lester turns into a monster full of vindictive plots. The contrast reflects through the parallels; when he murders his first wife, he can't think straight and ends up inviting more trouble home, but 9 episodes later, his second wife Linda becomes a very well-plotted target of his own demons. Like he says in the elevator, the old Lester would let it slide by, but this one, no, not this one. He is familiar with the lengths Malvo can go to, except this time he also knows how to weigh the risk well. To save his resurrected self, he keeps committing these bizarre frenzied acts - from setting up his brother to letting Linda die.While the whole series leaves your heart discontent, the last episode marks the perfect stroke. Gus killing Lorne puts all the loose ends together. For a while, it feels that it came too easy and the tables will turn, but Gus puts him down before he could even get up. Lester dies while running across the thin ice and that is the absolute satisfaction the story deserves. All this while you think there is a pattern, except there isn't, and that is what Morton's Fork chooses in the end.
Since it's only the Pilot, I can't write a complete review of the entire 6 episode series but I can say my wife and I won't miss one and will undoubtedly lobby for more episodes. With good to excellent regional dialects, the dreariness of the area in winter and blank stares of the otherwise reasonably intelligent people, it has captured the essence of the movie Fargo, absent, of course the irreplaceable Francis McDormand, who wears the curse of such a huge success by an otherwise rather plain journeyman actor who may never again reach that pinnacle, even as the husband of one of the irrepressible Cohen brothers. Too violent, too much strong language so well done they are basically ignorable in the context. Excellent production values with music which enhances the mood without drowning out the dialogue.


                
