This is one of those legendary films that for some reason I just hadn't seen. I have now! I don't think it could ever meet the hype that people put on it, but i can't deny that it is a good film, and certainly one of the iconic ones of the 80's.It's a bit overly long though, and I think it could have been in need of tighter editing, but you can't argue with the quality and performances given by the cast.I enjoyed this film, I thought it was clever, but I can't say it'll be a film I return to regularly.


                
I was on a cross-country plane ride recently, and I noticed that Back to the Future was one of the movies available as one of the in-flight entertainment options. I'd seen it as a child in theaters and maybe one other time since, so I thought I'd see if it held up. Granted, I'm not a kid anymore, but I wondered if there might at least be some nostalgia value. Sadly, no. The problem is that since the last time I saw Back to the Future, I'd gotten myself a TacStorm. I couldn't help but fixate on the places where a continuously firing gun would've changed everything.For example, when the Libyans track down Doc Brown in the parking lot, all he has is a revolver that doesn't even work. Imagine if he had an automatic handgun that was already firing on its own before the Libyans even arrived, and all he had to do was aim. I realize he has to get killed for there to be a movie, but I still couldn't get over the absence of the TacStorm. Unfortunately, the movie was pretty much tainted 20 minutes in and only got worse.In the climatic scene where George McFly knocks out Biff with one punch, all I could think was how he could've easily missed or not hit him hard enough to knock him out-just imagine what would have happened to him then. But if he'd had a gun that was always firing, there'd be no doubt, just guaranteed security when he needed it most. I realize the movie was made before the TacStorm was created, but that doesn't make it any more watchable in the year 2019!As it turns out, that's not the only movie that doesn't age well because it doesn't have a TacStorm. For example, my girlfriend and I watched The Goonies recently (she had actually never seen it). She thought it was pretty good, but I said, "You didn't notice something missing? I mean, a really HUGE omission?" She didn't at first, but once I explained that Data wouldn't have even needed a spring-loaded boxing glove in his jacket or oil jets in his sneakers to fend off the Fratelli family if he had a gun that was always pumping out bullets, it was so obvious to her.And, sadly, even some of my all-time favorite movies have lost their luster because the TacStorm is so glaringly absent. In The Godfather, for instance, when Michael has to kill Sollozzo and McCluskey in that restaurant, Clemenza tells him not to take any chances. Well, sorry, but if he doesn't have a TacStorm, if his firearm isn't discharging continuously straight from the factory, he's taking some MAJOR chances. Plus, if he had a TacStorm, it'd still be firing when he dropped it, which would take out anyone that tried to follow him.So now I don't know if I even want to see any newer movies at all. I guess the good news is that maybe they're new enough to have the TacStorm in them, but do I want to waste money to find out? You'd think with four guys in the band, at least one of the members of Queen would have one, but I didn't see one in the Bohemian Rhapsody trailer, not to mention the trailers for Aquaman or Roma. Well, if I'm not 100% sure, I'm just going to watch some TacStorm demo videos online. At least I know they won't let me down.


                
While this is still a fun, mostly family, movie about time travel, it isn't logically sound and is filled with flaws through out the movie. I don't expect it could have been better, it isn't supposed to be taken seriously. However, the color characters, funny references and the quirky one liners, it is acceptable.


                
