Let's start off with a statement: This film is a classic masterpiece.The writing, the characters, the dialog, the technology- it's all epic. Steven Spielberg has always been an outstanding director.This film, no matter what year is it right now, will still be a massive classic masterpiece. Everything is done correctly is this film, nothing went wrong, there wasn't a single moment when you actually feel bored, and when a film makes you feel the same as it did when it was first released in theaters- that's an marvelous achievement for a movie. I'm definitely planning on watching this trilogy a couple more times in the future (pun intended).Overall, this is one of those movies that you just have to watch at least once before you die.


                
Hilarious, clever, and fun. Definitely a good classic. Doesn't take itself too seriously, but still provides some action and tension in the movie.I thought acting was great and that though a little too eccentric, the doctor was probably the right acting for the role.The plot was clever, not overly complicated, and didn't get bogged down in any stupid time paradox details.It was nothing crazy, but I still thought it was entertaining. The cliffhanger at the ending was fun, as it implied a continuing adventure in time travel.
This year, John Hughes died, and we were reminded of the depth of his insight into subadult suspension. Being reminded of his work impressed me. What will we think when Zemeckis dies?Certainly we will be reminded of how he balanced fantasy and reality in all of his projects. Possibly it will be noted that he softened the Spielberg approach by unintuitively adding incoherence.I think I will remember two films: this one and "Roger Rabbit." These both are deceptively trivial. Was this the first mainstream movie that played as cleverly with time travel conundrums? It was not intended to spawn a sequel, and you can see that certain conventions were established that hurt the successors. But seen by itself, the idea of superimposing actors, characters and times in the same package works well. Makes this a gem.Notable is once again the scientist. You have only two types: pipe smoking, chin stroking blackboard thinker who explains, or what we have here. Lloyd is wildhaired, wild-eyed. A hardware guy, not an idea guy. An active risktaker, frantic in demeanor, but with apparently no sense of scope. For instance, he spends more time on a model of how to explain catching lightning than on the apparatus itself.The film revolves around his instabilities and mirrors those as instabilities in the world. It all starts when he bumps his head getting off the toilet, folded into his minute of death from jilted terrorists. Everything that follows is his wacky vision, joined by Marty when knocked out by the nuclear guitar amp.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
You should not watch Back to the Future looking for serious, intriguing thought experiments regarding time travel. You should watch it for what it is: a Hollywood blockbuster that seeks to make money through people's entertainment. And the profit-seeking motive is quite clear from the beginning: you see brand placement EVERYWHERE. Back to the Future, then, has all the ingredients for a Hollywood blockbuster: funny characters, unlikely plot denouements that you see coming way before it happens, very cliché characters such as the town bully, the timid nerd that becomes a hero, the damsel in distress. Also, as a 1985 blockbuster, it includes racism and sexism that would probably not be tolerated nowadays, such as the main actor shouting "the Libyans!" as a synonym of "the bad guys!", or the main character literally planning to abuse of a girl, which happens to be his mother.That being said, the movie does achieve it main goal: it is truly entertaining. I'm not the kind of person who laughs out loud when watching comedies, but in this case I couldn't avoid it. There are truly remarkable situations, especially with Marty's mother. The doctor's character is also particularly well-made, and the actor's performance is notable. In general, the creators did a good job in showing all the different funny situations that would arise from bringing an 80s kid to 1955, such as him playing rock'n roll in front of an awed audience, or Marty saying that a TV program that is just being aired is a classic that he watched in a rerun.So once you understand you shouldn't have high hopes for this movie, and that you should only look for having a good time, this movie will be very satisfactory. There are more artistic movies, better written plots, better directed ones, even funnier ones. But very often, these movies don't remain in the collective imaginary in the way this did it. The way this movie is part of today's pop culture should not be understated.


                
When this came out over 20 years ago, I thought It was solid entertainment with a clever story. It was a big hit, and spawned two sequels. I saw it at the theater and several times on VHS. Then, after an absence of time, I saw it again in the late '90s and was shocked to hear 11 blasphemes - a ridiculous amount for a comedy (and "PG-rated," to boot).Also, the character "Biff" (Thomas Wilson) was so irritating to me (he must have done a good job acting) it also fun out of viewing. I could say the same about "Marty's" father (Crispin Glover), who was a disgusting wuss. I did enjoy seeing Lea Thompson in her prime: a very pretty woman, and there were still a lot of laughs in here. She and Christopher Lloyd's "Emmet Brown" are definitely fun to watch. Michael J. Fox became an even-bigger star, thanks to this movie.The mixture of humor, action, drama, special-effects, science-fiction, etc., all made this a film a lot of people enjoyed. Why they had to include all that "language" is a mystery to me, except that it's the twisted world of Hollywood.


                
I know I've seen this movie before but I couldn't remember when or what happened. I kept getting it confused with Flight of the Navigator, a very similar movie in which a 12 year old boy disappears for eight years and suddenly comes back having not aged at all. Set in very similar time periods, it was easy to get them confused. Both are about time travel. One goes to the past and almost messes up history. One goes to the future after being gone for an extended period of time. Neither character look like they've aged. Marty is only in the past for a week, so you can't really age that much anyway.
When Marty McFly travels back in time to 1955 and spends that week with inventor Dr Emmett Brown who he knew in 1985. When Marty saves his father's life and gets hit by his grandfather's car, he has to figure out a way to get his parents together so that he'll still exist in the future. His father, once a poor businessman who gets bullied by his boss, becomes a wealthy author whose childhood bully becomes an employee and has to wax his cars.
After reading some of the Goofs on this site, I learned that there were quite a few historical errors, mostly relating to when a particular thing was first introduced to society. Silly things like a Pepsi thermometer in the soda shop that wasn't introduced to society until a couple years later. Or the type on a poster that wasn't around that year. Or the vibrato thing on Marty's guitar when he's playing at the dance. I've seen Flight of the Navigator a movie that takes place in 1986, a little more than a year after this movie.
Christopher Lloyd as an actor is awesome. He's played many roles in many different movies and TV shows. He voices the Hacker in the children's series Cyberchase. He's the criminal guy in Dennis the Menace. He plays as Doctor Emmett Brown in all the Back to the Future movies. He's the professor in the second season of the BYUtv series Granite Flats. He voices Rasputin in Disney's version of Anastasia. Those are just the movies and tv shows I can think of off the top of my head. How many movies has this guy played in? He plays all of his roles beautifully and I would definitely watch other movies that he's in. He's a great actor. He seems to get a lot of roles for villains and crazy old people, but he plays them well.


                
Okay, so maybe "Back to the Future" seems a little hokey, but it's so cool! You probably know the story: typical '80s teenager Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox) accidentally goes back to 1955. His existence is threatened when his mother Lorraine (Lea Thompson) falls for him instead of his father George (Crispin Glover). Only the zany Dr. Emmett Brown (Christopher Lloyd) can help him. Along the way he has to cope with local bully Biff Tannen.If the movie is excessively nostalgic, then they play it to good effect. I sometimes have to wonder what would happen if I accidentally went back in time and met my parents. Given what happens in this movie, it's probably best that I stay in my own time.Anyway, it's an interesting contrast/comparison between the '50s and '80s. After all, who in the '50s would have imagined Reagan becoming president, or any town having an African-American mayor? So check this movie out; it won't disappoint you.


                
If Sigmund Frued saw this movie he'd be foaming and frothing at the mouth about it's  latent theme of having your mom wanting you in a sexual way. Cokehead theories aside this is one of those movies that sums up the 80's quite nicely. Between Micheal J Fox and Huey Luis and the News on the soundtrack you can't get much more 80's. It's another movie like Ghostbusters that you watch as a kid, then see as an adult and notice alot of adult themed jokes you didn't even notice as jokes as a kid. "I don't wanna mess with no reefer addicts" That line never did make sense when I was ten.


                
It's no surprise that this film is praised by so many people. This movie is very exciting and fast paced. It doesn't take long before Marty finds him self traveling from 1985 back to the 1950. Marty's adventure to get back to his time is entertaining and keeps you on the edge of your seat. The film is also very humorous. Throughout the whole film it never really seems to drag except for one point in the middle.


                
When I first saw Back to the Future I was only 10/11 years old and I thought it was inspirational to think that a future like that was achievable in my lifetime. As a young kid it made me "think big" and that anything was possible.
I also loved the soundtrack especially Huey Lewis, those songs always remind mr of the film & being that age.


                
As time goes! 
For good or bad, time puts things in their place. The current blockbuster happens to be an empty entertainment without much interest in delving into the issues that sometimes proposes. Back to the future is an example of this evolution to the current blockbuster. The themes of the film are developing roughly and put on the table interesting points but stays on the surface. The simplistic universe that proposes a priori annoying to take the movie as a serious thing but plays a lot in their favor to take it as a simple metacomedia of the time in retrospect.
BUT there are also good things, the script of the film is a masterpiece that nowadays is studied because it is so round. Its importance lies in giving coherence to science fiction that until then was left in second place.
The characters despite not being super complex are charismatic and work wonders even if they are medium interpretations.
The audiovisual narrative is quite functional and surprises me for good.
The fast paced also helps to never disconnect and invest in the plot of the film.


                
A film that makes time travel comprehensive and very enjoyable


                
Ótimo filme trás ótimos personagens e bom enredo ótimo para assistir em família


                
Back to the Future was a Movie which showed that time traveling was possible. In late 1985 they still made a pretty good Sci-Fi movie with some comedy, This movie was one of the best at its time and due to with other parts of the movies were also made,Converting a Car into a time Machine was pretty good idea and the Model of the Car was also best due to its time. love to watch again


                
This is total conjecture, but I don't think that the story of this movie would hold up with modern audiences. Nowadays, we all find plot holes and reasons why certain parts of a story aren't true to life or human nature. Put Back to the Future under that kind of scrutiny, and I don't think it passes the test. I guess people just didn't watch movies that way back in the '80's. They didn't care that all of Marty's dreams magically came true at the end in Disney fashion; they just wanted to have a good laugh and have another thing to quote. This may be a very shallow view of the '80's, but the fact remains that audience expectations have changed drastically in the past 30 years. Even if you look at how the time travel element is handled in this and in Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure, compared to how it's used in Interstellar and X-Men: Days of Future Past, there are major differences.Regardless, it's easy to see why this became a classic and resonated with it's viewers. It has a fairly interesting plot, but is very easy to follow. It also has a lot of fun lines and exciting scenes. The use of setups and payoffs and callback devices is done very well. It may be a bit on the nose in displaying the similarities and differences from '85 to '55, but this fits with its identity as a comedy and saves the audience lots of confusion. The exposition in the beginning is also vital to nearly all of the ironic and humorous situations that payoff in the 1955 setting. However, all of the events discussed in 1985 all conveniently happened during the same week in 1955, which is hardly plausible. That aside, it is impressive that the writers were able to squeeze that much information into the first twenty minutes in such a way that it would be easy to recall.But what we care about most when watching a movie like this is whether it makes us laugh. Any comedy can be mostly excused for its plot holes if it succeeds in amusing the audience, and I would say that Back to the Future succeeds for the most part. It may not be gut-wrenchingly funny, but it is nonetheless amusing throughout. If nothing else, it is interesting to see how Marty interferes with his past and how he discovers just how unbelievably sad his parents' relationship is.This makes for a pretty good all-ages comedy. It's easy for even the youngest of viewers to understand. There's a bit of language and sexual tension, but all of the awkward scenes between Marty and his younger parents are done in such a way that the awkwardness is palpable without being raunchy or gross. There aren't any plot holes, per se, but there are a number of clichéd moments at the end and a few implausibilities in how the time travel works. Obviously, Marty's world wouldn't necessarily be better after his trip, and it's still quite possible that he wouldn't have been born or turned out the same way. But it keeps things simple and adds a nice little cherry on top. If you haven't seen this, just be aware that it is loved as a classic comedy and did not achieve its status by great execution. Certainly it is superior in many ways to other '80's comedies, but it might seem overrated to a modern viewer. Overall Rating: 8.2/10.
I was definitely late to the party on this one. I missed out on watching this at anytime over the past 26 years of my life, and I also missed watching it during the anniversary event in October 2015. I believe the adage is "better late than never", I hope it is anyway. No matter how late I was to this film, I'm glad I watched it. Back to the Future was a wonderful tale of ingenuity, diligence, and retribution. Michael J. Fox teams up with Christopher Lloyd in a quest finish his greatest invention and freely travel the realms of time.Our story begins in 1985, as we are introduced to Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox), a quintessential American teenager, forever embarrassed of his parents and seeking independence. His friendship with the zany Dr. Emmett Brown (Christopher Lloyd) is well- established as he is in tuned to the many experiments he is in the process of developing. When Doc is ready to unveil his creation, he asks Marty to meet him at the mall in the middle of the night. Shocked at Doc's explanation that he has uncovered the secret ingredient needed to power his time machine, Marty is intrigued. When a terrible accident takes place, Marty is accidentally send to November 12th, 1955 where his entire existence hangs in the balance, as he must be sure that his parents to-be meet and fall in love, in spite of the fact that his entry into the past has disrupted this. The audience accompanies Marty through a nostalgic look at life in the 50's, and all that Marty introduces to the past. Marty's trip culminates with a big finale that must spark him back to his present.No one talks about Back to the Future without mentioning the incredible on-screen chemistry between Michael J. Fox and Christopher Lloyd. Despite their vast differences in age, they pull off a believable well-established friendship beautifully on-screen. Several scenes throughout involve just the two of them, a type of movie in which chemistry is crucial. Another bright spot of the film is the shooting. With many special effects, especially in the climax, it needs to be believable or the story would fall apart. Robert Zemeckis obviously directs a beauty with Back to the Future and is a joy for audiences from beginning to end.A powerful message emerges as one watches Back to the Future. Many of the film's leads at one point has their character questioned. At the beginning of the film we meet George McFly (Crispin Glover), who doesn't look like he's strayed far from the 1950's even in the 80's. He is getting pushed around in the film, like he has all of his life, and seems to be destined for a life filled with this type of abuse. He seems to have no respect from his family members, or anyone else that comes into contact with him. Marty shows us, through his journey that sometime all it takes to make someone realize they deserve better is a little confidence from a friend. We also learn early on in the film that Marty has a passion for music and a dream to pursue it. He gets a big chance to realize this musical dream at his parent's dance in the past. He convinces his dad to pursue his own writing dream when he visits him in 1955, and seeing his father's dream pan out, one can only assume Marty will take his own advice in the future. One can also take a lesson from Doc Brown's perseverance throughout the film. He is never appreciated for his ingenuity, and often thought of as crazy for pursuing his scientific endeavors. In spite of all this criticism, Doc presses on and remains steadfast in his scientific exploits. There is something in this film for everyone, and the audience is given enough tools to find whatever suits them.Now that I have finally seen Back to the Future, I can understand why it has remained such a staple for decades after its release. This story provides a feel good story of normal, good people overcoming the evils of other normal people. Not an overwhelming moral story to the point where it is cheesy and unbelievable, but one that tugs at this reviewer's heartstrings nonetheless. Back to the Future is a four star prize for me, and I would recommend it to anyone that likes to follow an engaging story with fun characters. One does not even have to be a fan of time travel movies, as I am not, to enjoy this film. I'm glad I finally gave this movie a chance, and I will probably be along for the whole series.


                
'Back to the future' is about time travel. This movie was released in 1985. The story of this movie is that one weird scientist invented a time machine. Marty, a friend of him, accidentally used the machine and went back to the past. He went to 1950s when Ronald Reagan was still a second-rate actor. He met his parents who were very young and changed their life. Then he came back to the future. The plot is simple but gripping at the same time. The scene which Marty's mother fall in love with her son, not knowing who he is, was hilarious. Marty tried hard to unite his high-school-age parents to save his own existence. Also, it was so interesting to see what the life in America was like in 1980s. For instance, people usually wore checked shirt, jeans and Nike sneakers. I was surprised that They are not that different from today. Even though this movie is a little bit old and predictable, the movie was so much fun that I lost count of the time. Good casts, nice plot, humor, love and music well mixed in this movie. I really recommend that you should watch this classic movie.
I like this movie okay. It was not something that I would really want to have in my DVD collection as I am more into horror than comedy, but this movie was entertaining. This is mainly due to Christopher Lloyd than anything else, the man brings real energy to his role. Michael J. Fox was good to in the lead role, one has to wonder if "Family Ties" held him back a little as he had some rather successful movies during the 80's and could have done more without the television commitment. This one is about time travel, time travel to the past. The next film would feature time travel to the future and the past. That one is a film I can not watch, it is just to hard to for me. It also has not aged well as the future they paint is a future of the 80's, as fashion is never going to be like that I am afraid. This one though has a guy use the professor's time machine and ending back in the past where he kind of interrupts the first meeting of his mother and father. This in turn makes it so he may no longer exist shortly. Thankfully, the professor is around and so he has to work on getting the time machine, which is a car, in working order and Fox has to work on getting his parents back on the right track. Like I said, this one works, as you can recreate a time that is past, the second one doesn't because you can not see what the future is going to be like. The third one though was okay.


                
The kind of comedy/adventure/sci-fi hybrid that the 1980s did very well, and which you just don't see anymore."Back to the Future" solidified Michael J. Fox as a bona fide movie star, and featured a deliriously wacky Christopher Lloyd playing a scientist who invents a time travel machine. Robert Zemeckis keeps things light and playful -- he's one of many directors (like Ron Howard, Steven Spielberg, etc.) who started out making enjoyable romps until he felt the need to become "serious" and started making movie crap like "Forrest Gump." I didn't fall in love with the "Back to the Future" series, but I see its appeal.Grade: B+


                
It's pretty alright, almost as good as love on a leash


                
This is a great movie. Back to the Future part II is better. But still this a great movie. With great acting. It also has great story line. I hope you don't think that is spam it might ruin your wonderful community.


                
My favorite movie is "Back To The Future" which is made by Robert Zemeckis. The main point of the movie is time exploration using time-machine. It was memorable from beginning to end. I think the moment that Marty tries to make the link was moving. Because the link could holds two people together. At that moment I thought what would happen to them if Marty does not make his parents meet? I cannot imagine. It is not really predictable. I want to watch other sequels if I have free time. Therefore, I want to recommend that you watch the movie, Back To The Future.


                
Since the beginning of time we have wondered, what it would be like to rewind time, and undo those things we either did not intend to do, or to do something we should have done in the past. This could alter our lives, in the present or future as we know it. The movie Back to the Future (1985), allowed me to live this fantasy. Although, the plot was based on a realistic scientific possibility, I know it to be just a fantasy in realization.The plot was Doc Brown, (Christopher Lloyds) creation that a DeLorean could indeed travel through time. However, during a bad transaction that had taken place with the Doc, and some extremists, the Doc was shot and killed, while Marty (Michael J. Fox), the lead character escapes the shootout in the famed Delorean automobile. The car would travel back in time, to 1955, as he was driving away at a heightened rate of speed in the automobile. The thrill of this movie for me begins when Marty travels back in time, and he accidentally gets hit by his grandfather in his own car. He was then taken to his home for care, where his young mother, falls in love with him. This would create a chain reaction, which would prevent his mother and father from ever meeting and would put his own, existence at stake.Throughout this movie his whole mission was to find the old Doc, so he could help him get back to 1985. This strategic maneuvering would ensure that his mother and father met, and inform the Doc about what happens to him in the future, so he could hopefully prevent it. After all this was accomplished the goal was to dodge the character of the story, Biff (Thomas F. Wilson), the young man who was head over heels for Marty's mother. Biff wasted no time clobbering Marty every chance he got, in order to make Marty's mother not like Marty, by proving that Marty was a non-worthy wimp. Overall the idea of going back in time was awesome! However, the whole idea of my mother being attracted to me was very creepy. I believe that many of the movie goers would agree with me. Yes, the technological twist, drama and theatrics were great for its time (1985); but the close relationship, between mother and son, was a little over the top for me.


                
Anybody who hates this movie probably hates babies and laughs at people when they're a few dollars short at the grocery store as they're picking through their groceries to see what they can put back until they get a little more money. What else could be said to sell Back to the Future in a review? It's an 80s movie but it's really timeless, winding up as a 50s period piece as much as anything else. Flux capacitor's owe their success to Doc, and 88 miles as hour became forever a part of American folklore. If you haven't seen this movie you need to. It's not a piece of art, or a script with many layers of emotional discovery, but it's a fun movie and is something that can be re-watched time and again. Rating 30/40


                
'Back to the Future' was hugely successful, mainly with teens and mainly because it ties in to their hang-ups, angst, and fantasies. Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox) deals with them all as teens only wish they could, jumping on a skateboard when things get too sticky, outsmarting the bully, and zipping through time in a REALLY souped-up Delorean. Fox doesn't so much act as hyperventilate his way through the film; he is constantly on the move, frenetic and frantic, forever running to or from one thing or the other, and shouting "Doc!" a lot. His energy level is admirable, even though I got tired just watching him. This is precisely what teenagers, particularly teen boys, empathize with so deeply in this movie. The best solution to any problem is to not stand still. Run like hell and maybe something will come to you. The film's script is clever and in keeping with Fox's performance, really over-the-top and unashamedly silly at times. With the help of Christopher Lloyd's goofily eccentric Doc Brown, he travels back in time to 1955 and meets his own parents, before they were married. There are a number of nifty twists and turns in the time-travel plot, and the other characters are very well-cast. Crispin Glover does a great job as Marty's dim-bulb father George as does Lea Thompson, portraying Lorraine, his mother. Lorraine develops a crush on Marty back in the '50s (obviously not knowing who he is, or will be) and one of several problems Marty faces is making sure that she and George end up together. Glover and Thompson, along with Thomas F. Wilson as Biff, the bully, actually outshine Fox's breathless portrayal and Lloyd's incessant mugging. The gags and situations are sometimes obvious but have a good batting average; upon learning from Marty that the president in 1985 is Ronald Reagan, the 1955 Doc Brown says, quite understandably, "Ronald Reagan? The actor? Who's the vice-president... Jerry Lewis?" There is also an entertaining sequence at a high school dance where Marty and a back-up band perform a freaked-out, almost 'metal' version of 'Johnny B. Goode.' The film even takes it a step further, having Marvin Berry (Chuck's cousin) call him in the middle of the performance to let him listen, making the almost blasphemous suggestion that this is what gave Chuck Berry the impetus to create rock and roll! 'Back to the Future' is so good-natured, though, that it gets away with this as well as Lorraine's flirtation with Marty. Fox and the film are sufficiently likable that it all seems harmless, which it is. Two popular sequels followed, but they lack the charm and upbeat feeling of the first movie, a frenzied fun-ride through time.
