SPOILERS When you build a time machine, it just has to be a Deloren really. The corrupt car manufacturer's ultimate advert for his death trap vehicle, "Back to the Future" was your regular 1980s classic. Well written, entertaining to watch and with a killer soundtrack, it's a film which has managed to survive the test of time. Released midway through one of the most irrelevant decades in history, this Michael J Fox driven piece is great.When Dr Emmett Brown (Christopher Lloyd) creates a time machine, he's made his greatest, and most risky invention. Shot for stealing the plutonium power source, Brown's invention undertakes it's first major expedition with young Marty McFly (Fox) behind the wheel. Travelling back thirty years to the 1950s, Marty finds himself in his home town of Hill Valley and in the company of his lovestruck mother (Lea Thompson) and useless father (Crispin Glover). Destroying their entire relationship, Marty manages to completely screw up his entire future. Still, with no way to get home, and a school bully on the prowl, he's got all the time in the world to fix it.Perhaps the one set of films that Robert Zemeckis will ever be remembered for, "Back to the Future" and it's two sequels will forever be remembered as an entertaining piece of cinema. From the opening of the film where Fox glides around the fictional town of Hill Valley to the sound of Huey Lewis' "Power of Love", you can tell what decade it is, and yet you continue to watch.It might be harsh to really slate the 1980s as much as we do, after all, we did get entertaining films like "Ghostbusters", "Ferris Bueller's Day Out" and "The Breakfast Club", but for every one good film, there were so many dire productions. A bit like the current box office climate, you knew that the majority were a disappointing mess, but there would always turn up one rare beauty. "Back to the Future" is one of those.Led by some straight forward but solid performances, the film just has something about it. The witty notion of the hypocritical mother and her secret youth, that one magnificent scene where Michael J Fox performs "Johnny B Goode" at the school prom and Marvin Berry (Harry Waters Jnr) phones his cousin Chuck, all add together to leave you with a huge grin on your face. It's an icon for an age, and for once it makes you grateful for the decade.Robert Zemeckis has never really found the highs of the "Back to the Future" trilogy (1994's "Forrest Gump" is his only other major success) since the final part was released in 1990. Ultimately though, there are worse positions to be in. A rare joy in an otherwise dire decade, this film and the continuing parts, was an entertaining piece of cinema which left you happy and content. It's perfect afternoon viewing, and the one surprise is that it isn't shown more often.
Even though I'm still convinced that the eighties are one of the worst decades in recent history when it comes to movies and music and even though I never liked Sci-Fi movies, there is one big exception to that rule. In my opinion "Back to the Future" is not only one of the best movies in the genre, it's also in my list of all time favorite movies. When I saw it for the first time, I remember to be blown away by it. But than again, I was only 10 years old, not exactly an age on which you've already seen many really good movies to which you can compare another one. But even now, 20 years after its first release and after I've seen hundreds of movies, I still like it a lot.It's 1985 and Marty McFly is a typical teenager who doesn't like his parents and who has some problems at school. His best friend is Doc Brown, a weird inventor of all kinds of (useless) machines. But this time he has invented something that is much more interesting. He has created a plutonium-powered time machine based on a DeLorean. But when something goes wrong, Marty is accidentally sent back to 1955, the time in which his parents still were young. Not only has he got to adapt to this entirely new environment, he also has to make sure that nothing is changed, because that might have serious consequences for the future...I guess the best reason why this movie works so well and feels so timeless is because they don't use the time machine to go forward. Instead of showing us the future, which wouldn't look exactly like it is right now, they have chosen to go back 30 years, a time period which they new very well and could recreate perfectly. If they hadn't done this, the movie would have felt dated one day and no-one would have liked it because it was far from possible. Another good thing about this movie is the acting. Take for instance Michael J. Fox. Not everything that he has done in his career was very successful, but in this movie he shines. I truly believe that this is one of his best performances ever. The same for Christopher Lloyd. Even though his Dr. Emmett Brown looks like if he could have come out of a cartoon, his acting gives the character something likable and makes you forget about that 'problem'.Overall I really liked this movie a lot. It's one of the finest examples in Sci-Fi movies and I can keep watching it time after time. That's why I believe that this movie doesn't deserve a rating lower than 8/10.


                
Back To The Future is a movie about a boy who's 16 and his name is Marty McFly he lives in Hill Valley. He has a friend, a scientist named Emett Brown (a.k.a Doc') and a girlfriend named Jennifer. Marty's dream is to become one of the best guitar players in the world but he thinks about giving this dream up when his band is rejected for the high school prom night. The same day, Doc calls Marty and asks him to come at 1 a.m on a car park in town and at this point, the movie knows an unexpected turn... This movie is one of the best "sci-fi comedies" that I ever seen because it has all the elements to make you laugh and give you some suspense with an extraordinary soundtrack.


                
I want to add my voice to the many who have reviewed this 1985 classic positively. It's a simple and fun movie with a wild and far-fetched story. Marty McFly, with the aid of his mad scientist friend, is able to travel 30 years into the past, where he meets his parents when they were his age. He both prevents history from being changed and yet changes it for the better. A lot of the laughs comes from comparing the town in 1955 and 1985. The film has fully fleshed out characters and a heart-warming, satisfying feel. It's hard to forget how popular this film was when it was released. This movie has withstood the test of time because it can certainly be enjoyed 30 years later.
This movie has everything, romance, action, and, best of all, science.It's a movie for everyone. Especially the people who don't like science fiction, because they'll learn to like it. It's great, the geek gets the girl, the bully is taken down, there's a crazy doctor and the kid fixes his parents' past. It's pretty amazing. The characters themselves were true to the setting and represented the 1980's and the 1950's perfectly. The DeLorean was the coolest time machine ever. If I learned anything from this movie, it's that you have to ride in style. It had a great plot, good camera work, some scientific accuracy, and a smooth ending. While I loved all of those things, there are a few things I would change. There were a few questions that weren't answered. What happened between 1955 and 1985 that made things the way they are? There are too many things that happened in those thirty years that weren't explained. Biff, George, and Loraine still had lives and their stories weren't explained. And then, on top of that, unless you see "Back to the Future Part II", the ending is just a huge cliffhanger. Why does the DeLorean suddenly fly? Who what's wrong with Marty's kids? What does Doc mean "Roads? Where we're going, we don't need roads!"? I guess ending it that way was a good move because then, you want to see Part II, you NEED to see Part II, or else you'll be left with a million questions that are left unanswered. It was the greatest, strangest, and most confusing two minutes of the entire movie, but that's what makes it so great. All in all, it was a great movie and definitely a science-fiction classic. I loved and I would recommend this movie to every one. If you're not a science-fiction fan, you will be, after experiencing the magic of "Back to the Future".
Back to the future is one movie that contains excellent visual effects, a nice story plot and the directing is just excellent. The movie has a beautiful screenplay, and the movie puts the full stop in the statement, "never a dull moment."Michael J Fox was the desired man cast to play the lead role Marty McFly, but he turned it down due to scheduling conflicts, so Eric Soltz was cast in his place. After filming had begun, Zemeckis and Spielberg felt Soltz was not portraying the character well enough and knew this was a casting error, so they had to re-cast and ask Fox to try and make time to be in the movie. So Fox had to re-arrange his schedule time to be able to shoot Family Ties (TV Series) and the movie at the same time, this recasting meant, an extra 3 million production cost, as all the scenes that Eric had done had to be redone and Fox was so busy, that it was said that he only got 5 hours of sleep a day at the time.Marty McFly (Michael J Fox) is a teenager from the Eighties who befriends a slightly coco scientist Doctor Brown (Christopher Lloyd). During one of their meetings Doctor Brown mistakenly (due to an accident) sends Marty 30 years into the past, 1955 to be exact. Marty while in the past, mistakenly interrupts his parents meeting and he must find a way to fix it or else he will no longer exist. He also has to help the Doctor Brown of 1955 get him (Marty) Back to the future.Back to the Future was a financial success the movie's 100 days production cost was 19 million dollars (including the recasting cost) and it made over 380 million dollars in the box office. It was also a critical acclaim winning an Oscar for Best Sounding Editing.The balance in this movie is what makes it a most watch the movie's transgression from comic to science fiction to romance/drama, is what makes it such a most watch, it takes its time to explain even the complexity of time travel, that at the end even with the slightest of details that made no sense I actually was convinced and doubted not that Doctor Brown did it.Back to the Future is a movie hit for all to see and enjoy, it was that good that two sequels were added to it, Back to the Future II and Back to the Future III although the release dates for the sequels were 1989 and 1990 respectively all maintained the time of 1985 when the first time travel happened. So in the end of Back to the Future III, we were back in 1985.www.lagsreviews.com


                
Back to the futur is a film you simply never want to stop watching
I was greatly looking forward to this movie and it didn't disappoint me


                
A film i first saw when i was seven still stands up as one of my top ten films. with the clever cinematography and inventive ideas makes it entertaining and nostalgic to watch. the story is one that is at times.Ease to relate to while at the same time transports you to a different place.if you haven't already i definitely recommend watching it asap.Its the type of film i wish someone didn't make cause i want to but i guess its to late for that.5 words that i would use to describe this film. fun creative entertain timeless nostalgic.if that hasn't convinced you that it is worth a watch i don't know what will.


                
This film is timeless because it is about a topic that will always intrigue us, time travel and what would life be like if history was changed. It has aged very well, and I think it will continue to do so. The film is about a teenager, Marty, that is having trouble in school, his father is being bullied by his supervisor and his mother constantly reminisces about the past. He is friends with a mad inventor, who stole plutonium for a time machine, as was shot because of it. Marty, to avoid being shot himself, climbs aboard the time machine and is accidental sent back in time to when his father met his mother. As he prevented his parents meeting, Marty then has to get his parents together so that he can be born. I loved the ending 'you need to come with me, back to the future'. A perfect way to set it up for a sequel. I thoroughly enjoyed it!
When I review films or shows I rate them on what they should be, in my opinion.Back to the Future is funny and has a great story line. Yes it's cheesy in parts but only a little. The 2nd and 3rd are very good as well but the first is definitely the best.Christopher Lloyd is brilliant in it. He portrays a mad scientist very, very well. Best time machine film I've seen.Michael J. Fox plays Marty, a cool kid who is eager to get into the music industry very well as well I would definitely recommend this to anyone!!Back to the Future=8/10


                
Here's a movie that was entertaining when it came out in the mid-Eighties and once again when I watched it today. The issue I have is with the IMDb ratings system that ranks this picture in the number #48 spot as I write this, with "Citizen Kane" at #45 and "Vertigo" at #51. For me, this doesn't compute. No one can justify to me how this comedy, sci-fi flick gets honored as one of the Top Fifty movies of all time.Well hopefully, my minor little rant doesn't spoil things for you. I do like the film for it's players and the clever way Marty McFly (Michael J. Fox) manages to navigate his way through the Fifties. I became a Christopher Lloyd fan right from the get-go when he made his debut in "One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest", and his Reverend Jim character in the 'Taxi' TV series was one of the most original ever. He's got the perfect look and attitude for a crazed scientist and it would have been cool to see him work with classic icons of the horror genre like Karloff, Lugosi and Chaney. That would have been something.The thing that bugs me about the characters a bit are the way George McFly (Crispin Glover) and Biff Tannen (Thomas F. Wilson) are portrayed. They're really more like caricatures, though Biff as the town bully had a certain amount of credibility even if he was annoying. I had forgotten how attractive Lea Thompson was as Lorraine Baines, Marty's future Mom but sporting a major crush on him that conjured up all kinds of potential icky situations, but they were handled tastefully for the most part. The biggest kick for me was when Marvin Berry (Harry Waters Jr.) called his cousin Chuck to check out the new music sensation.So yeah, this is a fun movie and a generally family friendly one that would have been better served if some of the language had been toned down a bit. Some of the time travel stuff goes over the top, like the scene where Marty returns from 1955 and sees himself in the present about to do the time jump. Stuff like that just makes me think about the concept too much. As for the very ending scene, that has got to be about the most blatant set up to scream 'sequel' that I've ever seen.
About once a decade a film emerges that is so original and new that it immediately raises the bar for the rest of mainstream cinema to aspire to, films that are both critically espoused and well supported at the box office.The 70s brought us Star Wars and The Godfather (1 & 2), the 90s The Matrix, Toy Story and The Sixth Sense gave us the 'big twist' ending (for better or worse), the dubbos The Lord of the Rings trilogy (seriously, how many times has it been ripped off already?) and perhaps Avatar, and this decade so far has Inception, which although flawed is an admirable attempt at breaking the mould and creating something distinctly original.The 80s was all about the adventure (Indiana Jones), Blade Runner must be mentioned and the introduction of the macho action hero (Arnie, Bruce, Sly)<U+0085> but at equal 4th on the IMDb Top Ranked 80s titles is a 'little' film called Back to the Future, it didn't need big explosions, huge car chases and thousands of rounds of ammunition, just a creative plot and some likable characters to inhabit it.And really that's the entire Back to the Future (BttF) trilogy in a nutshell. The films don't have a huge number of jokes, the action is OK but not mind blowing and there is essentially zero sex and violence. What it does exude in abundance is charm, charm which starts with the most likable 5 foot tall guy of the 80s and 90s, Mr Michael J Fox.Fox plays Marty McFly, a typical 80s 'teen' from Hill Valley obsessed with girls (namely his girlfriend Jennifer), skateboards and music. His family are also typical and loving, his Dad (Crispin Glover) is a nervous and timid wallflower and his Mum is slightly strict but well meaning. The entire family – especially Dad – is pushed around by a local moron named Biff who has tortured him since school age.To blow off steam McFly has a friendship with a local eccentric scientist named Dr Emmett Brown (Christopher Lloyd). Doc's dabbles in everything scientific and has hundreds of wonderful inventions, none of which have set the world on fire.But all of that is about to change.Doc's latest creation is a time traveling car (a DeLoreon to be specific) that when gunned to 88mph can FF or rewind to any pre-programmed point in history. McFly is dubious but he agrees at the insistence of Doc Brown to show up at an early morning (actually late evening) trial run in a supermarket car park.Using Doc's dog Einstein as the test pilot they give the car a try, and lo and behold the thing actually works! But before they even have a chance to high five and discuss how this new invention will benefit the world Libyan terrorists unexpectedly show up and gun down the Doc, with McFly only just managing to escape in the DeLorean.This one act sets in chain a series of incredible and intricately plotted events that span 3 centuries and several generations of McFly's (and 'Biff's' for that matter<U+0085>) Marty initially is transported back to 1985 where he is hopelessly out of place. While there he manages to meet his two parents before they even have a chance to get together, his actions inadvertently prevent this from happening, meaning that he must somehow play matchmaker to his own folks else he remove himself from existence altogether.There's a whole lot more to the original BttF, aside from literally justifying his own existence Marty manages to invent skateboarding and rock 'n' roll in his limited stay in 1955, all the while striving to avoid actions that somehow alter the future along the way.I obviously can't go into too much detail but the ending was excellent as well.Now some 25 years later time travel in films is commonplace – even Red Dwarf and Futurama have produced excellent episodes dealing with time travel paradoxes – and yes I know about The Time Machine and the 'classic' older films dealing with the topic (that I can't name). Back to the Future managed to take a science fiction core and make it interesting to the everyday movie watcher who just wants to be entertained for a couple hours (I am trying to say 'non-geeks'), the original BttF was/and is immensely original and creative, with solid performances plural by Michael J Fox as, well<U+0085> many McFly's.It isn't laugh a minute or gasp inducing but you'll go a long while before you find a mainstream film this innovative and enjoyable, and the sequel was even better! Final Rating – 8.5 / 10. Somehow I admire the 2nd film more, but without the elaborate set-ups structured in this film that wouldn't be near as effective, and this film is effortlessly entertaining in any case.


                
Marty, a young slacker is sent 30 years back in time, and now has to worry about not only returning, but not changing events that have already happened, including that his parents met and fell in love. Whilst this is rather 80's(and granted, that has a charm of its own... it can, however, also be really off-putting), it does stand up well enough, with few jokes and gags having aged poorly. ...is one of those bullies seriously wearing 3-D glasses? The characters tend to be well-done, if there are some really obvious stereotypes(but it seems intentional). Humor works pretty well, if it can be really silly and goofy at times. The dialog is good, some really memorable lines. You always understand the "science" aspect, without a lot of wordy explanations, and there is no technobabble. The music is catchy. Acting is great, other than some over the top performances(again, they didn't happen by accident). It's a fun, rewatchable High School comedy flick with time-travel. The climax is also surprisingly tense, for how predictable parts of this can be. I recommend this to any fan of the decade, the cast and the concept itself. 8/10


                
"Back to the Future" is the most entertaining, fun-filled movie of all time. Not to mention the fact that after first seeing this at the age of fifteen (and going back for more ten times), it remained my very favourite film for years.Absolutely wonderful balance of humour, drama and fantasy that finds teenager Marty McFly accidentally transported back in time to 1955. There he inadvertently prevents his parents from meeting, and thus sets off an hilarious chain of events; all of which he must fix before he goes "Back to the Future". Fox is perfectly cast as Marty and Lloyd is in outrageously funny form as 'Doc' Emmette Brown. Alan Silvestri's music and the incidental pop soundtrack are very enjoyable. The script from co-writers Robert Zemeckis and Bob Gale is pure genius. Special effects are brilliant! Pure entertainment!!Monday, June 10, 1991 - Golden Twin Cinema, BendigoOnce again pure adventure and entertainment. A perfect combination of comedy and fantasy. Filmed well and great fun to watch!Wednesday, January 15, 1992 - Laser DiscI still recall the first time I ever saw this pic. It was September the 14th, 1985, and as an unsuspecting fifteen year old, I went along by chance to see "Back to the Future" at the Balwyn Cinema (then only a single cinema complex). I was totally blown away, and rushed out to see it again twelve days later, at the old Forum cinema (remember that place?), being bedazzled once more. Several excursions later (including a few to the Australia Twin in Collins St.) and I still couldn't get enough.This was my twelfth trip to the movies to see this blockbuster of 1985. Eleven and a half years on, it is now difficult to fathom what attracted me so inexorably to this highly entertaining, yet hardly classic film. Perhaps Rob Zemeckis and Bob Gale's ingenious story of bewildered teen Marty McFly's journey back in time is finally wearing thin on me. Oh what sacrilege.The fact remains though that this film is, as I've said many times before, pure entertainment. Visual and sound effects during the time traveling sequences are dazzling, art direction and set decoration both brilliantly recreate 1955 (they received an Academy Award nomination) as do costumes. Zemeckis and Gale were also nominated for their script.The pop soundtrack, including Lindsay Buckingham, Eric Carmen and Huey Louis and the News, was instrumental in the film's success, and Alan Silvestri's music is an unsung hero in the proceedings. Finally, the cast are a real delight. Fox is the perfect choice for the fish-out-of-water McFly, and Christopher Lloyd is superb as the nutty Doc Brown. Lea Thompson is suitably smitten as Marty's mom, Lorraine, and Crispin Glover is a scene stealer as the geeky George McFly, whether he is under a ton of make-up - aged forty-seven - or bumbling around as a seventeen year old in 1955. Thomas F. Wilson is fun too as Biff Tannen, the bane of the McFly's existence.One hundred and twelve minutes of absolute fun!Monday, March 31, 1997 - Astor Theatre
BACK TO THE FUTURE is a roller coaster ride of an adventure that firmly established Robert Zemeckis as a director to be reckoned with and officially made a movie star out of sitcom star Michael J. Fox. Fox replaced Eric Stolz in the role of Marty McFly, a misfit of a teenager whose friendship with a loopy inventor named Doc Brown (Christopher Lloyd) gets him into quite the pickle. The Doc has actually invented a time machine that transports Marty back to the year 1955, where he meets his parents as teenagers and must unite them romantically in order to exist and return to the year 1985. This film is expertly mounted thanks to detailed direction and a rock solid screenplay. Fox is energetic as Marty McFly and gets wonderful support from Lloyd as Doc Brown and from Crispin Glover and Lea Thompson as his parents. Kudos as well to Thomas F. Wilson, who scores as a perpetual bully in Marty's life. The movie is full of laughs, scares, and even a touch of genuine warmth here and there. If you've never seen it, treat yourself. Follwed by two sequels.


                
This film will always be a classic. Some will call it corny, or even hokie, but it put a new spin on an old sci-fi storyline. And it was even funny! Granted, the whole concept was beaten into the ground with two sequels, the original film in the series demonstrates the timeless nature of this movie. History is always set in stone, but to provide the fantasy of minutely changing your current history is always fun to think about. This was also one of the first movies I actually watched in a theater, so I tend to have some sentimental value placed on this film. But then again, it's well deserved.


                
I've seen this movie about 100 times, and I never get tired of it. It has great humor and a great plot line. Just the time traveling in the movie intrigues me. Michael J. Fox does an excellent job as Marty Mcfly and Christopher Lloyd does an excellent job as Doc Brown. There isn't a single bad actor in the film ( well, maybe one, though I haven't looked for him/her). The only bad thing about this film is the swearing. I love this film, but there is just a bit too much swearing for my taste. It wouldn't be as bad if there was only a little, but there is a TON! I mean, come on! They're not even necessary to the film and make me cringe every time I hear them. There are other things that they can say. All in all, if you like movies with good actors, good humor (mostly ) and good plot points and twists, then this is the movie for you. I recommend the whole Trilogy! 8/10 ( -2 for swearing )


                
Back To The Future (1985)Top 3 - 1985One of the greatest sci-fi/action/adventure/fantasy/comedy films of all time. I have seen very few other films that have provided the sheer enjoyment that Back To the Future provides so effortlessly.The ultimate story: Using a time-machine, visiting famous times, seeing life when your parents were your age and causing so space-time continuum problems.Michael J Fox is superb as Marty McFly with equal if not greater praise to Christopher Lloyd for his fantastic interpretation of Dr. Emmett Brown, the mad scientist who made the De Lorean the car which is a time machine.With a little help from Eine!Verdict - An instant classic, bound to be loved for many, many years to come.8.5/10


                
There aren't too many time travel movies around, mainly because "The Time Machine," "The Time Travelers" and "Time After Time" films pretty much covered the subject. Then "Star Trek" used up the premise in its TV episodes and films, and there was even that "Time Tunnel" TV series in the mid-sixties. One option was to do such a movie with humor, pointing out the potentially absurd ramifications of traveling to your own past. So the main character of Marty McFly (Fox) ends up meeting his own parents when they were his age. Though this is a relatively tame comedy as far as teenage comedies of the eighties, there is the risky Oedipal element of Marty's own mother having the hots for him. This concept is then tossed aside near the end when, in a rather lame scene, his mom stops her advances because she suddenly feels like she's kissing her own brother. Disney should've went with this after all - it's possibly the least offensive picture of the decade and probably also explains its huge popularity - everyone could enjoy it.What elevates this above the common film are a few things: Glover's performance as Marty's father, both in younger & older incarnations, is deliriously eccentric; where everyone else is kind of in TV-movie mode, he's off in his own zone and hard to forget. There's an energy to the entire story thrust (from director Zemeckis), helped by Fox, who always seems anxious about something. The concept of time travel itself gets a clever redux here; we find out you can actually change reality in the present by your actions in the past - there's no mention of creating a parallel universe, for example. The ending is pretty strong, throwing in an extra whammy when we think things are over and everything is back to exactly the way it was. And it's very entertaining to watch Marty explore the fifties - we see through his eyes - the culture shock and making various connections between the older and new decades is a nice routine. There were also a couple of wildly funny moments involving Marty dressed up as an alien from outer space.


                
This film has a pace & magnificence which transcends major holes in the plot/ script. Michael J Fox & Christopher Lloyd are at the top of their careers in this film. They have capable support although the sequels proved that even though Crispin Glover has a good sized supporting role in this film, he really does not add anything by his presence as he is not even missed in the sequels. He did sue producers for the using stock footage of him in the sequels & won the suit, but he'd have been better off to have appeared in the films because he is now much in danger of being referred to as Crispin who? I love the Huey Lewis songs in this first installment. It is nearly impossible to write a time travel film & get it right but you love the main characters & the music so much that you don't care but some obvious ones include Marty McFly paying for coffee in a 1950's Cafe with 1980's money. The license plate coming off the car when they transport Einstein is a great effect but also makes no sense. The changes in the photo of the McFly kids make no sense as why would only the oldest son be effected by problems in the space-time continuum? Humor is a main ingredient of this movie. From classics like how to open a Coke bottle in the 1950's to "who the hell is John F Kenedy?" to Pepsi Free, there is humor throughout the film. I like the Fox - Llloyd quotes:"You built a time machine out of a Deloran?" "The way I see it, if your going to travel through time you gotta do it with some style!"The people who carry this film are Michael J Fox & Christopher Lloyd who is really over the top. Put your brain away, & get on into the DMC time machine. Enjoy it!


                
Back to the Future is a movie I can guarantee you will enjoy. It starts off when Marty McFly gets into a lot of trouble. Including with his girlfriend and school (are you surprised?!). But then Marty realizes, his best friend, a scientist who he calls 'doc', just invented a time machine... and guess what? It actually works! But then something happens. When he is about to go to the year 1955, doc is shot by Libyain terrorists from whom he stole plutonium, the liquid that makes the time machine work. Without any choices, Marty scrambles into the car and... finds himself in the year 1955. But the story doesn't end there. Marty accidentally stops his parents (who were teenagers then) from meeting and falling in love with each other, and puts his life at risk. Because if his parents never met, that means that they never had any children. And if Marty doesn't get to get his parents to meet each other.. it means that him and his brothers will simply disappear off the face of the earth. Also, Marty and the young doc encounter another problem. Marty needs to get back to the future, and he can't as plutonium was barely known in the 1950s. So how will he do it? See and find out! This movie is simply cool. Not only is it funny, it also has an excellent script and dialog. I like the cast and the characters and I also liked the set decoration. Nearly everything about this movie is good. However, you have to pay full attention at the start to understand what happens later. But that doesn't spoil it. Rating: 7.5/10


                
Back to the Future (1985) was the film that launched Michael J. Fox's career into the stratosphere. This film not only made him into an eighties superstar but it also made Back to the Future a part of Americana and a slight fixture upon Hollywood for a few years there after. This film was so successful that it was made into a trilogy.The film follows a high school student Marty Mc Fly (Michael J. Fox) who's not pleased with the way his life has been going. He always feels that there's more to his life than what there appears to be. When he's not spending time with his girlfriend or his band, Marty is best friends with an eccentric inventor Doc Brown (Christopher Lloyd). Doc Brown is on the verge of breaking through his latest discovery. Marty watches his family and notice's how broken down they are. But when he see's that the family car is wrecked he loses it. There goes his date! This dilemma isn't nothing compared to what Doc Brown has in store for him!This film is the perfect example of an eighties film. The fashion and style is in your face. Crispin Glover (who plays the Marty father) steals the show with his neurotic style of acting. He portrays Marty with an underlining manic presence. Michael J. Fox makes a somewhat believable teenager and Christopher Lloyd is great as Doc Brown (another character who's a borderline basket case), Eighties stars Lea Thompson, Casey Simezsko, Courtney Gaines and future star Billy Zane appear in this one as well.I happen to enjoy this film. The sequel was entertaining as well. But the final chapter was a weak effort by all. If you like Michael J. Fox or Cripsin Glover I advise you to check this flick out.Recommended.


                
Great classic always pleasure when it pops up on television. I have been watching the show for years.


                
What appears to be quite fun and simple a film on the surface, is a much more complicated storyline, if you sit and work out the complexities of time travel surrounding the storyline.Many quotable lines, the best remembered film of Michael J Fox and a film that has followed me from childhood to adulthood.


                
One of the most Popular Movies of all Time. It is a Safe, Feel-Good Family Entertainment from Spielberg's Sublime "Suburban" Playground of Hits. It's the Backdrop the Master Manipulator Finds His Mega-Money-Makers the most Often.Robert Zemeckis was Hired to Direct based on His often Rejected Script (with Bob Gale) that Spielberg recognized as something Special.And Special it Turned Out to be. It has a Great Cast of Comedic Talent (Michael J. Fox, Christopher Lloyd, and Crispin Glover) feeling right at Home with the Story, and some Nifty State of the Art SFX.The Movie is a Slick Fun Time with all the Elements coming Together to make it an Ensemble Piece of Family Fodder that Charms with a Fast Pace, a bit of "Fish Out of Water" Edginess. Lea Thompson's Endearing Turn as Marty McFly's Mother is Great, but Nothing here will ever be Considered High-Art. Just a Clap-Trap Pleaser (Spielberg's Specialty) with High Commercial Value.The Product Placements are Over the Top.But the Many Pop Cultural References from the 80's and the 50's Assured, at the Time, that a Parent and Child from 1985 (the Heart of the Movie), can Enjoy this one Together, Dare it be Said, Into the Future.


                
