"The Hunt" is the latest unflinching drama from Danish auteur Thomas Vinterberg. Co-written with Tobias Lindholm, this is an ambitious star vehicle for legendary actor Mads Mikkelsen, an icon in Denmark and familiar face around the world as well. He plays Lucas, a small-town kindergarten teacher. At its heart the story is ultimately a powerful comment on prejudice, based on true incidents, that may leave you emotionally drained but truly moved.To delve into the plot here would reveal too much. So I'll just say that the film is quite dark and deals with some very difficult subject matter that can be very hard to watch at times. I'll leave it to you to decide if you want to be more aware of the details by looking up a basic synopsis.This is essentially a one-man show. While supporting cast members are all up to the challenge, Lucas is on on screen virtually every moment of the movie and its overall success rises or falls on his believability. Mikkelsen's delicately underplayed characterization of a man under fire likely won't be appreciated or understood by all viewers. His restrained performance is remarkable and does much to make The Hunt a haunting, memorable experience. Among the children, Annika Wedderkopp's portrayal of Klara is frighteningly brilliant. She steals every scene she's in.The physical beauty of the production belies the ugliness beneath. Natural lighting is used to match the heights and depths of the kindergarten children's emotions. Their innocence is reflected in its intensity. When surrounded by love, they are glowing. The color palette is warm and inviting. As fear rises, they appear in shadow. The tableau turns increasingly darker as the narrative does.This is a very quiet and thoughtful experience in many ways. Nikolaj Egelund's score is sparse. Editors Janus Billeskov Jansen and Anne Østerud keep the pace measured and deliberate. The focus is on the story. Long takes without dialogue are quite effective as so much is said in the eyes, in the faces, of Lucas, the kids, and townsfolk. Cinematographer Charlotte Bruus Christensen allows the lush landscape of the Danish countryside to lull the viewer into a sense of peace, in contrast with the turmoil just under the surface, ready to jump out like a demon in a horror film. But these are real life nightmares, not the product of a genre writer's imagination, which chill to the bone.Hollywood could never touch this subject and have anywhere near the impact. Backed independently by Swedish and Danish production companies, director Vinterberg actually intended to set and shoot the picture in Canada but better tax incentives and financing led him back to his native country of Denmark. It doesn't matter, though. This is the kind of isolated little village that can be found anywhere in the world."The Hunt" was easily the saddest film I've seen all year but in a cathartic way that only a great work of art can accomplish. It's a gritty and hard-hitting statement on our judgmental society that pulls no punches in its recounting of a controversial ripped-from-the-headlines story, repeated all too often in recent history, that's both poignant and polarizing in its authenticity.It was difficult for me to hold back tears during the screening. I broke down several times. Many will be touched by certain scenes more than others, but "The Hunt" is one of the most affecting and emotional films I've ever seen and one of the best of 2012.


                
I went to see this as part of the London Film Festival on Monday. I have to say that two days later it still resonates in my mind. Yes, it's a common tale that has been told in cinema before(man is wrongly accused and ostracised), but never so well, in my eyes. The acting is first class with no exception and the cinematography is perfect, creating a tense mood throughout the film. It's not for the faint hearted, but I think it's an important subject matter and very current. I've often wondered what it must be like for someone wrongly accused of such a crime and the hysteria that surrounds it. I have read reviews that say this is unrealistic but I don't agree, I only have to look on my own front doorstep in England to see exactly the same sort of behaviour, often far far more intense.I highly recommend it.
Sometimes children lie.  Sometimes good people give in to hysteria, and lose all sense of  reason.  Sometimes they destroy innocent lives.  The Hunt (aka Jagten) is the latest offering from Denmark that will  knock you sideways. Forget the thrill of TV dramas The Killing, Borgen  and The Bridge, Thomas Vinterberg's film is a shocking, harrowing  experience that will affect you profoundly and will live in your mind  for a very long time. The Hunt is for those who don't need to 'enjoy' a  film to regard it as valid and who are not afraid to step into the  darkness of the injustice and judgment of which we are all capable.  More than that, it is a film for those who stupidly believe there is no  smoke without fire.  Lucas (Mads Mikkelsen) is a lonely teacher, divorced from his wife,  kept apart from his son and devoted to the young children in his care  at the nursery and within the community. He is a genuinely good man who  has earned the respect of his peers, the love of a new girlfriend and  the trust of the children who leap out of hedges to wrestle him and be  chased around the playground by him.  Klara (Annika Wedderkopp), the daughter of his best friend, Theo  (Thomas Bo Larsen) has an innocent, childish crush on Lucas when two  situations occur in quick succession. Firstly she is exposed to an  explicit pornographic image and, secondly, Lucas gently chastises her  for inappropriate behavior towards him. With a fertile imagination,  childish indignation and no comprehension of the consequences, Klara  makes an accusation against Lucas and his world implodes.  For only the fifth time so far this year, I believe I have witnessed a  near-perfect film. The Hunt is complete due to the tight screenplay,  the sensitivity of Vinterberg's direction and the performances from  principal and peripheral actors alike that are always absorbing and  frequently astounding.  Mikkelsen must certainly be the focal point of any review. His  performance as Lucas causes the stomach to tighten and the back tingle  as we wonder How would I react? In much the same way that Colin Firth's  George crumpled when receiving the news of his partner's death in A  Single Man, so Mikkelsen's Lucas is silently crushed as he is told that  accusations have been made. Lucas suffers the physical and emotional  wounds of slander and revenge for an act he cannot conceive and of  which he has less knowledge than those who condemn and attack him.  Equally, both Larsen and Anne Louise Hassing as Klara's parents  carefully unwrap the turmoil any parent would suffer upon hearing their  young child has suffered sexual abuse. It is a challenge not to yell at  the screen "Don't be so stupid," or to scream expletives at Grethe  (Susse Wold) the head teacher who loses her grip on both duty and  reason and germinates the hatred and judgment that follow. As Lucas'  son, Marcus, Lasse Fogelstrøm gives a heartfelt performance segueing  seamlessly from courage to hurt to desperation and anger and his  distress is a warning to those given over to rumours.  The surprise, no, the absolute shock, with the casting is Wedderkopp.  In an adult with twenty years experience on the big screen it would be  a breathtaking performance; that this is the debut of a young child is  staggering. She is entirely believable as the girl with the vivid  imagination and understandable lack of foresight who is lead by  over-enthusiastic adults and suffers her own punishment of confusion  alone.  The tragedy within The Hunt is explicit and unavoidable. The external  tragedy is that it will probably not feature on most To See lists  because it is both foreign and that the explosions are emotional rather  than physical. Although it is Denmark's entry for Best Film in a  Foreign Language for the Oscars, I suspect both Mikkelsen and Vinterbeg  will be completely overlooked in their own right as with the principals  of Beasts of the Southern Wild. Thank goodness for the BAFTAS and Mark  Kermode! The events depicted in The Hunt are utterly horrific. Don't  sit in front of the screen expecting a light, easy, thought provoking  flick. I emerged numb, angry, helpless and terrified. But for one  careless or cruel comment, it could happen to me.  Or you.
I've been an IMDb user for several years. Still, this is my first review. After watching this Film, I just felt the urge to praise it. So here it is: thanks to the writer, director, actors and all those who created this masterpiece. It really has the power to convey real feelings to the watcher. Even though I kept telling to myself it was just a movie, it still made me care for the characters.It's a shame that such Films are not promoted as they should be. I am so sorry I had no idea about Danish cinematography until now. This movie will make stay alert for any new Danish production and look for older ones in a desperate try to recover what you could've experienced instead of all the commercial movie offer of Hollywood.


                
Consider first the setting. It may be quiet and idyllic, but merry laughter and droll humour open the scene. A group of middle-aged manboys are clowning around by the lake. They are long-time friends of The Hunt's central character, Lucas — bespectacled 42 year old ex-professor, recently divorced and too old to be waddling in the water like a toddler at playtime.But the time is November in this unknown Danish village and everyone is having a good time in yet another get-together. Friends have known each other for years, people know people on a first name basis, many have lived here for generations and Lucas, is just another face in this jolly, close-knit community — nondescript and mellow, respected and well-liked.We are told that Lucas (played with artful and refined precision by Mads Mikkelsen) is not without the woes that come with modern adult life. Living alone and seeking custody of teenage son Marcus (newcomer Lasse Fogelstrøm), he is an ordinary man trying to rebuild from ground up as a kindergarten teacher. Immediately you can see that he is kind and friendly because Lucas walks young Klara home, and chats with her father, also his best friend, Theo. The two men share lasagne while fussing over pet dogs and hunting rifles. You acknowledge that Lucas has earned his place in this neighbourhood and relationships are in complete accord. Then the maiming of his middle-class existence begins.Klara develops a schoolgirl crush and puerile gestures are sensibly rebuffed. Nothing unpredictable or startling at this point. You've heard of such awkward incidents before. But Lucas is then accused of something he did not commit because Klara said something to avenge an earlier rejection.This is where The Hunt succeeds with penetrating insights into social phenomenon — soon after she causes harm, Klara attempts to recant the accusation without success. Here, writer-director Thomas Vinterberg absolves Klara from absolute blame and sets the stage for unreasonable and sinister conclusions. Watching the film from here on out is an unforgettable and riveting experience.It is natural to assume The Hunt simply alludes to the concept of "Witch Hunt", and contents itself with being dramatized fiction about falsely accusing the innocent. But if that were so, the brilliant scene where Klara was interviewed would not have alarmed with its disturbing methodology. The narrative's genius embeds observer-effect with great accuracy and insight into expectations of Klara, and her subsequent reaction. Vinterberg denies us simple solutions in which adults are perceptive enough to decipher the truth. For example, Ole the counsellor, ushered in from an unknown organization is scruffy and slightly unkempt. Characteristically unlikeable, he wears an implicit stereotype on his face and contaminates Klara's testimony by coaxing with a few hints, "Do you remember, if something white came out?"She stares blankly, yet revulsion grows and collective hysteria spreads — allowing The Hunt to unveil itself as a carefully executed masterpiece. The clues match only because suggestive prompts are pushing the limits of disturbing reality.The canvas is visually precise; casting is pitch-perfect (especially that of Annika Wedderkopp in her excellent portrayal of Klara) and the script is cautiously penned.Based on transcripts of police interrogations conducted on suspected paedophiles in Denmark, the US and several European countries; Vinterberg investigates cause-effect with chilling authenticity. There is no doubt that The Hunt is antithesis to "Festen", an earlier work depicting the same subject matter but don't be mistaken — this film does not involve itself with controversial material for the sake of obligatory endorsements. Relentless and intense plot is enriched by characters reacting with protective instincts that come naturally simply because they care for one another. We see the internal worlds of Lucas, Theo, Marcus and Klara, and observe the impact of rotten dynamic unfolding before our very eyes. This forces us, spectators with an omniscient view to sit-up and question judgement using rational exactitude.Short analysis of the ending >>> The Hunt is a superb, penetrating study of human agency and in the end, some mysteries remain unknowable. There are several narratives attempting to interpret the final scene, and who the shooter really is. This person may very well be the same culprit who killed Fanny. Is it Klara's older brother, who has demonstrated protectiveness over her? Perhaps a disgruntled retail assistant from the grocery store? Maybe a figment of Lucas's anxious imagination from knowing life can easily cast him from the status of a hunter to that of a prey?These questions continue to linger because The Hunt's technical finish is open-form and resists finite closure. The image of an unknown rifleman, indistinct and in hiding is a conveyor of figurative conclusions. By doing such, Vinterberg employs artistic device to suggest that attitudes may be outwardly placid, but remain violent and embittered covertly. Just as it is with real life, some hostility can't be neutralized and a malevolent presence continues to loom over the horizon, willing to perpetuate an abyss of moral panic.https://cinemainterruptus.wordpress.com
Whenever I watch a great film, I always have a sense of feeling cleansed, as if a soiled part of me has been washed away (for the time being anyway) by something on the screen that touches a better part of my soul. THE HUNT certainly did that for me. The story is a simple one, a man, a teacher, is wrongly accused of sexually misconduct with a young child and his community, filled with old friends and acquaintances, turn on him and make his life a living hell.Vinterberg's film brings to mind many of the same topics and is loaded with the same visceral feelings that his first film THE CELEBRATION touches upon, sexual deviancy, alienation, the mob mentality of the righteous, mixing innocence with brutality in many of its most heartbreaking scenes. Mikkelsen handles the main character Lucas both with restraint, and a little explosiveness when warranted. It is this fine line between stability and chaos, of the civilized world and anarchy, that give this film an unpredictable quality. The entire cast is wonderful and Vinterberg's direction and writing are spot on. Great Film!
what can i say?this movie is simply a masterpiece. this movie is what i hope to see every time i enter a cinema.this movie is warm, engaging, natural, simple, cruel, human... it is everything at once.i cried my soul out, it is unbelievable how danish directors (lars von trier and thomas vinterberg) are able to move me with their movies.story is superb. casting is superb. acting is superb. directing is superb.they say danish people are cold and detached, denmark being a northern country. no one ever takes me to such an emotional journey as danish directors... i think i should marry a danish guy ;)let me sum it up with what i already said before: this movie is the reason why i go to the cinema in the first place. not for the entertainment, but for the art. for that feeling that i just read a wonderful book. that feeling of satisfaction that i just did something great for my soul. purging, cleansing of my soul, if i may say it that way.beautiful. thank you, thomas vinterberg... and thanks to the rest of the crew.


                
This is the most powerful drama I had the fortune to experience this past year. It's up there with Michael Haneke's AMOUR, but this definitely made me *feel* more. When, near the ending of THE HUNT, we have some hope for the protagonist, a kindergarten teacher who has been unjustly accused of child molestation, I actually thought something like "I hope the movie ends right now!" This because Thomas Vinterberg (director of movies like FESTEN and DEAR WENDY) makes us feel each and every moment of the great injustice that is shown in the screen. Yes, we feel for the protagonist Lucas (top-notch performance by Mads Mikkelsen) but also for his family and friends, especially for his teenage son. Obviously the, really wished, "happy ending" is highly unlikely as this is a realistic portrait of human nature. In the beginning of the film we have a group of Danish hunters (Lucas included) sharing good times, drinking, talking, just having fun. Apparently they're a real "family" of friends. The little daughter of Lucas' best friend is the one who begins the sexual abuse rumor, by telling the kindergarten director that Lucas showed her his penis. The parents of this girl didn't give her the enough attention; finding more important to be arguing than taking her to school, for instance. And Lucas was there to help the girl – it's a really ironic film. The way the families of the supposedly victims react; how the behavior of a family affects their infants; the general thought we have about children; and also those subjects of violence and friendship. Everything is shown here in a very credible way. The violence really "hurts" you; and I think if a film like THE HUNT doesn't provokes you *rage*, well, none will. Highly recommended, and for sure one of my favorites of 2012. *Watched it on 26 December, 2012
There is a moment in this masterpiece when you know that that is the part that is going to spiral someone's life out of control. And in this movie, it's the split second scene where Klaras brother shows her an indecent picture on the IPad.It's not served to you on a plate, but its little subtle things like this, that make this movie the harrowing piece it is.Mikkelsen is wonderful as Lucas, a lonely teacher who is just trying to get his life back on track. His son is about to move in with him, and he has met a potential partner, but when Klara, his best friends daughter makes him a gift, and he refuses it because he feels its inappropriate, she tells the teacher a lie, that will shake the whole community.As the viewer, you feel so much empathy for Lucas, because you know that his career is over, and that his life will never be the same, but at the same time, you feel anger toward the rest of the community, because they banish him, without letting him speak.Its a taboo subject, because any sane person would take the youngsters side, but it's the fact that when she says to her mother she made it up, the mother just brushes it off, and it gets worse and worse for Lucas.It really is a hard hitting film, the cast are wonderful, and having it set around Christ,as, gives the mood an even more lonely feel for Lucas.It's not for all tastes, it will leave you exhausted, especially the final scene, which leaves you knowing that Lucas will always be guilty to some, even though it's been proved otherwise.Essential viewing.
A Little History - I have a wide range of actors that I love. Most of the time, I like to backtrack through a couple of their previous films when I like them a lot, and then I just get on with it. Not the case here. I decided to start watching Hannibal about 6 months after it aired and I got my first good look at a spectacular Danish actor named Mads Mikkelsen. He is extremely talented but, judging by the fact that I love horror films, have seen Silence Of The Lambs numerous times, and figured the television show could never match the talents of the wonderful Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster, I wrote it off. Until about three episodes in when this God of Danish cinema showed off his talents. After the show, and because I adore foreign cinema, I decided to binge on every single one of his movies. That my friends, is how I came across The Hunt.The Basics - So after giving you the background of what I've been doing for the past couple of months, this is the first of many Mads movies I chose. I have some background with Danish cinema and am an avid Von Trier fan so I know Danish films have amazing potential. The movie stars M.M. as a single father named Lucas who leads a lonely life teaching primary school and striving for custody of his son. He has a likable group of friends including his best friend Theo, who has a wife and child Lucas is close with as well. Everything is going smooth until one day, a small lie changes the course of Lucas's life.It Would Probably Be Better - For you to go in blind as I did...just beware, this is a tough number to swallow. It is unrelenting and uncomfortable, however, don't let that scare you away...you should see it, everyone should see it.Mad For Mads - My God is he exquisite in his craft...he practically carries the entire film and does so with a passion not many actors have. This film bumped him into my 'favorites' for sure. You can just feel every thought, every ounce of pain and turmoil he is going through...it's harrowing and heartbreaking and I was crying at the end.Best Scenes - 1. The scene in the convenience store is amazing. You are rooting for Lucas the entire time. 2. The scene when you realize that though everyone is against him...he still has a couple of people on his side. 3. The scene in the church (which if you've seen the trailer, you get a small glimpse of) took my breath away and had me wiping tears.Overall - This movie is a tough watch, but rewarding nonetheless due to its well told story and outstanding acting. It was the first of many Mads movies I've played - also the first of many that had me crying - and a firm step back into the world of heart wrenching Danish cinema. I strongly recommend the watch.Verdict - 10/10 Stars. You can view all of my reviews at http://dianalynn5287.blogspot.com/
I would easily rate this film as the best I saw in 2012. Not an easy watch by any means, the story revolves around a Danish Primary School Teacher who is accused of molesting a child from his class. In circumstances that are as believable as they are positively frightening paranoia becomes evidence as the wrong questions are asked by the wrong people and poor Lucas finds himself suspended from his job and becomes the town pariah in a very small community. As the hate and abuse begins to mount and with his own girlfriend doubting him, Lucas wonders if his life will ever be the same as he struggles to try and prove his innocence.As besets the calm manner of the Danes, the acting here is beautifully observed and subtly explored in a range of superb performances by the whole cast. Special mention must go to the younger members of the cast who are simply outstanding and credit too, to the director for being able to guide them through what must have been very tricky scenes.A superb watch for anyone who wants to see either a dam good thriller or some fine actors at work, this simply is first rate. The social dichotomy at work in the script and the uncomfortable issues explores are so relevant in todays society, that this really is a film that every Sun and Daily Mail reader should be forced to watch. Outstanding all round.


                
The thing about Thomas Vinterberg's The Hunt that you should know is that there's no "twist" or big revelation. There's no real ambiguity about whether or not Lucas touched or 'showed' himself to little Klara, the daughter of Lucas' best friend. If there were, this might be a very different movie - perhaps even one that leaned on being dishonest with the audience about the 'did he or didn't he' intentions. It's clear enough early on that Klara isn't telling the whole truth when she mentions to one of the other Kindergarten workers about the "rod" that stands up (meaning the penis), but it doesn't mean she's exactly lying either, just confused in that way that little kids who don't know anything about sex might be if, say, shown a very brief image of a "rod". So there's that. But what The Hunt is really about is perception and how quickly people can turn on someone with a target on them - guilt or no guilt, but especially in the case of not guilty - like with Lucas.Vinterberg expertly sets up this problem by first showing life as (relatively) normal - Lucas is a father in the process of a divorce, has a great group of guy friends (the kind of Denmark/Sweden/etc who come together, sometimes swim naked in the cold, and drink a lot and sing), and is a teacher at a Kindergarten school. Nothing is shown with any heightened drama, all the cuts to someone in a moment are to show the progression of a moment or a scene - closer to documentary than anything, at least at first - and this helps make the mood past any melodrama for what's to come. Or, if there may be melodrama ahead, it won't be circumspect for the audience: real families in a small town, really close-knit, Church-going, loving, pleasant... and underneath is a whole lot of fear, which can switch to anger, resentment, and horror.Mikkelson is great in the role, and he may be surprising for those who haven't seen him as a villain in other films (he was a Bond villain once, or if he wasn't he will be someday), as well as the title role of Hannibal Lector on the recent TV series. I haven't seen that show yet, but even if I had it wouldn't change how he works in this film. Could there be any hint in his performance of any evil or misdeeds capable of him? Not far as we can see, though there is that scene where Lucas is first brought in to his superior's office and told of the accusation made. Watch his body language, how his face looks and reacts to this. It could look either way - for the person looking for it, he smacks his lips, he quivers just slightly, he doesn't come out and say 'I didn't do it', but we should know that he didn't. But does the other character know? With something like child molestation? The topic is so hot-button, whether it's more in the United States or over in Denmark I can't tell, but the safety (and reliability) of a child is such a crucial thing in daily life that it makes for such powerful, potent stuff for The Hunt, as the accusation spirals out - are there other kids(!) just by nightmares and headaches who can tell - and ruins his life, whether he's found guilty or (especially) not. The last act especially is tough to watch as morality is questioned and the mob mentality of a town takes over (not to extreme heights, this isn't Fritz Lang or something, but close enough, realistically enough, just with all those faces).Quiet scenes punctuate a lot of this film, as much as the brutal ones where rage and bewilderment overflow, like shots of someone having to do something tragic in the rain, and it all builds up to something that is hard to watch. I mean that as a compliment, though it should be said that this is the kind of film I'm not sure I can watch very soon again: it strikes such resonant chords and presents its characters so honestly, the ones looking for grace and those who just cannot, that it's hard not to feel shaken up after it.


                
This is a very rare kind of movie. It takes years between one and another. And I really can't remember when was the last time I was watch something like this. This is a kind of movie you watch in complete silence. You don't talk (if you watch it with someone, of course), you don't comment anything, you just watch. And watch. In silence. "The Hunt" is a highly sensitive matter and it is delivered very subtle. Can't be better. The story is well written, the direction is refined. The acting is superb. Mads Mikkelsen is the king. On of the best actors alive... And when this movie ends, it will leave you in silence. Speechless. A unique movie experience that will - HUNT you! For a long, long time...


                
I saw this film at the Ghent filmfestival 2012. I was not sure about booking tickets because of the synopsis suggesting a depressing story line full of prejudices and hostility within the confines of a small village. Such themes about a mindless crowd are shown before in several other books and movies. On the other hand, I was very impressed with Submarino from the same film maker, that I saw in 2010 (also in Ghent). It left me no choice but to go and see for myself. And for the whole 111 minutes it went very well, I must admit in hindsight. But the depressive thoughts with which I left Submarino in 2010, came over me here as well, both cases possibly demonstrating what this film maker thinks about mankind as a species.The story can be told in a single sentence: Teacher in kindergarten is falsely accused of indecencies with a 5-year old girl, the whole village shuns him and refuses any further contact, the police is involved in the matter, and he looses his job and all former friends as a result. There is a sub-plot about his divorce and the inherent struggles about seeing their children, especially his adolescent son. None of these themes are novel, but read on.For a lot of reasons, this film is positively different. In addition to very commendable casting and acting, there is much more what makes this one stand out. Firstly, very revealing to me was the way the allegedly abused child was questioned. Some words the girl picked up the day before from her adolescent brothers, were taken very literally, and the interview progressed along tendentious lines from thereon. Secondly, though the girl in question said more than once that she had said dumb things about the accused teacher, it was explained to her that people often suppress negative experiences as a mechanism to protect themselves.And thirdly, last but not least, some doubts that a few people had about the accusations, were reasoned away and not followed up due to social pressure. It shows that not all people think in black and white all the time. We see even unsympathetic figures in the story behave naturally and logically, as humans from flesh and blood, with more dimensions that just one, representing more than mindless members of a mob.(**Mini spoiler nr 1 ahead**) Halfway the film we see that the police arrests him, but has to set him free a few days later. A house search revealed that the cellar that all interviewed children had described in much detail, does not exist at all. For the police this casts enough doubt on the accusations. But the village is not convinced and continues to shun him. A hefty confrontation in the local supermarket demonstrates his isolation to its full extent.(**Mini spoiler nr 2 ahead**) The film ends with a seemingly happy and harmonious scene, one year later, amidst festivities when the son of our main character receives his hunting license. Father and son appear integrated again in village life. But while alone in the woods for a moment, waiting for his son to shoot his first deer, we still observe him being haunted by thoughts about being cornered and threatened. It shows us very clearly that intense experiences do not fade away easily.All in all, my initial hesitations proved totally wrong, and I enjoyed the whole movie from beginning to the end, notwithstanding the depressive insights in mankind that were shown. I scored a 5 (out of 5) for the audience award when leaving the theater. And I promise myself to keep an eye on further products of this same film maker, and not again hesitate to book tickets when the time comes.
While we are forced to endure noise from the likes of Michael Bay and Co, movies like this one pass by unnoticed. This is filmmaking of a very high order and many will miss its subtleties and instead glob onto the drama of its main plot. This movie is closer to Ibsen and For Whom The Bell Tolls and The Scarlet Letter than it is to today's typical cinema. The initial 40 minutes or so are perfect in terms of acting, directing and writing. Maybe, just maybe, the film should have ended about 10 minutes earlier than it does--but the closing works very well too. The portrait of mankind here is grim, dark and well-deserved, sad to say.


                
***may contain a spoiler***...can certainly destroy...The Hunt (Jagten in Danish) is about a kindergarten teacher named Lucas (Mads Mikkelsen) after a messy divorce is getting his life back together though having problems with his ex while entering a new relationship with Nadja (Alexandra Rapaport). Life seems to be on a gradually upbeat swing for Lucas until one day while playing with his students young Klara (beautifully portrayed by Annika Wedderkopp) kisses him on the mouth while slipping a note into his pocket. Even though immediately having a chat with the little girl about kissing another adult (other than her mother and father) and the note (to which she flatly denies doing), he's accused of molesting her when she tells the principal Grethe (Susse Wold) the most damaging of all accusations - that Lucas exposed himself (i.e. showed his penis) to her. Now granted the principal had her doubts about the matter yet she pursues the matter by bringing in a child psychologist/DCFS-type worker to question Klara which not only has the lie spiraling out of control but it has other parents claiming their children were also molested by Lucas after holding a meeting with them. This truly doesn't bode well for him since Klara is the daughter of his best friend Theo (Thomas Bo Larsen) and his wife Agnes (Anne Louise Hessing). Yet during the course of this, Klara does admit she said something stupid ...that he (Lucas) didn't do anything. However, since the lie is seen as the truth, the adults think she's experiencing a case of Stockholm Syndrome or lying because she feels some sympathy towards her accuser.Besides showing how a child's little lie after being taken as a truth by everyone directly and indirectly involved, it also demonstrated how an accusation could instantly effect the alleged abuser and his family thus changing their lives throughout the course of the film. Not only does he lose his job at the kindergarten school and his girlfriend, Lucas loses the trust and friendship from most of his friends except Brunn (Lars Ranthe), his son's (Marcus portrayed by Lasse Fogelstrom) godfather. No one wants to believe and/or help prove his innocence. And even after the court finds no evidence of abuse, he's still viewed as an child molester where he lives to the point everyone in town continues to ostracize him which also includes banning him from shopping at the local grocery store (as so ordered by the store manager) all because they believe he did what Klara accused him of doing. Mads Mikkelsen in the role of Lucas shows the moveigoer (especially during the heart-stopping conclusion of The Hunt) that he always will forever be the victim of little girl's innocence lie never caring that he was justly vindicated by the truth and court. This actor wonderfully demonstrated a wide range of emotions from disbelief and anger (when being accused of the alleged crime) to frustration and hopelessness (after being acquitted of all wrong) and more while remaining relatively calm for the sake of his son ...especially when someone viciously murders the family dog.In The Hunt, there seems to be three sides to the truth - Klara's, Lucas' and what the director reveals during the course of the movie. This reviewer liked the fact that director Thomas Vinterberg didn't waste most of the run time fluffing up the movie with unnecessary details (like showing the investigation with the other children or Lucas' police questioning and court appearance) which would painfully drag the movie down and drift away from its focus on the main character - Lucas. Without those scenes in place you don't really feel lost or that you're missing something from the plot because the director allows the somewhat fast paced timeline summarize what happened in between through his characters. For example, we don't realize Lucas has lost his job until the scene titled December but you do get that general feeling since he practically lives in a dark house and there's dirty dishes and clothes strewn everywhere when his son unexpectedly arrives at his door. Usually reserved for a thriller/horror film not a drama, Thomas wonderfully uses the element of surprise in this movie to heighten the intense movie-going experience with a few jarring, heart-stopping and panic moments that might have you clawing at your theater armrest. On the flipside, there are some funny moments - be on the lookout for Fanny the dog to bark whenever someone mentions the name Kirsten. It's hilarious. And (without trying to give too much away) through the use of the minor characters towards the end, he also gave you the sense that some were able (a) to forgive and forget, (b) forgive but not forget or (c) still hold a grudge ...from afar.If you want to see a thought-provoking drama and don't mind reading subtitles (though there are moments when it's in English), SouthSide highly recommends checking The Hunt (which has a limited theater viewing run).


                
(Before I start, anyone reminded of The Crucible watching this?) The thing most viewers loved about the film was how great the story was. But something I would like to point out and why I say this film is masterful is because you can analyze this film to its core and it gets better and better - not the other way around - and that is something that you can almost never do with most films. That alone is a sign of great writing and directing, and that is of great credit to Thomas Vintenberg and Tobias Lindholm for crafting a consistent tightly-knit story revolving around such a touchy subject, and to those wondering about the name, it very nicely reflects the phrase "witch-hunt", which is what people are doing in the film.As you've probably read/heard by now, the story is about a teacher who is falsely accused of a horrendous act. Now, even though that is the key point, what the story is really about is how something as simple as the belief in a child's innocence and a few words can get people to completely turn on a person, no matter how irrational or unfair or evil they are being in doing so, in this fit of mass hysteria and paranoia. It's about how terrible social justice and opinion is, and even worse, how terrible it can be to be on the bad side of it. The film also touches on the relationships between people, especially friendships, and how situations like this put these things to the test. It presents how events like these reveal a certain disgustingly maddening aspect of human nature that you would never really imagine to be there, and in that sense, it becomes a fascinating study on human behavior, and from this spawn the debates of many many viewers attempting to make sense of everything. And all of this is gradually built and developed, immersing you more and more, which is crazy because you already start off very well immersed. Multiple times during the film, you feel like you have reached an ultimate low view of humanity and the peak of passionate rage, and then it keeps going and going! You will be on the verge of tears! Now this cannot be achieved without near-perfect acting performances from everyone in the cast, not just the main characters. Mads Mikkelson pulls off one of the greatest performances I've ever seen from this type of character. Every line of dialogue he says not only is so well written but is so well reflected in the performance. I can recall many moments during the film wherein the way he acted is exactly how I've seen people in somewhat similar circumstances. And what's so great about both the acting and character of Mads Mikkelson is that he's not just some clichéd utterly vulnerable guy. No, he actually has some strength and pride to him, and he won't just take all the bull!@#$ that comes to him. I loved it! There were so many satisfying moments that came of that. Thomas Bo Larson also completely encompasses a best friend who is being internally pulled apart by the situation, and by the time we see him complete his arc, his character is imprinted in the minds of the viewers as one of the great aspects of the film. And as honorable mentions, I have to say that all the child actors felt refreshingly real and EVEN THE DOG! There was especially one scene where you are not even sure if the dog is legit doing what is being seen or is some kind of movie magic being pulled off here.Now, in this kind of story, the ending is something that writers must do well to avoid being either too unsatisfactory for the viewer or too good to be true. And I'm glad to say that the ending is probably as good as the rest of the film. Part of the genius of the ending is that not only does it leave you thinking about it, but it forces you to reflect back on the entire film, which aside from adding to the mastery of the film, further helps to promote the film as a whole. One can say that the way the ending skipped over a period of time was a bit lazy in writing, and it maybe got a bit sappy, but if you think about what happens at the very end, all of that is very well justified because it was to conveys a certain message which you, the viewer, may interpret different than others (do not mistake this, though, as one of those open-endings some films do, not that that is necessarily bad but is usually done out of laziness and lacks thought and effort).Another thing worthy of note is the cinematography and shot composition. While there were a few moments where the camera wobbled and took the viewer slightly out of the world, the rest of the film is brilliantly filmed and shot. Certain shots are held static and focused on the subject of the shot to add onto the emotion of the scene, and along with the way they are composed, whether the character is being filmed in nature or in a house, fits perfectly in this world set up by the film.I never expected to be so immersed, so riveted, so emotionally hit by this film, but I was. I was actually nearly in tears at one point. This film will take you through an emotional roller-coaster and will leave you exhausted! I salute Thomas Vintenberg, Tobias Lindholm, and the entire cast for their excellence in this film. What a great film.


                
We haven't come a long way from being caveman and witch hunting. Many people argue humans are capable of rational deductions and carrying inside of them the ability to forgive and understand. "The Hunt" explores just how much difference exists between members of the same community and/or the human/animal kingdoms.There are many beautifully done scenes in this film. "The Hunt" deals with a case where a man is unfairly accused of a heinous crime. As he learns, suddenly the community has turned on him. His closest buddies are now ready to beat him and his family both physically and emotionally. At the head of the lynch mob is a woman who professes love and kindness and is a member of the church community but who hesitates when trying to research the truth.It is a complex situation, as we see a victim who refuses to go down without proving his innocence, and he sees his world crumbling little by little, as he loses friendships, family, and maybe even his life. His best friend is at the heart of the situation, and he might be the only one who could listen, but he also has to watch for his family and live under the influence of a devastated mother. Interestingly, families in this movie. At least, the ones that we are allowed to see are broken, and this might explain the actions of a lonely child.As his life falls apart, life goes on, and in one of the more emotional moments in the movie, everyone is gathered at the community, during Christmas Eve, and this being the perfect moment for reaching and healing, things couldn't go any worse. It is a moment where faith and love are gone, and the results are explosive.The entire movie benefits from a masterful lead actor performance, but everyone here contributes his / her best to a story that reflects contemporary society, a mirror of the worst that has plagued us for centuries, and how we have learned so little from the past, and with the bone chilling ending shows there is little hope that things will be come better in the future. It's a slow moving film, but there is nothing boring in it, there is time to meditate, to react to a couple of intensely violent moments, and to learn that maybe we can get rid of some of the evil in the world, if we really try.
The first thing I thought when I saw Mads Mikkelson on the poster for The Hunt was "Hey, isn't that the bad guy from Casino Royale!" Better known by many for the aforementioned role as well as the titular role in the hit show Hannibal, it would be an understatement to say that Mikkelson bypassed his usual typecast, villainous demeanour with this one. Portraying the life of a divorced father and caring nursery teacher, he elicits the kind of positivity and warmness I felt when watching characters such as C.C. 'Bud' Baxter, played by Jack Lemmon, in The Apartment. He is passive and quirky but ultimately lonely, and this separation sharply contrasts his day to day life, where he is surrounded by playful kids, responsible teachers and the warm environment of nursery school that we as kids can all remember.The Hunt surprised me with the level of engagement I found myself in throughout the movie. Nominated for Best Foreign Language film at the 86th Academy awards, this film explores the damaging and sometimes, as evidenced, irreparable, consequences that an 'innocent' lie can have on someone. I say 'innocent' because Klara, the main juvenile girl, initially makes up lie about Lucas (Mikkelson) that he sexually abused her at the nursery. She appears fully cognizant of her wrongdoing at first. She had a crush on Lucas. She made this quite clear (she goes to hold Lucas's hand at the beginning, gives him a kiss during playtime etc.). He told her that her actions are "only for your mom and dad", an appropriate response to a child in the midst of an adult crush. She would then proceed to make up a fib out of sheer anger and heartache. Until this point, the tone of the movie is lighthearted and almost like a bit of a rom-com; Lucas's life is slowly on the upswing with his family and love life. With this accusation, the movie then depicts the magnitude that the wrong words can have on a person. It also shows what can happen when such an accusation is handled by the wrong people.This movie is excellent in many ways. The dialogue, the acting, the pacing, the story. Thomas Vinterberg is a director who I was unaware of prior to watch The Hunt. In this film, he delivers a powerful take on the human condition, subtly and yet masterfully transitioning the tone from hopeful to hopeless with finesse. The subject of child abuse is a sensitive one and Vinterberg's many techniques help us deeply understand and feel for the characters, even when there is a lack of dialogue. For characters like Klara and Mikkelson, their eyes often say more than their mouths do; their silence is a proverbial onion which help us to peel back their many layers. This is very powerful when executed properly.There are two things that fascinated me about The Hunt. Firstly, Mikkelson's performance as an isolated, powerless man was one of the best I've experienced in a long time. In arguably his best role to date, Mikkelson gives an extremely moving and poignant performance as a lonely man with a heart of gold. He doesn't have a mean bone in his body. When you remember that this is a man who we has become known for playing inherently bad guys in other movies, it makes this enactment all the more impressive.This movie also featured many scenes that were seemingly unimportant or random to the overall plot, which would become instrumental in shaping the story. One scene in particular, that I had originally not given much thought to, was in the beginning when Lucas is speaking with Theo (played by Thomas Bo Larsen) about his son and ex-wife. Theo asks how Lucas is handling all of it, to which Lucas claims he is fine. Theo responds by saying "I can tell when you're lying. You're eye twitches". Later on in the movie, when Lucas is telling the truth about his innocence, Theo cannot distinguish what is a lie from the truth. Like his daughter, Theo's perception becomes distorted by outside events.The Hunt is one of the best foreign films I have seen in a long time, as it is carried out in a very realistic manner. Evil exists everywhere in our world; like an ubiquitous cancer that can never be fully eradicated. It becomes all the more complicated when children's imagination prevail over the truth.Most of all this movie makes you consider and stress over the perils of such a circumstance. This film made me question many things. Children are very candid and therefore will speak their mind. But what happens when, like Klara in The Hunt, their imagination prevails over their logic? This movie will make many people think, if this happened to any of them, "How would I respond to it all?"
For surely this film makes a statement, beautifully and simply presented. And Mads Mikkelsen is surely one of the most distinguished actors there is bar none.Photography was presented in stark and realistic colors. I felt I was there with this lonely man in his isolation. Director let his actors, all of them, play simplicity at its finest. Even the children. Hard to believe they were even acting they were so realistic. But it is the writers, director and Mr. Mikkelsen that tear your heart out (more then once). I felt every minute was filled with the desperation and loneliness of this man. Oh yes, I cried out for him and his torment. Mikkelsen didn't make it an earth shattering emotional moment. He did more. He lived the role and became the man himself. Such artistry is only to be praised. After all simplicity is the greatest force there is - and Mikkelsen's got it. An Oscar worthy performance in my eyes and heart.


                
All the negative reviews here fail to understand the point of this movie. It is not about if children lie, how to find out if it really happened or how the villagers react but to put you in the head of a falsely accused person and to understand the helplessness such a tragedy comes with. How these accusations can never be taken back and will haunt you forever. And it does that perfectly.


                
When I watched A Separation I started craving for more drama films (though I watch all kinda films but dramas-I just gotta see them right away). The setting of the film is awesome.The camera work is fantastic.The acting is great especially Mads Mikkelsen. Even the side actors have done a great job.It didn't seem wrong or fake why this person is reacting in this way.You'll want to kill a few people in this.But throughout the film I guarantee you,you'll be emotionally gripped. If you felt sorry for the guy in Bicycle Thieves, wait till you see this one. Great film!!


                
I will start my review with the perfunctory comment that this is a nearly perfect film. Also, I will add that, in the Los Angeles area in the 1980's, a case not dissimilar to this took place. The McMartin preschool case victimized a school teacher who was falsely accused and the adults investigating the case had dubious methods of attempting to back up their accusations. Now to the aspect of this story that most interests me: All of the characters in this film are suffering from a degree of self loathing that either comes as a result of the accusations or are the initial reasons for the accusations taking place. To elucidate, I would have to turn this review into a spoiler so I won't cite specific reasons for my conclusion. If I am correct, however, this is one of the only films I've ever seen that so vividly shows the internal holocaust that takes place when love is taken from us, how we turn our anger towards ourselves. What was particularly amazing to me is that the protagonist managed to maintain his self respect as long as he did. Ultimately, though, The Hunt concludes that self hatred (and nearly mystical paranoia) is unavoidable when our sources of support have been stripped from us.


                
In a small Danish town, a recently divorced teacher is struggling to get his life together again. Having lost his teaching job, he works at the local kindergarten, where he is very popular with the kids. However, a slight misunderstanding leads to a horrible chain of events.Just like in his most famous film Festen, Danish filmmaker Thomas Vinterberg returns to the topic of child molestation. However, unlike Festen, this movie deals with the horrible consequences for a decent man being accused of child abuse.The film is hard and cold, never shying away from showing the horrendous journey that lies ahead for the blameless main character Lucas. The film deals with the power of an innocent lie, and how easily people consider a lie, especially coming from a small child, as a fact.Mads Mikkelsen carries the film on his own, more or less. He is in almost every scene, and his acting performance is nothing short of brilliant. He portrays Lucas with such warmth and sympathy, and it is really heartbreaking to see how he is treated by the local community, even his old hunting buddies who are supposed to be his friends, once the lie is out in the open. I know the film is labeled as a psychological drama, but in my opinion it is also nothing short of a tremendously well made psychological horror movie. One of the best films I've seen so far this year.


                
Without wasting anytime whatsoever, Thomas Vinterberg places us in the middle of a small Danish village with his new film, THE HUNT. We immediately are drawn in and can't help but feel a love for this community made up of heart-warming and loving close friends. This love will soon be tested however.Mads Mikkelsen play Lucas, a teacher who is currently employed as an assistant at the local preschool. Lucas is a gentle, caring and somewhat lonely man who has hope that his teenage son will come and live with him. We are introduced to Klara, the clever and somewhat troubled 7 year old daughter of his neighbours and best friends. We see that Klara not only looks up to Lucas but has grown a great appreciation for the kind man who, unlike her parents, has the time to give her the attention she is in need of. When not surrounded by children or arguing with his ex-wife on the phone, Lucas finds love in his dog and enjoys hunting with the other men in the community. This will all be brought to an end when a lie is told. A lie that will spread like wild-fire, burning Lucas' life and future away forever.Terrifyingly effective, this gut-wrenching dramatic thriller will put you in the place of it's protagonist as he is unexpectedly thrust into one of the most realistic horrifying situations a man can ever find himself in. Emotionally dreadful, the story is filled with pain and the film is powerful enough to evoke all sorts of emotions, leaving you with a sense of helplessness. The Hunt is not for the faint of heart!


                
