Just like he did 14 years ago in Festen, Thomas Vinterberg once again shows us how a closely-knit community reacts to a shocking revelation. In Festen, a family party was spoiled by the revelation of a secret scandal. In Jagten, a group of friends and neighbours turn hostile when one of them is falsely accused of sexually abusing a young child, the daughter of his best friend. With microscopic precision, Vinterberg dissects the human nature. The accused, Lucas, baffled by the absurdity of the accusation, doesn't even bother to deny clearly. He rejects everyone who shows even the least bit of doubt, including his new girlfriend. His best friend Theo, the father of the young girl, clearly has doubts about Lucas's guilt, but sticks with his wife and daughter. Theo's wife is thoroughly convinced of Lucas's guilt, even when the child indicates he is innocent. The whole situation evolves into a nightmare for Lucas. He is not prosecuted after a police investigation fails to find any evidence, but the villagers have already made up their minds: he is a child molester. He loses his job, is being rejected by the village community and becomes the victim of violence himself. The movie is full of extremely intense scenes that make you shift uneasily on your chair. The various confrontations between Lucas and the villagers are very powerful, but so is the subplot about Lucas's son. A smart decision is that Vinterberg doesn't show anything about the investigation or the prosecution. It isn't important for the story, because the audience knows Lucas is innocent. Instead, the director only shows the way Lucas's friends react and cope with the situation. Jagten is filmed in a realistic style, without many cinematographic effects. The emotionality of the story and the strong acting are enough to carry the movie. The approach is reminiscent of the Dogma-style from Festen, but the strict Dogma-rules are a thing of the past. In some Christmas scenes, Vinterberg clearly makes use of special lighting techniques to create a cozy atmosphere. The whole film is a very strong watching experience. The shocking and unexpected ending, which is open for interpretation, is the cherry on the cake.
Danish screenwriter and director Thomas Vinterberg's eight feature film which he co-wrote with Danish screenwriter and director Tobias Lindholm and co-produced, premiered In competition at the 65th Cannes International Film Festival in 2012, was screened in the Special Presentations section at the 37th Toronto International Film Festival in 2012 and is a Danish production which was shot on location in Denmark and produced by Danish producer and screenwriter Morten Kaufmann and Danish producer Sisse Graum Jørgensen. It tells the story about Lucas, a recently divorced middle-aged man who just began working at a kindergarten and who wishes to spend more time with his teenage son Marcus who lives with his mother. After starting a romance with a foreign woman named Nadja things improve, but one day during a conversation with Grethe who runs the day-care center, he learns that a girl named Klara has told her an unsettling story about him. In a matter of days a spark is turned into a flame and a harmonic village into an irrational witch-hunt against one individual. Finely and acutely directed by Danish filmmaker Thomas Vinterberg, this finely paced fictional tale which is narrated from multiple viewpoints though mostly from the main character's point of view, draws an instantly involving and profoundly heartrending portrayal of a little girl who after being unintentionally hurt by a well-liked man whom she has a childhood crush on, unknowingly and with only a few words incriminates him by expressing her anger to the head of the kindergarten. While notable for its naturalistic rural milieu depictions, fine production design by Danish production designer Torben Stig Nielsen, cinematography by Danish cinematographer Charlotte Bruus Christensen, editing by Danish film editors Janus Billeskov Jansen and Anne Østerud, use of sound and realism, this character-driven and narrative-driven psychological drama about family relations, friendship and irrevocable accusations which is set during a late winter in Denmark, depicts a refined study of character and contains a good score by Danish composer Nikolaj Egelund. This somewhat romantic, at times humorous, atmospheric and tangible intrigue which has been chosen as Denmark's official submission to the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film at the 86th Academy Awards in 2014 and where a friendship is tested, a hunter becomes the hunted and the question of guilt transforms ordinary people into paranoid Savages, is impelled and reinforced by its cogent narrative structure, subtle character development, mysterious characters, brilliant writing, the tailor-made though distinct and accomplished acting performance by Danish actor Mads Mikkelsen, the understated acting performance by Danish actor Thomas Bo Larsen and the impressively authentic acting performance by child actress Annika Wedderkopp. A dramatic, poignant and rightfully provocative tale which gained, among other awards, the award for Best Actor Mads Mikkelsen and the Vulcain Prize of the Technical Artist Charlotte Bruus Christensen for outstanding cinematography at the 65th Cannes Film Festival in 2012.


                
Vinterberg has made many disturbing movies in the good sense. This is no exception. The 42-year-old male assistant at a daycare center is falsely accused by a child for sexual abuse. Since children don't lie about such thing, he's doomed. But he's innocent.A Via Dolorosa starts for Mads Mikkelsen in this little Danish village. There's no smoke without fire and it doesn't matter if the prosecution turns the whole thing down.It's not that gossip necessarily kills you physically, but it kills your soul. Great drama by Vinterberg, including the interesting subject of friendship between men. What is it worth?


                
A film about suspected child abuse is almost certainly going to be a difficult watch and this is no exception. Thankfully this is a sensitive and extremely well written drama focusing on the aftermath of an accusation. It raises some important questions about allegations, how they are dealt with and peoples reactions to them. There are no easy answers and the film doesn't try to answer them.The acting is solid if unspectacular but you are drawn into the story pretty early on and it never loses it's grip on you. The Hunt is a film that will stir a lot of emotions in you.I was surprised at it's high rating before watching it but there is no doubt it deserves it. A stronger ending would have elevated this higher than an 8 in my book but it's still a very very good drama.


                
The story idea behind the film is so powerful and simple I am surprised it hasn't been tapped before in a film; a kindergarden teacher has no way to prove he was not inappropriate with one of the children at his care. It's gripping in the most basic, visceral sense. It sure had me glued.Ethically we can interpret for days. The overall idea is that sin inexplicably manifests in the world, a very Protestant thing but beats similar works by both Trier and Haneke in the emerging tapestry.The only prerequisite for any of it to work is plausibility. Oh Mikkelsen and everyone else is superb in conveying the turmoil of soul, but you have to buy that it could happen to you and you would be helpless in just this way. I admit the supermarket scene seems far- fetched, but the rest is generally fine by me, doesn't pull me out.A few talking points. Law and 'experts' are largely absent, this may strike some people as unrealistic but I think it rings truer to a primal experience of life where, good or bad, you simple have to work out problems inside the community without appeal to authority. It matters that the law eventually decides but that does not of itself make things right in the minds of people.The film goes the easy way, trusting to the viewer the overall truth that is kept from the characters. We know from the first that the claims are unfounded which creates all the gut-wrenching tension of an innocent man being persecuted, in Hitchcockian terms this would be us knowing about the bomb under the counter.But if you shift around inside the film, you will find progressively more valuable viewpoints to contemplate. From the perspective of the man, as said, we have a simple existential intensity and revulsion at injustice, simple as in to understand. From the perspective of the community, the more complicated nature of the experience is that we can't know the truth, have to go on faith and emotion. And this has to be masked with reason, to be respectable, which means all those psychological tools about repression and suggestion, which do exactly what they try to bring to light and explain.Superficially all this is with guilt in mind, but if you really look it's about the nature of truth and reality. What we see is the profound inadequacy of logic to explain, logic being a relatively recent tool that is still being perfected. At root, a story has been circulated and from that 'truth' is inferred and agreed as the most logical. So 'sin' manifests because something is believed to have gone wrong. At the deepest level, we have a powerful insight on the original causality. The filmmaker either knows a great deal or simply happened on it, either way it matters that we truly know the following; there was genuine feeling in the girl for the man, the girl was shown an image that was wrong for her. At root is feeling and image, not story. And a third thing, self. We are all self-centered beings, but kids are hopelessly so. Now there is no logical reason why the girl has swapped in her mind the man showing his penis with her beloved teacher, other than she loves him, and has swapped this being an illusory image for the real thing, but that is what has happened, and we go on to see in the film how this can create a story with the power to alter reality. From the perspective of the girl which is the most inscrutable, we have a single subjective shot in the film; when in her bedroom she mistakes her father for Lucas, a sort of hazy seeing that possibly links everything.This is great stuff. It all points to a powerful inextricability of feeling from image from self both shaping and being shaped by them, all three being illusory by the exact same degree.It all ends with another image that is feeling taking shape in the woods, which is the karmic chain in the utmost sense.
The aim of this text is to provide clarification on certain misconceptions I have stumbled on reading through critiques of "The Hunt"(2012), as a good way to elaborate upon them by contributing my personal analysis of the main themes the film seems to tackle. Indeed, a certain number of commentaries just don't do justice to a pretty tightly knotted film, which is for that matter devilishly efficient at making its points. This is not a review in the conventional sense (value judgment, stylistic and formal commentary) and is therefore mostly addressed to people having already seen the film."It creates a scarecrow story filled with innuendo and partial truths that feed on people's empathy only to turn an innocent young girl into a potential object of rage and abuse." Film Unintentionally Criticizes ItselfAuthor: in1984 from United States 29 May 2013One should never assume too much about the spectator's conditioned responses. Indeed, it is natural to be revolted by a lie, but there are limits to questioning children's intentions, as these are often incapable of moral evaluation, can with difficulty measure the consequences of their actions or even grasp the semantic implications of their words or words in general. Children, as it is, fall more often than not prey to their own misunderstandings. Besides, Klara's intentions seem to be quite clear and exposed as such by the film : incapable of confronting rejection (from Marcus) of which emotional impact has been amplified by her situation of momentary familial negligence, Klara's contempt is released through the fabrication of a story derived from discontinuous bribes of prior traumatic experience (impromptu vision of a man's genitalia on an ipad waved carelessly in front of her eyes). But the film's emphasis is first and foremost on the manner this dubious story (patch-up job of a child's brain) is progressively being reinforced by the adults to achieve full credibility, coherence and impact : the adults pressing causal logic against what was ingenuous hotchpotch."The plot unravels when a child makes up a lie for the flimsiest of reasons, and then is interviewed with a string of leading questions, which are then not only believed, but expanded upon by professional trained adults. This simply wouldn't happen, and knowing this, I didn't connect with the rest of the film, despite some great performances." Silly, lazy scriptwritingAuthor: babarpapa from United Kingdom 28 March 2013The social helper seems genuinely to be in full agreement with Gretha, the school teacher, in a movement of common/natural consent that the frequency of this kind of affairs has conditioned as an almost automatic response. The presumption of innocence often fails to resist in the face of emotional charge. The sequence depicting the interview with Klara is one of the most important moments of the film. There is clear evidence of "soft" pressuring of the little girl by the social helper, in order not to seek a confession but rather to obtain confirmation for what has already been taken at face value. Thus, the girl's shaking of the head is almost immediately discarded as a sign of psychological repression. The point being that psychological theory can become a dangerous motor of influence when it serves as a doctrinal backbone for the truth eluding that the truth is in fact the by-product of the inertia of the largest number consensus, as it reveals itself in this telling moment of intimate surrounding where Klara confesses the lie to her mother which is discarded as being the result of mental confusion subsequent to trauma as the institutional explanation wants it to be. During the interview, the girl's "no" progressively morphs into a clear nodding of the head, without Klara being at any moment or in any way capable of rephrasing her own side of the story. Instead, it is the suggestion of the social assistant that bends her silence, extracting and building the official intrigue : "He did this and that, in this or that way", extrapolating on the teacher's account of the girl's story and validating on the way the "facts" with Klara's noddings. Indeed, if one can't make children do anything we want, in certain situations of emotional distress or contexts triggering emotional defensive attitude, children can be quite suggestible, induced in believing that things or events really happened to them. Furthermore, they have a tendency to amplify the adult's paranoia, to the extent that the social assistant suggestive powers are only the starting point of a movement that keeps worsening. One can easily imagine the parents unconsciously or carelessly dictating to their kids, in a similar way as the social assistant did with some sort of pseudo-maïeutic method, abduction and sequestration scenarii drawn from shared knowledge of news items or any other support in which imagination and emotion can update/actualize realistic narratives in the counter-factual world of their discourses.
The Hunt is a harrowing, tough but compelling watch. The story of a forty year old teacher, Lucas is re-building his life after an acrimonious divorce. Popular at school, seemingly a natural with his young charges, and in the first flush of a romance with a pretty fellow worker, his world is turned upside down by an almost casual accusation by Klara, a young girl at the school, and the daughter of his best friend.The film documents Lucas's gradual descent into a living hell, dis-owned by everyone in a small close knit rural community, and a child trapped by her own lies, and her by her family's un- shaking willingness to believe her.Gripping, and well acted, particularly by Mads Mikkelson, who is exceptional as the wrongly accused Lucas, betrayed, angry, but sill fighting to preserve his dignity. This is a taut, well paced drama, a nightmare set amongst the beauty of the Danish countryside.
"The Hunt" is a danish film which I think that it's one of the best films that Mads Mikkelsen has played.Mads Mikkelsen (Lucas) plays as a divorced teacher who lives a lonely life and he has some problems with his ex-wife that impacts to their son. After that his life is going to be better for some time as he finds the love from his son but all of these are going to change when something else happen.I think that "The Hunt" is a very good film and I have to say that Mads Mikkelsen performance was really great. Thomas Bo Larsen (Theo) makes an also good performance as best friend of Mads Mikkelsen.


                
I saw this movie at my tv it's one of my favorite movie because actually some people believe some fake news without any investigation and i think this movie was really ambitious to choose this subject. I really liked mads mikkelsen is acting performance it was deserve a nomination at oscar for best actor and for best foreign picture


                
"All people involved in the plot, make tragic, childish mistakes. No-one acts like an adult. Like a calm, educated adult, watching and listening at both sides before making a decision. (<U+0085>) I couldn't make a connection from one decision of a scene to another. What happens here seems way far from reality." Plot would have been a lot betterAuthor: Dimitris Avramidis from Greece 27 November 2012The idea that cinema should reflect reality is fallacious, even if the film is built on mimetic ground and handles real-life like characters. The relationship of cinema to reality is actually a very difficult topic that can hardly be reduced to moral considerations or a measurement of a story's verisimilitude, in the sense that it would rely on generalization of everyday experience. Indeed, these would remove it from its specificities. "The Hunt" seeks to make a point and in this regard a certain generalization is here to serve the exemplary nature of its thesis, namely creating the frame in which to "dissect" and observe the social dynamics of group mentality and the psychological and moral conditionings that preside to responses of fear and culpability. The film is a tragedy in which unity of place and action are provided by a claustrophobic setting, a single village, a group, composed of a network of ties and connexions which the core/knot of the story is going to disturb and set in motion. It is erroneous however to claim that this "literary" predicate should undermine in advance the film to make any critical commentary on reality itself. In any country, we can find examples of what a witch hunt can look like when the embers of hate and paranoia are sufficiently fanned, especially in the context of highly volatile child abuse affairs."As a teacher, firstly the whole premise of this film is that 'kids never lie' well I'm sorry but any teacher who's been in the job more than a day knows that kids lie all the time. Secondly the other kids would not just make stories up about being abused - and collaborate on a story; especially at a nursery." I'm sorry but this was story was full of holesAuthor: robinabas2 from United Kingdom 18 April 2013This premise is however central to the understanding of the environment in which the tragedy takes place, namely a Danish small town setting the decor for a psychological drama behind closed doors. This is the narrative and mimetic contract on which the film relies, a microcosm cut off from the world where the idea of the purity and innocence of children responds to the desire of purity of the community, prolonged through its institutions. The title "The Hunt" thematises the relation to Nature and therefore Man to his animal drives, expressing the taboo forms of human attraction and the relation of society to the experience of ostracism (nay, the act to put to death) of an expiatory victim. Indeed, the ritual expulsion of a member of the group served in more traditional and autarkic societies as a measure to reinforce the feeling of unity of the group. The outcast Marcus is caught up in an atavic process of stigmatization of which the inertia seems ineluctable, as depicted in the final sequence of the film. In that sense, it is no coincidence if the film introduces the isotopy of "ritual", even before considering/testing its anthropological effects in/on the group. Marcus leads Klara, on several occasions, back home and on the way the little girl engages in a game of avoiding lines on the ground, thus keeping them in check like it would be hinted in a child's mental world of superstitious menace. These lines on the road, of which the avoidance constitutes the implicit recognition and acceptance of them as the structuring norms of the public and social space, seem to stand for symbols of the taboos and limits in a human group of individuals as well as symbols for the mental conditioning of its members. The childish game represents a rite of passage or prelude to it, giving the sense that the child is man<U+009C>uvering and negotiating her freedom/place through a maze of visible signs which express the invisible and incomprehensible abstract concepts of social functionality, social forbids,<U+0085>The innocence of children is not a premise that the film wants to force upon the spectator, but the psychological starting point of Gretha's opinion, soon a unilateral condemnation. And the collaborative story of abuse by the kids, as expressed in Part1, fits into the broader mechanisms of suggestion and parental paranoia. Innocence is a very important topic. The school teacher seems to be overwhelmed by her judgment, precipitation and for that matter gregarious instinct. When Lucas steps back into the school from which he has been evicted to confront her, she just opens the door and walks away, incapable of assuming directly the consequences of her actions. Her infantile reaction is a tacit plea for the innocence and absolution of the community at whole who needs through mechanisms of ostracism and victimization to reassert its health and viability, against an outer world of perversion, sexual deviance and violence. This psycho-anthropological conflict finds its most telling cathartic relief in the sacrificial sport of hunting. If Gretha confesses to the social helper she believes Klara has a fertile imagination, she flip-flops almost immediately by saying she has an intimate conviction she's not lying and therefore signs Marcus' definite act of culpability. Almost as if this were not the product of some mature or deontological reflection, but an act of faith, that is an act where believing prevails over rationality. If the film doesn't dwell on the unveiling of the deeper motivations of the school teacher, it is because its focus is on group dynamics. Indeed, the whole affair is bound on a tragical succession of events that the community - part unconsciously, part deliberately – refuses neither to distance itself with, nor to rationalize.
A teacher (Mads Mikkelsen) lives a lonely life, all the while struggling over his son's custody. His life slowly gets better as he finds love and receives good news from his son, but his new luck is about to be brutally shattered by an innocent little lie.The critical consensus states, "Anchored by Mads Mikkelsen's sympathetic performance, 'The Hunt' asks difficult questions with the courage to pursue answers head on." Very much the case. Mikkelsen has quickly risen to international star status, and this film shows why... such a difficult role to take.And what is scary is how this can really happen. The idea of pedophilia is scary, but the idea of being falsely accused is almost as bad... no doubt what happens here is no exaggeration.


                
Lucas (Mads Mikkelsen) is a much liked person in the community. He is getting divorced while having limited time with teenage son Marcus. He's working at the kindergarten after his school closed down. Little Klara is the daughter of his best friend Theo and she really likes him. She tries to give him a present which Lucas tries to gently turn back. She tells a fib to head teacher Grethe that explodes out of control.We've seen this movie before. In fact, the movie is laid out openly after we see Lucas and Klara together. The story is set and it's a matter of waiting for it to unfold. Mads is one of the most compelling actors to come out of Denmark. He makes every one of his movies better. He makes this movie better. The other unusual thing about this movie is that it has a compelling young actress in the lead. Young Annika Wedderkopp is fascinating. I doubt she has any idea of what's going on in the movie. That's the sense that is so important in the movie. The only problem is with the ending or last 10 minutes. I don't think that many of those people would show up even a full year later. It seems wrong and too abrupt. Also I saw the alternate ending. I never advocate for killing the lead at the end because that seems to be an easy move. This movie deserves that move more than any other.
How someone's words can awaken a doubt and how it can rapidly turn into verdict without being based on fact examines this excellent study on witch-hunt in modern times. Very skillful gradation of suspense and accent on realism depicts in a plastic manner the painfulness of rejection and persecution by members of social environment, the situation which could happen to every individual. Due to its enigmatic end this Danish drama deserves the epithet of one of better works that deal with persecution and fears of ''civilized'' man.With Jagten, once again, the Danish film industry is emerging as a very interesting and successful one.


                
Having worked as a teacher for some forty years, I knew deep down inside that a vindictive lie from one student (out of thousands that I had) could take me down in a minute. People are so protective of their children (as they should be) that sometimes they fail to see that they are children with an underdeveloped moral code and a tendency toward impulsiveness and peer pressure. They are sometimes motivated by their own interests and by temper. Unfortunately, parents tend to give them credence when they tell outlandish things. I even felt that tug with my own children, but learned to investigate the story before reacting. Often a simple comment meant a teacher "hated" them, or some series events was made to seem much more than it was. Of course, I believe we must be very careful to keep our children's trust and support them when necessary. The people in this movie don't do this and send a man to hell and back. A dear friend of mine spent six months in jail, accused by his daughter of molestation. She finally admitted that she got made because he wouldn't allow her to go out on a school night with her boyfriend. This movie is gut wrenching and real and it happens all the time. Maybe we need to learn patience and to that end, it works very well.


                
Greetings again from the darkness. It's the worst nightmare for every Parent, Teacher and Child. Sexual Abuse of a child is incomprehensible ... it's unthinkable, yet all too common. So what happens when a man is falsely accused of such inappropriate action? Well if the accusation comes from the most innocent of faces - a 5 year old girl - the falsely accused man stand no chance ... regardless of what the letter of the law states.Such is the story of Lucas (Mads Mikkelson, TV's "Hannibal"), a lonely, small town kindergarten teacher who has gone through a rough divorce and seems to be losing his fight for visitation rights to his teenage son. We witness Lucas quietly going about his life ... he is loved by the students and surrounded by life long hunting buddies and friends. Soon enough, things start to look up for Lucas. An attractive teacher expresses her interest in him and his son convinces the mother that he should live with his dad.The set-up of the characters and the powerfully stoic performance of Mikkelson elevate this somewhat predictable story to the brink of excruciating discomfort for the viewer. In the blink of a childhood moment of imaginative confusion of emotional pain, an innocent man's life is forever altered. Klara (Annika Wedderkopp) is the daughter of Lucas' best friend Theo (Thomas Bo Larsen). A very protective teacher unwittingly leads Klara down the path that leads to a landslide of emotion that simply cannot be stopped. Of course, the teachers and parents and community believe the cute little girl ... the innocence of kids cannot be doubted. As the defensive instincts of parents kick in, we see the dangerous side of influence and suddenly numerous kids have piled on and become part of the story.Director Thomas Vinterberg brilliantly keeps us looking through the eyes of Lucas. We know he is innocent and we beg him to scream it! Instead, he expects everyone to just know he does not have this in him at all. His faith in himself never waivers despite our discomfort and anger. He does finally reach a boiling point after a heart-breaking scene in the local market, but even that moment does not feel like a victory.While The Scarlet Letter gave us an indication of community exile, this story shows us just how quickly human nature has us jumping to conclusions and assuming the worst. Persecution and judgment by the mob is one of the most dangerous developments of society. Lucas reminds us that innocence and faith may not always be enough.


                
'The Hunt' is about Lucas, a nursery teacher, popular with the children, who is just getting his life sorted out, is excited about a new lover, and is over the moon that his son wants to come and live with him. An unintentional mishandling of a situation and a couple of simple comments, however, set in motion events that tear everything to pieces.To discuss the story beyond that would be wrong, but the tone of the storytelling brings to mind Tim Roth's 'The War Zone'. This is not a popcorn flick; the film makes every effort to keep both feet firmly planted in reality. The result is an effective, gripping, performance-lead drama, with nearly every scene keeping a good measure on how the events would actually play out in real life rather than on the silver screen. The story itself makes for a generally very well observed study of how it is that a rumour can pick up its own momentum with disturbingly little effort and become fact, how people believe what they need to, not what they should, and the sadly damaging effect that has. The situation it portrays provides a very sad underpinning for lessons on why it isn't just children who need to be careful.Everybody in the film gives a great performance, with Mads Mikkelsen shining bright. Last year he showed us why he may be one of the most criminally underrated actors working today, with a phenomenal, moving performance in 'A Royal Affair', and here he inhabits his character so brilliantly that every conversation, ever mannerism, ever reaction feels effortless. Not to spoil the ending, but the final scene features a very still performance from him, which brings to mind Viggo Mortensen's ability to say a lot with very little. Spot on. The film also looks very good, with some stunning photography.The downside, and the only reason 'The Hunt' didn't quite hit my Top Ten of this year, was that certain plot points, despite trying to remain very "real world", don't seem to gel. It is a hard thing to put into words, and it may simply be that something was lost in translation; whether the criticism makes sense to you depends, perhaps, on your own feelings about the drama. The transition of time and his efforts in the last section of the film seem, to me, to be a bit forced in order to make the final point with that aforementioned performance; it should perhaps have been written differently. That said, however, what I will call the underbelly of the story, the hinted at but never fully discussed aspect, remains unresolved, and whilst I understand this may be frustrating for some, I found it to be an effective device, hinting at a context and reason for the whole drama in the first place. The lack of resolution increases the unease and means the film closes on a bitter, dark and contemplative note, the prospect haunting you...as it should.An engaging drama, well delivered by the cast and generally well directed, even if not the masterpiece I wanted.


                
There is often an element of fortuity in the timing of a film's release – sometimes for the better, sometimes not. Only recently, Robert Redford's muddled and ambiguous thriller, The Company You Keep, with its sympathetic portrayal of idealistic 1960s domestic terrorists motivated by their desire for a better world, would not have been helped by going into theatres just after the Boston Bombings. I doubt many Americans, or others, would have been much in the mood to empathise with these ageing bleeding-hearted liberals who thought the way to utopia was by bombing innocent people.I don't imagine it ever crossed the mind of Danish film-maker, Thomas Vinterberg, that his dour drama, The Hunt (Jagten), centring on allegations of paedophilia would come out just as British police were making headlines across the English-speaking world by questioning, arresting and naming a whole swathe of television personalities accused of such heinous offences from around 40 years ago. (If they themselves are not naming them, they are certainly giving enough clues for their identities to enter the public domain.)The Hunt focuses on a rather lonely middle-aged divorcée, Lucas (Mads Mikkelsen), a redundant school-teacher who is making ends meet working at a local kindergarten. Things appear to be on the up for him as he begins a relationship with an attractive woman, and his teenage son prepares to move back in with him, in preference to his unseen mother to whom Lucas is sympathetic.This incipient happiness comes to a crashing halt when a young girl at the kindergarten – the daughter of his best friend – falsely accuses Lucas of exposing his erect penis to her. The girl wasn't being malicious; her elder brother had shown her an inappropriate image the day before which she couldn't understand and in her confusion a vague allegation is made. Despite almost immediately trying to recant her story, it is believed. Child care professionals repeat the accepted orthodoxy that children never lie about such things and guilt is assumed. Allegations then snowball. Parents are warned that their children may too have been victim of assault and before long Lucas faces a barrage of accusations from children whose stories are consistent in their recall. There is no proof, however, and the Police drop charges when the stories lose credibility – the children all stated they had been taken to the basement at Lucas's house where the abuse took place. His house has no basement.Despite this, the townsfolk are no longer acting rationally. Lucas is ostracised and the victim of threats and physical abuse himself. His dog is shot. His son and a small group of his hunting friends stay loyal to him but he has been tainted by just about the worst crimes imaginable, mud sticks and most people are not prepared to believe there was no substance to them. The film's sympathy was totally with the innocent accused to such a degree that more than once I wondered if we were being fed a misleading narrative.The film is unremittingly bleak. Set in small-town Denmark, its action takes place in winter against a backdrop of perennially grey skies. Likewise, Mats Mikkelsen's portrayal of the accused is monotonal in its depiction of an ordinary man facing the opprobrium of those he once thought were supportive friends. Even when he displays anger, there seems to be some suppressed control to it. On several occasions, I was crying out for him to grab the lapels of someone and shake some sense into them. Only toward the end does he break out from his introspection to accuse his accusers. I would have liked to have seen more emotion earlier on – his own denials of wrong-doing were sometimes just too low-key.Nonetheless, this was a gripping film, well directed and atmospheric. But don't expect to come out from the cinema saying 'Wasn't that enjoyable!'More importantly though, it is a good reminder of the maxim from the great American broadcaster, Edward R. Murrow: We must remember always that accusation is not proof and that conviction depends upon evidence and due process of law.
Empathy is a powerful emotion. It's one of the primary reasons why Cinema affects us. Because we empathize with the characters. As Roger Ebert once appropriately put, "The audience is concerned with the lives that are not its own." Jagten or The Hunt is a film that works because of empathy. The protagonist is an innocent man whose life is torn apart because of an innocent lie. There is injustice, but no one exactly responsible for it. All you can do is hope that matters get well for our protagonist. You're so easily invested in the character that it leaves you feeling angered and gloomy for the events he has to go through. I believe most of the credit has to go to Mads Mikkelsen.There is a scene where he turns back and looks at the camera, almost as if he's staring back at the audience with his soul-piercing eyes. And then a character in the movie speaks out exactly what I had in mind, "I can tell by looking at him."It takes a compelling performance to achieve that.


                
'Jagten' is an excellent foreign language drama that covers a challenging subject area very well. Part of what makes this film so impressive is how it all feels so real. This scenario could happen to any one of us and the film plays on that very successfully. Each and every one of the characters is relatable and can be sympathised with, including the young girl who, like so many of us when we were younger, said something without understanding the consequences and damage it would cause.The storyline is very strong and easily has you hooked and wanting to know what happens next. Although it isn't based on any particular real-life case, I'm sure something similar happened to a lot of people and that's what makes this drama so powerful and hard-hitting. The acting is top notch with Mads Mikkelsen delivering an outstanding performance as Lucas. 'Jagten' is a really thought-provoking film and a fine example of what a drama film should be.


                
My Rating : 8/10'The Hunt' is simply amazing. I didn't think initially that I would like it but found myself absorbed in the drama. A difficult subject matter handled brilliantly. Give it a chance.


                
"The Hunt" is a through the script without emphasizing nor underscoring the concept.
Maybe I was so involved with the script due to the recent #metoo moments happening in India right now. It is really difficult to judge people and their actions in this era.
Mads Mikkelsen is a great actor, he has given "LIFE" to the character, his eyes speak, his face speaks I really fell in love with his acting skills.
Annika Wedderkopp, Wow, I was stunt for a moment by seeing her expressions and dialogue delivery. She has beautiful and expressive eyes. Hope she will make a great actress once she grows.Overall the movie is good, will make you think.Thanks,
Meena.


                
The Hunt has a few little negatives (schematisation, predictability) as well as lot of positives (excellent Mikkelsen and other actors, atmosphere, development of the protagonist, ...)My biggest problem was the accusation itself. At first it's just vague "something happened" described by the child and BAM! we're suddenly at "society vs. undeniable pedophile". The justification is based on the statement that "children always speak the truth". LOL. But what follows afterwards is pretty tough stuff. Lucas gradually falls into helplessness despite being truly innocent, people defending "their truths", impact on families... Fortunately, it never tries to be moralizing.
Mads Mikelson did a fantastic job and he really showed how versatile he can be. From a Bond villain to a regular Joe Shmoe that gets his life stripped away.I was also impressed by how great the child actor was, along with a good script it made the movie really believable.


                
Very good story, with a plot that is very realistic, yet chilling. I thought the acting was excellent all around. I was explaining the movie to my wife and realized it took me quite a long time to tell the story...and I loved it even more after I was myself telling the story and thinking out loud. Those are the best movies...the ones that sit with you for days after.


                
'The Hunt (2012)' tackles some heavy themes, telling the tale of a blameless man who's life is ruined by a false accusation of sexual abuse against a child, but it does so with finesse and always keeps its focus in the right places, never shying away from the tough subject matter but also never focusing too readily upon it. Of course, it helps that we as the audience know that no such act was ever committed, allowing for an almost heartbreaking tale of neighbour turning on neighbour and our somewhat inactive yet extremely empathetic protagonist trying to keep his life from spiralling totally out of control. The lead is deftly portrayed by Mads Mikkelsen in a rare, but well-fitting, non-villainous role. The piece is engaging, powerful stuff. 8/10


                
