I saw this movie yesterday. I agree with previous reviewers, this is an excellent, moving, wonderfully acted movie. It is impossible I think to go through it without being brought to tears at one point or another. You also feel like screaming at some characters sometimes - "what are you doing? Open your eyes! Listen!" But the great thing is you always understand where each character is coming from- you might not agree with their actions, but nothing they do feels forced or unrealistic. Mikkelsen is amazing in this. I had seen him in a few movies before, and always thought highly of him, but here he is just incredible. It's a tough subject matter, and the movie does not shy away from it, but at the same time it is not vulgar or "in your face", it's tactful. I really loved it.


                
'The Hunt' is a truly accomplished film, its simple premise and themes are executed perfectly. The film is hugely engrossing and completely and utterly infuriating, which is a testament to the merits of its acting, direction, script and hyper-realism.The film follows Lucas (Mads Mikkelsen), a lonely primary school teacher who relishes his job and is popular with both the children and the local community. Just as he meets Nadja (Alexandra Rapaport) and begins a relationship with her, his relationship with another woman, 5-year-old Klara (Annika Wedderkopp), lands him in immeasurable trouble. What happens is a completely innocuous misunderstanding, but the community, the 'adults' who are supposed to be rational and fair, turn into a lynch mob.The film is about the danger of mass-hysteria, ignorance and subsequently the frightening power of numbers. It teaches the importance of measure and consideration; it's a much needed anecdote to the sensational vilification, general ignorance and trashy media that permeates our lives.It's the scare-mongering, amoral tabloids that help in empowering the dangerously ignorant lynch-mobs that arise whenever someone screams 'paedophile!' or 'woman beater!' These lynch-mobs normally consist of pugnacious, dreadful people who enjoy drama and violence rather than actually care about their cause. The film is intelligently and thoughtfully written. The girl is by no means vindictive; as much as you want to vent your anger, she's clearly far too young to understand what is happening. It's the 'adults' who display their stupidity, their total lack of reasoning and fairness left me indignant for the entirety of the running time and subsequently the whole evening – the film really works.There is a palpable sense of danger throughout the film, you genuinely fear for Lucas' life; seldom have I empathised with a character so dearly. Who would've thought a Danish Art House film could be so thoroughly gripping?'The Hunt' is a thought provoking, tactful and important film that should be seen by as many people as possible. It's one of the best films of 2012.www.hawkensian.com


                
Here in the small town where I reside, our local newspaper had a recent headline that a beloved teacher was suspected of improper contact with a student. The article was complete along with his picture and I felt that this teacher's life was over as he knew it whether the information was accurate or false. I felt that I would withhold judgement pending an accurate and a detailed investigation, but I know that others would not give the teacher this courtesy. Human nature is an interesting thing to observe and we often get trapped in our own snares with comments such as "I really can't tolerate judgemental people".Recently I saw another Danish movie "The Hijacking" and was so impressed with it, that I sought out this movie as it was also a highly regarded project. I'm glad I did. The movie reflected the idea of a rush to judgement and all the implications of how society reacts when information is inaccurately reinforced.The title of the movie, "The Hunt" is symbolic of Lucas's hunt for justice, but also feeling like the hunted. It begins with friends at a hunting camp drinking & celebrating but this hunt is all a metaphor for Lucas's life. Perhaps it was best expressed when his son got a family heirloom hunting rifle and it was said that now he was old enough to find his way in the forest. "The Hunt" is really about such a journey and the forest was thick with assumptions, accusations, hatred, betrayal, and a host of other thorns, briars, branches and such things to trip up the journey. Having felt like he was being hunted through a community's narrow rifle scope of understanding, Lucas's idea of hunting is ultimately altered....and believably so.Vinterberg does a masterful job of story telling and in such a way that we hear a morality tale. Yes, many times the information we are told in the news is correct. But what if it isn't? What price is paid by the victim and his/her family? If you want to watch a movie that is different from the typical Hollywood variety and gives you reason to search more deeply before believing what you see and hear, watch "The Hunt" and see if you would find your way through the same forest that Lucas traveled. Few of us would be able to do so....


                
I just saw The Hunt at the New Zealand International Film Festival and I walked out speechless. The Hunt has such a difficult story to tell but the film makers never go too far with little exposition. The film doesn't take one side over another, making the point that there isn't really any "bad guys" in the film, just people on opposite sides of one coin. The script is shocking, tragic and at times funny. The film is very intimately shot with an almost documentary approach. The film is mostly shot hand-held, giving you the feeling of realism. The camera likes to get in close and hold on the actors eyes and it is the eyes that tell the story. Most of the story is told through what was not being said, but instead with looks and pauses. Mads Mikkelsen is stunning as always as the man accused of sexual abuse. He plays the role with such sensitivity to the character but always keeps you guessing throughout the film. Annika Wedderkopp plays the role of the innocent young girl to perfection, again always keeping you guessing. Their relationship being one of the most interesting I've seen on film this year. If I had one complaint it would be that the main plot ends quite abruptly, not leaving me fully satisfied before it goes into the epilogue. The Hunt is drama at its best with beautiful performances from the entire cast. It is hard to explain how great this film is without giving away spoilers but the film gives no clear answers for such a difficult subject and it makes you ask yourself, what would I do?


                
According to English Professor Jack Lynch, "Lies, once they are accepted as true, take on a life of their own, one that lasts long after the original falsehoods have been exposed." The power of the continued acceptance of lies is reflected in Thomas Vinterberg's The Hunt, the disturbing story of the false accusation of a kindergarten teacher of sexual abuse. It is an accusation that reveals the sordid underbelly of a small town, hidden beneath the veneer of middle-class civility. Written by Vinterberg and Tobias Lindholm, The Hunt is a thought-provoking drama that makes us aware both of the vigilance needed to protect our children from predators, and of the crucial importance of following the precept that an individual is innocent until proved guilty in a court of law.Mads Mikkelsen is Lucas, is a caring kindergarten teacher who has been recently divorced and shares custody of his teenage son, Marcus (Lasse Fogelstrom). He has a good relationship with his students, especially six-year-old Klara (Annika Wedderkopp), the daughter of his best friend Theo (Thomas Bo Larsen) and his wife Agnes (Anne Louise Hassing). Lucas walks her home from school when her parents are late in picking her up and she obviously likes him very much. In class one day, Klara kisses Lucas on the lips but is admonished by him that kissing on the lips is only for mum and dad. Sparked by seeing images on her bother's iPod, she tells kindergarten head Grethe (Susse Wold) that she doesn't like Lucas anymore because he has a "weenie." When Grethe tells her that this is normal because every man has one, Klara tells her that his was "straight and pointed." The incident is forgotten about for a few days until Grethe realizes that "children never lie", and begins questioning the little girl again, coming to the decision that sexual abuse has occurred and that some action must be taken. Though Klara now says that she cannot remember, her parents attribute her loss of memory to trying to forget what is uncomfortable. Calling a group of parents together, Grethe accuses Lucas before the parents, telling them the signs to watch out for in their own children. Slowly, the word gets around of widespread abuse at the school, though Lucas remains in the dark because Grethe refuses to give him any details about the accusations.Word spreads by hearsay, gossip, and innuendo as a child psychologist, teachers, parents, and eventually the police are brought in, but no through investigation is ever conducted. Klara is questioned again (questions taken directly from the transcripts of actual police cases) and it is obvious she is a confused little girl who tells the adults what they want to hear. Vinterberg ratchets up the tension and we sense the world closing in on the embattled teacher. Though Lucas' male friends in the community have a long-lasting bond, they break the ties of their close-knit group and turn against one of their own.Lucas and Marcus are denied the right to shop in the local market even to the point of threats and violence, his best friend Theo rejects him, and even his girlfriend Nadja (Alkexandra Rapaport) asks him if he's insane or sick. Lucas' only friend is Marcus' godfather, Bruun (Lars Ranthe), who soothes his friend's psyche with black humor. After Lucas is arrested, a preliminary hearing rules that there is not enough evidence to hold him and he is released, but this does not stop the violence. A rock is tossed through his window and neighborhood thugs take out their aggression on his dog Fanny.The Hunt is a harrowing experience that is not an easy film to watch, especially if the viewer has had past experience with the subject. The exceptional performances, however, make it easier to appreciate. They are not only from Mikkelson who won Best Actor at Cannes, but also from Fogelstrom as Lucas' loving and supportive son, Ranthe who keeps Lucas afloat, and especially that of seven-year-old actress Annika Wedderkopp who is so angelic that we never turn against her even though we know she is lying. While some critics bemoan the fact that this kind of story has been told before, it has never been told like this, building with inexorable power from the warmth of small-town conviviality to a shocking picture of injustice and paranoia that hits us right in the solar plexus.
One of my favorite foreign language films it Thomas Vinterberg's "The Celebration" ("Festen"). It's an absorbing tale about sexual abuse--abuse that comes out during a birthday party for a beloved family patriarch. Now, with "The Hunt" ("Jagten"), Vinterberg directs a film where quite the opposite happens--a man is accused of sexual abuse but who is 100% innocent. Had the director always done films denying sexual abuse, folks might have thought him strange but here the brave director allows himself to go in a completely different direction with his movie.In his film, Mads Mikkelsen plays Lucas, a divorced father who works at a kindergarten. He seems like a genuinely nice man and is trying to get his life together. He has a new girlfriend, his son wants to come live with him and he has no reason to expect what happens. A very young girl is shown some pornographic material by some older boys and later in passing she tells another teacher that she has seen Lucas' penis when she actually didn't. Some folks investigate and ask leading questions--and suddenly there is a bit of hysteria as the community assumes Lucas is guilty--even his so-called friends. And, no matter what he does, he cannot PROVE he never did anything.So is the film any good? Well, based on it now being on IMDb's Top 250 list (at number 133), it's obvious a lot of folks loved the film. With a current score of 8.3, it's not at all surprising it would be nominated for the Oscar. As for me, I thought the film was terrific and thought-provoking. It made its point very well by using VERY vivid scenes involving the community literally tormenting Lucas. You can't help but feel affected by the drama--thanks to the script by Tobias Lindholm and Thomas Vinterberg himself.I did have one problem with the film--and this is why I didn't score it a 10. Although I think such a theme is great stuff for older kids and teens to watch with their folks, there are a few graphic scenes that were unnecessary for the film and which would probably make many of these parents not show the movie to their families. I think the kids need to see the violence against Lucas but the sex scene and photo weren't really needed in the film. A very light trimming would have made this a great film for ages 12 and older. Now, because it's rated R in the US, it's unlikely these younger viewers would get to see it. This film needs to be seen by a wide audience as it's very, very well made and worth seeing.By the way, in many ways, this film is like a dramatization of what occurred in the very famous McMartin Pre-School case here in America. Apparently, some very unqualified interviewers screwed up a case and soon had half the school accused of sexual abuse. Some of the stories they reported were downright insane (such as their victimizers being able to fly). Many folks were prosecuted and only later did folks realize what had occurred--a serious rush to judgment. And, as there was no real proof, the accused were all acquitted--but only after years and years of investigations and trials. And, in one case, one of the accused spent five years in jail despite no ultimate conviction.Also, if you are curious about me, I used to work with sexual abuse victims and perpetrators as a therapist. I am NOT minimizing sexual abuse claims in my review of the film. Too many women are ignored or treated like dirt when they are victims--I've seen this myself. It's just the unqualified and irresponsible interviews with very small children that bothers me. I've worked with many folks in the field and saw that most interviewers (at least back in the 1980s and 90s) were woefully untrained and potentially dangerous because of this.


                
The genius of this film, for me, is its exposé of righteousness—how ugly people get when we not only hate, but revel in it, fortified by a sense of being justified, when the hated one is known to be utterly evil, really deserves it. You can really go to town, excoriating a monster. The hastening to judgement, the pell-mell, giddy rush toward it is so well depicted because the film keeps us in the perspective of the one judged and condemned, a chance target for an apparent ready supply of vitriol. That's what's really frightening about the scenario in The Hunt; not that Lucas is accused or who accuses him, but how easily forces are marshalled against him. It's the fearsome eagerness to hate, punish and ostracize that is horrifying. The macho, man's man scenes at the opening of the film and its closing bracket this theme with a sense of a culture quick to pull triggers and confident in its right to pull them. Solid cinematography, fine acting, even on the part of the central child figure, and tight editing all contribute to an exceptional drama and a thought-provoking work of art.


                
This was very powerful. I was very angry throughout the whole movie, how no one gives the accusation even a bit of doubt had me swearing at every single character. Everyone has acted very foolishly towards an maddeningly innocent man, and while it is very foolish... it is also very realistic, I can definitely see it happen in real life. The church scene and the visit by the main character's best friend once he realized how wrong he was made me shed a few tears.
And then I was back to being angry again, seeing how everything is seemingly back to normal, all is forgiven, all too easily. I do not think I would be able to forgive in his place, nor would I be able to go hunting in the woods with those same blind hating people carrying rifles. I know it's been a year since - but I feel like a few scenes were missed to show what happened before everyone was acting as if nothing had happened.
And well, while this movie had me angry and hurting, it was also a very well told story, very well acted.... that carries a very important message.
A brilliantly painted portrait of how prejudice can turn even the most decent people into a mindless mob, The Hunt is a provocative study of our ever judgmental society which is always ready to believe anything that gives them a chance to persecute someone without even verifying the accusation or caring about how affecting & damaging it could actually be if the accused turns out to be innocent.Set around Christmas in a small Danish town, The Hunt (also known as Jagten) tells the story of Lucas; a kindergarten schoolteacher in his mid-40s who is admired by his peers, loved by his school children & is friendly with everyone in town. But his life soon turns upside down when an innocent lie spreads like wildfire throughout the town and does an irrevocable damage to his life, dignity & relationships.Beautifully directed by Thomas Vinterberg, the story isn't concerned with how Lucas proves his innocence but instead focuses on how he deals with the isolation & hostility that comes from his community after the false accusation. Screenplay deals with a sensitive subject matter but isn't afraid to throw uncomfortable questions at its audience, while all its technical aspects are executed in a very serene manner.Coming to the acting department, this is Mads Mikkelsen's show all the way for the actor delivers the finest work of his short but admirable career with a performance that perfectly captures Lucas' plight & his Best Actor win at Cannes for this role was a well-deserving one. Also bringing further solidity to this aspect is the young Annika Wedderkopp who plays Klara; daughter of Lucas' best friend.But the most powerful thing about The Hunt is that it puts up some very difficult questions in front of us & isn't afraid to ask for an answer. It shows us that children are indeed capable of saying the stupidest things without any idea of what it can do to someone's life & reputation and how society always believes their version of truth without even looking for any evidence because in their eyes, children don't lie.On an overall scale, The Hunt is a wonderfully directed, skilfully written, vividly photographed, smoothly edited & calmly scored cinema that's impressive, thought-provoking & potent in every way, is one of the finest films to come out from Denmark, manages to maintain a strong grip on our emotions from start to finish, really makes its viewers connect with Lucas' predicament, and is scarier than your average horror flick. Strongly recommended.


                
Human brain controls everything. Prove yourself by watching this movie. There is no action, no thrill in this but discover yourself as suffocated with some emotional or mental pressure. This film creates an amazing emotion or feelings for an innocent man and makes you suffocated.A superb movie. I really learned something from this movie, that "rethink". And make your belief real strong on your best friend. I really love the silence of that movie and the personality of the leading character- "Lucas".Thank you so much Thomas Vinterberg and Tobias Lindholm for such story and direction.


                
In all likelihood, 'The Hunt' will be the best film released in 2013. It's superior to everything else I've seen this year in almost every way. The script, the cinematography, the score, the scenery, and of course the performances are the best I've seen since 'A Separation'. Mads Mikkelsen - who could very well be called Europe's finest actor at present - delivers his easily most brilliant work here. If you generally don't like European movies, but try to watch one every once in a while to expand your horizon - don't miss this. It's film at its very best, combining skill, message and suspense into a harrowing, yet engaging work of art.This was Vinterberg's first Cannes entry in 15 years since his debut 'Celebration', which initiated the neo-realist Dogme movement, won the Jury Prize and catapulted him to international fame. 'The Hunt' was passed over for best film by the (in my opinion overrated) 'Love' by Haneke. Mikkelsen won the award for his performance, but nevertheless it took a long time for the film to get generally released. That's most likely due to its (supposedly) controversial subject matter of children lying about having been sexually abused. It's quite possible that many people, especially parents and teachers, could feel alienated by the way the accusation automatically evolves into a full-scale witch-hunt. One could argue that the film views this problem entirely from the angle of the protagonist, and ignores the difficulty for children to address abuse when it has really happened to them.I would understand such criticism, even though I personally feel it is unfounded. For Vinterberg's theme here seems to me less rooted in the topic of abuse, but rather group dynamics. As in 'Celebration', he's focusing on the immense difficulty for an individual to address a harm done by the hostility of some and then the acquiescence of the whole surrounding society. That's what makes 'The Hunt' so superior - it manages to emphasize that a community which ignores a single person's rights can easily deteriorate, and that - in the end - we're all as vulnerable as the protagonist is: any accusation from whatever angle may lead to ostracizing and social death.If there's one slight weakness to the film, it's its very perfection. The story doesn't feel as constructed as, for instance, in Haneke's films, wherein there is always one decisive scene around which the whole plot appears to be built. But the final shot felt to me a bit as if it's been chosen for maximum dramatic effect. Still, if you compare 'The Hunt' to 'Love', it's definitely a more skillfully handled and comprehensible resolution.


                
There cannot be enough words to express the importance of this film. Not only beautifully and skillfully crafted but 'Jagten' is equally a profound warning that immense mistakes are currently being made which persistently erode the natural upbringing of our children and permanently ruin the lives of thousands of innocent people who are wrongfully accused of abusing them. As such this film should be mandatory viewing in all schools and for everyone involved with children.Lucas is an assistant at a primary school serving a small rural community in Denmark. He is approached by the 6 year old daughter of his best friend because she has an interest in walking his dog. A friendship forms and she idolizes him to the extent that one day she presses a kiss upon his mouth and gives him a small plastic heart. Perhaps rather insensitively, but nonetheless quite understandably in today's manic society, he returns her gift and carefully tells her that kisses on the mouth are reserved for her parents. She feels rejected and offended and accordingly suggests to the headmistress that he had behaved improperly to her by displaying his genitals and giving her the token that she had in fact given to him.And then the horrific reality of today's paranoid obsession over pedophilia takes hold with devastating effects on everyone involved. Instead of questioning the girl a little more to test the truth of events, instead of making background checks into the suspect's past or even placing him under discrete observation, the child is automatically believed and her accusation broadcast around the entire community. Even when she withdraws her allegation and admits it to be false she isn't believed because of the absurd notion that victims will attempt to protect their abusers. Lucas isn't told the identity of his accuser or even the details of her allegations. He is simply suspended from work and isolated from everyone around him. The resulting drama makes compulsive viewing that forces us all to examine our own reactions to such situations. The self important and arrogant Headmistress who instigates the tragedy is an all too common figure in all our communities and perhaps a character that represents far more danger to the healthy upbringing of our children than those she is supposedly protecting them from. Our children must feel safe and confident when communicating with adults but the pedophilia paranoia around them serves to isolate the generations into separate communities that bodes extremely ill for the future of society.


                
Lucas(Mikkelsen doing incredible, and his role, fortunately, in spite of early indications towards it, is *not* a Gary Stu) is a fairly content 42-year-old. His biggest problem is his ex-wife only letting him see their son every other weekend, and after he whines(seemingly an exorbitant amount, even for a teenager), this gets changed. So things are looking up. But then, he faces an accusation of pedophilia, and as things escalate(eventually leading to a few holes punched in the overall credibility), the tension rises(thankfully occasionally pierced(never disappearing completely), made tolerable, by the clever humor - such as our lead's dog barking at every mention of the name of his former bride), and as we realize how easily this could happen to us, we can't escape the terrifying consequences of such a claim... even when it is false. It is completely evident to us that it is not true, and it is about this situation. This does not suggest that the awful crime never happens, but it does shine a light on the fact that we are looking for it everywhere, and many refuse to accept the court's word when someone is found to not have done it. Part of the problem is the idea that we are "innocent" until puberty, and our still strained relationship with sexuality. Let me make clear, it should of course never be between kids and adults... however, even at a young age, there may be curiosity, and this is not a bad thing, it's natural and should not be discouraged(lest they actually *do* get issues about it!). The characterization has no one a "good or bad guy", we understand everyone and their actions. And the acting is impeccable from everyone concerned. Theo(Bo Larsen, capturing the complexity) is forced to choose between who to believe... his best friend since childhood, or his beloved daughter! And the girl herself, Klara(Wedderkopp, who shows amazing talent... when she is asked to repeat her story to a therapist, we perceive her increasing nervousness through a minor tic with her lower lip; no words needed, and holding up to the scrutiny of close-ups), is as full and real a person as if she were a grown-up. The score is sparse and this uses silence well, rendering it more intimate. We start in the idyllic(the whole thing is set in a small town, and in addition to being "short" or "code" for witch-hunt, the title can be applied literally), with everyone happy, everything quaint, and as it progresses, this gets further away, to the point where we begin to wonder if we imagined that. The pace does at times drag a tad, and the third act doesn't feel entirely like a climax(in spite of how scary it gets over the course of the 112 minutes). While I have mixed feelings about the very ending, it is in the right spirit. This is a mature, intelligent take on the subject, and will stir up a much-needed debate. Thomas Vinterberg has made another film as good as The Celebration(and I love Submarino). There is a lot of disturbing content, some bloody violence, and brief male full frontal nudity(and references to such) in this. I recommend this to everyone who can "handle it". 9/10
I've heard of "The Hunt" ("Jagten") for some time now, and after a few attempts of watching it, I finally did it. After I have seen the movie, I have a big regret: that I've waited so long to do it."The Hunt" has a wonderful story, which feels very real and plausible. The events are happening in a small town near the mountains, where the community is very close to each other. The pictures are beautiful: mountains, rivers, lakes, wild animals and great buildings. Even the food looks very good.But what I liked the best were the people, and the relationship between them. I mean I felt like I was their friend: I laughed with them, I cried with them and felt numerous types of feelings while watching the film. It transmits powerful feelings through the screen. You never have enough information to form a complete idea or opinion, and that makes the movie even more interesting and teasing. You have many types of relationships: between friends, father and child, ex-husband and ex- wife, new lovers, and others. During the scenes, I have felt different types of feelings and emotions: joy, trust, anticipation, anger, sadness, disgust, surprise.I have learned a few things from this film, about people and the way they interact. First of all, people can be easily influenced and manipulated, when you have all the factors needed to create a necessary scenario. Second, a real friendship can't be broken, even if certain events tell you so: "I think this is the ending of a beautiful friendship" (opposite of the famous quote from Casablanca).Finally, I recommend "The Hunt" to all of you who love people and the connections that are made between them. I will wait for your comments in the Message Board, because at the end of the movie you will surely have many questions.P.S. This is my first review, so don't be to harsh on me.


                
This is an excellent masterpiece from the director Thomas Vinterberg. Hats off to him for showing the emotions of a common man in such a wonderful way. I like to praise the protagonist Mikkelsen for his classic acting. Also I like the acting of the little girl who has done really well. There is really a nice message for everyone in this movie. I do want to write many things about this movie.You must have read so many reviews already about this film. So I don't want to reiterate again.So, please stop reading more reviews about this movie and just watch it.Trust me, you will love it.


                
By parroting a bawdy description of Lucas, her schoolteacher, a little girl unwittingly persuades the officious headmistress that he has molested her. The suspicion snowballs. After an unofficial debriefing in which the interrogator blatantly leads the young witness, the school refers the matter to the police. The authorities don't find any basis to prosecute the alleged abuse, but this means little to a town with a lynch mob mentality. Dogged by suspicion, Lucas finds his livelihood upended, his relationships strained, and his peace menaced. Wise beyond her years, the student admits her foolishness and proclaims the teacher's innocence, but this falls upon dead ears. Lucas' so-called accuser is the daughter of his so-called best friend, but that friend won't be the one to give him the benefit of the doubt, at least not before Lucas has gone through an awful lot of grief.The depiction of Lucas' persecution is compelling (as long as one suspends disbelief and accepts that parents and administrators are dumb enough to believe the kids will gaily horse around with a serial molester the way they do with Lucas). No one will watch this film without acquiring a renewed sense of the importance of due process and the presumption of innocence. However, it glosses over what, to my mind, could have been the most interesting part of the tale: Lucas' reconciliation with and reintegration into his community. What could heal the wounds of an innocent man so cruelly mistreated? How could he ever trust the people around him again knowing that they can turn on him ruthlessly without him doing anything at all? If the film had offered a convincing portrait of how this was possible, it might have been a transcendent work instead of just an excellent film. The closing scene recapitulates one of the most unnerving episodes of Lucas' ordeal, starkly calling into question the idea that Lucas and his community have forgiven and moved on. That ending adds poignancy to the question of how those involved have attempted to come to terms with the injustice done to Lucas, but answers are only subtly hinted at. I, like many viewers, would also have found some satisfaction in seeing any of Lucas' tormentors besides the butcher (say, the headmistress or Fanny's killer) get some comeuppance. The film does not vouchsafe us this satisfaction. Perhaps the point is that Lucas is victimized by a mob, not by individuals who choose rationally and can be held accountable.
This movie is absolutely amazing! Mads Mikkelsen is pouring his soul out on screen and it pays off. He gets our empathy and we see the unfairness and beatings he must take on his journey to prove his innocent! I didn't really understand the title until the very end and i think the ending kind of opens the story, and therefor sits in my head and was stuck in there for a long time. As a Dane i think i would get the movie a little better than anybody else, because i live in the environment that we see, how gossip gets around in the small cities and suddenly is out of hands.. But an amazing movie it is, but not a 10, because of lack of action in my opinion.


                
No movie in history has ever made me feel so mad, so furious wanting to absolutely rage. I was some way into this film and I thought 'these people are driving me insane, I just want to yell and scream and trash this room!' I looked at the remaining time left on the film (because it was late) and there was still an hour and 10 minutes remaining, I was so close to turning it off thinking I have had enough, but I continued to watch. Luckily so it seemed, because a majority of the situations/individuals that caused my anger and frustration had slipped away. But then this grey cloak tarnishes the atmosphere and you're left with a longing feeling of despair and hopelessness, but only partially, but even if no hope remains, you still must watch this journey unfold. The atmosphere in this film is intense and gripping, the scenes consume you and you are fully absorbed within this story. And the movie takes a turn from this man in a battle where the opponent has absolutely no reason for attacking, to this man who is being attacked and there is nothing he can do about it, though not for a second do you think 'just give in', there isn't a inkling of that, its just 'I must watch this unfold' and bare witness. This is probably one of the most moving, intense, emotional movies I've seen, in recent memory and it's funny I think back on the movie and its not like I even enjoyed the experience, but it was exactly that; an experience. This will send you to tears; I wailed to this movie like none before. The atmosphere, the direction, the acting, the lighting, the dialogue, it creates this world that you see in your own life, you see across the street, the next town across, not just the locations, but the people. And maybe that's why I initially tell myself and think of telling others 'I didn't like that movie', because it is so real, it depicts life's struggles and humanity's flaws unbelievably well. This movie is not for the faint hearted. Its moves you in ways that not many things can, this is an emotional roller coaster, from madness to tears to joy to fear. I will say this; this movie is not one you should watch late at night before bed, this might not be a movie a lot of people should watch at all. But by god this is a movie! I haven't seen anything like it before and it left such an impact I don't know if I'll watch anything like it again.Be wary before watching this film, it's not for everyone.
The main thing I will say about this movie, is that is makes you very, very mad. Well, made me, anyway.I am allergic to spoilers, so I can't say why, but trust me, you will be so frustrated by this. You will probably hate some of the characters. Now this is danish, so everyone, absolutely everyone will need subtitles. (little joke/stab at Denmark there! nobody, not even Danes themselves understand that language)Mads Mikkelsen, aka Hannibal, does a very fine job. He reacts so natural and realistic, you really feel for him.The subject matter is one that I think it's pretty hard to make a movie about, so I applaud the director. There is not that much for me to talk about in this review, really, all I can say it is a frustrating, but very good movie. You are left with this chilling, split soft of, feeling after watching it. Very good!


                
This film deals with a difficult subject and the way to be accused of something can be enough for you to be excluded by society. The film is well written,acted and produced.The pace of the film is excellent and never sensationalist.When so many films nowadays require the viewer simply to sit back and be entertained this film drags you through a moral maze and very straight forwardly forces you to deal with the issues raised. Due to the subject matter it cannot said to be enjoyable yet as a piece of film making it is important and to be praised.The performance of the central character binds the film together. Without having empathy for his character and for all of those caught up in the unfolding events the film would not work.The sanctity of childhood and the way that his son is at the same time also ostracised by the community provides a harrowing contradiction."Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned".


                
Sometimes children lie. Sometimes god people give in to hysteria, and lose all sense of reason. sometimes they destroy innocent lives. Thomas Vinterbergs film is a shocking, harrowing experience that will affect you profoundly and will live in you mind for a very long time. The story is a simple one, a man, a teacher, is wrongly accused os sexually misconduct with a young child and his community, filled with old friends and acquaintances, turn on him and make his life a living hell.
The movie is full extremely intense scenes that make you shift uneasily on you chair.
A smart decision it that Vinterberg doesnt show anything about investigation or the prosecution. it isnt important for the story, because the audience knows Lucas is innocent. instead, the director only shows the way lucas friends react and cope with the situation. Jagnet is filmed a reallistic style, without many cinematographic effects. the emotionality of the story and the strong acting are enough to carry the movie.
The whole films is a very strong watching experience. the shocking and unexpectid ending.


                
'The Hunt' is the story of Lucas (Mads Mikkelsen), a teacher who is well known and liked in the small community in which he lives. But this soon changes when he is wrongly accused of a crime.Theo (Thomas Bo Larsen) is Lucas's best friend, and he's not coping too well with family life. Theo's troubled young daughter Klara (Annika Wedderkopp) seeks solace in Lucas and his dog Fanny. Karla oversteps their friendship, Lucas carefully rebuffs her but she interprets it as a rejection. Klara concocts a story that Lucas sexually abused her, and confides in her headmistress Grethe (Susse Wold) who mismanages the situation catastrophically. The school and the parents interrogate Karla, putting words in her mouth when she doesn't know what to say. Worst still, Grethe informs all the parents to look for signs of trauma in their children, and suddenly everyone begins to see signs of abuse that were never there, cue mass hysteria.We are forced to watch an innocent man bullied, persecuted and ostracised because of the nature of the accusation pointed against him. Lucas's demise contrasts with Klara's position, she's since said to her parents that Lucas was innocent, but they refuse to believe her. This is a world where the innocence of a child is never in question, and its an interesting tactic by director Thomas Vintenberg to show the accuser in a negative light, especially one so young. The opposite is the case for Lucas, who is shown as diligently honest and trustworthy. Lucas is helpless, whether he reacts or not he is seen as the guilty party. Only one person managed to listen to reason throughout the mass hysteria, his close friend Bruun (Lars Ranthe) offering Lucas unwavering support and some much needed pitch-black humour to cope with his ordeal.Lucas' witch-hunt reveals a community who are quick to resort to illogical and degenerate behaviours. Watching Lucas' story unfold is unbearably tense and extremely powerful. Yet nobody is demonised in the film, everyone has their own understandable motivations and this only increases the tension you feel. Facts are based on lies, gossip and innuendo, not to mention the power adults have over their children. Its also indicative of the paranoid herd mentality not only of adults but also of children, who all fashioned the same story to pin the blame on Lucas. The men in the community are all particularly close, they all including Lucas bonded week in week out like a band of brothers. To see all but one of them betray and remorselessly bully the mild mannered Lucas must have been traumatic, seeing Theo side with his daughter over him must have been devastating.The acting by the cast is superb, Mads Mikkelsen gives a deeply humanistic and scarring performance. Annika Wedderkopp handles a difficult part with an amazing maturity for one so young . Thomas Vintenberg has directed a near perfect film, 'The Hunt' is a gripping and achingly emotional film which will challenge and upset you and is sure to touch a nerve. You realise that this dark and terribly cynical film may be harsh, but its ultimately an indication that its all so very truthful and realistic, such is the world we live in.
This is a really tough movie to watch. I don't know how they do it, but keeping it "real" is not an issue with Mr. Vinterberg and others as it seems. Having a real situation that will throw you and others off balance and play it as straight as possible sounds simple, but it really isn't. You need actors like Mads Mikkelsen to convey the story and be able to portray all the facets of his character.The kid actors in this are very important too and as is said in the making of, none were told the whole truth or what the implications might be. Which is especially important to those who might think kids were exposed to things they shouldn't have been. Which brings us right back to the theme of the movie and the question, if we are over protective or if the world around us has changed too much? There are a lot of other questions too that are raised and not all can be answered with certainty or any satisfying result. Which makes the movie even more disturbing and good.


                
the direction and the screenplay of the hunt is very good.the movie keeps its audience involved for every single minute.the pace of the movie and acting just brings perfection. and the best part is the story and the way it is delivered.as the movie progresses, it brings in the feeling it could even happen to me. it makes u put yourself into that situation and decide what would you do. down the line it makes u forget that you are watching a movie. indeed it feels like watching live a real life situation. brilliant piece of acting by both the lead actors.definitely not recommended for children as it could bring in negative psychological resultshighly recommended to watch for grown-ups


                
Community is an interesting word, isn't it? I've always been led to believe that the term embodies a group of people working together towards the same goals- fellowship and support in good times and bad. No matter what country or region, it's a universal idea. Thomas Vinterberg's "The Hunt" is a maddening, frustratingly brilliant portrayal of a good man embattled by a broken community, either too lazy or too proud to self-reflect. It's less of a commentary on pedophilia or child abuse and more a visceral commentary on what today's idea of a community actually is, and the powerful way it can simultaneously build up or destroy an individual or group.Lucas (Mads Mikkelsen) is an average, lonely guy. Recently divorced with a teenage son and a newer job, he's made progress trying to piece his life back together. Interestingly, he's the only male teacher in a preschool-kindergarten, but as the movie tells us, it appears that was his only choice after his other school closed. The children appear to adore him, and why not? He's kind, helpful, and approachable. So approachable, in fact, that children come to him for solace, comfort, and even assistance using the restroom.One particular child, his best friend's daughter Klara (Wedderkopp), looks to Lucas to fill a role that her own parents haven't been filling (which makes sense considering how much they fight). Klara just craves positive attention, and who could blame her? After all, it appears all she's learning at home is animosity from her parents, and she's even forced to view adult material by her brother and his friend at one point. What child wouldn't gravitate towards another adult male that isn't the embodiment of things she doesn't yet understand? Unfortunately, the comfort that Klara finds in Lucas gets twisted in her mind with the need to 'imitate' adults, as she has been taught. In a perfect storm of events, the headmaster of the school is made to believe (via Klara) that Lucas has molested her.As I mentioned earlier, this isn't a film about molestation- instead it's about communities, society, and the power of conjecture. From the moment that the headmaster suspects an issue, Lucas' world falls apart. Word spreads rapidly about his alleged wrongdoing, and because the audience is made to be aware of his innocence, our outrage begins. This man endures alienation from friends, isolation from his son, a suspension from his job, an arrest, a savage beating from grocery store employees who ban him from shopping there, and violations to his property- even his pet.This small community, so quick to rally around the young girl and her family, throws their entire weight behind destroying this man. Even his best friend, the father of the girl, can't rely on their friendship bond to decide whether or not he's at fault. Why bother waiting for evidence, a trial, or common logic, right? I got a sense that this community is so ugly on the 'inside' that they couldn't wait to take it out on someone else- Lucas was simply an easy target. He's a divorcée, lives by himself, is a male in a traditionally female job- he's ripe for the picking. As a society, we're familiar with this situation, for if you exhibit any quirks or deviate from the norm, it's suspicious, and by proxy guilty to some.This film stirred such an anger in me, but not simply because child abuse was a subject. I was more infuriated by the amount of ignorance displayed by a group of people who went out of their way to destroy a person's reputation and livelihood. Even when young Klara admits her mistake, people go out of their way to ignore what she's really saying. It sure must have taken a lot of self-hatred and lack of understanding to push even further against Lucas.This community puts on a show with a sense of closeness, but we know better. Earlier in the film, we see these adults argue, get drunk, ignore their children, and it's fine- but when a crisis happens, they're a unified bunch, ready to take out their inadequacies on another. I'm obviously aware that an actual crime like the alleged one in this film should incite anger in a community. What's so galling, that this film reflects in such a concise manner, is the inability of people to look within themselves, and how damaging it can be to others. There's a reason why we have law enforcement and courts in our world, for it's a slippery slope when accusations fly. We're understandably so protective of children that our mind's defense mechanisms open up during a crisis, disregarding reason and intuition. "The Hunt", showing the ugly side of smaller communities, will stick with me for some time. I watched a community shun the beliefs that it was likely founded upon. The film's most powerful moment, as a battered Lucas tries to pull himself together for a Christmas Eve service, is simply poetic. A knowing look from Lucas to his best friend encapsulates the utter betray he must have felt. It's a moment that I imagine many innocent community outsiders have felt over time, for it's clear our world is no stranger to snap judgments. "The Hunt" is an important film to consider, and deserves mention as one of the best of the year.


                
