In the 70s, a new genre of films aimed at black audiences emerged entitled, 'Blaxploitation'. The genre primarily glorified stereotypical "criminal" behavior in black neighborhoods. Now with Damien Chazelle's, 'Whiplash', he's invented a new genre primarily for a large coterie of Caucasian males: 'Jazzploitation', set in an elite jazz program at a Julliard-like school of higher musical instruction. Both white liberal film critics and martial arts enthusiasts alike, will enjoy this exercise in sado-masochistic shenanigans as evidenced by the plethora of rave reviews now gracing a multitude of web pages over the internet.Don't ask any of our critics who rave about the film to require Mr. Chazelle to provide even a modicum of verisimilitude. I'm talking, of course, about how Mr. Chazelle's antagonist, the martinet music instructor, Terence Fletcher, would even last five minutes at a prestigious music conservatory, given his vast repertoire of sociopathic behavior. Oh but wait—'Whiplash' really is supposed to be more like a fable, so Mr. Chazelle is given a pass—he no longer has to be beholden to 'conventional' narratives.But even fables should operate within a somewhat realistic world. And is it realistic to have Fletcher's co-worker shrink from him (are they all so afraid that they dare not assert themselves one bit?) Is it realistic not to see Fletcher's interactions with his supervisors (are they also completely browbeaten by him?) Would the administration allow such a person to continually humiliate his students, hurl ethnic and gay slurs, and actually throw things at the students, which could result in personal injury (possibly subjecting the school to a lawsuit?). Fletcher is clearly a caricature, who belongs in an army setting and not a music conservatory. Nonetheless, Chazelle needs the character to not only titillate us along the way but to illustrate his simplistic morality play, which entails a warning about the dangers of obsessive careerism.Now of course various naysayers will argue that there ARE people like Fletcher who seek to bring out the best in their students by utilizing 'tough love' but such pedagogues in real life must work within the 'system' and the 'pushing' is much more subtle than what is depicted here.The same goes for Chazelle's protagonist, Andrew Neyman, who plays the obsessed drummer student who seeks to get in the good graces of the ruthless Fletcher. Neyman is played by Miles Teller whom I liked very much in 'The Spectacular Now'. Since he plays drums in real life, Teller is pretty convincing playing the drums in the film. But Chazelle applies the same 'sledge hammer' approach toward the character 'Neyman' as he does with 'Fletcher'. Neyman wants to 'make it' at 'any cost'. He plays the drums so hard until his hands start bleeding (various drummers posting on the internet deny they've seen cases of this); and then on his way to a competition, Neyman gets in a bad car accident, but STILL drags himself to the performance and attempts to play (Chazelle seeks to prove the inane point that Neyman is so obsessed, that he'll do anything to win—even if it means playing seriously injured and jeopardizing his own life). No really, can you see anyone doing this? But again, since this is more like a melodramatic fable, Chazelle can have his characters do the most ridiculous things, and seemingly get away with it!Two thirds of the Whiplash plot concerns Fletcher's quest to supposedly bring out the best in his students (none of whom do we really get to know except Neyman). John Bleasdale writing in CineVue finds Fletcher's diatribes appealing: "His razor wit, sheer outrageousness, inventive taunting and vulgar insults are at once appalling and blackly funny." I agree that Fletcher's insults are appalling but "blackly funny"? Keep in mind that all the other characters who come in contact with Fletcher, have no ego, to the point that no one will oppose him. Therefore, Fletcher can get away with saying anything he feels like (some may call this 'wit', but in reality they're simply one note monologues--a set of variations on a theme).The second act crisis manifests itself when Neyman is kicked out of school after physically attacking Fletcher. The way back toward some kind of 'equilibrium' is when Neyman agrees to give a deposition in a lawsuit that eventually leads to Fletcher's dismissal from the conservatory.The Whiplash climax occurs after Neyman and Fletcher meet at a jazz club where Fletcher is now playing and Neyman agrees to play at a showcase. This turns out to be an ambush, since Fletcher arranges for Neyman to get up there without sheet music and he can only end up improvising (Fletcher is so demented that he's seemingly willing to sabotage the entire performance to get back at Neyman who he knows testified against him). Neyman runs off backstage into the arms of his good guy father but suddenly summons the courage to come back and play, where he dazzles, performing an extraordinary drum solo. Has Neyman triumphed after enduring the humiliating set-up? Not at all! He merely plays into Fletcher's stratagem to push him beyond his limits emotionally—even if it means that he must sacrifice his dignity and self-worth by allowing the mad sociopath to manipulate him over and over again.In order to accept Chazelle's tawdry tale, one must accept the conventions of melodrama. Clearly it's written as heightened reality to make a point about the sadomasochistic relationship between student and teacher. While Chazelle may ultimately view his characters at a distance with the correct moral upper hand, he mirrors Tarantino, by reveling in the violence that he is also attempting to disdain. The 'Whiplash' machinations end up more tawdry and sensationalistic than compellingly tragic.I would recommend 'Whiplash' for the excellent cinematography and of course all the neat jazz music. I'll pass on the story—due to its clear, unrealistic and melodramatic aftertaste.
Well acted? Sure. Decent directing and production values- yep! Plausible or realistic storyline? Not at all. There is no Shaffer Conservatory. Berklee College of Music in Boston used to be heavy on big-band jazz, but now the school has become far more vocational. None of the conservatory's I am aware of feature jazz as a curriculum, and if they did, it certainly would not be a major. No music professor in the USA would have a job if they behaved the way Fletcher does, and more to the point, no JAZZER would ever behave this way under any circumstances. Jazzers are not confrontational or competitive, that would contradict everything they stand for. The way the other musician behaved and talked in this film is not even remotely accurate AT ALL. Real musicians in REAL life, ESPECIALLY JAZZERS, are brotherly. A professor would never come into another professor's class and take over, would never physically abuse a student or yell at them this way ( with intense profanity, humiliation, and gender-insensitivity). A teacher wouldn't come in and insult the entire ensemble EVER. They would never audition them in the manner Fletcher does. They would never focus so much on the drummer, nor would they put so much emphasis on a stupid and pointless competition. The JVC Jazz festival, like any other jazz festival, does not have label-people attending to scout for new talent like baseball scouts. Labels are overrun with demo tapes and web links to downloads, and his remark that if you screw up they will remember you for the expressed purpose of denying you a deal is absolutely inane.I have NEVER seen a drummer get bloody hands just from playing fast: a stick only weighs about 2 ounces and is very smooth. Oh BTW, drummers never share sticks. Sticks are very personal, and ALL drummers, in a music program, carry a stick bag with them like a woman carries a purse. I have never seen "alternate" drummers in an ensemble or page turners for drummer. Big-band rehearsals at 9AM? Are they joking? You'd never get that many musicians to be at class that early and behave like soldiers in bootcamp, NO WAY! Are we to believe that Andrew get tossed from school, before Fletcher, because he messed up playing a song in a competition? Seriously? Even though he was bloody from a car accident? Maybe if this imaginary tale took place in hell, it would have slightly more credibility. Hollyweird NEVER portrays musicians accurately in a feature film. This is not a powerful movie, it doesn't make a point or carry any type of profound message and it doesn't portray musicians or music-schools with an accuracy at all. Im sure its fooled a lot of lay-people.
"Whiplash" on the surface is a tense, complex study of artistic struggle, obsession, and megalomania. I hated it. Not because it wasn't well constructed; not because it wasn't well acted; not because it wasn't well directed, it was all these things and more. No, I hated it for it's heart, its misguided insight into what art and beauty are truly about. It is not lost on me that any discussion or criticism about art could be argued to be completely subjective; I would still say that this movie does not reflect the beauty of art or do credit to the struggle of the artist. Thats not just my opinion either, to me that is a fact. I am not trying to argue an opinion here, I am actually commenting on something that I truly believe. It has been said that "Beauty is Truth and Truth Beauty". I believe in Truth and truth can not be an opinion. "Whiplash" takes a swing at what it believes is necessary to reach that truth and fails completely at capturing what it means to be an artist. This movie would have one believe that suffering, obsession, sacrifice and ugliness are the building blocks that "great art/artist" are founded on. I couldn't disagree more. As an artist myself I understand how all these "negative" motivators can drive an artist to produce art, even to produce great art, yet I feel this movie celebrates them as a necessary right of passage. That in order to be great one has to work harder; it implies that those who are successful are those who have suffered and sacrificed the most, and those who aren't just didn't try hard enough.(How many great artist has history ignored only later to discover their beauty?) Perhaps most disturbingly It implies that one's self worth is dependent upon the reception of their art by an audience or someone outside themselves. Enter the "evil" music/art instructor who's job it is (by this movies logic) to push someone past what they think is possible to open up new untapped potentials hidden away by psychological blocks of complacency and self-pity by employing the tools of cruelty, manipulation and terror. All this hidden behind some BS ideal that their is some great nobility inherent in not depriving the world of a great artist no matter what the cost. GAG!! What overblown melodramatic tripe. I don't argue that we all couldn't use a swift kick in the pants occasionally in order to rise to our potential,or that honest criticism can be crucial to progressing as an artist but to ruthlessly and doggedly bully and torture someone in the hopes of achieving said effect is where i take offense. Who the hell gave him that cross to bare anyway!? There is a line. This movie even mentions this "line" at one point and comes really close to reaching a redemptive conclusion....then misses the mark entirely and descends into the abyss. At this point the movie could have had some valid commentary on the consequence of tyranny and obsession and lifted itself to having a message worth sitting through. I had a glimmer of hope that the movie"s heart was true and had been enact all along. Unfortunately this was not to be. The scene that twists the knife comes when; after being set up and sabotaged by Fletcher, Andrew rises to the occasion against all odds and puts on the performance of a lifetime. Had he done this despite the villainy of Fletcher and the movie just ended, then one could have left the movie with a certain ambiguity, open to contemplating the various themes and questions the movie raises about art and the artistic process. However the damning evidence of the movie's actual message comes during Andrew's fevered solo when despite everything Fletcher has done to Andrew there is a nod of acknowledgment from Fletcher that conveys the approval that Andrew has been so desperately seeking and the movie ends as if something triumphant and beautiful has been brought into the world. Uunnghhh! Never mind that Andrew is an obsessive with no sense of self (or self worth), never mind that Fletcher is a maniacal, narcissistic power drunk bigot (who may have even played a hand in pushing a young mind to suicide), never mind that there seems to be no consequences for any of these characters in their pursuit of greatness. No at this point the movie decided to celebrate this twisted moment as a triumph of art and truth. As if tormenting a person is how great art is born. No I don't think it is cool to celebrate this message nor do i think it is healthy to celebrate Fletcher's and Andrew's relationship as justified and productive. As an artist it offends me with its clichés, I feel it lacks insight, responsibility and any awareness as to the very purpose of art. Art doesn't have to be beautiful, art can be dark. It is both and it is neither. Art is truth and that is all I would ever ask of any form of expression. In "Whiplash" I got pandering, "Top Gun"-esque melodrama and a self indulgent study in cruelty that pretentiously masquerades as if it knows what it means to be an artist. (2 stars for the undeniably fine craftsmanship and performances, but on those alone does not a good movie make.) -Sizer
On 13 November Whiplash – directed by Damien Chazelle starring Miles Teller and J.K. Simmons – will premier at the Netherlands cinema. This movie about an ambitious and talented drum player and his dominant, relentless teacher, is expected to do well, based on the positive reception it had in many countries and at several festivals. Even before its release the movie opened the Leiden International Film Festival, and won the LIFF Indie Competition. General appreciation is also shown at IMDb, where the film scores 87/100 with about 4400 votes.The story that the movie brings forward is not new. Andrew, a young drum player, enrolls at the high-class, well-reputed Shaffer Conservatory, where he meets Fletcher, an infamous teacher working with high standards and non-compromising methods. Andrew attracts his attention and a struggle between the two characters begins when Andrew secures the position of first drum in the school band practicing for the national school competition. The movie focuses on the two main characters, and the way in which they interrelate with the aim to realize the best drum performance for the school's honor, but more so for their own prestige and ego.Although the movie excels in cinematography, acting and music – provided you at least like some level of jazz music – the story doesn't seem to convince. The strict focus on the two men and their sole purpose leads to repetition in the narrative, following the cycle of insult and pressure from the teacher, hard work and pain by the student, and short-term victory for both when a performance succeeds. Even at the end of the movie, when things seem to turn around, the teacher again tries to push the student into a great performance, which he indeed delivers.Additional characters, such as the student's father, girl friend or other musicians at the school, are just there to support the main story. They never get any depth or backgrounds, and their role is minimal; they are there to underline how determined and ambitious Andrew really is. The school functions as decor, with musicians as extra's and no sign of a board, other teachers or school infrastructure.Focusing on one aspect of a human relationship can produce interesting and compelling movies, but Whiplash is not a good example. Besides the elimination of all surrounding factors, there is another possible reason why the story doesn't convince me. The general idea underlying the story is that real talent blossoms with hardship and pain. Consequently, the message is delivered that it is good to bully and mistreat a student with talent, so that he or she gets to full development. To my mind this message is not true, at least not always, and needs more justification than a flat, straight story about two egocentric men struggling for power and recognition.


                
In fairness, I probably shouldn't write a review or give a rating as I walked out after an hour. After all of the many positive reviews of this film I couldn't wait to see it. This movie is like a twilight version of Glee. The teacher throws a chair at the main character, the drummer... thank God the drummer ducked otherwise he'd be dead. The teacher both physically and mentally abuses Andrew. This teacher would never be allowed to teach in the best music school in the country and he has no passion for the music, he's a robot.It seems to me that a lot of viewers are equating yelling, swearing and violence with intensity and great movie making.
Right off the bat, you'll want to know this isn't a typical Hollywood story. The writer must have skipped day one of Screen writing 101, as he forgot to include a likable main character. From the first moment the teacher is introduced, you'll quickly develop zero sympathy for him. Less than zero, perhaps. He is, after all, the antagonist. So far, so good. In my ignorant and ill-informed opinion, the main problem with the movie is the student's character. We've already got a clearly defined villain, so how about somebody to root for? He seems to start out that way, but slowly he morphs into a borderline bad guy, as if under the spell of his mentor. After a while, one's only interest in the student is to hope for him to break free of his psychotic teacher. A day after seeing this movie, it's hard to believe it was nominated for an Oscar. From a technical standpoint, it was well made and featured good acting, but the story itself was somewhat off-putting. I'm a big fan of J. K. Simmons, but his character was so abrasive, I actually started looking forward to the scenes without him. Maybe it was the screenwriter's intent to make us feel uncomfortable. If so, he succeeded. Sadly, though, I can't say my life is any richer having seen this.


                
What a wooden film. As a viewer, you cannot really get to know any of these characters. Nothing great comes from an abusive teacher. Hitting student in the face, really? No. It was unclear what JK Simmons' character really was after. Was it perfection? Is the only way to achieve perfection by humiliating students with verbal and physical abuse? The drumming was excellent. I'm a musician and I've never heard of students bleeding all over their drums. It's ridiculous. The only thing JK Simmons' character cared about was tempo. Talk about unidimensional. He crucified students only if they couldn't determine his tempo after a few beats. What about dynamics? What about interacting with the band? The script was superficial and lacking. People probably like this film because Simmons was an interesting character and the drumming was interesting. You'd think such a brilliant teacher would be a more impressive jazz pianist - another boring scene.


                
I'm going to strictly avoid using expressions with musical terms, or that's what I would say if I knew several. Whiplash left me puzzled. It was maybe a labor of love, being a pet project of writer-director Damien Chazelle, of whom I've never heard of before. The movie seems to be an indie film with a staple of an action movie thrown in for good measure. A car accident, viscerally shown. Lately since the noughties it has been easier to show car crashes. So I'm assuming this one was thrown in to appeal to a wider range of fans.There are a few things I don't understand about the movie. Like the drum kit is one of the loudest and least quiet instruments of all. So how can the father (Paul Reiser), be so surprised about Andrew's virtuosity? Also The kid, the trumpet player, who 'supposedly' was playing false, really WAS playing false! All these little surprises didn't gel with me, because a) They were stupid b) They would work only if the hero was less smart than a comatose monkey, which in the movie, he was c) they shouldn't have mentioned Casey hanged himself because it's a distraction and you think he should have been the subject of the film d) the twists prevented us from knowing more about Andrew.The regrettable thing about Whiplash is that there is only one person who got the perfect amount of limelight, treatment, and attention, and that was J.K Simmons. The others got the same level of detail, which was wrong. Andrew is shown as a boy playing drums, and before that at a family dinner. He also dates a girl briefly. He is a very quiet lad with his band and with his girlfriend but surprisingly smart-Aleck and runs his mouth like a machine gun when the story asks for it. Not my tempo. That's all I had to say, hope you found the review helpful.


                
"Whiplash" on the surface is a tense, complex study of artistic struggle, obsession, and megalomania. I hated it. Not because it wasn't well constructed; not because it wasn't well acted; not because it wasn't well directed, it was all these things and more. No, I hated it for it's heart, its misguided insight into what art and beauty are truly about. It is not lost on me that any discussion or criticism about art could be argued to be completely subjective; I would argue that this movie does not reflect the Truth of art or do credit to the struggle of the artist. Thats not just my opinion either, to me that is a fact. I am not trying to argue an opinion here, I am actually commenting on something that I truly believe. It has been said that "Beauty is Truth and Truth Beauty". I believe in Truth and Truth can not be an opinion. "Whiplash" takes a swing at what it believes is necessary to reach that truth and fails completely at capturing what it means to be an artist. This movie would have one believe that suffering, obsession, sacrifice and ugliness are the building blocks that great art/artist are founded on. I couldn't disagree more. As an artist myself I understand how all these "negative" motivators can drive an artist to produce art, even to produce great art, yet I feel this movie celebrates them as a necessary right of passage. That in order to be great one has to work harder no matter the cost; it implies that those who are successful are those who have suffered and sacrificed the most, and those who aren't just didn't try hard enough or suffer enough. (How many of histories great artist were ignored only later to to be appreciated?) Perhaps most disturbingly It implies that one's self worth or the "value" of art is dependent upon its reception by an audience or external factors. Enter the "evil" music/art instructor who's job it is (by this movies logic) to push someone past what they think is possible to open up new untapped potentials hidden away by psychological blocks of complacency and self-pity by employing the tools of cruelty, manipulation and terror. All this hidden behind some BS ideal that their is a great nobility inherent in "not depriving the world of a great artist" no matter what the cost. GAG!! What grandiose melodramatic tripe. I don't argue that we all couldn't use a swift kick in the pants occasionally in order to rise to our potential, or that honest criticism can be crucial to progressing as an artist but to ruthlessly and manipulatively bully and torture someone in the hopes of achieving said effect is where i take offense. Who the hell gave him that cross to bare anyway!? There is a line. This movie even mentions this "line" at one point and comes really close to reaching a redemptive conclusion....then misses the mark entirely and descends into the abyss. At this point the movie could have had some valid commentary on the consequence of tyranny and obsession and lifted itself to having a message worth sitting through. I had a glimmer of hope that the movie"s heart was true and had been enact all along. Unfortunately this was not to be. The scene that twists the knife comes when; after being set up and sabotaged by Fletcher, Andrew rises to the occasion against all odds and puts on the performance of a lifetime. Had he done this despite the villainy of Fletcher and the movie just ended, then one could have left the movie with a certain ambiguity, open to contemplating the various themes and questions the movie raises about art and the artistic process. However the damning evidence of the movie's actual message comes during Andrew's fevered solo when despite everything Fletcher has done to Andrew (including trying to completely ruin him) there is a nod of acknowledgment from Fletcher that conveys the approval that Andrew has been so desperately seeking and the movie ends as if something triumphant and beautiful has been brought into the world, as if the "Master" has finally found a worthy pupil. Uunnghhh! Never mind that Andrew is an obsessive with no sense of self (or self worth), never mind that Fletcher is a maniacal, narcissistic power drunk bigot (who may have even played a hand in pushing a young mind to suicide), never mind that there seems to be no consequences for any of these characters in their pursuit of greatness. Never mind that neither character have hardly any redeeming qualities. No at this point the movie decided to celebrate this twisted moment as if it were a triumph of art and truth. As if tormenting a person is how great art is born. No I don't think it is cool to celebrate this message nor do i think it is healthy to celebrate Fletcher's and Andrew's relationship as justified and productive. As an artist it offends me with its clichés, it lacks insight, responsibility and any awareness as to the very purpose of art. Art doesn't have to be beautiful, art can be ugly. It is both and it is neither. The only thing that is required of art is that it reflects Truth. "Whiplash" explored beauty and it explored ugliness and I am fine with that, but in the final act when it tried to explore the impetus of what makes great art in rang FALSE. Instead of enlightenment we got pandering, melodrama and a self indulgent study in cruelty that pretentiously masquerades as if it knows what it means to be an artist. -Sizer
I give a 4/10 because J.K. Simmons performance and good music.Otherwise, it's a film that is neither realistic nor credible.It is obvious that that has been written and directed by a young director, as consistency conspicuous by its absence: since the dramatic and exaggerated concept has been put ahead to good sense and tact.All the drumming-bleeding scenes are misplaced (nobody bleeds as a result of playing drums), as well as the attitude of students to a teacher who is totally unbearable: chairs crashing against the wall, insulting and disrespecting them constantly .... which students replies with an incredible: "yes, sir!" as if they were in the Army ... Today, i think anyone can't put up with that kind of attitude unless you have a very low self esteem.4/10


                
Before I start, I'd like to say I am a musician and I do appreciate jazz. That being said, I do like the music in this film. But that's about the only thing I did like.The story is very original, but ridiculously unrealistic and far-fetched. Honestly, if a college professor verbally, and even more importantly, PHYSICALLY abused students, they would be fired at the snap of a finger. Tenured or not, their career would be over.The acting is extremely good. J.K. Simmons did a very good job. But the energy was badly misplaced. Terrence Fletcher (J.K. Simmons) is a JAZZ TEACHER AND CONDUCTOR! NOT A MARINE DRILL SERGEANT! There is no need for that amount of intensity, no matter how prestigious the school may be.And honestly, who would break up with a great, beautiful girl to focus on trying to impress an abusive teacher? I wouldn't. It's just dumb.My biggest problem with this film is the car crash scene. He got t-boned by an 18 wheeler and overturned. He should have been concussed and bones should have been broken. Instead, he's fine and decides to go perform. Stupid.At the end, Neimann is kicked out of school and Fletcher is out of a job, but for some reason, even with all that bad blood, they decided to get together and perform, which was just a setup by Fletcher to humiliate and embarrass Neimann. Highly unlikely. But then he kicks ass on drums and impresses Fletcher? That's stupid, too! IT VALIDATES ALL OF THE ABUSE FLETCHER PERPETRATED IN THE FIRST PLACE! It just ends with such a horrible message.It's a good film, just not my taste. Well acted, but everything about it's intensity is badly misplaced.
Watched this film with great eagerness as heard rave reviews and although it shows fantastic work from the cast in general, the storyline is extremely poor and overreaching. Think anyone with any sense can tell being a successful musician is one of the hardest things to achieve in this lifetime let alone one of the most talented. But the approach from the teacher Fletcher (J.K. Simmons) would make Drill Sergeants wince, to push people to their limit is one thing, but to constantly do it over and over and over again would drive the most determined to fall short. The shots where Andrew (Miles Teller) is pushing himself constantly were over the top but somewhat realistic, but it all turns when he dumps his girlfriend (Mellisa Benoist) to concentrate on his career was as odd move in the film as she was barely in it in the first place. The part that tips this into the abyss is when Andrew is late and comes under fire from Fletcher and has to retrieve his drumming sticks only to be hit by a Truck. Not only does he walk miraculously but manages to get to the gig albeit to his demise. It just got worse from there really and the ending predictable. However, the performances were top class especially Miles Teller as he really through himself into the role. Sadly I just did not find enough for the dreadful and unrealistic storyline.
Why would I call this movie incoherent? Because there is little consistency. The characters emotions are scattered and tumultuous, cast in a surrealist setting where among a school of promising musicians, a tenured instructor ritualistically destroys the dreams of the most promising students, in the hope one will reach the brink of despair and rise above where those have fallen. So he ruins peoples' lives for years in the psychotic belief that he'll create a master somehow.Through the dinner scene with the two main characters (I did not take the time to remember their names, this movie is forgettable), the music instructor attempts to provide some reason behind his madness, but again, the epitaph is incoherent. So you're a music instructor . . . who is jealous of the world, and believes he has the answer for everything he observes is wrong with the world. So he's a psychopath. And yet he is gratified in the final moments of the movie? And finally, this is just a rip off of Drumline. This movie had little to nothing original to add to the story, just extra character development, that once again is incoherent. So the instructor lets one of the trombone players go because he doesn't know whether or not he's out of tune, but the player next to him that was out of tune . . . is allowed to stay. So yeah, the instructor is trying to set an example to the others, I get that, and perhaps he's trying to flush out the few who aren't actually passionate about music, but then he physically assaults the main character in front of the other students, until he cries, then mocks his suffering? I would have walked out of this movie if I saw it in theaters. What a pile of crap. They did get me interested with the teacher's gruff, hard attitude, but he never lets up, stays a jerk until the end of the movie, and yet gets to create the 'master' he's always been looking for. I withdrew only enough frustration from this film to write a negative review. I can see why some people like this film, but it is a superficial pile of garbage if you look at it with any deeper scrutiny than a mindless, berating comedy that showcases the humiliation of people with true talent and dreams. What a soulless film, and a general waste of my time. I feel ashamed of writing a bad review on a critically a acclaimed film only because I wasted the time to acknowledge the movie at all.
I am not a musician, just like to listen to good music. I understand that being a good musician takes talent and lots and lots of practice. We watched this film because of good rating. But after watching it, I do not get it. Why is this supposedly a masterpiece? Nothing really happens in this film, but a young man practicing drums and a old man using ridicule, insult, yelling, lies and deliberate manipulation to create great musicians as he states himself. While this all sounds romantic at first sight, the whole plot is ridiculous at second sight: It is not clear why the main character and especially other musicians allow the teacher to yell and insult them, just because he is supposed to be the best. While he is supposed to be the best, he HIMSELF admits (while being an old man, who supposedly has had lots of time already) that he still did not find or create the next great musician. In addition to that we learn that one of his fellow students committed suicide. Because he considered he was not good enough? It is not clear what story the main characters have that makes them what they are. Except for the teacher, there is not much acting from other protagonists. There is not much drama to show, except for the blood in the hands. And that has been shown a lot, I got an impression that drumming is a very bloody music.I also felt that the film was low budget. There is only one good actor, the teacher. The set is simply a room or two in some university. Even the audience in the epic final performance looked fake.In this sense, well done: No budget, no story, no acting. An ineffective and dangerous teaching strategy sold like the path for a great musician, gets lots of positive critics and awards.
Writer and director Damien Chazelle says he based "Whiplash" on his real life experience. He struggled to become a jazz drummer while at Princeton (NJ) High School in the early 2000s. And, he had an intimidating teacher upon whom he based the character of Terence Fletcher in this film.But, his own awareness about his talent was different than that of his lead character in the film. Miles Teller plays Andrew who has a sense of his exceptional natural talent, which Chazelle says he did not have himself. Thus, the writer-director changed his pursuit to filmmaking. This is something to ponder in view of Andrew's outcome in the film, and the suicide of an earlier "star" student of Fletcher in the movie.Near the film's end, Fletcher says that he pushed those students he thought could be great. So, to him, that justifies his erratic, violent, and abusive behavior. Still, he knows he was fired for his behavior. The film doesn't probe that any further and just leaves it at that.Yet, everything the audience sees and learns about Fletcher says that he is delusional. He's living a lie. The one person whom he claims achieved greatness committed suicide. And, Fletcher lied about that, saying the former student had been killed in a car accident. His treatment wasn't just erratic with those he may have thought were special. He behaved crudely and angrily with everyone - all of the students in his band. The film clearly shows that everyone feared him.So, the conclusion that he was just pushing to bring out the greatness of a master musician doesn't ring true. His latest great talent, Andrew, gave up and quit playing the drums. As the counselor properly advised Andrew and his father, Fletcher was a harmful person who should not be teaching. Indeed, in what public or private school in America would such a bizarre character have been tolerated for so long?One suspects that Chazelle exaggerated the character some - if not a lot. And that's okay for writers and producers who want to have a dramatic effect and make a big splash. Would this movie have received half the attention it has if Fletcher had been anything near a normal person? I suspect many in the audience might have been bored, and most wouldn't even have weighed in by rating the film.Chazelle's Fletcher commands every moment he's on the screen. All one sees in the members of the band is fear. They don't even look up at him - their faces mostly to the ground, their eyes on the music. Beyond that, there isn't much depth of this story. There are many musical rehearsals and stops, and fits of rage with vulgar and abusive outbursts. These are punctuated at times by some short calm scenes of Andrew with his dad or with his girlfriend, Nicole.If anything, "Whiplash" seems to cater to the modern phenomena of movie mayhem - constant action, lots of violence, lots of noise and spectacle. Oh, yes, and real crudity. As with so many others, this film has little acting and not much of a story.Did J.K. Simmons deserve the Oscar for best supporting actor? He played the crude, angry, unbalanced tyrant of a teacher very well. How much talent does it take for anyone to vent and spew anger and vitriol? Then, again, there wasn't much competition among actors and roles nominated for 2014. But Simmons and his role as Fletcher surely hold the Oscar record for use of the most foul language, and number of expletives. Apparently, there were about 150 uses of crass language and swearing, and Simmons's Fletcher spewed at least 90 percent of them.And that reflects as well on the writing. The movie didn't win an Oscar for best screenplay or adaption, but it's a sad state of entertainment and Hollywood that it was even nominated. There's very little entertainment in this film, but it is an expose of a mentally disturbed tyrannical teacher and how he affects his students. "Whiplash" was more of a film about that character than about the star pupil, Andrew.An early scene has a poignant clue of what might lie ahead in the movie. A sign in large letters is posted on a band room wall. It reads, "If you don't have ability, you wind up playing in a rock band."
This movie to be has major contradiction at the heart of it: the direction which is realistic and and the character of Terrence Fletcher who is about the most unlikely and unbelievable persona I have ever seen on film. As a academic who has worked in three universities I have seen aggressive and bullying teachers who bully and Terrence fletcher, who lies, screeches and physically assaults his students repeatedly within the first 30 minutes of the movie, would have been fired within a few months of his first contract. This movie is a child of our times where in American (and British) television and Cinema, antihero adoration has become the established norm (see "House" and "breaking bad"), yet presentation of role models or sympathetic lead roles is considered cliché. Movies are considered art as long as they make the audience feel something ANYTHING even if it's profound discomfort. When I watched this movie I felt like turning it off. So does this make it art? If it is then I would rather be low brow.
I like J.K. Simmons, especially for during his Spider-man years - I think he's all the more deserving of that Oscar for being underrated for so long (still hope Edward Norton gets his pretty soon.)And I love jazz, and I love all sorts of genres of music; as long as I hear a good talented song, whatever it is, I i like it. Though I draw the line at heavy metal.I just watched this film just to see what all the hype was about - saw on people's review videos, from film critics, from Best Movies of 2014 lists, etc. But I'm a Christian, and I prefer more the wholesome, family-esc, morally strong, uplifting, and feel-good movies that are just enjoyable to the general audience. and I'm not a fan of violence or profanity, nore do I find them the least bit entertaining.Overall, I just think this film is quite unrealistic; a teacher bullying his students, especially in music classes, in New York. I just honestly don't think that would happen - I don't think I have any friends who practice any of the drums have a teacher even remotely close to that of Flecther.(Though it's almost ironic how Simmons - the actor I like - played the antagonist, while Miles Teller - an actor I almost don't like - played the protagonist.In the end, I give this film a a solid "6" simply for Simmons keeping me on the edge of my seat.PS: Want to watch a good, wholesome underrated film? Then watch "The Encounter" here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VdTMhMGy5rk


                
OK I think this is a very mediocre movie. After hearing great things on the radio and TV and mentions of nominations, we watched this with great expectations. Sadly, i cant understand how its rated so well. It just didn't click with me at all. Thought it was pretty predictable and so it lacked depth. I even found myself tuning out. Most of the acting was fine to good just didn't think the story was good enough. The young lad was fine at acting but the character was just not great. I didn't connect with the character or acting. It was just a wishy washy insipid type of experience. Maybe its because it came along with some other good films and I thought how is it even being mentioned! Just one of those I don't see what others see! Husband thought it was poor too. Surely were not the only ones!! lol


                
The performances and direction (which earned all my 4 stars) could have made this a great film, but the message conveyed by the storyline was repellent. I watched right to the end, waiting for the dark consequences of the conductor's behaviour, but instead the film validated the abuse.
