Do you know who I am ? " asks the film's protagonist as the audience are introduced to him Yeah you're that Nazi dude who enjoys raping all the new arrivals at the Oswald State penitentiary . Yes JK Simmons is back playing an Oscar winning role which isn't all that different from the role OZ fans know him for . It's nice to see that this years Oscar nominations were heavily in favour of indie cinema . It's even nicer to know that this is the film my fellow members of this site was the pick of the crop from 2014 film releases so sat back hoping to get blown away by itSo is it any good ? Yes but I should quickly qualify this by stating it's not really the masterwork some people might claim it to be . One criticism THE HURT LOCKER received was that you could easily rework the story as someone who has become addicted to adrenaline . Instead of a bomb disposal man you could have the story involve a fireman who takes more and more risks and so it's the same with WHIPLASH . How about a brutal drill instructor trying to turn weak civvies in to efficient killing machines ? That's already been done a hundred times before and so here we've a reworking of a familiar story in a slightly unfamiliar setting of a music school . It's a slightly predictable story and in order for it not to be so predictable there's a few plot turns involving situations that become rather contrived and unlikely to say the least What stops it all falling apart is director Damien Chazelle using all the tools at his disposal involving editing , sound mix and cinematography to disguise the flaws in the story telling . Certainly many directors nowadays think editing revolves around taking as much cocaine as possible while mutilating any coherent on screen action . The editing style of WHIPLASH is some what showy but is genuinely admirable at the same time . It's nice to actually watch a film and notice the editing while never being irritated by it WHIPLASH is one of the better films of 2014 but it's probably a film that's easier to admire than to like . I did like it but didn't love it and I'm not in a great hurray to watch it again


                
A plucky young drummer heads to the big time and cracks under the pressure of a dictatorial band director, pushing him to come back to greater heights. As a sports movie, Whiplash is very effective. Unfortunately, it doesn't really have anything to do with music (or reality), and its vision of artistic achievement comes with some very unsavory undertones. Let's consider for a second the ludicrousness of its melodrama. No music director would slap his players, use abusive language, or trash instruments in the way portrayed in the film. The film falls apart if you question its equation of jazz and big band, or question whether becoming a player with Jazz at Lincoln Center is the pinnacle of achievement. The film also never addresses the racial context of jazz, which is a nearly unforgivable sin. But it's the whole mythos that holds that art is effort and effort is abuse and therefore any abuse is justified in the pursuit of greatness that is the most offensive to me. Anybody that's ever tried to get good at anything has met teachers like Fletcher, and they suck. If the movie stopped at being a portrait of toxic masculinity and the danger that comes from bad boundaries, then it would have done its job well. But it seems like the filmmakers and many of the people that are praising this movie fundamentally admire Nieman for enduring through his trials, and that's very disheartening to me
-Whiplash is a 2014 American independent drama film written and directed by Damien Chazelle. Starring Miles Teller and J. K. Simmons, the film depicts the relationship between an ambitious jazz student (Teller) and an abusive instructor (Simmons). Paul Reiser and Melissa Benoist co-star as the student's father and love interest respectively. The film opened in limited release domestically in the US and Canada on October 10, 2014, gradually expanding to over 500 screens and finally closing after 24 weeks on March 26, 2015. Over this time the film grossed $49 million, against a production budget of $3.3 million.-Whiplash premiered in competition in the US Dramatic Category at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival on January 16, 2014, as the festival's opening film. Sony Pictures Worldwide acquired the international distribution rights. At the 87th Academy Awards, Whiplash won Best Film Editing, Best Sound Mixing, and Best Supporting Actor for Simmons, and was nominated for Best Adapted Screenplay and Best Picture.--Critical response: -Whiplash received critical acclaim, with Simmons' performance receiving universal praise. The film has a score of 94% on review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, based on 256 reviews, with a rating average of 8.6/10. The site's critics consensus states, "Intense, inspiring, and well-acted, Whiplash is a brilliant sophomore effort from director Damien Chazelle and a riveting vehicle for stars J. K. Simmons and Miles Teller." On Metacritic, another review aggregator, the film has a score of 88 out of 100, based on 49 critics, indicating "universal acclaim".-Forrest Wickman of Slate accused the film of distorting jazz history and promoting a misleading idea of genius, writing." In The New Yorker, Richard Brody argued that "Whiplash honors neither jazz nor cinema". The term "Whiplash backlash" has been used to describe the reaction to the film by those who disliked it.


                
Whiplashit is a breathtaking experience to watch this movie. j.k. simmons is clearly the winner here, his constant on and off screen impact in this movie shows how amazing his acting skills are and how well this character was written. it speaks more on the character's point of view rather than the script which holds the movie till the end.


                
No synopsis of the film, just a summary of impressions.Some films stay with you for various reasons. After seeing this film a few days ago, I find that it is sitting in my head, just in the background where my subconscious continues to toy with it. Frankly it is a disturbing film with powerhouse performances by JK Simmons and Miles Teller. Worth seeing but be prepared for some unsettling content.There are lots of reviews that discuss the plausibility of a man like Fletcher existing in academia today or if one can really drum until your hands bleed.I don't think either issue matters from a thematic point of view of the film. Both of these aspects of the film could be attributed to dramatic license to convey a deeper meaning. This is how I approached this film while watching it and in this review.This does not mean I believe that the Fletcher character is implausible in real life. In fact, I don't think that this character is much of a dramatic stretch. Its pretty typical to see coaches and teachers in the arts bully their students. Growing up in a backwater midwest town I recall having a music teacher who employed tactics like Fletcher-- He threw temper tantrums for similar triggers as seen in this movie and tossed his baton, chair and music stand from time to time. One time I remember he even grabbed a student by the neck (a drummer in fact) and pushed him against the wall. Ahh, the good ole days of education in middle American. Anyway, suffice to say I think that this type of teacher or coach is a plausible reality. The scenes of Andrew pushing himself to and beyond the his limits are a bit unbelievable with the blood and wounds and all. Implausible yes, but I think this was an intentional device to convey a deeper meaning so that no one could miss it. All of these scenes are effective in conveying the one big theme in this film---only pain creates great art.This theme seems to prevail in the arts and there is much evidence to support it if you look at the biographies of the great painters, novelists, etc. Pain is a great motivator to inspire and change human behavior. I think that this idea rather romanticizes the suffering that many great artists experienced during their lifetimes . And perhaps this idea seems ingrained in the arts because its such an effective sales pitch for these artists work postmortem. Anyway, whether or not pain is necessary for great art will probably be debated for eons to come. This theme in the movie was not that interesting to me. I guess I should note that the film does take a position on this issue, coming down firmly on the side that pain is necessary to bring out artistic greatness.Okay, so the big obvious theme of the movie did not intrigue me. Yet, there is something that intrigued me about this film, something I found very unsettling and set me about writing this review. This film offers a rather realistic portrayal of the systematic abuse employed by someone who fits the profile of a sociopath or narcissist fairly well. Support for this conclusion: Fletcher manipulates his students and Teller's character in particular from the very first scene. He puts Teller's character Andrew through a cycle of idealization and devaluation again and again. He gas lights Andrew again and again. He systematically uses triangulation to manipulate Andrew. These are the tactics of a textbook narcissist.In this same vein, Andrew is the perfect victim. We see him lose each and every personal boundary, including one that would induce him to care for his own survival after being seriously injured in a car accident.Why does Andrew do this? Its all an effort to receive approval from Fletcher. Andrew is the perfect victim in this film. And his path in the film takes him to the place where many victims end up when tangling with this type of human being.In the finale where Fletcher sets up Andrew for the ultimate humiliation for the sole purpose of vengeance, I found this to be one of the most chilling things I've seen on screen in a long while. For me, the film should have ended right there as this is what can happen when you tangle with a narcissist.The film continues after this scene. We see a wild performance and Andrew seems to get what he has sought from Fletcher from the very beginning of the film. It feels a bit like a tacked on scene, like something that was forced on the story--a typical Hollywood feel good ending that was probably added to make the project more palatable to a test audience or producers. Given the nature of the characters as portrayed in this film, the ending would not end up in feel good land. Rather, it would likely end up as the Casey character mentioned in the film---Fletcher's prodigy who eventually hung himself.


                
This film does not drag nor rush, it was perfectly in line with the tempo and nearly every aspect of the film was flawless. I'm going to start off praising the electrifying performances because I have never experienced that much tension and fear through the use of dialogue. J.K Simmons was fantastic, taking on a psychotic temper-mental music instructor who comes off beyond intimidating and all the more blood- curdling. Miles Teller delivers a surprising career flipping performance and handles the role perfectly, as he is driven to succeed and dedicated to excel at his admission, the intensity put into his character is overwhelming. The film takes many unexpected twists and turns, and overall comes off a very powerful and intriguing experience, all thanks to the unique style of direction and striking cinematography. The film offers moving characters and hidden life values throughout, despite its fairly basic plot you will be surprised with what this film is capable of. Whiplash was sharply written and precisely acted. No characters were miscast, no scenes bored me. It's easily one of the best 2014 movies so far, and without a doubt an Oscar nomination is well deserved.


                
Damien Chazelle's 'Whiplash' asks, "How Far Can You Go To Be Perfect?". The answer lies in you, clearly on what you define as perfection. In Chazelle's World, perfection is ruthless, brutal & life-threatening. But, despite its hardcore approach, 'Whiplash' is a film that's worth watching, thanks to its mostly tight screenplay & bravura performances. 'Whiplash' Synopsis: A promising young drummer enrolls at a cutthroat music conservatory where his dreams of greatness are mentored by an instructor who will stop at nothing to realize a student's potential.'Whiplash' narrates a frightening tale of a mentor & his student. The anger & ambition between the primary characters is lethal & hardcore. You watch a monster of a coach behaving inhumanly, while the student aims only to achieve goal, come what may. The thriving journey of both the characters, is commendably structured. However, Chazelle's Screenplay gets slightly monotonous after a point. The repeated confrontations get a bit boring, especially towards the second-hour. However, Chazelle delivers a highly impressive culmination to the story. His Direction is sharp. Cinematography & Editing are good. One of the prime reasons why 'Whiplash' works, is because of its performances. J. K. Simmons is electrifying as the fearsome instructor, displaying rage & power, magnificently. Miles Teller is unbelievable. He takes upon a role that's challenging & he translates the part into a career-making performance. He's extra-ordinary. Simmons & Teller, both, are Oscar-Worthy!On the whole, despite some flaws in its screenplay, 'Whiplash' deserves a watch for its tense proceedings & fabulous performances.


                
Whiplash is the story of a dreaming teenage drummer and his interactions with a strict jazz teacher who team up to become some dynamic duo. That would be cliché as it is, but the writer/director tries to go for something different and fails miserably. Thankfully it's short, because there is hardly a single good thing about this waste of reel, except for perhaps a few nice cinematic shots.First of all, JK Simmons as Fletcher. JK is a good actor and plays the role very well, but the writing of his character is some of the worst in modern day cinema. Jazz is a very relaxed and fun genre. Smooth jazz is called smooth for a reason, you know. Fletcher is a jazz teacher who screams in his players face, belittles them in class, and even literally assaults them by throwing chairs at them and punching them in the face. This isn't the army, this is JAZZ. This character would be cartoony in an episode of Spongebob, let alone a live action film supposedly set in the real world. Do you really think people play SMOOTH JAZZ while being threatened and scared to play a single note incorrectly? No, they don't, they need to be calm. In one scene, Fletcher harasses an obese kid with a dumb name and claims he is playing out of key. He isn't, but second guesses himself when Fletcher calls him out. When the kid thinks about it, Fletcher not only calls him fat, but kicks him out of class. Another student had been playing out of key the entire time, and Fletcher says, "I know ____ was actually in key, but not knowing what key you're in is worse than being out of key." Are you kidding me? Of course you'll second guess yourself if a highly respected and very unstable man accuses you of playing out key. And literally the other guy who actually did play out of key gets off with no troubles. Unbelievable and very inconsistent with his character, as a real Fletcher would've given him some sort of punishment. All throughout the movie, Fletcher is belittling Miles, making fun of his dead mom and his depressed father, as if that would realistically motivate me to work with this guy further. If an instructor began making fun of my mom's cancer or my suicidal tendencies, I'd leave immediately and probably file a lawsuit. Again, this is very unrealistic for a character who is instructing a jazz band. Jazz players need to be as relaxed and free flowing as their music sounds, and they shouldn't be constantly on edge because of a sociopath Gunnery Sergeant Hartman of a teacher.Miles Teller's character is an smug, arrogant douchebag, much like the actor himself. I genuinely believed he had some form of autism in the movie. He separates himself from society and even belittles his girlfriend and family members for something he's barely good at. I get that the writer was trying to make it seem like drumming was tearing him apart mentally, as stated later in the movie, but there is a much better way to do it than "you're an idiot and I'm gonna be famous one day!" like he's a 5th grader brat. And then he later on tries to contact his ex-girlfriend, who he called an idiot on their final date, and asks her out despite the fact that he knows she has a new boyfriend. He's an immature child, and not the character we should like. In fact, not a single character is likable in this heap.There are so many more issues within the screenplay that it actually caused me to hit the 1000 maximum word limit, so I am just gonna jump to the ending. The film ends with the worst ending I've seen in a theatrical film this decade. Miles and Fletcher rekindle several months after the incident and team up to play in a new, not related to school jazz recital where Fletcher is the conductor. Right before the recital starts, we essentially learn that Fletcher is a mentally unstable child, who reveals that this entire teaming up was just a ploy to get his revenge on Miles. Yes, a 57 year old man with a job and career tries to get even with an immature autistic 19 year old college freshman. They also made it very clear that this was "the big show" and that the gig could "either create careers, or end careers". So Fletcher's decision to humiliate a 19 year old by intentionally screwing up the entire gig is super villain levels of evil, but not in a good way. In retaliation, Miles decides to one-up Fletcher by going on a six minute drum solo, where the most insulting part of the film comes. The final shot of the film is a close up of Fletcher grinning ear-to-ear and Miles nodding with another smile, implying that these two are back together again. The script even says "...and Fletcher has finally accepted Miles..." What a joke, and proof that something is seriously wrong not only with Fletcher, but this entire movie and probably the writer/director too.


                
Every one seems to like this film. It has received so many awards, earned 3 Oscars, and large amounts of near perfect reviews and praise from critics and moviegoers alike. While I agree that the film, without a doubt, has good performances and cinematography, I can't say that I enjoyed it overall. The film is about a young inspiring drummer named Andrew Neiman (Miles Teller) who enrolls at a cut-throat music conservatory where his dreams of greatness are mentored by Terrence Fletcher (J.K. Simmons), a brutal jazz conductor who will stop at nothing to realize a student's potential. The synopsis alone is a red flag. The plot is unbelievable. If it took place in the military or high school football, it would be more believable. Unoriginal, but believable. The messages throughout Whiplash are bipolar, and very manipulative. We, the audience, are expected to believe that physical and emotional abuse at the hands of a tyrannical authority figure (in this case, Fletcher) are justified as long as it creates great music, somehow. Andrew doesn't love music, he is obsessive. His ultimate goal is to become "one of the greats" even if it costs him his happiness, family, and humanity in the process. He becomes an empty shell, dependent only on approval, no thanks to Fletcher who constantly abuses him over the course of the film. He goes through his band conductor's obedience training from hell, enduring a series of chair throwing, homophobic and ethnic slurs, and competing against other students. During this whole ordeal, Andrew slowly transforms into a broken human being who later cut ties with his family and girlfriend to pursue his self-destructive path to greatness. He doesn't learn anything new or useful, he just practices until his hands bleed--which no drummer in existence would ever do this to themselves, no matter how mad they are. There is a moment in the film where Fletcher tells a story about Charlie Parker and how he got a cymbal thrown at his head because he screwed up a performance. Of course, this story isn't true, but the film tries to make you, the ignorant viewer, believe it is. Anyway, Fletcher uses this fictional story to justify his sadistic, over-the-top methods that he inflicts on students, especially on Andrew. He operates the band like a hard-ass drill sergeant more than a band conductor. He is not there to inspire and teach, but to put fear into the hearts of young students in hopes of molding them into better sold...uh, I mean, musicians. This character is by no means forgivable, rather a repugnant and unpleasant caricature that dishes out violent abuse. While the film tries--oh dear lord, does it try--to portray Fletcher in a sympathetic light when he mourns for the loss of his former student in one scene, I couldn't help but shake my head and say, "Really? Am I supposed to feel sorry for this bastard?!" That scene felt manipulative and forced, leaving me insulted when I saw it.Whiplash is clearly made for people who have no interest in music, particularly jazz, and it shows. The film sacrifices realism and the love of music for the sake of melodrama, which is a darn shame because I went in with high expectations and this film did not deliver. Instead, I got a bleak and downright disturbing Hollywood film that is overrated, overpraised, and over the top.
Whiplash (2014)Wow, the best of this is intense and disturbing and invigorating. It's about never never never cutting corners. It's about pushing and being your best until you break, and then keeping going. Who can't get revved up about that?The scene is a mythical music school, something like Julliard and Berkeley combined— intense and serious, with an element of jazz built in. And the competition, expected as it is, pushed students beyond their comfort zone to absurd and inspiring degrees. The scenes where the music leader (teacher and bandleader played by J.K. Simmons) goes apeshit over the bumbling of his students are quite shocking. I'm an art teacher, and I tried it out one day, even warning the student I was going to do it and showing the preview to the movie first, and it went very badly.The student in the movie who anchors the plot is the unknown Miles Teller, who is just fine in the role. He pushes and struggles and suffers—and eventually comes through, though with some serious convolutions.So, on the surface, this will thrill and wow most viewers. And I liked all of this a lot. But the plot is mostly just what I've described. There are two additions to it, one dismissible (the love life of the student) an the other the one socially probing aspect, which you'll have to wait to see. Excellent and needed.But not enough. If you love jazz, or have played jazz (I've done both in my limited way), you might balk at the music here. Yes. Surprise! Because this is all written out band music with jazz inflections. Until the last scene, which is critical, there is no improvisational jazz at all—none! In fact, the music struck me so cold I almost stopped watching. I hope you won't have the same problem, but it's there.I also found the overall plot so narrow I couldn't quite get past its linearity. Even the psychology of the two leads is mostly left to rants and bleeding fingers and disgust. It's oddly superficial, even if it strikes you at first as completely about psychological depth.Still, it's remarkable in its own way, and I totally recommend seeing it. The shocks will be wonderfully shocking, and the idea of doing your best, which is something most of us shamefully avoid, is a great reminder.


                
"The truth is, Andrew I never really had a Charlie Parker. But I tried. I actually f*cking tried.""Whiplash". You could think that this film tells the story of a drummer (the movie poster is a bit of a spoiler when it comes to this) who has suffered this injury by violently playing his instrument. Or he lost control of his car while drumming rhythmically on the steering wheel and crashed into the car driving in front of him. You could link the movie title to these assumptions, because the arrangements that Andrew (Miles Teller) has to play in this masterful and highly rhythmic film may result in a neck injury. And when it comes to losing that control ... well ... then you should go and watch the movie to find out yourself. Anyway, the film title refers to a song written by the American jazz composer Hank Levy. The central theme of the film is about the influence you can have on someone and drive that person to exceed certain inhuman limits of his own ability. Now, for me you're already a top musician when you know the complete arrangement of "Whiplash" and "Caravan" (written by Duke Ellington) by heart. Even if there's a little mistake here and there or you are little bit offbeat, eventually I will have a boundless admiration for the musician after completing such a superhuman performance.I've never had such a desire to pull someone through the screen and then smack a huge cymbal against his face as now with the presumably extremely talented music teacher Fletcher, brilliantly played by JK Simmons. A man who lives for his music and has a huge passion for it. It's a bit exaggerated that passion though. Exaggerated to such extent that it exceeds the limit of human dignity and by his passion for creating a perfect musician, his way of teaching tends to be sadomasochistic. A kind of militaristic attitude towards his traumatized and frightened students who are wary of any unexpected outburst. A disrespectful howler, suitable as "drill sergeant" in the US Army, and first-class bully, who suddenly swings around music stands, slaps his students in the face and throws out a member of his orchestra, just because he plays a bit out of tune . Afterwards, the accused doesn't appear to be the culprit, but he's just thrown out of the classroom because he didn't know he wasn't the one playing out of tune. A worse stain on the reputation of a professional musician, according to Fletcher.That's also what Andrew, an ordinary American teenager who studies at the Shaffer conservatory and whose only envisioned aim is to be the best jazz drummer ever, undergoes. The moment he's being asked to join Fletcher's school orchestra, which only consists of a select group of musicians, it becomes the best day of his life. His confidence gets such a boost that he even overcomes his shyness and dares to ask a girl, who works at the cinema, on a date. That it's subsequently leading to a veritable psychological warfare, goes beyond his wildest dream. Gradually the terror policy of Fletcher drives him to the utmost to meet Fletcher's expectations. Even his relationship with Nicole (Melissa Benoist) is terminated abruptly by him. The love for music is displaced by a bloody battle for a wanted spot in the orchestra. The obsessional takes the upper hand, tending towards self-destruction.I'm not exactly an expert myself when it's about jazz. And I've read reviews where it's suggested that the essence of jazz is completely misrepresented here : "The idea about jazz in this movie is brought in a grotesque way and looks like a ridiculous caricature". The whole history about Charlie Parker and the anecdote Fletcher tells every time, apparently isn't exactly true at all. Could be, but for me the jazz section wasn't of essence in the story. It's the emotional and physical brutality that Fletcher uses to bring students to a higher level. In this way Fletcher tries to create "HIS Charlie Parker". The whole movie does follow the rhythm of the used music: uplifting, rhythmic and intense. Only the end was predictable and presented us of course the well known rule that the oppressed kicks the oppressor's ass again. Actually I hoped Andrew would put his drumsticks there where the sun doesn't shine at Fletcher.The performances of Teller and Simmons are obviously extremely stunning. It took me a while before I realized that I've seen Teller in "That awkward moment". A movie I wanted to forget about as soon as possible. Here, however, I thought he was brilliant. And apparently he's an avid drummer and he did all the drumming himself. Hats off and respect ! But the most brilliant achievement was undoubtedly that of Simmons. What a great character sketch with lots of charisma. A character that scares you. Someone you start to hate thoroughly after a while. But in the end I understood a bit what drove him to this behavior. He won an Oscar for this role and in my opinion well deserved. An energetic musical thriller, with a fairly predictable outcome and which is so extremely rhythmic you can't sit still. Highly recommended!More reviews at opinion-as-a-moviefreak.blogspot.be


                
The bullying nature of the bandmaster had me reliving those horrible days at school where a gym teacher had much the same approach to bringing out the best in his charges. Fifty five years on and I have grudging respect for the tactics of achievement by fear, but I still recall him as a rectal aperture who could have used more tender methods. J.K. Simmons plays the "rear exit" role to perfection, totally uncompromising in his almost unattainable standards (and a person who would be doing jail time under today's parameters). It's a real debate as to whether a genius needs to be pushed or whether their natural talents will emerge from some internal drive. My old gym teacher certainly brought out some qualities in me that would still be latent if it hadn't been for the fear and humiliation factor. Miles Teller plays a wonderful part as a driven/obsessed youth, it seems that all of the great musicians excluded everything else from their lives until they became masters. After that most of them make up for lost time by piling headlong into booze drugs and women.. but that wasn't part of this story. I enjoyed the pace and tension of the movie , all of the parts were well cast and the dinner table scene was a wonderful display of the contrast between hero worship of Football Jocks and the dismissal of musical talent. But that's America , at least until the musician gets famous. I would have given the movie a 10 if it wasn't for the actual music itself ; Jazz to me is like a cinder caught under a door, I'm sure they're all magic musicians but I'd sooner hear three cats howling on the back fence at night than spend any time listening to this tuneless crap. Go ahead and hang me if you can find me, it should be easy, I'll be at any country/rock concert. Enjoy the movie in Cmajor7b5 cheers Billc


                
Excelente historia, dirigida magistralmente, totlamente recomendada
I can't be the only one scratching my head at the ratings on this movie? I've seen tons of movies and I'm far from a movie critic, but #43 highest rated movie? Of all time? Look don't get me wrong it's a good story. The acting by J.K. Simmons and Miles Teller are phenomenal. It certainly has its moments. Good film in regards to promoting determination and perseverance. #43 best movie of all time though? Maybe I'm not that big a fan of jazz?


                
I first saw this on KCET Cinema Series on a Friday Night !!!! Totally blew my mind the Hazing and Abuse this Drummer went through and What a Total Career Defining Performance from J. K. Simmons !!!! But it wasn't a perfect film , not at all !!! Miles Teller looks sort of like a dopey Ralph Machio if that is even possible !!! When not focused on Drumming , the story really drags !! Not even Supergirl herself could rescue that boring life of the drummer !!!


                
It's different. It's tight. It's tense. I'm glad I saw it, but it's not a movie I want to see again. It tells its story well. Maybe it's just that the story is a little too real to be as entertaining as I wanted it be. The truth about what it takes to be great is harder than that. There is no fairy floss. There is is no escapism. Just bleeding knuckles.


                
'Whiplash (2014)' is an experience in tension, a character study that's fantastic at giving you the same perspective as the protagonist while never really putting you in his headspace - that is to say, telling you exactly how he feels at every single moment. Its ultimate effect is an incredibly compelling, thematically rich one. It's an, at times, gruelling, almost hard-to-watch picture mainly because we care so much about our lead and want to see him succeed, a desire that is bolstered by the fact that we constantly see and hear the genuine skills (in the form of thunderous, top-class drumming) he's told he does not yet possess. This makes the central battle between him and his antagonistic teacher all the more agonising, urgent and investing, until it culminates a riveting confrontation and the whole things ends on a fantastic final beat. 7/10


                
As a drummer student and Buddy Rich fan, I love this movie. As a movie lover I cannot forget my love for drums and will say that the music is fantastic and the editing is electrifying. However, it is because I love the story, the great performance of the actors that I will say that the movie is unequal. Some sequences are magical and sometimes it feels like another movie. This could be a pure perfection... All I've got it's a good movie. For my part Whiplash is a classical.


                
A budding jazz pianist (Miles Teller) is admitted into the prestigious Shaffer Conservatory where he comes under the eye of the legendary Terence Fletcher (J. K. Simmons), who promptly starts driving him like a dog, trying to take him as far beyond his human limits as possible.Frankly speaking, movies about music have never been my thing. I'm in no way musically talented or inclined, and thus whenever, for example, there's that one scene where someone has to play something over and over again, getting yelled at the same time to get it right, until it finally goes, it just doesn't open up to me. Every single take sounds the same. Might be that that's the purpose, but I do believe that you're meant to hear the subtle differences if you're good enough.And in that regard I don't think Whiplash has what it takes to take someone on a journey into the world of music. A movie about war, for example, can show you what it would be like to be there on the battlefield. But then that's explicitly what it is trying to do. Whereas Whiplash seems to be about music made by those that get it to those that also get it.Luckily music is only half of the movie. The second big theme is greatness and what is needed to achieve it. Because it cannot be just about raw talent. Every day a person is born with the capability to become a great musician. But few of them end up in the business and only a few of those have the drive needed to urge them onward even when they've already achieved some measure of success.Whiplash is a fine film. Personally I didn't find it as compelling as it probably is to so many others, but I can definitely recognize talent, heart and soul when I see it.


                
Are the two most dangerous words in the English language "good job?" Is greatness worth the price/push? That's what Whiplash asks. It does so in a pretty cheesy and unrealistic fashion. It fails. It falls. But it tries and will not apologize for it.


                
Do you like films about the purposeful people who know what they want to achieve? Do you like movies about the men who overcome obstacles? If you say «yes», «Whiplash» is for you. The tagline of it is «The road to greatness can take you to the edge». This movie is a musical drama that depicts Andrew Neyman (the character of Miles Teller). He is a young jazz drummer and a student of the tony Shaffer Conservatory in Manhattan. He wants to be like his idol in drumming Buddy Rich. We can hear steady tap-tap-tap of a drumstick in this film because Andrew wants to improve his skill of drumming. He dreams of being great. The director of the best orchestra in the country Terence Fletcher notices Andrew. Fletcher wants to find greatness. He begins to train Andrew in drumming. And he uses cruel methods to do it. He throws chairs, slaps Andrew and other students and screams insults about their parentage. Fletcher tells Andrew that the worst thing you can tell a young artist is «Good job» as self- satisfaction and complacency are the enemies of artistic progress. I don't agree with this opinion. I am absolutely sure that every trainer should brace up and encourage young talents to give motivation to go on and to achieve the goals. Due to cruelty a man can get upset and give up even if he has a great purpose. I personally think that physical brutality is not always a good way to motivate somebody. Very often we can achieve more by encouraging people. Speaking about Andrew he becomes obsessive. He drums his hands bloody into the night to be worthy of Fletcher's tempo. Andrew wants to earn the approval of Fletcher and show him what he can. At the end of the movie he shows Fletcher that his drumming and playing a gig is perfect. This film is about the abuse of power. It is about an achievement- oriented and conscientious person. It is about drumming perfection and overcoming oneself. The main character has a crazy desire to be great. Despite the pain, the cruelty and blood he achieves his aim. Is violence necessary for high achievement? Everyone decides for themselves. I believe that this method is not always good. Besides, this film is about the battle between two strong men. Who is the winner for you? I really liked this movie. «Whiplash» is worth watching at least in order to hear a perfectly steady tap-tap-tap of a drumstick and enjoy excellent jazz music.
This movie was far better than I expected it to be. After being told to watch by a few people , this isn't normally my type of film, I thought no harm in giving it a go. Id say to defiantly watch Whiplash, its such a moving heartfelt film, which captivates it watches. I'm not one for jazz music but put this aside and you don't necessarily notice.The acting was superb from both lead actors and they made it feel like the were generally invested in the characters they were playing.I would recommend watching this film to anyone, even for the experience.


                
(spoilers) "Whiplash", directed by Damien Chazelle, is another movie about a character with an obsession. It begs for comparisons to "Black Swan" from a few years ago. Where Black Swan was a hallucinatory, depressive, and obsessed trip into misfortune, Whiplash plays it mostly straight with the main character more in control, and a decidedly positive and redemptive ending. Whiplash then doesn't carry the punch as strongly perhaps, though it does have the same drive. It is a great watch, with Miles Teller character unable to stop his drive and obsession until flirting with near death and a car accident brought upon by misfortune and bad luck. You can identify his drive and feel the ferocity of it fanned by J K Simmons character, a legendary drummer and "drill sergeant" crossing the line into abusiveness. The obsession to succeed and exceed here becomes a drug, intoxicating and addicting, much like in Black Swan. Simmons rightly wins supporting actor award in this movie; he is a reminiscent of Louis Gosset Jr's Emil Foley in "An Officer and a Gentleman" in performance level. He is feared as he is respected, and he is a bully with a purpose such that the means justifies the ends. I enjoyed this strong movie. 7.5/10
Saw the film this past weekend and, after mulling it over, ultimately came away liking it<U+0085>. but not quite loving it. I think the movie is superbly made on a technical level: it's tremendously edited, the use of sound is terrific, the whole thing is incredibly kinetic, has great energy, and is an absolutely enthralling, gripping experience<U+0085>. But on a conceptual level, it's just so preposterous and absurd, I had a lot of trouble taking it seriously (and maybe I'm not supposed to(?)). But for this film in particular, it was problematic for me and kept me from embracing it completely.This is going to sound harsh, but the movie played to me like a really, really good student film. It just feels overcooked, sort of "show-offy," but without much justification for all the razzle dazzle. It's set at such an outrageously high pitch from the outset, but the dramatic beats don't feel earned or believable in any way. It makes me wish the film were set in a different world where the character dynamic is still the same, but credible in a different narrative context. I get that part of the appeal of the film is that it's set in this world where you wouldn't necessarily expect this kind of tension and intensity to be wrung out of it<U+0085> but that's part of the problem for me. It's like Chazelle started with this idea and setting and graphed the drama onto it so forcibly that the whole thing just feels inorganic and overtly "concocted" if that makes sense.So much of it works incredibly well, but it just lacks a convincing conceptual backbone<U+0085> This may seem like a strange comparison, but I enjoyed the film for the similar reasons that I liked Blackhat (another film I saw this past week)<U+0085> I found both films to be very engrossing and satisfying on a purely visceral level, in spite of their shortcomings.Chazelle seems like a promising filmmaker, and this film is impressive on a craftsmanship level, so I look forward to whatever he makes next.Again, I ultimately liked it<U+0085> but not enough to call it one of the best of the year. I feel like I'm in the minority in saying that because I've seen it on so many people's top ten lists.


                
I have been both a musician and a music teacher, and this movie is unrealistic in so many ways. No "prestigious" music school would allow the bullying, profane monster portrayed by J.K. Simmons to have access to its students. No drummer's hands bleed in the manner portrayed by Miles Teller's character (maybe a blister or two might pop before he develops callouses--drummers should speak to this). The movie is almost unbearably slow at times besides.However, it is worth seeing if you like jazz--although most of the music is not modern jazz at all but more from the big-band era--and if you like good acting. Both J.K. Simmons--who won the Oscar for his portrayal--and Miles Teller do a phenomenal job of acting out their parts in this wildly unrealistic drama of a driven young musician's descent into near madness caused by a sadistic "instructor." The movie Shine with Geoffrey Rush was in a similar vein but was done much more realistically and with a painful type of beauty.J.K. Simmons absolutely deserved the win for his portrayal, but anyone who would rush to see this movie should go in with eyes wide open and a shot of caffeine to stay awake.


                
