Greetings again from the darkness. The pursuit of greatness is not always pretty. No matter if your dream is athletics, dancing, music or some other; you can be sure hard work and sacrifice will be part of your routine. You will likely have a mentor, teacher or coach whose job is to cultivate your skills while pushing you to new limits. This film questions whether the best approach is intimidation or society's current preferred method of nurturing.Miles Teller plays Andrew, a first year student at an elite Manhattan music conservatory. Andrew dreams of being a great jazz drummer in the vein of Buddy Rich. When offered a rare shot at the top ensemble, Andrew quickly discovers the conductor is a breed unlike anything he has ever encountered. The best movie comparison I can offer for JK Simmons' portrayal of Terence Fletcher is R Lee Ermey's Drill Instructor in Full Metal Jacket. This is no Mr Holland's Opus. Fletcher bullies, intimidates, humiliates and uses every imaginable form of verbal abuse to push his musicians, and especially young Andrew, to reach for greater heights.Andrew and Fletcher go head to head through the entire movie, with Fletcher's mental torment turning this into a psychological thriller ... albeit with tremendous music. We witness Andrew shut out all pieces of a personal life, and even take on some of Fletcher's less desirable traits. Andrew's diner break-up with his girlfriend (Melissa Benoist) is much shorter, but just as cold as the infamous opening scene in The Social Network. At a small dinner party, Andrew loses some of the sweetness he inherited from his dad (Paul Reiser), and unloads some Fletcherisms on some unsuspecting family friends.Writer/Director Damien Chazelle has turned his Sundance award-winning short film into a fascinatingly brutal message movie that begs for discussion and debate. The open-ended approach is brilliant, though I found myself initially upset at the missing clean wrap that Hollywood so often provides. What price greatness? Is comeuppance a reward? Are mentors cruel to be kind? For the past few years, I have been proclaiming that Miles Teller (The Spectacular Now) is the next John Cusack. Perhaps that bar is too low. Teller just gets better with each film. His relentless energy draws us in, and we find ourselves in his corner ... even though this time, he's not the greatest guy himself. Still, as strong as Teller is, the film is owned by JK Simmons. Most think of him as the dad in Juno, or the ever-present insurance spokesman on TV, but he previously flashed his bad side as the white supremacist in "Oz". Even that, doesn't prepare us for Simmons' powerhouse performance ... just enough humanity to heighten his psychological torturing of musicians.You should see this one for Simmons' performance. Or see it for the up and coming Teller. Enjoy the terrific music, especially Duke Ellington's "Caravan". See it for the talking points about teachers, society and personal greatness. See it for any or all these reasons - just don't tell director Damien Chazelle "good job".


                
I saw this about 24 hours ago at the Best of Fest for Sundance, and this last 24 hours I have done little but think about and marvel at this film. I really had zero expectations going in, I heard the buzz surrounding it in town, but knew very little about it as the film began. I have yet to get the words that do my thoughts justice for this movie but I am going to try. First everything about this film was stellar; casting, writing, acting, directing, music and cinematography all came together to just tell an incredible story. I want to say a bit more about a couple of these aspects. Acting, first of all I don't know who impressed me more Miles Teller in the lead as Andrew Nieman or JK Simmons playing Band teacher Terence Fletcher. Both did so great that had either been a lesser actor they would have been out shined by the other. Simmons' performance really reminded me of Gunnery Sargent Hartman from Full Metal Jacket, except rather than emotionally destroying and rebuilding marines he was doing it to 18 year old kids. His character could have easily been cartoony and 2 dimensional but Simmons gave him such depth that the whole film I felt compassion for and even understood his motives, even before he lays them out for Nieman in the third act. Two scenes bring you to the core of this character and the line that has intrigued me for 24 hours is "No words in the English language are more dangerous than 'good job.'" (thus why I titled my review as such, sorry I couldn't resist). Then on to Teller's performance, for a younger actor who I haven't seen in much I must say he played his role like a seasoned actor. His performance just wrapped me up and to find out he did much of the drumming himself is insane. Whilst watching some of the intense scenes I felt like I was watching him be executed, and other times it feels like the fight in Rocky, you feel like you are just watching him get demolished, except all of this is emotional rather than the easier physical. Whether it is the discouragement, the socially awkwardness, the single parent household, the internal conflict, the hubris, the arrogance, and at times the mental torture that he put himself through, all just blew me away. Teller reminded me of a much much more talented John Cusack and had the charisma and electricity to connect to the audience. The one other thing I must commend is the writing, so often you kind of know where a movie is headed but this movie stayed very unpredictable and just when you think for certain how a scene or sequence of scenes will play out they take a hard left and keeps you off balance (in a good way). It was so refreshing, a few times I thought the bow was on the film but then something disrupts how "it should go or end". Sorry if I rambled, perhaps after thinking on it more I can get a more focused review, needless to say this film is a must-see when it gets a broad release. Great job to all involved and congrats on winning the award at Sundance, you certainly earned it. One last thing if this gets attention in wide release this could see a heightened interest in Jazz, this is certainly a film that can make even the not-so musically inclined want to throw on a Jazz record and just drown in it.
Whiplash is a beautiful movie that shows perception and expectations of a young drummer and an experienced band teacher who is short tempered and very strict.Movie is boring in starting but last half hour was amazing.JK Simmons was amazing as a Band teacher and he really deserves that Oscar for best supporting actor in a Supporting Role.Other cast was also nice.Watch this movie if you want to fulfill your dreams no matter how much hurdles are there in your life.My recommendation is that don't watch this movie with higher expectations.Overall I give this movie 8/10.


                
This is without doubt a brilliant film I normally watch action films but thought I would have a break from action and I was not disappointed this film brings a brand new perspective to phycological abuse as the mentor pushes the kid to breaking point and beyond. I felt though at times especially the very beginning the drum solos were boring dreary and unnecessary. The ending was well thought out and planned and the plot was good I however wanted to see the farther of the kid meet the mentor for a period to see his reaction in front of the mentor. This film is a must see for anyone who likes something different to the normal films. 8.2/10
I like when Hollywood dares to cast a young actor that doesn't fit their standards of beauty. The lead worked extremely well with his character and quite frankly, I think that's what kept me riveted. Adversity fuels him, exhaustion is merely an obstacle in his path. The actor's nervousness and receptivity is mesmerizing and will entrap you in his world. The camera could have pulled a Lars Von Trier, standing just behind his shoulder and it would have felt the same.While the audience isn't courted so much into caring for the characters, the story does bring its emotional content with themes that appeal to everyone. The desire to make something out of your life, the sacrifices, the labour. But who knows how it will end? It's different for each of us.JK Simmons was remarkable and his chemistry with the lead could have been better but it was sufficient. It was just enough to hold the movie together.Now the bleeding hands were great at first but that quickly wore down. Everyone one of us who's ever played an instrument (which is everyone), knows the hardship isn't in the playing but in the accuracy. I get that his main struggle was to keep up the fast beat but as I said, the bleeding hands metaphor quickly wore down. If it had been a trombone, would they have made his lips bleed? The fingers of a piano player? It was just too much. Sweat would have sufficed.Ups and downs - not the greatest movie I've seen this year, but good. Pretty good. It's an 8/10 for me; would recommend it to a specific crowd only.


                
Musicans and teachers alike will probably shy away from the methods which Terence Fletcher employ in Whiplash in the search for the next Charlie Parker. But it's fiction, and in that vein every single moment of the film is of course exaggerated for heightened tension. Oscar winner JK Simmons gives the performance of a lifetime as the brutal, cruel and authoritative jazz instructor who pushes his students to the limit and then some. It's a truly chilling character who gets equal parts of assistance and obstruction from the screenplay. Fletcher's frightful tirades are punctuated with moments of genuine kindness and humanity: playful anecdotes, saying hello to a little girl, playing soft jazz piano. Even more important is his reaction to one of his star pupil's deaths; a chilling realisation at the twist of the cause paints him in a very different light. But this stop start characterisation just sets up the audience for the inevitable foul-mouthed blow-up as contrivance after contrivance sees Andrew fail. Andrew, played by the ever impressive Miles Teller is at first a meek first year percussion student with big aspirations and even bigger dreams. He looks up to drumming legends and hopes to emulate their success; thus scoffing at his extended families' bragging of small time football achievements. While others are dismissive and his father ever supportive, Fletcher shares his goal. It's not the inspiring tale that some make it out to be; Fletcher is as petty as he is sadistic, pulling a fast one on Andrew in the final scene and getting his revenge for being fired from Schaffer. Andrew is just the first person to ever join him in his madness, to ever go beyond that limit and achieve true greatness at any cost. There's hurried montages of frenzied drumming which result in a bloodied and bandaged plunged into ice water - these are played out like aggressive training montages from a sports movie. It's a film which is intensely focused on the central two. Most secondary characters are given less significance; a symptom of Andrew's increasing desire and drive. One of these casualties is Nicole, the remarkably normal crush who gets swept aside when practice becomes more important. Melissa Benoist plays the part with touches of nervousness, awkward mannerisms and authenticity but it's suggestively a binary opposite just to show how motivated and obsessed Andrew is. This is very evident in his performance and the minimal costume and make-up which give him the withered, exhausted and bloodied look. Nicole enters and leaves his life like a shallow plot device used only to further push him into Fletcher territory. Another casualty is his father (Reiser), the supportive and kind single parent. The crux of Andrew's desire is to rise above the sympathetic hug with his father after his initial humiliation in the final scene. His father will always be there to say "good enough" or "good job", which is truly the bane of people like Fletcher and Andrew. For a moment he is humiliated and distraught, the steadicam switched for a shaky hand-held until he decides to walk back onto stage. The hand-held is not seen again. Whiplash's message is of course not for everyone. The bloody perseverance and alienation which comes at the cost of Andrew's musical greatness is not something many would be able to stomach. And beneath the passion of Terence Fletcher is a abusive and manipulative man who drives students to the brink. The final scene lavishes in their communal madness. There's a stark difference between the harsh and cold lighting of the very first drumming scene to here as he is bathed in warm light and a dizzy and shallow-focus close up shows every bead of sweat and every drop of blood that is the result of his work. He mouths a silent "f*ck you" at Fletcher and launches into the intro for Caravan while each significant beat of the snare equates to a cut to another perspective of Carnegie Hall. Tom Cross deserves every amount of praise for his editing. It's contempt that slowly grows into approval as the camera swings rapidly from conductor to drummer, building momentum. There are truly only two people on the stage even as a series of rapid cuts shows various instruments. But Andrew goes beyond into a drum solo which stretches the limits of both him and Fletcher. If there were only two people on stage before, now there are only two people in the entire world. The audience is not seen again in the film. There's a fervid moment where Chazelle chooses silence over the intense beats of the drum; everything is slowed down, we get extreme close ups of ears, drums, sticks and of Andrew's face, clenched in concentration. Andrew smashes his cymbal so hard that Fletcher has to hurriedly fix it, nodding his head in admiration. They work together, they slow down, then they build. Silence is used again right before the end. Andrew looks up for that final nod, and we get a cut-off shot of half of Fletcher's face as he crinkles up in a smile. And with a last fanfare the film abruptly cuts to an end. Whiplash conjures a storm of desire, passion and tension between teacher and student. Other characters are left in the dust both metaphorically and literally in the frame as they finally combine to achieve greatness in the jazz world. Chazelle shoots with great emotion and frenzy which combines with the diegetic sound to produce one of the most dizzying and potent endings of recent times. Neither man cares about half measures or secondary prizes. It's paradoxically inspiring and downbeat at the same time yet never encourages the regime which the pair endure, or even lust for. Most will not shrug off real life consequences and physical barriers like a car crash. Most are just another Sean Casey.
An enthralling thrill ride of a movie about jazz. Yep, that's right. Andrew (Miles Teller) is a promising jazz drummer who has ambitions to be the very best. Fletcher (J.K. Simmons) is the cantankerous, exacting, conductor whom Andrew needs to impress if he is to fulfil his dream.The two leads perform brilliantly. Simmons launches into Fletcher's virulent tirades with savage gusto, his frightening demeanour and victimisation of the promising pupil creating the initial drama and tension. We feel for Andrew as he suffers the verbal and physical abuse meted out by his potential mentor. A battle of wills develops with Andrew determined not to simply accept every degradation heaped upon him.In the interests of tension and drama, it's overdone. Whilst immersed in the events taking place before you, you may not notice. The film is that powerful. But afterwards, you are likely to think how improbable it all was. Scenes between Andrew and both his father and girlfriend feel superfluous, interrupting the savage narrative of the battle between Fletcher and Andrew.It's this battle that results in events taking a different turn. We are made to see both sides. There is no goodie or baddie, it's the tale of two obsessions in conflict and the ensuing sparks that fly. Then we reach the dramatic finale (no spoilers here) and watch it unfold before us like the drawing back of a taught bowstring, wondering where the arrow will fly.Excellent, gut wrenching, roller-coaster movie. Prepare yourself accordingly!


                
At first I feared I couldn't relate to the world of elite jazz musicians at one of America's top music schools. But through the psychopathic teacher Fletcher (JK Simmons) and his protégé, manic young drummer Neiman (Miles Teller) this movie explores issues such as the role of mentors, how far talented and gifted student should be pushed, and push themselves, and just the painful life of a young musician who is quite lost, and who believes that becoming the next Charlie Parker - being someone - is the answer to his problems. When it's pointed out that Parker had a short life of addiction and pain, Neiman says that maybe it's better to have fame and die young than live a long life and be forgotten. It's one of the many nutty but interesting things in this film, which has a great script, tight direction and great acting. It isn't afraid to go over the top, and interestingly, the story continues well after the film's climax, but it works. You get the feeling that many real-life elite artists and their teachers have some sort of mental condition, in pursuing perfection to an extraordinary degree while ignoring their own health and welfare. The scene where Neiman breaks up with his lovely girlfriend, because having a relationship would affect his drumming, is priceless. Ironically music is for pleasure but in the world of Whiplash it's soaked with pain and sacrifice.
On the front end of this review, let me note that as a rule I try to never write spoilers, and this review certainly will not be that--but as the review goes on I will be commenting on where the film goes, in a general sense, at its conclusion. You've been warned.That said, "Whiplash" is one of the more challenging films that I've written about since I started the practice of writing a review here each time I watch a movie. It's hard to put into words how I feel about this film. It's disturbing, hard to watch, and puts its audience through a type of mental stress that eclipses most horror movies or suspense films. It's a story that is almost impossible to like, and as such it's very hard to say that I "liked" this film. And yet by the same token, it was an amazing piece of art. The movie is thoroughly well made, well produced, well acted, and well scripted. It's essentially a brilliant train wreck of movie--it hurts to look, but it's nevertheless captivating. In that regard the movie is well worth the watch.Now, let's talk about the plot itself. It's no spoiler at all to say that the movie revolves around an abusive student-teacher relationship, and more to the point it features an abusive college professor who has let authority go to his head--that much you can get just from watching the film's trailer. The film features a young drummer (Miles Teller) who has enrolled as a freshman at a well to do music school who then sets out to join the school's "studio band". We quickly learn that the band leader, "Terrence Fletcher", played by J.K. Simmons (J. Jonah Jameson from the "Spider-Man" movies), is an egomaniac who likes to scream at students, curse profusely, and even throw things in the middle of rehearsal. Fletcher takes on the young drummer, and sets out to "motivate" him through the most inhumane of mentally abusive instruction conceivable.I might note that Simmons earned the 2015 Academy Ward for Best Supporting Actor for this role, and that award was well deserved. Simmons truly makes the movie, which is a strange thing to applaud someone for given that you can't watch this film without coming to hate his character. Nevertheless, the performance deserves strong praise, and its easy to see how and why the Oscar came his way for this movie.Still, the film is a bizarre amalgam of emotional abuse--both of its characters and of its audience (at one point my girlfriend wanted to turn the movie off altogether, but we made it through)--and brilliant film making. Dr. Fletcher becomes every much as devilish as any villain in any horror or suspense film, all while the movie makes the viewer empathetic and invested in its characters.Now for the slight spoiler which is unavoidable if I'm to offer my biggest criticism of the film. The big problem with this movie is that its conclusion leaves the audience wondering if Dr. Fletcher's instructional tactics were perhaps well founded, inasmuch as the film ends with its main character (Teller) accomplishing a tremendous musical feat that appears to be the product of his being pushed so hard by his tormentor. This being the case, one cannot watch the film without wondering what the message is supposed to be. Is this a movie that is promoting emotional abuse? Is it promoting bullying? Does the film essentially endorse the bizarre abuse of power that its main antagonist personifies throughout the film? While any of these criticisms may be slightly overdone, it's nevertheless true that the awkward ending to the film is troubling.And yet in spite of all of the above, the film nevertheless is powerful, if for no other reason than that it leaves such a powerful impression on its audience. What exactly is being communicated in this film is sure to be a topic of much discussion, but what's for sure is that the movie will captivate you, even if that captivation may prove to be uncomfortable.That said, I wrestled with whether to rate this movie an 8 or a 9. It's extremely well made and powerful....yet its also a film that's just hard to "enjoy" in spite of itself. Thus my 8. Still, I can see how many will watch this film and immediately label it a classic, if not a masterpiece. It's great cinema--just be prepared to be uneasy during and after the movie. Thus my 8 stars.


                
The movie starts with a drummer in action in a band room at the end of a long, dark hallway. It is the first encounter between student Miles Teller as Andrew and teacher J.K. Simmons as Fletcher. Andrew is a student of great drummers, in a pizza joint with a girl he names the 1930s song playing and the drummer in the band. Attending this prestigious private music school in NYC is to be his springboard to greatness.But while he knew of Fletcher he didn't know what a wild man Fletcher was. Seemingly out of control in his over-the-top criticism of musicians who may be off just a little. And using ethnic and gender slurs to berate them. Such behavior probably would never be tolerated in a real school but it is necessary for the resolution of this story.Paul Reiser is good as the dad, Jim Neimann and cute Melissa Benoist (of Glee and the next Supergirl on TV) is Nicole, a girl Andrew starts dating but stops because he says it will not be compatible with his drive to be the best.JK Simmons won the Oscar for Best Supporting actor and the movie itself was in the running for Best Picture. Many fans think it should have won over "Birdman." The movie is hard to watch at times but it all pays off in the final couple of scenes. SPOILERS: After weeks of on-again, off-again verbal abuse Andrew snaps after failing to perform well after an automobile accident right before the performance. He rushes Fletcher on stage, tackles him, both are bloody, Andrew is kicked out of school. But a family representative of a former student who hanged himself convinced Andrew to witness to Fletcher's behavior, and he was terminated. But in an accidental meeting Fletcher asks Andrew to play drums for a gig, actually setting him up for failure by opening with a number Andrew did not know and didn't have the music for. However next Andrew began to play a hot number, stood up to Fletcher, had the other musicians come in, maybe Fletcher finally had his star.
3 Oscars is even too little for it ;)congrats for J.K. Simmons for Best Performance by an Actor in a Supporting Role. He and Miles Teller did one hell of job ,, amazing acting .. captivating ,, an amazing plot with unexpected turn of events !! i don't know if you guys ever watched him in Whiplash in the year 2013 but here he elevated with his role so high.The Sound Mixing and the soundtrack are genius and electrifying,, i'v never really cared so much for Jazz but the songs in the movie is so magnetizing and engaging.The story itself is sensational, really makes you think about yourself .. your dreams .. ;)I really loved it ,, and it was deserved Oscars wins :)


                
Damien Chazelle's 'Whiplash' is the story of Andrew Neyman (Miles Teller), a promising young jazz drummer who is under the brutal tutelage of Terence Fletcher (J. K. Simmons) at New York's fictional Shaffer Conservatory.'Whiplash' is essentially a battle of wills between Neyman and Fletcher, an unhealthy student/mentor relationship that frequently teeters on the brink of collapse. Fletcher uses harsh and disciplined teaching methods, and everyone is scared to death in his presence. His military-style methods work, as his school's concert band regularly wins competitions and breaks students into successful careers.Fletcher justifies his behaviour with repeated references to a long-repeated anecdote about the young Jazz legend Charlie Parker, who was playing a solo at a jam session with professionals which included the great drummer Jo Jones. Parker played so badly that Jones threw a cymbal at his head, nearly decapitating him. After that humiliation and intimidation, Parker practiced so long and so hard that he came back a year later and made Jazz history with his solo.'Whiplash' is a simplistic film about the Jazz world, Neyman plays a lot but you never see him in any other band such as his own, he doesn't jam with his fellow students, which seems odd when a drummer can't function in a jazz band without others. Chazelle is more interested in the lonely and singular ambition Neyman has, and the exposure he will get.The abuse of power is central to this film, Fletcher wants to teach Neyman to take responsibility and to prove himself. But where is the line between motivation and abuse? Fletcher is looking for his own Charlie Parker, the question is whether Neyman will cut it.For all its flaws, 'Whiplash' is a film worth watching. It's snappy pacing is as sharp as Neyman's drumming, and equally well executed. Both Fletcher and Neyman have questionable motives who are as bad as each other, and their relentless battle keeps you riveted and often amused. Teller and Simmons are both perfectly suited in their roles, and the latter steals most of the scenes with his barrage of verbal abuse at his students. A perfectly timed debut from Damien Chazelle.
Andrew Neimann (Miles Teller) is a first year student at the prestigious Shaffer Conservatory. His father Jim (Paul Reiser) is a sweet high school teacher. He gets picked by Terence Fletcher (J.K. Simmons) to be the backup drummer in his winning Studio band. He gets enough confidence to ask out Nicole (Melissa Benoist). Fletcher is a cruel manipulative dictatorial teacher.J.K. Simmons gets a great juicy part to show his skills that he has shown all these years. He fully deserves his Oscar win and it's not a surprise. He's certainly done great work in many TV and movie roles before over the years. Miles Teller take a great step up. He has done good work but this is something much more. It's a compelling character who develops and changes. He's able to play through it all.


                
Its every true everyone can't be an actor specially like J. K Simmons. This movie makes one feel the levels of hardship and mental agony one goes through in the process of achieving perfection. At times, Simmons scares you with this brutal way of dealing as an instructor. Miles Teller, is just incredible in replying his feeling when Simmons interrupts in the way of achieving his dreams. There are consequences when director makes audiences to feel everyone needs to be extra determined and focused when it comes in making dreams come true. Its an absolute journey of movie experience which enthralls you full time and makes you feel everything comes at a cost and their is no shortcut for SUCCESS.


                
I loved this movie. A tight script with two nasty, dueling main characters. The teacher/student relationship has been explored many times before, but in this movie the twist is that both are unpleasant in their own way.Both Teller (as Andrew the student) and Simmons (as Fletcher the teacher) were very good and Simmons did deserve the Oscar.For once, I loved that I did not need to pick a side but I could just enjoy the ride and see how these two ambitious, arrogant and toxic personalities were going to hurt (or help?) each other. Also, I do not usually like open endings, but in this case I found it very appropriateThe music is great, as it was expected. The photography is also good and the story does not drag along for a single minute, as it happens far too often nowadays. Highly recommended.


                
THIS REVIEW CONTAINS SPOILERSWhiplash is a very good film that is carried by the outstanding performances of J.K. Simmons & Miles Teller. The film overall is completely engaging although at times it is slightly over dramatic/unrealistic. I really enjoyed the catchy music themes throughout.The parts I didn't think went well with the overall tone of the film was the crash scene which seemed totally unnecessary and extremely unrealistic that he would get out the car, then still get there on time and play in the state he was in. I'm pretty sure that J.K. Simmons' character wouldn't be able to get away with such abusive ways and I was expecting the other drummers to take a stand together. I would liked more of a back story because the characters seemed great, the final scene was breathtaking but left slightly unresolved.It is a very engaging film with outstanding acting performances (I'm backing J.K. Simmons for the Oscar and also felt Miles Teller deserved a nomination) but I felt there was a few missed opportunities. Still I would highly recommend the film and I give it 8/10.
Whiplash chronicles a jazz drummer's tumultuous relationship with a volatile instructor. While this is well acted and shot beautifully, Whiplash fails to catapult itself to greatness with bogging down its story with rather wooden supporting characters and a slow as molasses storyline. Whiplash tells the story of Andrew, a jazz drummer coming into a cutthroat art school and his instructor, Terrence Fletcher, an off the wall and emotionally abusive instructor. The strengths of Whiplash lie solely in the hands of J.K. Simmons. Simmons delivers a tour de force performance, turning a fiery rage into something inspiring for our lead, Miles Teller. Simmons has some truly great scenes, spouting off profanity laced rants when trying to bring out the best in Andrew. The scenes with Simmons send the film into overdrive, making you want to know what happens next. However, this feeling of excellence on screen quickly turns into boredom as we see Miles Teller try to captivate us the same way his co-star did and falters. At the end of it all, this comes down to talent. J.K. Simmons sets a high bar for his co-stars, and this actually ends up hurting the film because of his performance. Miles Teller seems as if he can't keep up in scenes with Simmons and rather than captivating us with his relentless drumming until his blood hits the sweat filled drum kit, it actually ends up feeling as if he is trying too hard to top his co-star in regards to intensity. This creates for an uneven film, one that never truly becomes the masterpiece it wants to be. Despite these lesser qualities, Whiplash does feature some truly great scenes of Simmons berating his students with some of the best delivered insults this side of Full Metal Jacket. Damien Chazelle does showcase his talents, lingering on the physical and emotional tolls that the environment takes on Andrew and other students. Despite this quality, Chazelle fails to connect his characters to his audience. But one thing that won't be lost in translation is where these characters are and how competitive it is. Quite honestly, I feel this worked better as a short film. There is simply not enough for audiences to latch on to or enough for them to care about. But one thing is for sure, J.K. Simmons is ON FIRE in this film and delivers one of the best performances of his career.


                
WHIPLASH is directed by Damien Chazelle and stars lead actor Miles Teller and supporting actor J.K. Simmons. The story is about Andrew Neiman (Miles Teller), an aspiring drummer who is discovered by Terence Fletcher (J.K. Simmons), a highly praised conductor of a jazz band. Fletcher invites Andrew to his class after hearing him play. While in the band Andrew discovers how Fletcher teaches his musicians with what some would see it as, abuse (Mostly mental abuse but also physical as one might understand from one scene in the film).Blood, sweat and tears. This ancient saying is visually symbolized in the film. WHIPLASH tells about the struggle in the path to success. Andrew is constantly abused by Fletcher who believes that it is necessary to push his musicians to the very edge for them to become great musicians. It's better explained by a quote from Fletcher himself: "There are no two words in the English language more harmful than good job". The film also confronts all the sacrifice that is required to reach greatness. Andrew spends hours upon hours, days upon days, practicing his drumming skills. He breaks up with his girlfriend who he believes will slow him down in his path to success. He even gets in a car crash and is injured but immediately gets up to walk right up to his show.The ending scene in this film is perfect (As so many others also believe). After being confronted by Fletcher who knew about Andrew being the one who caused Fletcher to be removed from the Shaffer conservatory, Andrew gets embarrassed by Fletcher in probably the biggest moment of his career. After this Andrew walks out of the stage and then suddenly, something changes his mind. He is willing to give it all he's got before leaving music. He is willing to take that extra step that others might not do. Andrew walks back in and starts playing the drums. After a while Fletcher realizes that this is the moment, the moment in which a great artist could be born. And remember, as mentioned in one scene in this film, Fletcher never had "the next Louis Armstrong". He saw this as a great opportunity for him. So, he leads him in the defining moment and at the very end gives him a subtle smile of approval as to finally say: Good job.Young and talented director, Damien Chazelle, has created an amazing film with A CRAP TON OF INTENSITY AND SUSPENSE, which I believe is rare for music-themed films. The performances Miles Teller and J..K. Simmons are STUNNING. After watching this film it's hard to imagine anyone else playing the role of these two characters. The cinematography is incredible, the editing is PERFECT (especially in the ending sequence). While there is so much more to speak up and discuss about this film I'll settle with saying that this is one of my personal favorites of 2014 and I hope that Damien Chazelle keeps making breath-taking films for audiences to see like this one.
I kept putting off watching "Whiplash" as part of my effort to watch all of IMDb's top 250 despite its current placement at an impressive 45th ranking and an 8.5 rating. I must admit I did feel before watching this film that I would find it overrated (and I do hold that opinion just now but to a much smaller extent) and that the subject matter wouldn't be highly engaging. I guess I was wrong to make those assumptions in hindsight for the most part.The film is basically about a talented young drummer Andrew (played by Miles Teller) who is taken to his limits by his tormenting and brutal mentor Fletcher (played by JK Simmons). Andrew has to cope with this harassment and must weigh up his life and the difficulties of pursuing his dream and whether it is worth it or not. The whole premise of a talented individual seeking greatness or who's entire existence seems devoted to success is a well-trodden one. However, this film sees the footprints that other films have made and chooses to walk in a different direction instead of stepping in the impressions already made. Most films of the like seem to think ambition and obsession of this nature as a bad thing that corrupts the soul but in "Whiplash" that is clearly not the message. It shows us that the strive for greatness is always painful, arduous and poisonous and leaves us wondering if it's worth it. However, at the same time it also shows the benefits of overcoming this adversity and the sense of satisfaction and meaning it can give to you.Great art is often born out of great pain and "Whiplash" shows this in the bluntest fashion possible. It is terrifying but it is also incredibly inspirational.I kept drawing comparisons to "Black Swan" when watching this film and, although I feel that "Black Swan" is still a good film, I feel that "Whiplash" achieves a deeper, broader and greater meaning than this albeit similar film. "Black Swan" is often melodramatic, basic in aspects of its story, its themes and its imagery and I'd say pretentious in many ways. It thinks it's smarter or deeper than it really is. "Whiplash" is a really grounded story, it delivers perfect tension consistently throughout the film. I thought there would be large lulls in between important scenes but it proves to be an uncomfortable (in a good way!) watch from start to finish. "Whiplash" explores the relationship of the mentor and the protagonist expertly and manages to expose positives and negatives in each character that gives you a rather confused and unsettled opinion on both (again in a good way!). It manages to avoid tired clichés like the "suffocating family figure who plants their failed dreams into their children" ("Black Swan" etc). In "Whiplash" it seems like Andrew is seeking attention and recognition from his family who have little to do with his life as a performer which is an entirely different situation. It doesn't touch the idea that "despite my success I don't find satisfaction" ("Raging Bull" etc) instead it revels in the moments were Andrew is able to achieve a victory which inches him closer to his goal. A major commendation has to go to the direction which is able to capture the frantic scenes unfold deftly. It is incredibly difficult to capture such frantic movements on that drum set in a way that is digestible and enthralling to the audience. Tension is hard to capture and Chazelle manages to relish bottling it up. The music is great of course as you'd expect. Where I will criticise, this film is to justify my view that it is overrated in its high ranking on the top 250. The lead performance by Miles Teller is good, very good, but it's not an exceptional performance that's incredibly memorable. It's what I'd call a generically good performance (which is not a bad thing) but just that he doesn't stand out against the leads of the films around "Whiplash". You'd think of Marty McFly or Maximus Decimus Meridius before Andrew I'm sure. I actually found Natalie Portman's Oscar winning role in "Black Swan" to be superior if I am being honest (which may be surprising to the reader of this review). JK Simmons is the star of the film in my eyes and is indeed a very memorable and nuanced performance. I am not surprised in the slightest to learn of his Oscar win that year. However, this is a typical Simmons role that is playing to his strengths and isn't what I'd call transformative although this is by far his best (and one of the best) portrayals of this "type" of character which is certainly due to the great script. Quite simply I will say this is a great film in every aspect. People might say that my criticism in my previous paragraph is unfair and perhaps that is true. You could describe this film as a band itself- you could have one very talented musician/actor who steals the show but if all the others in the band/production don't play their part then it's worth nought. Whilst no individual aspect of this film is truly exceptional the way that everything comes together to make a great film is perhaps the best compliment anyone can really give a film truth be told. This is a really short, exciting and easy film to watch and will excite film buffs and general audiences easily.


                
Despite the many glowing reviews on IMDb and elsewhere, I honestly wasn't expecting much from this film. I thought it would be similar to 'School of Rock', not only in terms of plot but also quality. Instead, 'Whiplash' offers something totally different to the music genre. It plays out more like a thriller - a brutal, tense and compelling thriller.This film scores top marks in all areas. The acting is first class and the script is sharp and intelligent, with a story that has you hooked from the very first scene. That said, it does push its luck in parts. Some scenes are far-fetched, such as when Andrew almost gets killed in a car crash before calmly jogging to his concert, soaked in blood. There's dedication, and then there's stupidity.Overall though, there is no doubt that this is one of 2014's best films, and perhaps the best music film I have ever seen. For sheer entertainment value, I would highly recommend 'Whiplash'.
I heard great things about the movie and was very interested in watching it. But when I was half through it - I thought: "Really, that's it?" Don't get me wrong - it was good, the acting is fabulous, but everything is a bit stereotypical and predictable when you know what the movie is about. I was disappointed that people would praise a movie that highly just because it dealt with emotional stress. Also the progression of Andrew from a normal, likable guy into an obsessed egocentric proceeded too quickly for my taste and even though he was drilled, it wasn't in a way it would justify such a drastic change in him. I just couldn't buy it fully.But yeah, then this last scene came up. There aren't many movies that leave you barely enough entertained you don't shut them off and then surprise you with such an majestic, intense ending. And suddenly you realize that the whole story line builds up to this last scene. My whole body was literary shaking from the tension. The music, the pictures and then this last shot. Wow. My body still hasn't relaxed half an hour after I've seen the end. It is brave to write a movie like this and I think it has been rewarded with good reviews because of it's last scene. It was amazing and heartbreaking. You will think about this one.
If case Whiplash won the Oscar for best film, it would be no absurdity , the plot is great, the pacing is excellent , the film fails to be great , the cast is good, and the performances are great, Miles Teller is his best performance career ( good only for telling the truth ) , JK Simmons is impeccable , very deserved the Oscar , the soundtrack is another strong point in the film, the picture is good, and the film is full of great moments , most with JK Simmons makes a stressed character , the direction is good , even Miles Teller do a good performance , your character is very boring and bland , and I found super forced the scene he suffered a serious car accident and yet out of the car like nothing had happened and will try to play yet. Note 8.4
I enjoyed this film on many levels. Being a drummer myself, obviously the subject matter was of great interest to me.The acting performances were excellent, especially J K Simmons. This guy is like a good wine, he improves with age. I loved him in Juno. However Whiplash must be his defining role. I was delighted to see this was recognised at the Academy Awards. I was very impressed with Miles Teller too. He first came to my attention in the film Rabbit Hole. An excellent young contemporary actor.I would recommend this film to anyone who has an interest in music and enjoys films with a good dose of gritty realism. And again, look out for J K Simmons in scintillating form. Enjoy!


                
A dream is a dream, incredible history for all publics.
you'll like it for its depth and beautiful soundtrack


                
It's pretty remarkable that Whiplash has more blood in it than a lot of action movies. That fact alone is an indicator that this is not an ordinary film. The relationship between Andrew and Fletcher is a sharp contrast to the "no child left behind/ everybody wins" mentality that millennials have been raised on. Based on this film, it's hard to say where Damien Chazelle stands on that sort of education tactic, but he gives us a ride of a story based on the inverse mentality.The characters in this movie go to extreme lengths to achieve their goals. Andrew practically ruins his life in order to become "one of the greats". It seems like he succeeds at the end, but I wasn't really happy for him. I don't think the sacrifice he put in was worth it and his pursuit of his passion turns him into an unfriendly person. Nonetheless, I believed that his passion was strong enough that he would forsake all personal safety in order to keep his place in Fletcher's band. This was one of the last movies I would have ever expected to feature a car crash, but I believed that it could have happened given the circumstances. Fletcher somehow didn't seem legitimate, though. He sort of told Andrew his intentions straight away, which I thought made a lot of his threats rather empty. Some of the language in the movie didn't feel realistic either. I never hear people use the F word as a noun in real life, so it made some of the dialogue in the movie feel fake. The script wasn't bad in my opinion, but not good enough to get a nomination for best screenplay. There were a few scenes that I didn't find contributed anything. Damien Chazelle showed a lot more prowess as a director than a writer in this movie. At least, that's what I thought. I wouldn't say it's a must-see, unless you are an aspiring director. The acting performances are pretty good, but not the most impressive I've seen. It's definitely an interesting take on the journey to success and the sacrifice that is involved, and is more likely to discourage people to achieve greatness than to inspire them. It's definitely an intense movie, not that entertaining, but it will keep your attention. Overall Rating: 8.1/10.
