After seeing Damien Chazelle's Whiplash - a film the young up-and- coming director wished to do for some time now - being so beautifully realized and brought to life by everyone involved in the project, I was glad and relieved, mainly because I have seen the short film, which was pretty incredible.I believe that among the most telling facts about a film's fortunes and qualities, is the ability to broaden it's public, but in the same time not forgetting that cinema is not all about commercial success and mass audiences.Or with other words - a film that is not just eye candy and booms and explosions, but also craft, soul, dedication and wits.Those are some of the things not only the film itself possesses, but the people behind it have in abundance as well.The upcoming Miles Teller plays the young and dedicated student Andrew Nieman, who has the drive, the ambition to succeed and to be great, which is fine, as long as it doesn't derail your personal life.A lesson the young drummer learns the hard way.Blind ambition is the thing, that can describe our anti-hero of sorts, Terrence Fletcher a.k.a the brilliant J.K. Simmons, who has a thing for mindeffin' his students to the point of total physical and mental exhaustion and even depression.But he does it for a reason, for the sole purpose of finding the next big, even great, thing in jazz and in music as a whole.The next prodigy, the next "Yardbird" Charlie Parker that will be otherwise lost, if not being pushed to the very limit.And boy, does J.K. Simmons nails it.Chazelle has done a masterful job in casting the two leads in Teller and Simmons.Their respective acts are full of purpose, full of tension and ultimately terrific.Expect some awards going in the way of "Whiplash" and look out for Simmons in the Oscars shortlist, that's how good he is in it.And in his own words: "What a shame we wrapped it up in only 19 days".It must have been really fun playing a part like Terrence Fletcher and Simmons completely sold it.As I said, the best movies are those, that reach out to the most diverse and wide spectrum of audiences, not those, who can connect to a massive number of people, who are representatives of only one specific audience type.And Chazelle has achieved just that with "Whiplash" - a precise, tension-building film, full of beautifully staged pieces and above all else, a love towards music and the challenges it often represents if you want to get to the very top.The film ended in a big round of applause from the packed theater and I am sure that will be the case a long time from now!My grade: 9/10


                
This movie was far better than the trailer made it look.JK Simmons gave a stellar performance as a music teacher in the best Jazz school, trying desperately to find and develop the next jazz legend. From the moment he appears he demands the screen, literately. There's a part in the flick were he just burst open the door putting a halt on whatever is going, and makes it all about what he wants, which sets the tone for the entire movie. One of the best antagonist I've seen at the movies.Miles Teller plays the protagonist, A first year Jazz student who wants to be the next Jazz legend and is willing to go through the pain needed to become just that. I've been a fan of Miles Teller for a while and this movie just increase my fandomIt does not matter whether you are into jazz or not, this flick is about and boy willing to kill himself to become the best and the man willing to kill the boy so he can be the best. For anyone who has ever been in that kind of pressure, weather it be at college or on the playing field(I kid you not, watching these guys play Jazz played out like I was watching a Football movie with Miles being the Quarterback and JK being the coach) It was an emotion trill ride with a lot of ups and downs, and just when you think the ride is over, we go for a second time around. Excellence!!


                
Whiplash is low budget film making at its finest, and surely promises big things from rookie director/writer Damien Chazelle. Seeing this film in theaters was the first time this year that I have completely enraptured (granted, I have not seen all of the top films that have come out so far). Also, I am a succor for quality films about musicians, and Whiplash ranks in my all time favorites in that genre. The tension did not let up from the very first scene, especially as soon as the incredible J.K. Simmons enters. Simmons, along with Miles Teller (who's Project X days are now long behind him) have some of the best on screen chemistry I've seen. They're connected; one cannot act without it affecting the other. The film is almost entirely focused on this relationship, and the simplicity definitely services the film. I hope people will go and see it and vote with their pocketbooks for excellent low budget films.


                
"Music is your own experience, your own thoughts, your wisdom. If you don't live it, it won't come out of your horn. They teach you there's a boundary line to music. But, man, there's no boundary line to art." Charlie Parker sums it all, Cinema is true Art. I wasn't expecting to feel this way after watching this movie. Every moment has tension and something unexpected occurring. It is as if the director had chosen to apply the tempo of the drums to the script. Anyone can relate to this story. We all have pursued a dream, a passion ... Rather or not we made it our everyday job or maybe just a hobby aside, some of us strive for something bigger. This film is a journey in the search of your inner spirit, inner creativity ... not only will it make it clear that you cannot succeed without effort and hard work, it will also make you realize there are two different kinds of artists : - those who make art, - and those who make beautiful art"Beautiful" because they are stimulated by a special strength within, a GIFT. Is it because I reminisce N.Y.C. or that I play the drums? I simply believe the performances were astonishing and the actors perfectly chosen to embody these terrific characters. I won't say "good job" but rather "thank you", to the promising Franco-American director Damien Chazelle<U+FEFF> for sharing his vision.


                
When it comes to cinema, there are often little gems in a sea of bigger spectacles, that can break through in the most proficient way. Last year, I pleaded to the entire film universe that discover and understand "Inside Llewyn Davis" from the Coen Brothers after seeing it for the first time at NYFF. This year, I've seem to already come to terms that the next film that will utilize all my energy and resources this year will be Damien Chazelle's highly intense psychological drama "Whiplash." An impeccable and tightly wound experience that brings your anxiety to a feverish level. As small, and utterly different as I'm about to compare, I haven't felt this uneasy with a film's tension since Paul Greengrass' "Captain Phillips," coincidentally also was a NYFF title. Two other similar traits that embody the two are the intense and completely submersible performances that inhabit them. Stars Miles Teller and J.K. Simmons are absolutely astonishing, featuring two of the year's very best turns.Chazelle's film tells the story of Andrew (Teller), a first year music student that seeks out and joins the prestigious school band, headed by an intense and frightening teacher Mr. Fletcher (Simmons).Walking out of the screening I fully knew (though I fully hope to be proved wrong this year) that Miles Teller would be my "Oscar Isaac" this year. A performance that should shoot to the top of any awards consideration for a lead actor, but unfortunately will be passed over show after show. Teller is submerged in a way that we haven't seen the young actor achieve at this stage in his career. After plowing onto the scene opposite Nicole Kidman in "Rabbit Hole," and then helming "The Spectacular Now" with complete ease and intensity, I was not expecting him to be the machine of fury and magnitude that is on display in "Whiplash." There are moments where he channels the emotional aura of performances like Tom Hulce/F. Murray Abraham in "Amadeus," as crazy as that sounds. I am so excited to see where Teller goes from here. It makes the future of film a lot more bright, knowing that someone like him will be rising up in the ranks.Everything you've heard about J.K. Simmons is true and then some. A fully fleshed out supporting role, Chazelle doesn't write Fletcher as a caricature. He's a deeply acute individual, full of passion and acrimony. Chazelle doesn't keep Simmons at a "10," he and Simmons allow him to find a range of empathy, hatred, and cryptic allowances that will keep you at the edge of your seat. As I watched Simmons flesh out a performance that can only be described as magnificent, I kept coming back in my mind to Christoph Waltz in the Oscar-winning "Inglourious Basterds," a role that found much heat on the awards circuit. The world/all film lovers will not be able ignore the stunning presence of Simmons. A Supporting Actor nominations (maybe even a win) seems all but assured (and deserved). Looking back at the veteran actor's career that included memorable roles in "Juno," "Burn After Reading," and "Up in the Air," a role like this could not have come at a better time. Already impressive in his brief work in Jason Reitman's "Men, Women & Children," writers, directors, casting agents, and producers will be pounding on the actor's door.You can't credit "Whiplash" without citing the words and control by writer/director Damien Chazelle. An amazing and outstanding sophomore effort (unfortunately have not seen his debut "Guy and Madeline on a Park Bench") that channels a young Bennett Miller. Vigorous, self-assured, and innovative, Chazelle is a brilliant auteur filmmaker that knows exactly what type of films he wants to make. He takes inspiration from his own life, his love of film and music, and other places I'm sure we don't know about, and molds them into a gritty, layered experience, conditioned with rich characters, all realized through the writer's story. It's one of the best scripts of the year."Whiplash" features some of the best minutes of film seen in 2014. An ending that will bring tears to your eyes, dual performances that will have you applaud, and an experience that you surely will not forget. Drumming has never felt like such a personality. It acts as a visible tool for the viewer to understand and try. If you love music, appreciate education, and dare to be better than your current state, you will find something very real to latch onto. Hold on, and hold on tight."Whiplash" is being distributed by Sony Pictures Classics and will be released October 10 in limited release (and then expanding after). A must-see for all movie lovers!


                
I ask you to forgive me if i have taken so long to write a review of Whiplash, but even today i am not sure i can. I do not know how to capture the emotions that build in me when i watch this film. I will do it the other way around.I really do not care for the segments of Andrew(Miles Teller)'s personal life. Yes, they do add a bit of character development, but outside the story. The real development is his development as a drummer. And how Fletcher(Simmons) affects it.I confess that i am a music professional. I went to music school and while the teachers are not like Fletcher, the exaggeration of his character in Whiplash is an expression of the drive that successful musicians truly have.We have all had bleeding fingers, passed out from practicing too much, and putting music above everything else. All these things are true, and i accept that Whiplash exaggerates it to make you SEE what musicians FEEL.Now, on to the production. The photography is superb. I love every camera angle, ever light shot. The direction and dialogue are flawless. Teller has his limits as an actor, but he fits perfectly in this role, and Simmons was born to play the part of Fletcher. I have watched this film 13 times. I decided to give away the DVD because i would have probably watched it many more times again. If you are a musician, you are not complete unless you watch Whiplash.And for the others .. well, Whiplash is a weird film. It might struggle to get its message across to you, or you might simply not be interested or not realize why Andrew is the real winner in the last scene, or what he has accomplished. It breaks my heart, but rules are rules.As this film is aimed at a limited audience, it can only score:9/10 - a monumental masterpiece for anyone involved in music.
There are multiple reasons why Whiplash comes to the Toronto International Film Festival with palpable anticipation. The film was showcased at this year's Sundance Film Festival where it went on to both the Audience Award and Grand Jury Prize award for best dramatic film. Actor Miles Teller was recently named as one of Variety's 10 Actors to Watch and J.K. Simmons, well, he's J.K. freakin' Simmons. So the gathering audience at the afternoon screening was primed, ready and eager for the expected greatness about to be screened.Whiplash stars Miles Teller as Andrew Neyman, a determined 19-year-old drummer who is pushed to his emotional limits by his new instructor Terence (J.K. Simmons). Terence has a reputation for being the best, but mentoring under his tutelage comes at a price. Terrence is no Mr. Miyagi. He is ruthless in his barrage of verbal sewage that attempts to push his students towards the greatness he believes they can achieve. Newcomer Andrew is no spared his ire as evidenced in this heated reaction when Andrew can't find Terence's tempo, , "Were you rushing or were you dragging? If you deliberately sabotage my band, I will gut you like a pig. Oh my dear God - are you one of those single tear people? You are a worthless pancy-ass who is now weeping and slobbering all over my drumset like a nine year old girl!" There is no "Wash-on, Wash-off" PG-ness here.Being mean is in Terence's nature. And his assault on his young protégés is sometimes hard to watch. Think of Gunnery Sargent Hartman in Full Metal Jacket and imagine the persistent yelling and abuse for an entire film. Throughout, Andrew remains resilient. His goal to become a drummer of future legend has him shun friends and family. He's all alone and the uncomfortable Terence bond that he creates is all that he has.Audiences will be unsure of where Whiplash is headed. Are we headed for a triumphant climax where the drill sergeant-esque nature of the instructor pays off in a musical crescendo closing that brings audiences to their feet? Or will the pressure and barrage of verbal bullying take effect with a shocking tragedy that spotlights the harassment of our children. Be sure, this is no Mr. Holland's Opus and the hate and evil that Terence employs travels from opening to closing credits without reprieve.Writer-director Damien Chazelle does a stunning job of keeping us on the edge of our seats wondering when or if a climatic breakdown will occur. We watch in awe as Andrew gets pushed and pushes himself until his hands bleed after hours of relentless play. We feel as uncomfortable for his situation as we feel trapped in finding a solution to Andrew's goal.The concluding act only further exemplifies the events and personalities that took us to the stage and the audience cheered in Andrew's defiance while gasping at his situation.The result is a fantastic film that is sure to be considered for Best Picture at next year's Academy Award's. It is a rousing crowd pleaser will have audiences clapping with hands they will want washed of Terence's abuse. J.K. Simmons has the role he was meant to play and his character was not only brilliant but could rank as one of the best cinematic villains of all-time.


                
Wow, where to start? Well first of all, there are two characters in the film, two! The stupid romance thing was unnecessary and very forced.And oh my god the teacher throwing chairs at kids and slapping them?? Ridiculous and unrealistic.And why didn't the teacher ever yell at anyone else except for Teller's character?? He only did it once and that was just to assert his dominance to the audience, which was very very very obvious. Why was the teacher just angry at the quiet drummer??So so so unrealistic on all aspects and I just wanted this terrible production to end.And what was up with them bleeding after drumming too hard? As a friend of a drummer, I know that no matter how hard you played, if you were a good drummer you would never start bleeding.Terrible
'Whiplash' is the story of two men. One is a young music conservatory student determined to be as good as his idol, Buddy Rich, on drums. So single-minded is he in this pursuit that he largely ignores other aspects of a normal, well-adjusted life, including personal relationships. The other primary character (J.K. Simmons in a career-defining role) is the most hard-ass music instructor ever. He curses, cajoles, intimidates and physically assaults his students, buffered by the philosophy that if he does not, they will never achieve greatness. Neither lead character will yield, and from that premise and tension flows the drama and some incredible jazz music.


                
Do you know why I just hurled a chair at you? It's because you haven't, saw this movie, yet! Watch it, and then come back here. Written & directed by Damien Chazelle, and based on his 2013 short film, 'Whiplash', which in return based off, Damien's experiences in the Princeton High School Studio Band. The movie tells the story between an ambitious jazz student, Andrew Neiman (Miles Teller) and his abusive, yet driven- instructor, Terence Fletcher (J.K Simmons), as both work together, to see if Andrew, has the guts to be the next big drummer. Without spoiling too much of the film, I found it to be, a very gripping competitive movie. The theme dealing surrounding the cost of perfection is extensive and relatable. I never knew that, trying to be in a top Jazz orchestra was going to be so tough! Both, Miles Teller & J.K Simmons's acting, was top of their game. I'm pretty glad, that both, got a lot of praise from critics. I know, a lot of people would love to see Johnny Simmons reprise his role, from the short film, Whiplash, but Miles Teller does a good job, showing how driven, the character is. Some of the bloody hands scenes were really his own blood, due to him, playing too fast. I'm also, pretty happy to see that J.K Simmons got awarded, for his work in this film. He wasn't injury, free, too. He got two cracked ribs when Miles Teller tackled him during the last two days of shooting. Simmons managed to continue working despite his injury. He deserve to win, Best Supporting Actor at the Oscars in 2014, just for that. Fletcher saying "Not my tempo." very frequently, was very sinister. The only criticize, that I can find, about J.K Simmons's performance is how basic, it was. In, a way, it felt like, any other J.K Simmons's performance, just more grounded, and not, over the top angry in a cartoony way, like his role in Sam Raimi's Spiderman films (2002-2007). Other than that, it's hard to pinpoint, anything wrong with their performances. I know, a lot of people have accused the film of distorting jazz history and promoting a misleading idea of wunderkind. I found, those critics to be a bit nitpicking. I do, agree with them, that the movie doesn't put Jazz in a good light. None of the music, they used, didn't stand out. I was hoping for more. One thing that the movie could have, work on, is, getting a better supporting cast. I found, both Paul Reiser & Melissa Benoist co-starring as the student's father and love interest respectively kinda disappointing and forgettable. I know, the movie doesn't give, them, too much time and focus, but they should have, stood out, more, with the little time, they got. I really found both of them, jarring in how overacting, they were, in the small amount of scenes with Andrew. I guess, it was there to flesh out Andrew's character, but was any of their scenes, really that necessary? I found it, a bit unbelievable for Melissa Benoist's character to be, that upset with Miles Teller's character, after only one date. Both, didn't have that much of a connection, in the first place and Andrew didn't really treat her, right. Despite that shortcoming, the movie pacing is pretty well-rounded. I really didn't get bored with any of the sequences. It had really good film editing. I know that no words in the English language are more dangerous than 'good job, but I think, Damien Chazelle did a good job. I found it, very interesting, that Chazelle continue to work, after being involved in a serious car accident in the third week of film shooting. I give him, mad props on completing this film. I love the close shots of the blood, sweat and tears of the drummers. It makes the movie so much, more intense, than it should be. Very memorable scenes. The language is harsh and offensive. Lots of gay bashing and racist quotes. I don't recommended, watching this film, if you are a person that easily gets offended. It's remind me of two films, 1987's Full Metal Jacket mixed with 2010's Black Swan, in the way, Whiplash's story delivers. Whiplash challenges it's viewers to think, with its social commentary. Whiplash criticize, the soften approach to education, where the beliefs states that students deserve acknowledgement. It doesn't want that fantasy cult of mediocrity. It wants to bring back the harsh realistic of competitive, where one success, and the others, don't. The argument that the movie brings about coddling several generations of young people, to the point, that they're ill-prepared for the harsh workplace has its merit. In a way, while, Terence Fletcher might seem like the villain. It's very unclear if Fletcher, truly is. Many of his scenes are very inspiring, and many of his other scenes are just borderline, bullying. He's not clear-cut, and that's what I love, about this movie. The conclusion of the film, might be a bit, bittersweet. Some people might hate it, because it's seem like the Fletcher's extreme effective won out in the end and the glorification of Bullying seem right; while other might believe that Andrew out-best him out and challenge himself to fight against bullying. It's really very much open debate. Overall: Whiplash is a refreshing, heart-pounding, highly engaging film of obsession and art. I do recommended watching. It's in my tempo.
Really an inspiration movie, which felt me like a music student who sitting under pressure with J.K. Simmons role, real hard way to hang on music as hard life, till the end. I think each shot you had perfectly depicted to movie without losing the intensity, special thanks to J.K. Simmons. The J.K. Simmons and Miles Teller, characters made this movie more powerful which made audience kept on toss.As this is a really story experience and best part is how beautifully the screenplay which made this film stands out from crowd.Electrifying moments which made me felt that I'm student in the band, a fear to play the instrument with proper numbers...All the best Damien Chazelle, for your future assignments :) This movie will be one of my best liked movie in recent years.


                
Damien Chazelle's Whiplash represents arguably one of the most exhilarating cinematic endeavors in the music genre in recent memory, let alone one by a man making his directorial debut. It is a music-themed that takes on the daunting task of delivering a feverishly thrilling atmosphere not from the emotional resonance of its music, but its bold psychological tone that proceeds its heart- rending story. By Chazelle's thoughtful direction and the uncompromising performances by actors Miles Teller and J.K Simmons, this film doesn't just achieves this task, it embraces. The story here is not one of your battle-of-the-bands tales involving a band or a solo musician shooting for the stars, it is a story concerning the complex and thought-provoking relationship between a young musician and his mentor. And it is one that hits hard in ways that a very few would expect. This film follows Andrew Neiman (played by Miles Teller), an inspired drummer who enrolls in a local music conservatory where he joins a jazz band conducted by the talented, but maniacal Terence Fletcher (played by J.K. Simmons). Fletcher is most certainly not a kind-hearted mentor, he is abusive towards his band and holds no bars when splashing his band with an severely ill temper each time one of them makes a mistake. Upon joining the band, Andrew suffers under Fletcher's mental abuse to pushing him to the limits, but at the same time, inspires the immersive talent he never knew he had. If you think you are in for another cheery and whimsical musical tale, think again. This film takes the music genre and grips with a dark twist, and Damien Chazelle accomplishes this in a way that puts the film on the border of a thriller than a drama. The narrative crux of the story is the complex relationship between an ambitious drummer who wants to exercise his talent to the fullest when he arrives to the opportunity, and a cold, anger-fueled conductor who threatens to tear him apart with his mental abuse, yet sees an inspiring talent in the young man. This all comes down to an exhilarating tale of a young man discovering his hidden talent, while enduring a harrowing maltreatment from his mentor that will leave viewers questioning his actions from start to finish. At one point, Andrew drums with such endurance to where his hands starts bleeding, while Fletcher is busy losing his temper and hurling chairs and instruments at his students. Throughout the picture, the story vigorously questions the actions of this conductor, but never answers. That alone makes for an astounding and thought-provoking aspect of the story. The biggest spark in the picture, however is the performance by J.K. Simmons as Fletcher. Channeling R. Lee Ermey's Drill Sergeant from 'Full Metal Jacket', Simmons doesn't just play the role, he swallows it with immense precision that allows his inspiring, yet grueling character burst out of the screen with great versatility. It is the kind of performance that simply grabs you by the heart and never lets go. Miles Teller on the other hand, shines like gold through his incredible drumming skills. It is a performance that not only allows him to expand his acting chops, but to exercise his musical talent as well. Whiplash is an intense, powerful, and electrifying cinematic endeavor with performances that are simply too difficult to ignore and an inspiring direction by Damien Chazelle that makes for an absorbing directorial debut. It is an astounding cinematic achievement that makes for a powerful contender on my list for the top ten films of 2014.


                
This masterpiece film holds a rare honest view into the cost and need for excellence in millennials' lives.My expectations: fairly low. I did not expect the film to be so powerful for me as I am not one for jazz bands. Expectations exceeded, I think about this film quite often, although I had to be begged to watch it.Recommendation: Film lovers and casual cinema goers, I believe will enjoy this film.Re-watch value: I have watched this film over 6 times since release .Memorable: I am still thinking about this film to this day.


                
Miles Teller being an up and coming actor along with JK Simmons who is a well-established underrated actor, whose performances have often been spell-bounding, together have made one of the best movies I've ever seen in the music genre (and I've seen Inside Llewyn Davis). Miles, who plays Andrew, a young drummer studying at one of the top schools of music, shows us his passion in every frame, every single time, whilst delivering a performance. His anger, temper, rise, fall, and everything else in between worked so well with the movie, that he caught my attention with every single frame passing by. As time passes, I am sure he will take the industry by storm along with all the other young up-and-coming actors and actresses. Simmons, who plays Fletcher, delivers a performance worthy of his name. Actually I might actually go ahead and say that this is the best I've ever seen him act. He convinces me completely that Fletcher is an insane perfectionist, so much so that he can forget that the performers were even human, until he gets the beat, tempo and rhythm he needs. Insanity suited his character and he delivered that in an extraordinary fashion. Both the actors showed their passion on screen, but I must give props to the director, who made the film go at the right pace, pushed the actors to show insane amounts of passion, and not allow the audience to divert their attention from these captivating performances. I love jazz music, but don't have much knowledge. But whatever I saw in this movie and heard as well, made me love it even more. Whiplash and Caravan were two genius compositions, and they were so amazingly beautiful. I actually don't know the right adjectives here to help me show how much I loved the score. All the other characters also played their part quite well making this movie one well-rounded show of art. All in all, this is one movie that even the non-jazz lovers will love. If you want passion on screen, you see it delivered in aces.


                
Who knew jazz and drumming could be so ripe for heart stopping narrative drive? Culminating in one of the more tension riddled finales of recent memories and featuring some of the most brutal ego tearing scripting this side of Full Metal Jacket, up and coming filmmaker Damian Chazelle's searing drama is against all odds, a drama cume thriller of the highest order.Featuring some of last years most outstounding performances from both the ever growing Miles Teller and the always good yet never before so commanding J.K Simmons, Whiplash will have you constantly on the edge of your seat, frequently forgetting to breathe and riveted every step of it's running time due to an all round package that has rightfully become a player and often winner in this awards season. It's stunning to consider this is one of Chazelle's first features and for a man perhaps best known for scripting the Elijah Wood thriller Grand Piano, this is a sure fire heralding in of a major new filmmaking talent. Chazelle handles proceedings like a true professional, the editing, the pacing, the direction of actors and the award calibre scripting is all of he highest order and it's evident throughout that Chazelle is a naturally gifted filmmaker. Whiplash truly is an exciting mix of dramatic tension and thrilling interplay between budding musician Andrew and egotistical conductor Terrence Fletcher that sees Chazelle draw out a pair of rivals that will live long in the lore of cinema history.Since his arrival on the film scene in films such as Rabbit Hole and more recently The Spectacular Now, Miles Teller has threatened to break out at any moment and if The Spectacular Now was not proof enough, there is little remaining doubt after this effort that Teller is one of the finest examples of young talent in the industry today. Teller's character of Andrew is a multilayered one and one that doesn't necessarily win over our affections completely. His a complicated young boy, driven to the point of arrogance and not overly warm, yet his a figure we want to see succeed, if not only to spite the evil incarnate that is J.K Simmons's Fletcher.A recognisable face over many years of supporting work in Hollywood, it's a true joy to see Simmons unleash in a stunning portrayal of a man driven to drive others to the point of no return. Whether spouting out some of the most vile abuse possible or talking calmly to potential future musicians that he can use in his band, Terrence Fletcher is a force to be reckoned with, a tornado of aggression and pent up rage. It's one of 2014's stand out performances and a role that saw Simmons collect a thoroughly deserved Oscar at the Academy Awards, it's a win that is wholeheartedly earned and deserved.While Whiplash has a few narrative missteps and a handful of questionable scenarios (particularly one scene involving a car accident) it's not enough to sully a film that you suspect will be living a long life in years to come, being studied by start out filmmakers, budding actors and lovers of all things good cinema. Just don't go showing anyone considering a potential sojourn in a music school, as Terrence Fletcher may just be enough to scare them away for good.4 and a half bloodied drum kits out of 5 For more movie reviews and opinions check into - www.jordanandeddie.wordpress.com


                
Whiplash is an astounding piece of modern day cinema. Its a film that leaves you physically shaking even after the second watch and with a complete sensory overload as you try to reconcile every element of that film that seems to have been seamlessly and passionately crafted. All that I hope is that Whiplash is not too overpraised in the sense that future audiences may meet it with harsh expectations and come away underwhelmed. Part of what made the first experience so special was that I had no expectations, I saw a short trailer and it was at a convenient showing time.Its excitement may dwindle, like sussing out a roller coaster, following its turns and loops from the ground before you even hit the queue. Whiplash is adrenaline cinema and is best met head on.


                
an extraordinary film about the passion and the dreams anybody can be involved into. it makes you truly think about how much you are ready to do for what you believe in. it makes you think about the limits of what surrounds you and the ones you create by yourself. how far can you go when you really want to? how deep is you passion? how deep is your will? this film shows that your dreams always crush against reality, they cannot live in an utopian dimension. do you want to do something? then you have to prove yourself that you can do what you want the pain and the suffering are as higher as you push yourself beyond your possibilities. the ending is an escalation that just leave you breathless


                
Frantic, this is Whiplash is amazing how Damien Chazelle shows the obsession of Andrew Neyman (Miles Teller) .no mellhor style Darren Aronofsky, the sound mixing in this movie is something great, camera angles, dry cuts are phenomenal, the JK Simmons acting is maginifica. It's really cool how the film rehearses develop a more loving relationship with my boyfriend and the father, the more he does, he focuses on the main drama that not the protagonist, that's fantastic, Whiplash is a film that has to be seen, final scene is something surreal, spectacular, all of it is amazing, in the end you already practically inside the screen, you're already hitting on her knees playing together. The script is simple, because he does not require much, Whiplash is amazing.


                
Is it worth it? In my opinion, this is the major question of Whiplash. How much would you sacrifice to achieve your goals? How much are you willing to pay for success? How far would you go? These questions are the reasons why Whiplash is more like a sport movie. A guy wants to be the best at something, in the beginning he fails a lot, but in the end he achieves his goals and everybody leaves the theater with a smile on the face. A well-know sample, but NOT this time!The real brilliance of Whiplash roots from being relentlessly honest. In the end Andrew gets the acknowledgment what he so desperately wanted, and Fletcher finally finds his Charlie Parker, but both of them got damaged on the path to glory and the aftermath of their actions will be demanded later. As the credits start to roll, the viewer feels that despite his talent and dedication Andrew will end up like Fletcher's previous student. It's not like a typical happy ending and the final shot foreshadows tragedy. It's such a refreshment to see honesty and objectivity.Drumming sequences are intense, powerful and masterfully assembled. Every shot, every second, every hit on those drums makes your heart beat faster and takes you to a level where you've never been before. The final scene earned it's place in cinematic history and showed that even a ridiculously low budget film is capable of achieving breathtaking moments.Performances of the two major characters were outstanding. J.K. Simmons got the recognition what he rightfully deserved (in form of an Oscar) and Miles Teller easily caught up with his movie partner. The chemistry between them was well-written and flawlessly presented.I've had only one minor problem with Whiplash: the length of the movie didn't grant enough time for it's characters to completely unfold. It should have spared more time on it's character's development. Yes, we see the motivations on each side, but a little more depth - to understand their actions - would have been great.It can't be denied, that Whiplash is a very unique film that genuinely presents how much does it cost to be the best at something. The path of success is made of blood, sweat, tears and self-destruction, so Damien Chazelle leaves the decision to the audience: "70 Years As A Lamb Or 30 Years As A Lion?"
Read my full review here: http://ericsgoodstuff.blogspot.com/2015/02/whiplash.htmlOh man. I just saw Whiplash and I am still reeling. I can't remember ever having such an electrifying experience watching a movie (I swear I wrote that before finding the poster on the left with the word "ELECTRIFYING" in all caps). I was riveted, on the edge of my seat strung up with excitement by this thing. It'll have you on your toes, sometimes shaking with anxiety and other times bursting with anger and then joyously applauding at the end. Whiplash indeed.Maybe it's because I had a taste for how nasty it was going to get, but I was just wiggling with anxiety, half anticipating/half dreading when the shoe would drop. And once it does for the first time you just never know when it's going to hit again. JK Simmon's performance is just gnarly and intense. He plays a man with a single-minded, unbending vision: create truly great jazz musicians, no matter the cost. For him, this means pushing them to the brink of their own destruction. The ends justify the means. He makes the tiger mom look like a cuddly kitten. At one point he pits three drummers against each other for hours on end. He dismisses the rest of the band while the three battle it out one after another and you can see Fletcher is in his element, relishing the opportunity to just dig in, give in to his rage, and make them suffer it out. Andrew plays until his hands are bleeding. This movie has more sweat and blood-stained drum sets then a Tool concert.Writer/Director Damian Chazelle (who just turned 30) reportedly based the movie on his own experience dealing with an overbearing band teacher in high school. I did band all through school and even had a teacher that had some mildly-similar elements. (Also, did I mention the director completed this movie by the time he was 29?!? So impressive.) Fletcher's character is certainly extreme, with some complaining that it is unrealistically so, but it is brilliantly carried out. Yeah, we know that life as a jazz student isn't' exactly like this - so what? Keep watch for when he takes off his jacket, usually a sign he's doing what he thinks is his most important work. Miles Teller's performance of Andrew show's great range as well as his character transitions from a young hopeful pup to a cocky upstart, then a broken down hound dog and finally an experienced wolf that, although not a master, has a couple of lessons under his belt. Now that he's been through the first few bumps he's more dedicated then ever.The movie really asks two questions: What does it really take to achieve greatness? And then the follow up, is it worth it? The final act is exhilarating, jump-out-of-your-seat kind of stuff. I do like jazz, especially the type in this movie. But I think even if you know nothing and care nothing for jazz, the performances, the visuals, the editing, and the resulting energy and dynamics of the final scenes will get anyone going. Even as you see the relationship between Andrew and Fletcher change and then change again during an extended musical sequence, you never know right till the last moment how it's going to end and what it means. And even then the movie still leaves it up to the viewer's interpretation. Maybe the answers that you think the movie is giving to those questions says more about you then about the movie.


                
"To be honest, I liked the music in the book better." :DOut of story that can be told in five sentences they made two hours long movie. And not only that it isn't boring, but it pulls you in, blows you away and leaves you with goosebumps for hours after it's over.9/10


                
This is one of those films that equals the hype. Just J.K. Simmons alone makes it worth the time, but Miles Teller also breaks out as a bonafide star also. The themes will resonate with anyone who has cared about something so much they'll put up with almost anything do get it. It's excruciating at times, but always with a payoff.


                
Let´s think together: to what extent human beings can go to achieve greatness in a craft? I am not talking about a search for happiness, flowing, and connection. Crossing history since Icarus, to be a human being is also dreaming with a power to take things suspended for a moment or to run the show and the attention for while. This film shows what ambition can make to those who want to pay the price of it. The screenplay brings a music student and his terrible mentor, one that is looking for a new Icarus. Humiliating his students taking them to the limits of sanity that's the price his students pay to make him feel great again. Charlie Park, the bird, is used by the teacher as the perfect student, the role model, that could bare everything because a genius never give up this talent. Even with the sun meltings the glue which makes wings attached to his body, Icarus continue to go up. This film is about a musical dream of flying high melting ambitions.


                
SPOILER: J.K. Simmons richly deserved his Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for playing Terence Fletcher, a jazz teacher at a prestigious music conservatory called Shaffer in New York City. When Andrew Neiman, a promising drum player, joins the studio band for competitions. He is pressured by his teacher to perform for excellence. Terence Fletcher is one of those teachers who can inspire and terrify you all at once. He is also abusive to his band of students. His relationship with Andrew is quite complex. The film is quite dark sometimes with lighting and scenery. Andrew goes to great lengths to arrive at a competition. The film is about Andrew proving himself to Fletcher as a musician and seeking his approval.


                
This is my second review and English is not my mother tongue, so keep that in mind, would you?
This movie has affected me in so many ways that I am not sure I am good enough to express each and every one of them. First of all, anyone who gave 1-5 star to this movie, really?! Go see some chick flicks and entertain yourselves. This movie is absolutely not for such people.
Secondly, J.K. Simmons and Miles Teller were so good that I cannot decide which one is the best and the other follows so this movie, as in its original story has two marvelous characters played by most talented actors, one junior and one senior and they deliver and convey every single note of this story perfectly. They actually painted a very difficult yet beautiful "The Master and his student, meant to be one soon" story for us in this film.
Yes, the scenes were pretty rough, I did not like them either. There are some disturbing scenes and yes, there is certainly abuse, both verbal and physical in the relationships between Fletcher and his students but that's all about folks. This movie intends to make us see that either you take everything and endure to become perfect in this life or you simply submit to loose. As Andrew says: "I do not want to be great. I wanna be one of the greats". If you just aim to be one great person, find a cuddly thoughtful teacher and dance with him/her. If you want to become legend, find a legendary master who takes no sh.t from you whatsoever. That is the only way you will be molded and become a dazzling sculpture out of an amorph piece of stone.This story tells us that being one in a crowd is no different than being one of the billions of ants in millions of ant colonies and this feeling is the worst a human being may experience. To be nothing is pure suffering and most painful than what you need to cope with in order to chase your dreams. This movie teaches us that giving up should not be an option. Only the best of the best remain and only their names are remembered forever and a human life is worthwhile when this kind of rare miracle happens. Other than that, well most other things are just huge waste of time and energy, sort of. Yeah yeah I know, hard to admit but get over it!So what, alrighty, great musicians, artists etc die younger, some of them at least, what a shame. However the decision also has been translated to us with the words of Andrew: I'd rather be dead 34 year old, drunk and junkie and someone to be mentioned in a dinner table than be alive until 90 years old, sober and someone that nobody remembers my name". Andrew knows his passion was consuming but he did not yield. He did not cede. He did not give up. That's how he won in the end because Andrew knew that being eternal, being immortal only happens when you never cede and this movie is based on that. A dedication and sacrifice can make you...perhaps happy but other than that, there is no solution.Obviously, anyone can choose to be ordinary and be content of this choice in their lives and we should not be judgemental about their decisons but then these people must keep themselves in check in order not to whine about not living a fulfilling life, not chasing their dreams and disappoint themselves in the end or else. They are not allowed smearing good talented people who may become best of the best by sweat, tears and blood. 
Some of the reviewers accused this movie as Hollywood junk but it is the opposite of it. It tells us that being famous is not the point. Being eternal is. And to be eternal, to write your name in the history of any kind of art, science takes too much effort and then some. A flame, a drive, ambition and courage. Devotion to yourself and your purpose. This is not everyone's cup of tea ladies and gentlemen. That's why we meet just a couple of hundreds of names in acting, music, painting or else among millions thoughout hundreds of years and that's why we are thrilled, inspired and fascinated by these people since these people happen very rare in our dull meaningless lives. We feel good just being witness of their amaze. We do not forget them ever.
 
I am definitely not a kind of person who is easily moved by fame or prosperity but I am bowing in front of every genuine talent and this movie reminds me how these rare talented people rise up from the worthless crowds. Just like Fletcher says: you have to believe that you have a reason to be here. Another point of the movie, sort of sideway but it is there, so yes, the story is also about that: you should find your own cause, a reason, full confidence of your calling to live a life worthwhile. If a person is strong enough, substantial, hard working, not a quitter, then you can understand that, this individual is also clever and whole enough to decide what his/her calling is. This kind of wholeness deserves respect. Also when Fletcher said to Andrew not to worry about the scales, numbers and what other people think but do what you do, we can see it in the last scene of the movie that, a priceless lesson was finally learned by Andrew, from his master whom he already betrayed for no reason but in the end, the greatest praise was the smile and appreciation in that same master's eyes whom he betrayed. Nonetheless he was forgiven which is a big accomplishment and that smile was the one Andrew was seeking in his whole life, not from anyone else including his weak father. He played the drums like nothing else was more important than that in this world and that's when he reached to a point of delivering a phenomenal peerless solo and that was what Fletcher wanted him to figure out.In some reviews, apparently from people who did not understand a thing from this movie accused the character of Fletcher by being only an abusing, self-important teacher with no legit reason. On the contrary, he was such a solid character who knew what he knew, what his purpose in this life was and he was not apologising for pushing his students because what he believed was actually just like a paper which works for seperating acid from base. That's how you eliminate really good talented people who would take everything to be one of greats or just above mediocre and Fletcher did not have time and energy for mediocre. Indeed, as we can see him playing the piano peacefully in a jazz bar just for sole purpose of pleasure indicated us that he was not such a horrible person. He was sort of a broken man himself. In one of earlier scenes, in fact he sincerely cried for the loss of one of his former students who became a beautiful musician, his words for God's sake, pay some attention guys! These lines are defining the excellence of this marvellous story and movie.When Andrew had an accident and still arrived in the music hall but rejected by Fletcher, I am sure everyone got angry. Well, I am looking from a different perspective: Fletcher warned all the musicians in the band to take at least two hours ahead for possible traffic issues before going to the place where the music event would occur which Andrew did not obey. He also forgot his sticks since he was in a rush which was a huge mistake. And also Fletcher tried to teach him a lesson that sometimes, a person's passion, eagerness would cloud the rational judgement but not everything is about you so you should also be a team player and think about other players first but Andrew was becoming blind because of his obsession and he was not thinking properly. It was a harsh lesson alright but most of the good lessons are.
So, short russian of this movie: No extraordinary success, fulfillment and happiness can find you without enormous amount of pain because being one in a million should not be that easy. And I wish this movie was made 20 years ago cause my life could have been totally different but then, director of this movie was three years old, lol. I tbelieve if you want to make a decision in life, you should first watch this special movie.And of course uncountable kudos to Damien Chazelle, a thrilling master indeed who made this movie possible. Thank you Mr. Chazelle, many respects and admiration to you from my humble heart. At this very young age of yours, you have figured it out all!I am taking away one star because other than Simmons, Teller and Reiser (he was protraying a wobbling father figure marvelously) unfortunately the other cast members were unbelievably poor but cinema is a team game too so good job for them. On the other hand, I am standing on my feet and applauding these three top notch actors whose names mentioned above since they have done their jobs flawlessly. I believe this is a kind of movie in cinema history that would never be forgotten by so many film lovers and high quality audience.
