Completely original, brilliantly written, beautifully acted, perpetually shocking and always quotable, TPB is simply one of the top 5 shows of all time. How many shows have had so, so many memorable, hilarious lines? Only the Simpsons, Larry Sanders, Sopranos quickly come to mind. The subject matter is refreshing and daring, it certainly could never escape heavy censorship in the US. Every line is funny, the dialogue is almost "clockwork orange" like. All the characters are excellent, the ensemble works so well together, I love seeing all of them, with their various looks changing season to season. Ricky may the best character overall, but they all have essential roles they have all mastered. I will admit that seasons 4 and 5 are slipping just the slightest bit from the dizzying heights of season 3, but it is still better than 99% of anything else. The Christmas Special "Prequel" from a couple of years ago was pure gold. It answered many questions, especially about Randy, and was brilliant. We finally got to see some winter scenes. Hopefully the movie will have some scenes in winter. The Alex Lifeson episode from season 3 should be in the TV Hall of Fame as one of the greatest 23 minutes ever shown. Thank you Canada!!! I am trying to spread the word down here in California.


                
This show is THE funniest damn show ever produced in Canada.  What a bunch of dumbasses these characters are!  You must see this show.  It is the funniest thing.  Just a bunch of small town folks living in a trailer park trying to make it.  Truly amazing!


                
Who are the guys living in that Trailer Park in the title? Angry, skinny, drunk homosexual baldy running the town with his hairy fat Starsky-boyfriend who has a phobia of t-shirts, world's best professional weed grower taking shots in the leg every now and trying to finish elementary school for the millionth time, jug pissing old man taking support money from the government by acting disabled, poor Bubbles with two criminals as his only friends wanting to establish his own kindergarten for cats: Kittyland, a hip hop teen who never watches at the mirror because he wants to think he is black and so many other caricatured characters, that if I could continue the list and it would just get weirder and weirder.Generally everyone and everything is so absurd I can't watch the show for one minute without bursting to laughter. Where normal people would go to the work in the morning, Trailer Park Boys spend the time camouflaging 200 pounds of hash into a driveway. There's gunshots in "my neighbor just parked at my spot"-situations and people eating drugs instead of bacon in the morning. Their lives are so upside down it's hilarious.Very rarely a new comedy that does something original instead of just copying an earlier success appears, I dare to say for myself that Trailer Park Boys is definitely the best comedy show ever to air. I could go on about actors being fantastic or characters being perfectly written, but it ain't the point in the series. The point is more like a world that you see when you go asleep and have a dream where the craziest and funniest and stupidest people live in one small trailer park and make you laugh for the whole show.
Now, for a comment from a yank. This is THE funniest, THE biggest-hearted show I've ever had the good fortune to stumble across! On behalf of all of us poor, misbegotten souls that live due south of you Canadian's lower border (a.k.a the tree line) (sorry, I just couldn't resist), thank you, thank you, thank you! TPB isn't distributed in the U.S. as far as I can tell, so if you're a yank and unless you happen to live near the border and can watch CBC you won't know about this show other than by freak accident (it was a Netflix experiment for me). I see from the last couple of pages that there really are a few trifling slobs (on both sides of the Canadian/U.S. DMZ) that just don't get it. Well , I'm truly sorry for those poor miserable souls, probably something to do with the amount of fiber in their diet, but down here in Alabama WE sure get it! I've made it a (minor) mission to spread TPB around to everyone I can find with a pulse and I have yet to find anyone who (after a few episodes) hasn't been won over heart and soul (I make my friends send off for the DVD's after the first I give them, kind of like the neighborhood pusher). I won't say they don't exist in 'Bama (a land that may not have invented trailer parks, but has certainly perfected them) just that they're rare. Maybe that's why I like this part of the planet so much. I'm sorry for those who just don't get it, but I'm hard pressed to understand them either. After all, anyone who has ever had a family should recognize Ricky, Julian, Bubbles, et. al., with all their schemes, their plots, all their massively dysfunctional and f***ed up ways (to quote Ricky), and all their grace and generosity (where it REALLY matters) immediately. I know I certainly do, those guys are everyone I'm related to and everyone I ever grew up with boiled down and condensed. Apparently a lot of others do as well, which says many good things about the human race (even that part of it living in the desert south of you Canadian's border). This is a magnificent show, it makes me laugh so hard I have to pace myself so I won't end up at the doctor's office. I'm waiting on pins and needles for the movie (which should be out this month according to the net) and for the next season, and I really do mean pins and needles, what in the world will Ricky do next?! If you've somehow managed to read this far along in the comments and haven't seen TPB, do yourself a favor and get it! If you still don't like it eat a bran muffin or something, you're obviously in need it.


                
At first, it seems like the trailer park boys is a typical cult comedy you should watch if you want to watch something while high, but as the show keeps going you realize that this show is a masterpiece of classical comedy. Made to satirize the everyday life of the lowest of the classes and the problems that run with them, manages to make you laugh, tell the truth and promote human feelings in the most genuine way. Take a look at every character at the show and you realize just how funny everyday life really is. Jules, the responsible guy who never lets his glass of liquor off his hand, Bubbles, the benevolent little cat guy that everyone loves, and lives by fixing stolen carts and Ricky, the full-mouthed little a-hole friend that everyone has, never stops smoking even with nicotine patches on him.The show is full of many other interesting characters that have their own brand attitude that makes this show so funny and well made. The exaggeration is the main protagonist here, abuse, swearing, dope, gunfights all in a perfect mix of comedy exaggeration. The show wins you by making you love the characters and their exaggerating attitude the outlaw lifestyle and their constants attempts to make a living.If you love honest comedy, you are going to f-kin love this show. Thumbs up for Canada.


                
I never heard of these guys or the show. I seen this and had to get it. I like stupid and sick humor.The characters are all real if you think about it, or ever been or knew someone in a trailer park. As funny as that may seem.You got your pot head, your thief, you nut case yet kind of nice guy, your trailer park whore, you pretty much got it all.I have to say after never hearing of them and after seeing this movie i am watching all there TV shows now. They are awesome.They are almost so good at what they do, you would think its a reality show and there not acting!!!


                
My roommate found the season 1&2 DVD in a bin for $5 somewhere, and since then we have all been hooked. Totally random but fortunate find. This show is brilliant - the characters are all so perfect. No one ever does anything out of character - everything Ricky does, even the dumbest thing most people could never conceive of doing, makes perfect sense for him. Mr. Lahey is always drunk though sometimes you can just barely tell. Seeing why Randy calls Mr. Lahey "Mr. Lahey" all the time in the Christmas special was perfect. And Bubbles - the smartest, most with it character in the park is also the guy who has almost made me cry from laughing too hard and from listening to his sad life stories. He just loves those kitties. A truly hilarious show.


                
Watched the first episode and wasn't really impressed. My son-in-law talked me into giving the show another try. Some of the best comedy, EVER, from any country. Went to see the stage show with Tremblay,Wells and Smith in Dearborn in 2012. True to form these guys were just hilarious. Smith is also a good singer and accomplished guitarist.Many "back" stories about these characters, "Bubbles" actually showed up on the set to apply for a sound mixing job and someone asked him to try on the goofy glasses........a star was born, so to speak."Ricky's" dad "Ray" is actually one of the executive producers and Sarah in real life is Jim Lahey's daughter.


                
Let me start by saying this: I lived in a trailer park for 5 years in the 70's as a teen with my mom. TPB has definitely captured the essence of everyday life in a trailer park. There's so much to like about this show; the characters, their get rich quick schemes, the way they interact with each other, the sayings (know what I'm sayin?)... This show has got me hooked, can't stop watching it. I'm midway into season 5 on Netflix and I'm already looking forward to getting my hands on the next seasons. Not since The Soprano's have I looked forward to some free time to catch the next episode. I love Canada, my fu&#*ed up family and the Trailer Park Boys!


                
Not often that I complete a TV review, but Trailer Park Boys deserves it. My initial impressions was that it was a cheap budget program from Canada, which was largely insulting. Nevertheless, it did not take long before I realised that this program is ingenious. The dynamics between the scripting, acting and filming is what makes it so funny. It is set as a documentary style drama, largely based around a group of friends and family at the Trailer Park. The main characters which the 'documentary team' follow are Ricky and Julian, both small time criminals. In addition to their best mate Bubbles, who is such an amazing actor, and Mr Lanhey and Randy the supervisors for the park, who no one likes, not even the Police. The scripts are well written, cheesy and largely full of one-liners. The actors constantly improvise and stay in act throughout the entire program and the production is very cheap. But it is this, and the dynamics of the characters which makes the program so hilarious. Finally I think it is best to warn you all that this program may be offensive as it contains adult situations and strong language (every few seconds!). Also, it is much better than a typical comedy like 'friends' and more than likely you will cry or hurt from the laughter. For me Trailer Park Boys goes into my top five comedies ever made.


                
...because of how much true laughter they've given me.Trailer Park Boys showed up on my 'You Might Like' list on Netflix. I watched the first episode and was a little bored. The second episode, same thing. I set it to the side for awhile, then came back a few months later to give it a shot again. Episode 3 hit and I finally saw the light. Everything came together and I laughed hysterically.I suppose this is true with any television series. You have to give it a couple episodes to set up the characters and find it's stride before giving it a fair assessment.Fast-forward to now. I have two more episodes left before I complete the series. I've already told my wife that after I complete the series and movies, I plan to re-watch the entire series again (something I've never done before for a TV show). I've 'liked' their official Facebook page, I've joined their unofficial message board, and I'm waiting for them to come out to the West Coast so I can buy tickets for their live show. Did I mention that I got my dad hooked too? The reason for my devotion to TPB, the reason I've taken my own free time to write a review of the show, is because they are brilliant. Brilliantly written, brilliantly acted, and brilliantly directed. And I don't use that word lightly.TPB does NOT pander to the lowest common denominator as might be assumed. There are things going on, little comedic subtleties, that crack me up. The way Jim Leahy stares at a drink. The way Ricky beams when thinking about getting his 'grade 10'. Randy referring to Barbara Leahy as 'Barb' in that thick accent of his. I hear it's a 'Nova Scotia' accent. I don't know what it is, but it's hilarious.You may be surprised at what you won't find in TPB: No wife-beating. No rednecks. No gang-bangers. You also won't find excessive use of Canadian slang or references. This isn't a knock on Canadians, in fact given the brilliance of TPB, I'd have to say that I love Canadians. But here in the US, our jokes about Canada are along the lines of 'how a-boot we play some hockey eh'? That is NOT what TPB delivers. I do notice that Ricky makes a big deal about eating pepperoni...I don't know if that's a Canadian thing or not, but it's hysterical nonetheless.There have been a couple episodes that were off the mark, yet still delivered memorable comedy. The style and approach has changed somewhat in the last few seasons and I haven't found myself laughing quite as much, but to quote the character Ray, "That's The Way She Goes".Slight character spoiler follows:Let me give you some background on Ray. He is Ricky's dad, and he also lives in the Trailer Park. Ray is a former trucker and an alcoholic who uses a wheelchair to get around. However, Ray doesn't need the wheelchair. He only uses it as a prop for investigators, because Ray lives on disability for a non-existent back injury that ended his trucking career. Ray does his best to dispense advice to Ricky, his son, and sometimes they get drunk together...at Ray's request.The thing is, when you watch Ray, listen to Ray, and see him interact with Ricky, you start to like him. He's obviously a broken man, surviving on fraudulent disability and cheap liquor, but in some strange way you're pulling for him. That's because as poorly equipped as Ray is to deal with life, he's still doing what he can to help his son Ricky.Ray is only one character in the hilarious universe that is Trailer Park Boys. Another reviewer mentioned this show 'changing his life'. I won't go that far, but I will say that this show has been an unforgettable experience for me. I have NEVER watched a show with such rich characters as those found in Trailer Park Boys.Ricky and Bubbles are profanity machines. Jim Leahy is a RAGING alcoholic. Julian and Ricky grow 'dope' for sale, and sometimes go to prison. Yet when all is said and done, humanity is witnessed in all players.If I've done my part to intrigue you, then take the time to watch episodes 1-4 (22 min each). Eps 1-2 should be considered character setup. Don't start with the movies, and if you've seen the movies, don't let them reflect on the series (I've heard they aren't very good, though for me at this point it's irrelevant). If you still aren't feeling it after episode 4, then at least you can say you gave it a fair shot. But if you make it to episode 4 and get hooked, welcome to the Park! And watch out for Leahy, he's a drunk ******* bastard!
This show is just outstanding! The effort put into he even the smallest jokes is amazing, whether it be Mr Lahey being amazingly drunk or Ricky's Rickysims it never fails to make me belly laugh, as well as being a great comedy show, the trailer park boys also has an incredible amount of heart, i can't recommend it enough its amazing !Also this show has produced some great films that follow the same plot as the show, there is also the live tour which i saw not long ago which i have to say was the funniest experience of my life ! I hope the boys do more as there's not much out there like this ! So in the words of ricky "what comes around is all around"


                
My absolute favorite show !!! Only show me and the old man keep up with!!! This is the show from the far north that reminds me so much of the far south(the Dirty, dirty). It was by far the one reason I could not change my providers from Direct TV to Dish Network. We LOVE the Trailer Park Boys. We wish Bubbles would bring his kittens here and live in our shed!!! LOL :) We record on DVR and try to forget about it and then watch them all in one sitting. I'm SO looking forward to next week, every week. Now Cyrus is going to jack things up bad!! We love you guys!!!!!!!!!!!!! We are seriously considering the pros and cons of becoming Canadians. Still looking into the whole idea of all they do and still only spend a few months in the slammer. They all crack us up and Mr. Leaghe plays the drunk to perfection


                
i found this show by accident and i can't believe i never heard of it. this show is absolutely brilliant, the whole crappy trailer park setup, especially the cars, the acting, the timing, the hilarious dialogs which are mostly improvised as far as i know, i just love it. very interesting and lovable characters and they never run out of good stories even after 7 seasons, these guys are a bunch of really dedicated and talented people! just watched through all 7 seasons in 4 days and it never gets boring, go check it out, you won't regret it!! but get ready for a lot of swearing, weed smoking and growing and of course tons of alcohol abused by Sunnyvale's residents.


                
Trailer Park boys is probably the funniest Show on Showcase. Probably the Funniest show in Canada. probably over all of north America.Anyways, Trailer park boys is supposed to be a documentary (or a mockumentary) that follows the lives of 3 losers who've lived in a run down trailer park all their lives. They only have 2 jobs in life; grow pot and smoke some. But the drunk, Ex-cop, and cop-wannabe trailer park supervisor is always being a pain in the ass, always trying to stop them, like calling the cops, with his shirtless, pop-belly assistant, randy.Trailer park boys is Funny, but coarse beyond your wildest dreams. the characters say the F-word over a hundred times every episode. Even bubbles, the little coke-bottle glasses grocery buggy repairman who seems so innocent, has a dirty mouth. F-word after F-word.However, this show is hilarious. watch it and see what you think.


                
brilliantly done; it's obvious that great painstaking work goes into making everything appear so unscripted... the writing, the acting, the camera-work, the directing; everything is awesome... this show will appeal to stoners/slackers to be sure; but they should be only a fraction of the audience; people who say this show is ONLY for such people are idiots... if you write this show off without really watching it and seeing it develop over time, you have no idea what you're missing. after accidentally stumbling across an episode on the internet once and downloading it (i'm in the U.S.; it is not broadcast here), i soon made it my mission to own every episode... i now own all the DVD's and i download each episode as soon as i can get it (again, i'm in the U.S., so i have to download each episode to be able to see it in a timely manner; then buy the DVD's when they come out a year or so later... and btw: get the DVD's; great bonus material). HBO should pick up this show and broadcast every season in full, uncensored glory....


                
I just finished watching all the episodes and movies, i just cannot get enough of seeing it. Absolutely brilliant, it took 3 episodes for me to get really into it and i am so glad that i did, it has been non-stop laughs and i think about them at the most oddest of times. My Boyfriend is even worse than me but him giving me the "Ricky" finger from his dressing gown or from behind a door is wearing a bit thin now :o) My Fave is Bubbles, gotta love his gestures and his eyes of course, Mr Lahy is a brilliant drunk, Ricky and his lack of book reading and his pronunciation of words is hilarious, no it's genius! Love all the bits that go on in the background, that you don't notice on the first viewing. My favourite comedy ever, such a shame British TV hasn't had it on mainstream TV,as i would make everyone watch it or else ! Can't wait for more episodes or movies to be released to keep me happy. Thank you Guy's xxx


                
This show is funny, and brilliantly written and acted through and through, all the characters are hilarious, and the best is Ricky, I love this show, I bought the whole series, all 7 seasons and the movies, There's a reason it is critically acclaimed and picked up by Ivan Reitman, 10 out of 10. Julian is an amazing guy who always has a mixed drink in hand and if you watch Randy in each episode, you can actually see his gut get bigger, Ricky has fantastic sideburns, and you wont believe Bubbles, he is just funny to look at, and his Conky puppet had me on the floor laughing, J rocc is gangstariffic, he always cracks me up, I wish they will make even more episodes, I will make more if they don't, It's that great!!!


                
This show is and always will be my favourite show. Just absolutely hilarious. This is the one show where I can honestly say that there are no bad episodes. Even if one seems to be going wrong, a hilarious classic moment comes up. I've seen every episode at least four times and never tire of them. People have to realized that this is a mockumentary. It amazes me that I some times hear people commenting on how pathetic Canada is. The acting is amazing. I love how they are always in character no matter when and where. Bubbles will crack you up and have to love Rickys "Rickyisms" and Mr. Leahy's sh*t analogies.Just a great show. I highly recommend watching this. Even if you are not too into it the first few episodes, keep watching. It grows on you.


                
Superbly crafted to resemble something authentically amateurish, Trailer Park Boys is in fact the best reality show ever made in English. Why do I call it a reality show? Because like reality shows, it pretends to show actual people while in fact being scripted. The irony here is that a show that set out to mock a particular genre ended up leading the class. Every single character in the show is interesting, and every single character is unique. Jim Lahey is absolutely sublime; Philadelphia Collins is stunning; Sam Losco is inimitable, and the list goes on. The boys themselves are of course without peer. Although some would warn parents against letting young children watch TPB, in my view it is poseurs, marginally literate progressive social thinkers, and clueless concerned moralists that are more at risk. If this is you, have a touch more white wine and tune into NPR instead. For everyone else, a strong recommendation!
Trailer park boys isn't for everyone. That being said if it isn't for you're either too young or too old. It's genius... disguised as the total opposite... Simple as that.


                
This show has been my favorite show for years. it's my go to show when I just want something to watch and it's still going hard. rest in peace Mr Lahey. the show will never be the same without you and I thank you for all the good times you have given us.


                
I grew up watching Ricky, Julian and Bubbles and this show took a big hit when john died but i think i speak for all fans in saying this we miss you Mr. Lahey you finally beat the liquor


                
A genius of a T.V show. Believe me its the best thing ever to be created for entertainment purpose. It has its pits but in greater scenario this show overcomes all. Ricky , Julian aka Sexian , Bubbles , Jim Lahey , Randy-Bo-Bandy , Sam"The Caveman" Losco , J-to the-R-O-C , Mr.T , even Mustard Tiger Phil Collins (Baaaam) all are treat to watch and SUNNYVALE is the place to be. (even Snoop Dogg said so)Do yourself a favour and watch this. (available on NETFLIX)& for the creator please don't stop making it we love this frigging show.


                
OK this is my first review on IMDb and i registered just to share my views about this show. This is one of the better comedy shows out there. The comedy is in the raw form. It is about the misadventures of people living in trailer park. It is all about crazy stuff. All the characters are chosen very wisely and u wont find even a single guy that u would not like to be in the show. Please watch this show with an open mind. this is a retarded comedy and so there is no point is finding reason of "why" and "what" in it. I think comedy should be like this. anyone can make u laugh by expensive scripts and expensive setups but this show does the same job with its own cheap setup. and while watching u will think how the hell they came out with this. This show is best enjoyed while sitting with few friends :) have fun!


                
