With all the crap on American T.V. today, you would think that a show such as The Trailer Park Boys would somehow make it over here. It is a shame to think that there are millions of people in this country who don't even know who Ricky, Julian and Bubbles are. I found this show by accident on Netflix, and my wife and I have spent countless hours laughing hysterically at these crazy people from Canada. My all time favorite one is when Ricky tries to "go straight" as a shopping mall security guard. Anyone who has seen that one knows what I'm talking about.I'll never understand the mentality of the American censors. It is perfectly fine for shows that depict child rape (The Shield) or torture (24) to be aired in prime time, but a hilarious show like TPB was deemed too offensive to be on BBC America. When you get past all the swearing, it is really just a show about people caring about each other. Despite the continuing downward trend of these guys in every season, they still stick together no matter what. Look at when Ray, "the man in the chair" has his trailer burn down. Everyone chips in to buy him the sleeper cab from his old 18 wheeler. How can you not love this show?
One of the most cynical as$holes who just now watched all 11 seasons twice within 2 weeks and loved the show to death and who is going to kick your ass if you don't watch it 'cause you're a d!ck so f#ck off. The first 5 seasons are pure gold. Season 6 is half good and half deheeheeeceent. Seasons 7-10 I didn't like all that much but it is not my f#cking fault. Except snoop dog 'cuz he my boy you know what I'm saying. Season 11 was purest gold once again, but I swear I am not over-hyping. If fans aren't over-hyping and I am not over- hyping then who's over-hyping? No-one. That's a #ucking nice cast. I mean kitty. This series has some of the best characters ever written in any comedy or show in generally. Ever. And if you don't like it then take off your pants and challenge me with that cheese burger bunker of yours. But wait a minute, is it me talking or the karma-whoring reviewer? Randy, I am the karma-whore. Thanks for reading this short praising, I am off to make some sandwiches with peanut butter and jaaa-aa- aaam.
The first four seasons or so of this show were near genius. Quirky, deep characters in improbable situations that could only happen to them were what made this show truly shine. Ever since Clattenburg left as a writer the show has a different vibe to it. It's still very good but pales in comparison to the first four seasons. Don't get me wrong, I'll keep watching the show for as many seasons as they make because I'm a die-hard but those extreme moments of absurd comedy are much more infrequent than they were at one time. Love the show! I give it an 8/10 now. The first four seasons were a 10/10 or like 9.9/10. Bring back Clattenburg and Barrie Dunn and the show will likely get back to it's old self. Bonus: get Michael Jackson (Trevor) and Jonathan Torrens (J-Roc) to come back and this will reign supreme as one of the premiere comedy sitcoms. Doubtful Trevor would ever come back though.


                
Diverse characters, great improv and a hilarious story line. Ricky, Julian amd Bubbles....Decent


                
This show was hilarious for about 4 seasons then it slowly got worse. They made a huge mistake bringing it back after season 7. The last few seasons made me wish I had never heard of this show.


                
The Trailer Park Boys is a mockumentary following three dis-functional petty criminals as they stumble between their many misadventures. The Sit in this SitCom exists nearly entirely in the Sunnyvale Trailer Park, home of Julian, Ricky, Bubbles and an eclectic mix of characters.All characters in the park live on the fringe of society seemingly unaware of the world outside. There seems little appetite for the finer things in life, nice car, nice house..... food, a job maybe; all seem content to drink and get high. To support their life style, Julian, Ricky & Bubbles devise and implement hair-brained schemes to make money. Balancing their yin is Mr Lahey as the yang, a one-time police officer now full-time park supervisor, alcoholic and TPB obsessive.A camera crew follow the main characters around the park, inter acting at times, mostly involuntary and enforced, getting shot, that sort of thing. Each furore into criminality has the documentary crew in tow, there's little regard for the evidence caught on camera.Julian is the patriarchal leader of Ricky & Bubbles and acts as the self-proclaimed King of Sunnyvale park. If there is a straight-man role in this comedy, Julian would probably fit that bill. Nonetheless, he delivers some sharp lines which normally always hit their mark. Ever the beacon for right, each prison stretch is seemingly the last for Julian as an attempt to get his life back on track. With no money or prospects in sight the allure of some quick cash growing weed soon brings Julian back into abnormality, taking a willing Ricky and Bubbles along for the ride.Unlike many other comedies, Bubbles more than holds his own the number three to Julian and Ricky's one and two. Bubbles hasn't had a lot of luck in his life, resulting in few opportunities and living in an 8ft sq. shed but is considered respectfully as the smartest person on the park. This character has developed as the series progressed and is given some peach one-liners; one particular self-fulfilment response to would-be bible selling scammers always raises a big smile.Finally my favourite, Ricky, the chain-smoking, foul-mouthed, obsessive criminal with so many other positive qualities. Whilst Ricky is an appalling father he takes his responsibles(sic) seriously, doting on his off-the-rails daughter and bullying his subordinates Trevor and Corey with equal vigour. Ricky's an extremely likable character with street smarts but leaves the thinking to Julian, as well, erm, he's better at that sort of stuff. The volume of catchphrases Ricky produces will no doubt keep the Trailer Park Boys merchandising dept in business for years.Supporting the main cast is a collective of varying and quirky characters. Thrown into the mix are J-Roc, the wannabe gansta-rappa; Lucy, mother of Trinity, and on / off love interest for Ricky and Trevor & Cory, willing minions who follow with disciple-like quality.The comedy in TPB's is ever-so subtle and not without its humility. Julian's persistent glass of rum and coke, Randy's refusal to wear a shirt, Ricky's straight faced verbal meandering or even Bubbles milk bottle thick glasses are the attention to comedy detail which permeates through the television screen.Each series ends with the inevitable incarceration of at least one of the main characters, an occupational hazard, "jail's alright, you get to smoke dope and drink, yeah jail is alright" as Ricky insightfully tells the camera. Even the jail term is delivered with a comedy blow, did you know how popular badminton is in prison and you can take in your pets? Unlike many of its polished factory-churned counter-parts, there is a sense of connection between the main leads on TPB's and the audience. No doubt living with the chaotic reality created by Julian & co would have you hankering for the For Sale sign fairly quickly. However, through the camera lens there are laughs in abundance. The fight scenes, particularly those involving firearms, are lifted straight from pages of The A-Team. Both Ricky and Julian tend to let loose their guns with little provocation, Bubbles shooting aimlessly with a semi-automatic rifle shouldn't be funny but really is.All said though the show isn't without it flaws, particularly in the later series. The 8th and 9th series lay waste to the comedy which has gone before. Mr Lahey's character has turned into a hopeless drunk becoming a shadow of his former self and offers little & Ricky's verbal mispronounceicationismism's are knitted into most dialogue to the point of semi-annoyance. Furthermore, the structure of the situation in this sit-com has been morphed and bent out of shape. Series 8 & 9 just seems to exaggerate the characters and the story, the plot becomes well, silly in places, even by TPB's standards.I've given TPB's an eight out of 10, this is a strong comedy which draws you in. The characters are likable and the stories enjoyable; this isn't Friends and nor does it pretend to be. TPB's has carved out a niche within the massively saturated comedy market..... and long may it continue.
