While I respect the opinions of those who criticized the show (not surprisingly the comments rated "least useful"), it appears that their views are so concrete that they just don't get it.This brilliant series is not intended to reflect the "reality" of trailer park life in Nova Scotia, but is instead a wonderful artistic compilation of many extreme, bizarre, and mundane experiences that are interesting on an entertaining and (feigned) voyeuristic basis. There are operas, soap operas, space operas, and now "park operas". Consider how difficult it must be to act improv style not only on the set, but to act "in character" during all media interviews and public engagements, as is the expectation. Not many actors would have the commitment or stamina to carry this through for the benefit of the production image. Mike Smith, who plays the character Bubbles, apparently can only wear the thick glasses for 15 minutes at a time without extreme fatigue.Let's consider the acting quality and skill. Would Deniro or Pacino make this a better series? No! The charm is in the rough edges, the improv, the humility, and the belief that these are low rung thugs. It is totally believable and a credit to the acting and direction.How is Canada or Nova Scotia being insulted if we recognize that this series is a parody and that we should not take it so seriously. According to the on-line polls I have viewed for TPB of the episodes to date, the average rating has been 9 out of 10. Most of those voting were from Canada followed by participants from the US, the UK, Australia, and New Zealand. We should be proud that we have had an impact on others, especially on those outside of our country. If given a chance, you will see how the brilliance shines through the layers of carefully placed sh#@. It is meant to look amateurish!


                
The definition of Canadian comedy with a strong sense of a reality mockumentary. At first you may laugh at the show's odd characters, semi skilled acting, and the amount of swearing and outrages endings. The main group is Ricky, Julian, and Bubbles, all putting their own twist on the trio. Set in a trailer park the group simply solves their financial problems through robberies, cultivation, guns and scams everyone more extreme then the next. The group has there highs and their very lows, living in the shitmobile and constantly fighting the trailer park supervisor. I love this show and cant get enough of it, everyone should give it a try and watch the emotional roller-coaster of The Trailer Park BOys.


                
My favourite thing about trailer park boys has to be the characters, they are CRAZY, from ricky trying to get his 4th grade to Lahey trying to get the boys thrown in jail. There is nothing else like it on TV .Its so surreal and absurd at some points you cant help but wet yourself with laughter. every season is as good as the last including season 6, even though most people say it sucks, COME ON PEOPLE, THE FILM IS OUT IN THE SUMMER! I just hope they keep making this show whether the movie is a success or not.LONG LIVE TRAILER PARK BOYS!


                
I got the first two seasons on DVD as a gift just recently...I had sadly never heard of the show before that. That being said, I sat down and started watching and I ended up watching the first two seasons right in a row practically without stopping....that's how good it is. A lot of the comedy is subtle, background stuff that continues to surface even after multiple viewings. This show is definitely geared towards people with a slightly twisted sense of humor that don't require a laugh track or a punch line to clue them into the humor. All hilarity aside, this crew does a good job in getting you to believe in the characters and to generally want to know what happens with them -- even when you know most of what they WILL do will make you cringe one way or another. Now I have to see about getting other seasons on DVD...


                
This is my first review on this site.This is probably the funniest show I have ever seen.At first, I was a bit put off from it due to the way they film it. But once I grew on it by watching more episodes, it's actually a brilliant masterpiece.The characters are very interesting, in a ludicrous way. It's amazing how they continuously make such addictive story lines for such a small environment to work on.This is very cheaply made but with that in play, a lot of creativity put into such little to play with. That's what mostly makes it brilliant.


                
And I watch WAYYY TOO MUCH TV AND MOVIES. This show is one of the funniest shows I've seen so far. The characters are great, I especially love Ricky-obviously. The fact that there is a character who refuses to wear shirts should make you want to watch this on it's own.I read a comment that said it's isn't like real trailer park life in Nova Scotia, and maybe not. But it's a pretty damn accurate portrayal of life in a U.S. trailer park in the south. I mean, I've seen these people at Wal-Mart...all of them. There's a Jim Lehey everywhere, you just have to look hard enough.Don't forget to watch The Mighty Boosh!


                
There are so many "comedies" out there where all I do is sit and roll my eyes at how stupid and mindless they are. This show is the exact opposite, I don't think Bubbles could say "hello" without me laughing. I'll never forget the episode where the satellite company came to pull down the illegal dishes and they called for "Dino" and Bubbles said, "Dino? You better call Fred and Barney too!" I laughed more at that one line than I would at an entire season of Third Rock from the Sun or such idiotic shows. The only reason I never gave a 10/10 is because I'm not a fan of J-ROC and his crew, I wish the show would have replaced them with other characters but aside from that, a true classic, I just watched "Don't Legalize It" and now have to watch the entire series over again from year 1.


                
Wow. The great thing about this show, is that if someone didn't tell you it was not an actual documentary, you would not know any difference. These guys are unbelievable actors, I cannot picture them in their normal lives. They are Julian, Ricky, Bubbles, Mr. Lahey, etc. Think of less pathetic and sad, but funnier versions of the hosers in FUBAR.I saw them at an HMV signing, and just could not get used to mike smith (Bubbles) without the glasses, serious under-bite and voice. It may be a little tough to get used to but if you give this show a chance, get to know the characters, you will not regret it. If you live in the States, and have never seen it, and got a little money to blow on a great series, head over to your favourite place to order movies online and order it right away.Although Seinfeld will always be my favourite comedy series of all time, TPB comes in at a close second. Easily the best movie/show to come out of Canada.Thank God I live in Canada, and gave this show a chance one night, I now cannot wait for Sunday night to roll along with a new episode.Also cant wait for the TPB movie!


                
Easily, this show has become one of my favorite shows to watch. I started watching about a year ago, took some time off and picked it back up again. I appreciate it even far more now. It is crazy to see how much everyone has grown with each passing season. Great show with a great witty cast.


                
There are several posts which state that EVERYONE should see this show. That's not true! This show isn't for everyone, but those people have no sense of humor! With that said, next to Firefly this is by far my favorite television show. This program is much like "Cops" from the criminals point of view. It is a spot-on mockumentary of life in a trailer park. It doesn't matter if you are from Nova Scotia, Canada or Mobile, Alabama you will instantly recognize bits and pieces of characters from every trailer park in north America! These guys and gals are so idiotic that it's almost impossible not to love them. The only bad part about this show? It's over. I've watched the entire seven seasons at least a half dozen times and I am always filled with a slight melancholia as I approach the end of season seven because I know there won't be a season eight. But there are a couple of movies and another set to begin filming in March of this year(2013) and the boys are on tour a lot. Yes, they take this show on the road! I won't try to give a plot synopsis or any spoilers, but I will tell you this, watch at least three episodes before you pass any judgment. If you aren't completely addicted to the Boys by episode three, then this show is probably not for you. This show just has a feel of realism that big budget Hollywood could never achieve in a million years with a billion dollars. My only consolation at this show's end is that in my heart of hearts I know that somewhere out there, Ricky, Julian and Bubbles are planning their next big caper and that Randy and Lahey are trying to stop them with a superb drunken ineptness. With a cast of characters so stupid, so real and so lovable you'll be left wanting more every single time you watch it. Just be aware, if you are offended by strong language, they drop F-bombs and sling $#!% at a fast and furious pace, you might want to go watch re-runs of "Friends." However, if you are looking for something completely original and genuinely funny, then I highly recommend you check out the "Trailer Park Boys." Thank you Mike Clattenburg, JP, Rob and Mike Smith for the most entertaining seven seasons to ever grace a television screen. Now hurry the &#@% up and get to filming the next movie!


                
If you can't take crude humor this is not a show you'll like. But my husband and I love this show, it's so funny! We can't figure out who our favorite character is, they are all so good. Can't wait for more episodes to come out, keep going it's great!!!!!!! So glad that they added bubbles in the mix, he makes us laugh so hard at times. Again if you can't handle laughing a hell of a lot, this will not be a show you'll want to watch over and over, but we love laughing. It was neat to see that Paul, Mike, and Robb all went to school together. I bet the pranks they pulled were funny as hell. I have to wonder if some of the characters they came up with were people from their pasts, and if so, what the hell was the story with Randy and him never wearing a shirt!


                
OK, so I'm Canadian. Still, I love some of the very best like Breaking Bad, Weeds, Shameless, Dexter, Game of Thrones and the list goes on. Yet this show offers something so very unique and undeniably addicting that you just have to watch the next episode. For anyone to suggest the acting is not "hollywood" calibre needs to realize that the characters maintained their persona both on set and in public for 7 years (maybe longer)! Plus, if I'm correct, they never used scripts until the 5th season. I'm never going to put this show against the mainstream, and that was never it's intent. It was a show that took the vision of Clattenburg's off-beat idea of comedy and turned out some very new and hilarious character traits. Ricky's endless mixing up of words, Julien's ever present rum and coke, Bubbles' spectacles...the list goes on and on and on. What's endearing is that these traits never died, never were lost from any one show to the next and held new comedy show after show. There's no laugh track and that's a huge bonus (can't stand the laugh track shows). If I want to laugh I do it because I find something funny. Which brings about another point. Almost all comedies are such because jokes are told through the script. TPB does not do this at all. You can be in a room of friends and you'll all laugh individually at different points in the show because it has that effect, a genius level of intellectual comedy on a level that's never been previously defined. If you never try it, you'll never know which side of the creative frontier you want to belong to. Enjoy.


                
An amazingly hilarious show, where you develop a real connection with the characters and genuinely want them to succeed. This show will not leave you disappointed.Julian, Bubbles, J-Roc, Ricky, they all come together to form the perfect cast. The show has a down-to-earth feel and often at times seems more like a documentary than an actual television show. This truly is one of the best, especially with the budget they had to do it on, this show is truly one of the greatest of all time.The dinged this show one star because of the predicabiltiy, by the end you knew exactly what was going to happen.


                
I have to admit, starting with the first two episodes, I was kind of unimpressed. But since there have been good reviews for this show I pushed myself to watch a few more. I can't believe what I almost missed out on. Every character has their own comedic presence that's unique to them, and I think Bubbles is the funniest character in the series. Lehy and Randy are a really funny duo that will have you cracking up every time they pull up in their car and dish out constant analogies to any situation . Definitely one of the funniest series i've seen for a while.Sometimes Bubbles makes the whole episode and I have to say that season 3 was by far the funniest and most creative one that i've seen so far.


                
When I first discovered TPB, I really felt I discovered a new type of cult following. You know that moment when you saw Peep Show or The Thick of It for the first time? It felt like that. Fresh, laugh out loud comedy.It's also great how the boys manage to get you on their side even though you know most of what they're doing is downright criminal.
The sociology of this program is great as it paints a picture of very petty Trailor Park criminals who are also just people trying find their way in the world and establish peace in the park - despite some crazy antics, they really are good people who you root for.I found it got progressively funny throughout seasons. At first, I turned off S8/E1 because it seemed a little polished and scripted but I went back to it after years and found it really did grip me much more than the previous series - the polishing was absolutely spot on. The stories got deeper and the new characters actually grew on me.
What a great show.


                
One of the funniest, most original, brilliantly acted series I have ever watched. If you're a fan on 'The Office' watch this! Even if you're not, watch it. It's definitely not a tasteful sort of humour - it's crude, vulgar and absolutely ridiculous but it's also fantastic. Hooked from the first episode.


                
I won't get into a series of comments on this show, I like to TRY and think of myself as an intelligent individual, and this show could strike many as being fairly "lowest common denominator" entertainment, but i'll freely admit I've loved this show since i first saw it on Showcase in Canada several years ago, and I've still been watching since the Boys bought the rights and moved over to Netflix.It's just silly entertainment, and although it is not everyones cup of tea, I find it highly entertaining and immensely watchable. For those who say the acting is terrible, do you really think that it is that easy to act in such a daft and occasionally reprehensible manner like Robb Wells is able to pull off? That takes some smarts!No matter the character, there is something to love for everyone, so if you have never seen the show, try it for a bit, by the time season 2-3 roll in you'll be hooked.Thanks for reading!


                
This is one of those shows I can go back and watch any episode completely at random and still enjoy the heck out of it. Ricky's my favorite - I can totally relate to the drunken brazenness of his character; despite him being a moron in an intellectual sense, his blunt to-the-point attitude and wildness make him hold the show up well. Lahey's drunken antics are hilarious, Julien's money-making schemes are a trip, and the rest of the characters all play their part well in this dysfunctional comedy drama. I personally enjoy season 3 the most, as it has a little bit of everything including a special appearance by Rush. I'm surprised to see that the show has lasted this long and has even spawned more movies. I feel it's lost a lot of steam however and the plots keep getting more stale with each new season. Still fun to watch, but... I actually hope it ends with season 10. Lucy's announced she's leaving the cast. So there's that. And, season 10 just seems tie everything up nicely and would be a good one to end with. The old episodes will always have great replay value and the show will never die, though.


                
When first gotten into it, i felt this was too trashy and amateurish almost hard to watch (Season 1). But after watching more episodes with Season 2 & 3 i started to fall in love with the characters and the stupid crazy situations and stories - Julian, Bubbles, Ricky, Cory and most of all J-Roc. I still remember to this day the epic episode "Who's the microphone assassin" - in which J-Roc had a lead role. Bubble's key episode for me was "Bible Pimp" - the way he was p'ssed off about the bible pimp was so funny.I still wish to this day that J-Roc gets his own spin-off show, Jonathan Torrens is so brilliant as J-Roc.The humour of the show is partially a bit on the cheap side (dirty, drunk & a lot of swearing) - but it never crosses boundaries and is just extremely entertaining.And PLEASE DO THAT J-ROC SPIN OFF Show... it would be so dope.. GNOMESAYIN?!!


                
Hard to pick a favorite character is this incredibly funny, addictive TV show. Ricky, Julian and Bubbles are the main trio, of course, but the show would be severely lacking without Mr. Lahey, Randy, J-Roc, T, Lucy, Trinity, Cory and Trevor. Side characters such as Ray, Phil Collins, Don/Donna, Treena, Cyrus, Sam and George Green.Notice I didn't mention Sarah. Somehow she's in 81 episodes without having one memorable scene, one funny line, or mattering in any single way. They could edit her out of the show and lose absolutely nothing.Something is absolutely endearing about the entire show. You end up rooting for Ricky and Julian even though you can be positive nothing will work in the end. Part of you wants them to succeed, part of you is looking forward to them failing. Nobody watches the show because of the sentimental moments, but there actually are a few, and they work very well.The problems with the recent seasons are that the writers got too far away from what made the show great. Nobody needs to see celebrity cameos, high production values, more complicated story lines, etc. Get back to the basics and this show will be outstanding again.


                
Not since I was a child-kid-teenager, influenced by Kids in the Hall, have I ever been so captivated by another fantastic Canadian comedy show.Like quite the majority of things I thoroughly enjoy, if you get it, you get it. If you don't, then blame Lahey.I also saw a live rendition of the show around I guess after the suppose-ed-end (s7), and GD can Mike Smith play a mean guitar.Keep it coming Canadians, even if it takes a decade between great shows.


                
Never a dull moment. Really enjoying them on Netflix now; 10 seasons, hooray! Excellent situations with depth and humour in a delightfully jarring mix. Characters are well chiseled out of the rough material available and the problems they have work well to drive the story. Short, concentrated episodes too.


                
John Paul Tremblay used to live in a trailer park folks. If anything he's someone to look up to for trying to lighten up the vibe of trailer parks by doing a parody of people's social ignorance for never having lived in a trailer before. The truth is, whether it's a trailer park or a high rise apartment complex, some extremely crazy things happens in everyone's lives. Just because one person lives in a trailer and another in a castle doesn't keep either of them safe from the chaos of reality. It's just when you're poor, you have to much more desperate things to get your life together. This show changed my life and none of you over sensitive pricks out there will convince me this is a slap in the face to poor people. This show pointed out to me how worth it people are even if they're pretty crazy, that you should always stick up for your friends and the people you love, it taught me to be grateful for what you have...I'm serious about this, this show is so well done and well written that it made me look at my life in a different light and now I'm doing much much better with paying bills, showing up to work on time every day, dealing with people without becoming impatient...all sorts of life changing points this show makes...it makes me sad to think that people don't see art in this way..it's so easy! Soooo much easier than actually making the mistakes you see on the screen for yourselves...so it's your choice, either learn to live a little and laugh it up or keep your whining to yourself.Not only that but wow is this show hilarious! How can you not laugh!? How many of you people who are complaining about this show haven't smoked some pot or done drugs or drank themselves retarded....as Ricky would say, **** OFF!
awwww crap, this show should be drek. i am trying to hate it. doesn't work.takes place in nova scotia? could be rural ontario.i've trotted the globe and picked up several educations doing it, but no amount of degrees or cosmopolitanism cures one of ones trailer trash roots.i rarely laugh out loud during the show, and sometimes i cringe, but it is all so familiar, too familiar.i can't say why, but i am a TPB convert! watch it at your own risk! . . .ok, i never allow balogna in the house anymore


                
