First of all, I would like to say that any show that makes over people and the way they live their life is amazing!! This show is not. I'll start off by saying that cocofrance (different user review on here) has got it spot on. It is incredibly painful to watch. Half the episodes are montages of the gay men dancing (not top sure why they put this in there, when they would have better use of using ACTUAL clips from what they recorded). Which looks stupid to say the least, this is a show about the men making over males, not victorias next top model photoshoot.As many others have said, the grooming guy is just stupid. His humor is stupid, whenever the camera is on, he just acts like a 6 year old. He is focused more on himself and how he is on camera, rather than the men they're there to "help". He is like that in every episode. Half the time he makes someone else groom the guys for him!! WHAT?! You're the "grooming" guy?! Did they just get a gay guy who could do a trim and slap a grooming label on him? If his focus is on the skin, they should have him known as the skin care guy. He took 8 stars off my rating btw, he is that painful to watch. Also, going through people stuff, and wearing their kinky sex toys, is actually quite goddamn disturbing :) But I guess it's cute because it's gay men, haha...have a giggle. If that was a straight couple, having kinky suits like that exposed on tv would be a big NO NO.Don't listen to any of the other reviews, it seems more so that they're just trying to get the ratings up since it's a "gay representation". Any intelligent person who watches this knows just how stupid it is. This show does NOT deserve a rating higher than The Walking Dead... are you friggin kidding me? If you compare the two shows back to back, it's painfully obvious that the demographic is only putting 10/10 because it's a show about gay people. This show is not watchable, it is not art, and it is most certainly not an 8.7!!!!!! more like 4.2, that rating seems fair.


                
I find this to be in poor taste. Some shows should be left cancelled. This only furthers old stereotypes.


                
After five minutes of this pointless drivel I'm ready to go straight and turn in my gay card. Super annoying!


                
