The small handful of negative reviews I've read seem to take issue with Jonathan's flamboyancy, but a lot of these critics are self-proclaimed gay men who have a problem with "negative gay stereotypes." I'm here to tell you there is nothing innately negative about flamboyancy other than the fact that our society deemed all things associated with femininity as inferior. In other words, those reviewers are projecting their own self-hate and internalized homophobia onto this show, and their reviews reflects their own baggage, NOT the quality of the show. So what if Jonathan is a bit extra? If you can't learn to find him endearing, admire his unapologetic courage, or appreciate how he really rounds out the spectrum of masculinity displayed on the cast, you won't see how much of an essential part he is to the show's theme of acceptance in the diversity of people.That aside, the design transformations are aesthetically on point, incredibly tasteful and thoughtfully custom-tailored to the hero subjects. And, the best part is, the show has a lot of heart. It is uplifting and motivating--it transcends outer beauty as it promotes self-care, self-respect, self-confidence and self-worth, but also love and acceptance in a toxic culture. It's a feel-good without the escapism which makes for a cathartic viewing experience.


                
Usually I research a lot before I watch a movie or a show, but I pick this show randomly. And I gotta say: this is the best thing I've watched in a LONG time. I've wondering why I was so blowed away by this (and I'm a straight guy) and I realise it's because it is real. Of course there are some unnatural scenes, like extrapolation or disconfort in front of the cameras, and whatever, but The Fab Five are not professional actors, they are themselves doing and living what they believe, and the guys chosen are real people, working their dreams and fears in between the scenes. I laughed, I wondered, I felt alive watching this (and I even cry). Wonderful job to everyone involved in the show. Thank you.


                
I fell in love with this show and the 5 guys the very first episode. I cannot wait for the next season! Everything is on point; the sense of humour, the taste, the discussions, the characters and I love the respect for everyone involved. A really touching and entertaining show! Give it a try :)


                
Considering how dark and bleak everything can seem at times, Queer Eye has such a true, heartwarming quality about it that is hard to come by. The inclusivity, diversity and the respect for all of it is amazing. The way this group reaches out to not only expand people's views on what, for an example, masculinity is and can be, but also to expand their own mindsets about things, is truly priceless. This is a show of diversity, kindness and spreading joy, and I love every bit of it.There's not a single episode that would've left me dry-eyed and there's not a single person I would not recommend this to. All in all, Queer Eye is 100% a show that is current and important, and definitely worth the watch.


                
The minute the show started it brought all the good memories I had with the previous show. I had so much fun watching it! The cast seems to get along great and they are all super fun and excited in helping these guys - despite what I read about ir here on making fun of them first. Guys tease each other all the time and at any moment they said mean things like fat or ugly... I bing watched it and I can't wait for season 2!!! P.S. I laughed so hard with Jonathan and the mattress scene! He is the new Carlson only a little bit more outrageous! loved it!


                
Just like the original show, you guys are so kind! You just put a smile on my face! I am 65 years old and a straight white female. I have just fallen in love with the Fab 5.


                
Queer Eye to me, the first time I saw it I thought it was some sort of cheesy documentary but was I wrong. Queer Eye is such an inspirational show that takes 5 men of the LGBT community who have a mission to help change other men's lives. The show has a good blend of inspiration and comedy at the same time as the guys have a very upbeat and happy personality. Now would I say some of it is kinda stupid? yes. But, stupid can be good right? And in this case it sure is. I would say out of all netflix original series, this would be on my top 5 no doubt. If you need a show with a lot of heart and comedy, Queer Eye is for sure one to watch.


                
I like their style, and let's not judge Netflix on this since it is their first reality show! And I think they actually nailed it for a first one.This an unique show and I like that it's something different.
I recommend watching it if you feel like you want to watch something casual yet fun
Literally made an account for this show bc I'm so mad at all the negative comments about Jonathan. He has been on other creative platforms and this is just his personality. I for one love it and it brings so much light and humor to the show. And for the record saying "I'm a gay man" does not equal a free pass to be a judgemental asshole. This show is amazing. From the very first episode I was hooked. The guys they makeover are so sweet and touching. And they really do give them so much more than a makeover.


                
Everyone that has a negative opinion or thinking of the LGBT community...watch this. I'm a Christian and my Jesus never once told me to hate on gays. They are genuine and real...more than most ppl I know anyways!


                
I thought this show was going to be extremely PC and campy but I was extremely satisfied by the way the show presents current issues with humor and civility. The most important thing the show emphasizes is the need for conversation.


                
The world is full of hate. I grew up in a very religious household that taught me that my mother was wrong for loving her soulmate and did everything to keep us from each other. Fast forward and I am 30 and my mom and her wife (the same person that she has been with for 27 years) are my best friends. What I would give to learn the lessons the fab 5 is teaching 15 years ago. I absolutely love that they are teaching acceptance and not tolerance. I can't tell you how many times people have told me as a child that they were friends with me even though my parents are gay. I love these messages and these stories. I just love this show!


                
I approached this reboot with some apprehension as I was a big fan of the original series and had a great fondness for the Fab 5. I didn't need to worry however; it took a bit of time to warm to the new Fab 5, but I think this is a good series in the making. The new characters are interesting and I think the more we get to know them the better it will be. I also like to see how the makeovers affect not only the recipients of them, but also the individuals in the group. I think there is a risk of the 'lessons learned' approach becoming a bit heavy handed though, and hope the production team don't labour this too much. At a time when there is a lot of bile and hatred spewed out in the media, its refreshing to watch a programme which advocates acceptance and tolerance. The Fab 5 are so lovely, treating each participant with kindness and humour without putting them down or humiliating them in any way. I can't wait for the next series and look forward to getting to know each of the Fab 5 a lot better


                
I've never watched a show before that has made me cry, learn about the importance of beard grooming and made me want to believe in humanity again. That was until I watch Queer Eye. The critics are right in saying that this is what the world needs right now. From fashion tips to encouraging words from mature, wise, funny, amazing gay men, this is what we've all been waiting for.
I (almost) would like to describe this show as an ointment for sadness and tears. I watch an episode as often as possible because of the hope it gives me.
I have never rated a movie about an eight but this show deserves, earned, a ten!


                
I have never gone out of my way to write a review for a TV show but that is how much I love this show. I am IN LOVE with the fab 5. As an evangelical Christian, I am learning from the fab 5 about how to see people AS they are and how to love people well. To the producers of Queer Eye, thank you so much for creating, producing, and airing this show. To the FAB 5, you are honestly ALL AMAZING.


                
Just watched the first episode and I am in love with the 'fab five'! They are diverse and beautiful and HUMAN. Their message is honest and good and their work is amazing! Cannot wait to watch all of the remaining episodes and next seasons!


                
I loved the original show but it's always been my example of a show that wouldn't fit with society today anymore. Netflix proved me wrong. 
I LOVE that the title no longer includes "for the straight guy" because it makes so much more sense to offer their help to all kinds of pleople, and I really admire how they have found guests that have managed to challenge many of the modern day difficulties that surrounded the gay community as well as racial issues. I'm absolutes delighted with the new take on the show and I can't WAIT for season 2!!!!


                
Well! What a disappointment when I tried to watch another episode of my fave FIVE and discovered I'd watched the entire 3 Seasons' worth! Having loved this show since I first clicked onto it about 6 wks ago. They've shown so many diverse situations, all of which were handled with kid gloves. Extremely interesting how each man handled his particular venue. I have bragged at length to many friends and neighbors. Now I've nothing to watch (i.e.. sit back and be educated) until they do more Seasons. What an eye-opener for so many lucky nominees. I will miss my "guys".


                
The guys are amazing, each in their own way, and they are all so talented!!
I love how they are going to places you wouldn't expect them to go to and connect with people you wouldn't expect them to connect with.
Another great thing is we get to get to know them as well as getting to know the people they are helping.
I also really like how diverse they are, how they show that we are all just people, and they are just being who they are, they are wonderful.


                
I found this on my 'Netflix Recommends for you' list and so, because I'm a big fan of RuPaul's Drag Race, and because I never actually managed to watch the original series in the Noughties, I thought I'd give this show a go.I was not disappointed, it was fun, it was bubbly, it was the perfect 'binge-watching' show. The Fab 5 seem like people I want to hang out with. Maybe a bit OTT and campy at times, but I really enjoyed this show. I'm a straight married woman and I want these 5 to give me a make over!


                
I never thought I could love a "makeover" show more than I loved Stacey and Clinton in What Not to Wear on TLC but this is so much better. They are looking at the person holistically. Each one of them specializes in helping the person look after themselves in every way.
Also, haven't gotten through an episode without shedding a tear yet.
I truly hope the effects are sustainable!


                
I don't have enough tears for this show! It's not the typical reality makeover show! It is so emotional and beautiful! You have fun but you are also touched by all the stories! I love so much! I can't wait for season 4!


                
'Nuff said. Watching these five beautiful men bring joy to people's lives is just so lovely and inspiring. I feel so positive after watching this and it makes me want to live to my full potential. I don't know of many shows I can say that about. The nonjudgmental, tasteful approach and message of acceptance & self love is what we need in today's world. Please keep this show going forever!


                
This is such a heartworming show, and I hate each season is so short!
It's like I can't get enough of these wonderful guys, I need at least 20 episodes per season...
Each one of them has something amazing and you can tell by how they bond with the people they are helping.
I think I've cried with every single episode and I fall in love with them everytime I see how involved they are on every case.This show is full of love and it's life changing! Please watch it, it's truly inspiring and beautiful.


                
Enormous ! I cried every single episode. The love where is in this show was pure,familier and kind. Every person wants to be approved but also they have problems about it. This guys help that kinds of people with pure love and make better life for them.


                
