The small handful of negative reviews I've read seem to take issue with Jonathan's flamboyancy, but a lot of these critics are self-proclaimed gay men who have a problem with "negative gay stereotypes." I'm here to tell you there is nothing innately negative about flamboyancy other than the fact that our society deemed all things associated with femininity as inferior. In other words, those reviewers are projecting their own self-hate and internalized homophobia onto this show, and their reviews reflects their own baggage, NOT the quality of the show. So what if Jonathan is a bit extra? If you can't learn to find him endearing, admire his unapologetic courage, or appreciate how he really rounds out the spectrum of masculinity displayed on the cast, you won't see how much of an essential part he is to the show's theme of acceptance in the diversity of people.That aside, the design transformations are aesthetically on point, incredibly tasteful and thoughtfully custom-tailored to the hero subjects. And, the best part is, the show has a lot of heart. It is uplifting and motivating--it transcends outer beauty as it promotes self-care, self-respect, self-confidence and self-worth, but also love and acceptance in a toxic culture. It's a feel-good without the escapism which makes for a cathartic viewing experience.


                
Usually I research a lot before I watch a movie or a show, but I pick this show randomly. And I gotta say: this is the best thing I've watched in a LONG time. I've wondering why I was so blowed away by this (and I'm a straight guy) and I realise it's because it is real. Of course there are some unnatural scenes, like extrapolation or disconfort in front of the cameras, and whatever, but The Fab Five are not professional actors, they are themselves doing and living what they believe, and the guys chosen are real people, working their dreams and fears in between the scenes. I laughed, I wondered, I felt alive watching this (and I even cry). Wonderful job to everyone involved in the show. Thank you.


                
I fell in love with this show and the 5 guys the very first episode. I cannot wait for the next season! Everything is on point; the sense of humour, the taste, the discussions, the characters and I love the respect for everyone involved. A really touching and entertaining show! Give it a try :)


                
The show is sweet, funny, charming, and the best part is the dialogue being had about race, religion and mutual respect, is what's most important. We loved it!


                
Not being too old when the original season aired, I was unfamiliar with the concept of this show, so when I saw all 8 episodes had been added to Netflix I had no idea what to expect. I was so pleasantly surprised.The show is life-affirming and emotional. Whilst at times the guys seem a little too intrusive and border on being overly judgemental, they win me, and the people they're there to help, over with their charm, friendship and emotional support. Their chemistry and friendship brings a smile to my face and really is magic. The way they allowed others and themselves to open up was a privilege to see, and I have come away from each episode with a smile on my face. Definitely worth a watch, the first episode with Tom had me beaming, sobbing and awwing. A true delight.


                
Considering how dark and bleak everything can seem at times, Queer Eye has such a true, heartwarming quality about it that is hard to come by. The inclusivity, diversity and the respect for all of it is amazing. The way this group reaches out to not only expand people's views on what, for an example, masculinity is and can be, but also to expand their own mindsets about things, is truly priceless. This is a show of diversity, kindness and spreading joy, and I love every bit of it.There's not a single episode that would've left me dry-eyed and there's not a single person I would not recommend this to. All in all, Queer Eye is 100% a show that is current and important, and definitely worth the watch.


                
The minute the show started it brought all the good memories I had with the previous show. I had so much fun watching it! The cast seems to get along great and they are all super fun and excited in helping these guys - despite what I read about ir here on making fun of them first. Guys tease each other all the time and at any moment they said mean things like fat or ugly... I bing watched it and I can't wait for season 2!!! P.S. I laughed so hard with Jonathan and the mattress scene! He is the new Carlson only a little bit more outrageous! loved it!


                
Just like the original show, you guys are so kind! You just put a smile on my face! I am 65 years old and a straight white female. I have just fallen in love with the Fab 5.


                
Queer Eye to me, the first time I saw it I thought it was some sort of cheesy documentary but was I wrong. Queer Eye is such an inspirational show that takes 5 men of the LGBT community who have a mission to help change other men's lives. The show has a good blend of inspiration and comedy at the same time as the guys have a very upbeat and happy personality. Now would I say some of it is kinda stupid? yes. But, stupid can be good right? And in this case it sure is. I would say out of all netflix original series, this would be on my top 5 no doubt. If you need a show with a lot of heart and comedy, Queer Eye is for sure one to watch.


                
I like their style, and let's not judge Netflix on this since it is their first reality show! And I think they actually nailed it for a first one.This an unique show and I like that it's something different.
I recommend watching it if you feel like you want to watch something casual yet fun
I was very happy to see this show was back. I loved the first 5 and absolutely adore this FAB 5. Once I found out it was back on I did binge watch the first season of which I asked my all make household to watch with me..they did (maybe pick up some pointers. Every personality is different which I love. Everyone brings something to the table. I would love a spin off of this show "Fab 5 helps moms" Anyway, good luck lads. You are not only good at what you do, you seem to be are great people, which in my books is the most important trait in a person..


                
Literally made an account for this show bc I'm so mad at all the negative comments about Jonathan. He has been on other creative platforms and this is just his personality. I for one love it and it brings so much light and humor to the show. And for the record saying "I'm a gay man" does not equal a free pass to be a judgemental asshole. This show is amazing. From the very first episode I was hooked. The guys they makeover are so sweet and touching. And they really do give them so much more than a makeover.


                
Everyone that has a negative opinion or thinking of the LGBT community...watch this. I'm a Christian and my Jesus never once told me to hate on gays. They are genuine and real...more than most ppl I know anyways!


                
I thought this show was going to be extremely PC and campy but I was extremely satisfied by the way the show presents current issues with humor and civility. The most important thing the show emphasizes is the need for conversation.


                
The world is full of hate. I grew up in a very religious household that taught me that my mother was wrong for loving her soulmate and did everything to keep us from each other. Fast forward and I am 30 and my mom and her wife (the same person that she has been with for 27 years) are my best friends. What I would give to learn the lessons the fab 5 is teaching 15 years ago. I absolutely love that they are teaching acceptance and not tolerance. I can't tell you how many times people have told me as a child that they were friends with me even though my parents are gay. I love these messages and these stories. I just love this show!


                
I approached this reboot with some apprehension as I was a big fan of the original series and had a great fondness for the Fab 5. I didn't need to worry however; it took a bit of time to warm to the new Fab 5, but I think this is a good series in the making. The new characters are interesting and I think the more we get to know them the better it will be. I also like to see how the makeovers affect not only the recipients of them, but also the individuals in the group. I think there is a risk of the 'lessons learned' approach becoming a bit heavy handed though, and hope the production team don't labour this too much. At a time when there is a lot of bile and hatred spewed out in the media, its refreshing to watch a programme which advocates acceptance and tolerance. The Fab 5 are so lovely, treating each participant with kindness and humour without putting them down or humiliating them in any way. I can't wait for the next series and look forward to getting to know each of the Fab 5 a lot better


                
I've never watched a show before that has made me cry, learn about the importance of beard grooming and made me want to believe in humanity again. That was until I watch Queer Eye. The critics are right in saying that this is what the world needs right now. From fashion tips to encouraging words from mature, wise, funny, amazing gay men, this is what we've all been waiting for.
I (almost) would like to describe this show as an ointment for sadness and tears. I watch an episode as often as possible because of the hope it gives me.
I have never rated a movie about an eight but this show deserves, earned, a ten!


                
I have never gone out of my way to write a review for a TV show but that is how much I love this show. I am IN LOVE with the fab 5. As an evangelical Christian, I am learning from the fab 5 about how to see people AS they are and how to love people well. To the producers of Queer Eye, thank you so much for creating, producing, and airing this show. To the FAB 5, you are honestly ALL AMAZING.


                
Just watched the first episode and I am in love with the 'fab five'! They are diverse and beautiful and HUMAN. Their message is honest and good and their work is amazing! Cannot wait to watch all of the remaining episodes and next seasons!


                
I loved the original show but it's always been my example of a show that wouldn't fit with society today anymore. Netflix proved me wrong. 
I LOVE that the title no longer includes "for the straight guy" because it makes so much more sense to offer their help to all kinds of pleople, and I really admire how they have found guests that have managed to challenge many of the modern day difficulties that surrounded the gay community as well as racial issues. I'm absolutes delighted with the new take on the show and I can't WAIT for season 2!!!!


                
Well! What a disappointment when I tried to watch another episode of my fave FIVE and discovered I'd watched the entire 3 Seasons' worth! Having loved this show since I first clicked onto it about 6 wks ago. They've shown so many diverse situations, all of which were handled with kid gloves. Extremely interesting how each man handled his particular venue. I have bragged at length to many friends and neighbors. Now I've nothing to watch (i.e.. sit back and be educated) until they do more Seasons. What an eye-opener for so many lucky nominees. I will miss my "guys".


                
The guys are amazing, each in their own way, and they are all so talented!!
I love how they are going to places you wouldn't expect them to go to and connect with people you wouldn't expect them to connect with.
Another great thing is we get to get to know them as well as getting to know the people they are helping.
I also really like how diverse they are, how they show that we are all just people, and they are just being who they are, they are wonderful.


                
I quite enjoyed season one, but I had to give up in season two.My main issue is that it has become allllll about the hosts. An opportunity to get on their soapboxes and spout about themselves and whatever other topic crosses their way.The episode where they worked with a police officer was particularly uncomfortable for me as one of the hosts was almost putting their guest on trial. The original series had quirky charm and I don't remember it being so focused on the hosts' agendas.It should be sweep in, improve someone's life and move on. Inspire people and have fun doing it.As a gay guy I am sympathetic to some need to raise awareness and increase tolerance... but to me indulging the hosts and not focusing on the guests is the wrong way to do it.


                
I am a gay man of the Stonewall Era. Yes, that was almost 50 years ago, my dears. I was familiar with the previous version of this show. So, I was astounded at the same thing all over again, with the exception of the subjects being from a more possibly homophobic demographic. Perhaps that was what the plug for "acceptance" meant in the promo. That really bugged me. I personally have never flitted around in a gang of girly men (queens, in the culture). However, I have respected and dated men who were not macho-male stereotypes by any means. This is what I find disappointing in this show. Once again, the showy fem hairdresser dominates and all the boys chime in. How much better it would be if the connection between straight men and gay men was a naturally respectful one without the camp. My disappointment is deepest in the Netflix producers who fostered this behavior for marketing. It is like using a gay version of minstrel show caricature to attract an audience. I do not mean that the cast don't have skills and talents at all. I simply regret that they have to be smothered in swish. It cries lack of self-respect.


                
I found this on my 'Netflix Recommends for you' list and so, because I'm a big fan of RuPaul's Drag Race, and because I never actually managed to watch the original series in the Noughties, I thought I'd give this show a go.I was not disappointed, it was fun, it was bubbly, it was the perfect 'binge-watching' show. The Fab 5 seem like people I want to hang out with. Maybe a bit OTT and campy at times, but I really enjoyed this show. I'm a straight married woman and I want these 5 to give me a make over!


                
