Not being too old when the original season aired, I was unfamiliar with the concept of this show, so when I saw all 8 episodes had been added to Netflix I had no idea what to expect. I was so pleasantly surprised.The show is life-affirming and emotional. Whilst at times the guys seem a little too intrusive and border on being overly judgemental, they win me, and the people they're there to help, over with their charm, friendship and emotional support. Their chemistry and friendship brings a smile to my face and really is magic. The way they allowed others and themselves to open up was a privilege to see, and I have come away from each episode with a smile on my face. Definitely worth a watch, the first episode with Tom had me beaming, sobbing and awwing. A true delight.


                
I was just scrolling through Netflix, looking for something new to watch, and saw this title. I was a little hesitant at first for fear of it being a little too much, but I am so glad I started watching! Every episode finds a way to jerk a few tears and makes you say "oh wow!" It is truly awesome seeing the Fab 5 bring out the best in people. 
The show doesn't revolve around the Fab 5 bashing anyone's habits, but instead shows how each person reveals a deeper identity of the nominated guest. 
I love this show and truly cannot wait for more episodes!


                
If I were to be honest, I didn't know what I was expecting when I watched this, but I was pleasantly surprised! I absolutely love the good vibes that comes off of this show. I usually am into action, sci-fi, or thrillers, but I have to say that this is one of my favorite shows. Overall, it's a feel good, empowering show that is full of happiness, smiles and sassy remarks. :)


                
I adored the first run of QE with the original crew but this new team is truly majestic. Now, at first Jonathan was a bit much with the overt femininity he presented with but I saw his realness and true self and he has won me over. I have not known many gay men who are at that level and I blame that for the initial hesitance. Now after several episodes and listening to his podcast (Getting curious) I see and understand his side of life. Antoni is a bunch of hot cuteness but he is pulls his worth in the kitchen, helping out the ones spice up their life (yes, intended pun LOL). Bobby has such good taste in how he sets up the interiors of places and I have yet to dislike any of the rebuilds, want to buy all his stuff. Tan breaks out a sassy English/Pakistani representation and scrapes the clouds with his never wilted pompadour cut, his style is as sharp as his intelligence. Karamo is a gift, yes, he's sexy but what's even better... he's smart, compassionate and throwing down the psychotherapist realness in the talks with folks, teaching without making anyone feel down. 
May this show be on for many seasons... there are lots of folks out there that need a touch of wonderful and caring in their lives and QE brings it!


                
I just love this show. They do everything they can to help people while being careful of their feelings. They stay true to who the person is but just give them a little somethin somethin. I get inspired to take better care of myself after watching the show. Sure wish the Fab 5 came to Northern California!!!!


                
This 69 year old straight woman wants to know where thee fellas found those recliners in episode one. Seriously.
As a a fan of the former version of this show, I was prepared to be not wowed..This is more charming version and not as chaotic as its predecessor . Pleased there are topical "misconception discussions". Sines a light on commonality, no matter what your predispositions might be. Quite chi chi all around. Good tips. Good fun.


                
While I would like a queer eye with more queer diversity, I loved this. The fab 5 in this round are good at working with people and seeing them, and they seem to make everyone in their path happier. Keep your kleenex close, you are gonna need it. Fills the heart with hope and love. Enjoy.


                
I will fill it in next page blah blah blah. dkdosndlekfn kfe wmld mflw mdo slm foe.


                
Enjoyed this whole series even more than the first time around (Queer Eye for the Straight Guy)! The entire cast is enchanting and I hope the camaraderie we see onscreen is real, because it is delightful! This is a show for everyone, so if you're sneering a little at the thought of watching five gay guys offering advice to seriously-in-need-of-help straight guys, relax and give it a chance! I am a 72-year-old granny and I loved every minute of it!These guys seem to genuinely care about the men they are sent to help, and help they do! Each episode is both light-hearted fun and serious, as they touch on topics of genuine concern to their "clients" with compassion and warmth. Plus, and a BIG plus, this time the guys dare to set foot in what might be seen as "alien territory" -- the southern US, where one gets the impression (from general news stories) that homophobia is rampant. And yet, they receive a warm welcome where one might expect otherwise would be the case. It is an eye-opening experience to watch these five work their magic and, one hopes, make lasting improvements in the lives of those lucky (and smart) enough to be open to change.Highly recommended and eager for a second season!


                
