Given all the hype surrounding Princess M., I expected to like this film a good deal more than I did.I tried to like it. Truly. Unfortunately, the producers make it extremely difficult to do so, since their primary conceit seems to have been: "let's confuse our audience as much as we can." The primary way they accomplish this is by having every character vacillate back and forth from protagonist to antagonist every other scene. The wolves are good guys. No, wait, they're threatening to kill the hero. Oh wait, they're trying to save the forest. Nope, they're just small-minded bigots. etc. etc.Worse than the mythic figures were the humans: ah, the people of IronTown are attacked by wolves, goodie! Oh wait, they're destroying the environment, I hate those guys! But wait, they're not as bad as these soldiers, so we sympathize again, only now they're shooting at the Princess of the forest, darn they're bad, but wait...And so on and so on. I recognize the desire to present complex characterizations and avoid the black-and-white mentality of so much fantasy work, but this quickly devolved into simple inconsistency. Eventually I just gave up and decided to hate everybody in the film, after which it became kind of bitter fun to watch them spill one another's blood across the screen (which they do in simply astonishing volumes).As for the environmental sub-text of the movie, it was not only severely undercut by all the heavy-handed side-switching mentioned above, but almost entirely buried in the morass of annoying mythological background which plagued the movie. In the last fifteen minutes, it turns out that this mythological stuff has actually been the whole crux of the movie (surprise), providing the excuse for a boatload of visual effects but leaving the central plot, as it has been heretofore presented, in the dust.Final words: confusing, inconsistent, turgid mythology punctuated by inadequately explained violence. Go read Harry Potter instead.
I'm a big fan of Miyazaki since childhood. I'm 34 years old. But I never come around watching Mononoke. The masterpiece that everyone likes! and his praised by critics and reviewers around the World to be ghibli's best film. Why?.. Maybe I was never drawn to the cover art.. I thought It looked like a bad version of Zelda. So all these years have passed And I have watched all his Movies countless times over. So finally My mind was set. I started watching Princess Mononoke. The Masterpiece of all masterpieces praised to the skies! ..Boy Was I in for a big surprise! It totally sucked!! My Eyes wasn't moved to tears, I started yawning to the action scenes several times.. I was wondering..Is this Studio Ghibli? I didn't like the soundtrack, The romance never took off, For one, they didn't know each other nearly long enough to fall in love. the movie just kinda made it up and expected you to believe it. There was zero evidence of actual romance Eboushi just magically changes her mind at the end? The ending was so anti-climactic. So this girl that he is "in love with" decides he isn't important enough for her to invite him to live with her in the Forrest. He also doesn't care enough about the girl that "he loves" to follow her in the end. He'd rather go help the townspeople he met last week?!? LOL OK. After all they went though they just decide to part ways & visit each other sometimes, WTF is up with the ending??? The ending... what was the Point of cutting the head of the deer god?? so the emperor girl could awake and understand she did wrong?? she had to kill thousands of boars, shopping every tree, kill Everything just to come to that conclusion that it was pointless? The worst part of this Movie is that I absolutely adored Mononoke. But they never took advantage of that, she is Always out of camera somehow you never get to know her, except she hates humans. It feels like they made this Movie for American audience. Is that why it has such high scores? cause of the generic plot, action, blood and all that usual Hollywood crap? sorry buts that the truth. I can't find Another reason why the big fans of Ghibli actually love this one. It's Not that great. It's the worst ghibli Movie i ever seen actually. The heroine is awesome, the few parts she has in the story, but thats about It. Spirited Away IS A MASTERFUL STROKE OF ART, this is not that good everyone made it up to be.
I can't believe this movie got rated so high by others.  15 minutes into the movie I didn't want to keep watching it was so uninteresting.  But, I stuck it out, knowing that it was acclaimed.  What a mistake.  It only got worse. The plot was stupid, the voices/sound were aweful, and the animation graphics (much raved about) were nothing better than a Disney movie.  I really like most asian movies, and anime as well.  This movie, however, really sucked.  I am completely confused at its extremely high voter rating. Don't waste your time.  I'm still bitter that I did.


                
Sometimes I wonder if there is something wrong with me because I don't have anything good to say about this title. I have had three avid anime lovers try to make me watch this film, and I can't. It may be rather pretty, but it's really boring, and nothing is revolutionary about the plot. When I told a guy that owns the local anime store I disliked it, he looked at me like I was spewing sacrilegious statements in a holy place or something. :D lol, I still love anime, but I won't bend my opinion just to make it match what experts and fans say. zzzZZZZZZzzzzz it's a total sleeper! You want pretty with good plot? Watch Mushi-Shi. And, uh, for you "purists" who like the American cast, Why are you not watching with subtitles? Now, if only I could correlate the characteristics that others find attractive in other popular anime titles such as Bleach & Cowboy Beebop.


                
The story was compelling and well-written, but given all the rabidly favorable reviews, I was expecting something stellar.  Furthermore, I was surprised and pretty disgusted by the level of violence and gore in the movie.  Arms being torn of, men cut in half, that sort of thing.  Perhaps that is commonplace in anime, but it was more than a bit disturbing to a guy who watches Blade or any Arnie flick with no problems...


                
