I have never been a big fan of anime, but two weeks ago i saw Spirited Away on television. I can admit that i was stunned. It was so much more beautiful then the Disney/Pixar movies. After i had seen Spirited Away i tried frantically to find Princess Mononoke on the internet.Princess Mononoke is a story about a prince named Ashitaka. He goes on a journey to find a cure for Tatarigami's curse. On the journey he finds himself in the middle of a war between a human Iron-town and the gods of the woods. He also meets Princess Mononoke, a girl who is raised by wolves and is filled with hate against humans.I think Princess Mononoke was even better than Spirited Away. It outclasses its Hollywood-synonym, Lord Of The Rings. The plot is very good. The soundtrack is amazing, it's a shame that the Academy Award didn't notice it. The animation is beautiful, especially the characters. The only thing i can complain about is the English dubbing. Billy Crudup does a splendid job as the voice of Ashitaka, but they could really have chosen a better alternative than Billy Bob Thornton as Jigo.Overall i give this movie 9 out of 10.


                
Princess Mononoke was on may radar for some time before I first saw it. Hearing that it was a 'Miyazaki master piece' but not really knowing what to expect. However as I started to watch the opening of the film I could tell from the amazing musical score and the breathtaking animation that I was watching a truly captivating film. As the story progresses you get a more three dimensional look at the characters in the film looking from all points of view seeing whats everyone wants. In particular you get a good look at the main character Ashitaka(voiced by Billy Crudup) as he tries to stop a conflict between San(voiced by Claire Danes) ,a girl raised by wolves, who is helping lead the wolves and other Forrest creatures up against Lady Eboshi(voiced by Minnie Driver) the Head of a village who are gradually destroying the Forrest for the resources the land has.Compared to other films Princess Mononoke should rank among the best animated films as it have a level of grandness that could only be matched by films like The Lord of the rings. Over the years this film has also been compared with other anime films however this film has a completely different tone to most of them as you don't get a shonin vibe or a high school romance. Overall I think that This one of Miyazaki's best films and probably one of the greatest animated films ever. That's why I'm giving it a 9/10


                
My daughter makes me watch these. Nine times out of ten I'm glad. This time I was ecstatic! Ashitaka's village is threatened by a demon boar. In killing the boar, Ashitaka's arm takes on the infection that has turned the boar into a demon. He must leave his village, knowing his fate, knowing that when he fully becomes a demon, he could kill them all.In his travels, he encounters a huge range of characters and situations, ending with what I can only call a great mythology. The movie is breathtaking.One thing I truly love about this show (I hope this isn't a spoiler) is that in the end there are no villains. There are antagonists and protagonists, but everyone is genuinely, sincerely doing what she or he thinks is the best thing. This is a great, artistic, true expression of how things usually are. A great lesson.


                
There have been many times where after watching an anime, I have found myself seriously questioning the value of the medium. Whether due to misogynism, gratuitous violence, or tentacles, I walk away wondering what is going on in Japanese culture. Princess Mononoke, like Miyazaki's other works, is not a vehicle for shameless fan-service, nor does it rely on the tired and implausible concept of mecha as its selling point, unlike so much anime I have seen. Instead, it deals with the age-old tension between human attempts to shape the environment for its own ends and the life-and-death power of nature.Despite its clear point, Princess Mononoke does not stray into obvious lines of good and evil or try to drop the message on the viewer like an anvil. Rather, it portrays both sides of the conflict in a balanced manner, showing the good and the bad and depicting the harm brought by hate on both sides. Perhaps the only major flaw I can see is that Miyazaki's romanticized monarchism, which leads him to again bring out the decidedly clichéd heroic warrior-prince/princess.


                
Princess Mononoke is a grand, beautifully animated, heartfelt epic. It's a historical fantasy adventure, it's a melodrama, it's a race against time. Its pace is wonderful, taking us climactically through the all-embracing, outspread scope of the story. It has heart, it has violence, it has visual beauty, it has internal conflict.What I like the most about Princess Mononoke is beyond all of these wonderfully delivered elements of a great movie. It's a movie about compassion and understanding towards animals. Yes, these animals are represented by gargantuan, violent beasts, but the movie is about human headstrong influence vs. animal outlook, sense, and behaviorism. It's about how astonishingly much more acute and attuned an animal's understanding is of the world's natural order than that of a human's.I think Princess Mononoke, while being a beautifully made action-adventure, it's an important film, especially for Miyazaki's younger fans. It's important that they take the message of the film seriously.


                
Honestly, I have never seen an anime film with so much blood,gore and killing in my life. It was very brutal to see heads chopped off and of course more then one killing happening! I say this must've been the most violent cartoon that ever came on screens in 1997! The storyline was pretty good and of course, the graphics were too. I was very surprised to have found out the film was inspired by the Zelda series because of some scenes that honestly looked like it came from the video game! I suppose especially the Legend of Zelda also! The music felt very much like you were there and it pretty much draws you in cause it feels so good!I honestly thought Son and Ashitaka were just an adorable couple, why didn't they kiss at the end?! Seriously he saved her life and she just wanted to go back to the forest. C'mon!Anyways a very good film but I wouldn't show this to kids due to the scary and gory scene's!
The demon worms are gross, the female characters are annoying and obnoxious, and the movie is very clichéd, but it is a masterpiece, and it's hard to say otherwise.The environmental message is very powerful!They did a great job of getting their message across without it being too overbearing. They also made it engaging while at the same time teaching a lesson about humans and nature living in harmony. People who don't like the Anime genre, will still find this a worthwhile movie to watch. I think this film can appeal to children and adults since it holds elements for both.


                
Princess Mononoke easily has to be one of the greatest fantasies I have ever seen. It definitely has great visuals, strong characters, a beautiful story and fantastic action sequences. Even though it is quite violent and intense, viewers will love the relationship that Ashitaka and San have. This movie is great for anime lovers. It has to be one of my favorite anime movies.


                
Brilliant animation where no CGI is involved. Truly appreciated the celluloid animation, hand drawn frame by frame.Smooth animation, wonderful story line and amazing soundtracks to compliment the film.Mr Miazaki has truly done a wonderful job. The best animated film that I have ever seen ... creativity at its best!


                
When I was younger, I used to watch TV shows like Power Rangers, Dexter's Laboratory, and Swat Kats. So, Japanime isn't always popular with me, but I really like this movie. I relate to the main character because he cares about others and does what he can to help. And the movie showcases cooperation between animals and humans well... think horses. Yakul, Ashitaka's red elk, which looks like a Tauntaun from Star Wars, carries him from place to place. At the beginning of the film, actually, he is riding Yakul when Nago, a wild boar covered with a horrible spirit, attacks a small village. Ashitaka helps a small group of villagers escape from Nago, who looks like he is covered in a heavy, thick, amorphous black oil, but upon closer inspection, it looks more like a pool of worms. These worms shoot out of him like tentacles. A piece of the black spirit shoots out from Nago and strongly twirls, lightly grabbing Ashitaka's right arm. He pulls away. While a small amount of the sludge is on his arm, he is able to release an arrow into the monster's eye, killing him. After his first fight, as his arm rots, this wound glows and he needs help to heal it or else he will die. Find out how iron is killing the animals and see how Ashitaka helps save the forest while preventing his own death.


                
In a cinematic landscape inundated with sequels, reboots, and adaptations, it's refreshing to step back a decade or two and watch something wholly original and incredible. Princess Mononoke was Hayao Miyazaki's seventh feature film and remains the longest that he has directed. At 134 minutes long and with a story as grand as the world it depicts, Mononoke is far from the standard animated output of either the US or Japan. This one is violent. It is epic in the truest sense of the word. It shows us all the world in which we live, only completely different, and it does so brilliantly.We hear two distant drum blasts, and the film opens on vast, forest- covered mountains. Trees fall and plants die as a monster passes through the them. This, we learn, is an angry demon in the form of a giant boar, and it charges to attack a nearby settlement. Prince Ashitaka (Matsuda/Crudup) meets the monster outside of his village and defends his people from it, but not without sustaining a cursed injury. He must leave his village and head west to search for a cure.As he travels, he comes to Iron Town, which is under constant attack from the forest that it has been destroying. Leading this attack is San (Ishida/Danes), a human girl who was raised by a wolf deity and has vowed to kill the town's matriarch, Lady Eboshi (Tanaka/Driver). As the conflict escalates far beyond the town's mountain, Ashitaka must choose where his allegiances lies and how he can end the war.I consider this to be one of the few truly great, mainstream environmental films. Its treatment of the nuanced issues at hand is equally nuanced, and unlike the easy "nature good/people bad" moral of so many others, Mononoke is able to leave us with the message that there is a balance that must be maintained. Humanity will always develop and progress, but it must do so with the knowledge that our lives and our resources all depend on the world that we inhabit.This film pulls no punches. Limbs and heads are shot clean off, and hard questions don't get easy answers. Perhaps most challenging, though, is the character of Eboshi. She acts as the antagonist of the film but is benevolent toward those in her town, buying prostitutes out of nearby brothels and offering lepers employment and respect. She is destroying the environment surrounding her land but all for the sake of her people. The cultures and relationships depicted in Princess Mononoke are uncharacteristically real for a blockbuster release.Mononoke's animation is top-notch, even compared to Miyazaki's other works, as the landscapes, characters, and monsters are given incredible life and depth throughout. Joe Hisaishi's score is epic and has got to be among the greatest scores in an animated feature. The sound design as a whole is incredible; through it you can feel every arrow landing around you and smell the dust as it flies up from the feet of Ashitaka's elk. Princess Mononoke was supposed to be its director's last film, and while I am glad that he changed his mind, this would have made for a fine final work.


                
This haunting tale of two young hearts trapped in a world gone mad will linger long after you've turned off the TV.The art style is classic Ghibli: fluid movement, realistic proportions, a strong moral component and the traditional clash between noble protagonists and immoral antagonists.That said, it's also pretty dark. Mononoke Hime revels in scenes of wanton violence, involving severed limbs, decapitated heads, copious amounts of blood, and that old Japanese favourite, the orifice-probing tentacle. Perhaps the boldest aspect of the story is its lack of a clear victory for the hero. Resolution is achieved, but it comes at a terrible cost. The most powerful character—a nature god—is presented as benevolent, yet seems almost indifferent to the plight of the forest creatures that worship him. His goals are clear, but his methods are harsh. He shows no interest in evening the score between oppressor and oppressed; he simply seeks to restore the balance, without any regard for the price that others will pay. There is no sense of fairness here. The deer god is an wild spirit; an animist's god from the ancient times. He does not issue judgement; he simply does what needs to be done. 'Justice' is a luxury for the gods of theists.I rate Mononoke Hime at 29.97, which works out as an orifice-probing 9/10 on IMDb.
One of those movies you don't see every day, month or year. The story is simple, modest and at the same time, groundbreaking and epic for its mix of reality and fantasy (actually the premise is very similar to Nausicaa's). The characters are also very simple. However you can't help but sympathize with them, even with the antagonists, each one of them is unique, well developed and with its own fundamented and reasonable goal. The visuals are simply stunning, I will go and say: the best the 90's anime have seen. This movie will entertain you and make you think, there's a lot more to it than gods, demons, ecological messages, smooth and violent action sequences or beautiful emotional scenes. Watch how every character's action in this story can affect everyone and everything around them.


                
I think that princess mononoke is a fantastic piece of cinema, it is inventive and moving, and the animation is incredible.Basically, this is a story of a cursed young warrior trying to find a cure. A demon mark spreads over the boys arm and changes him, mentally and physically. The relationship between the people of the iron town, and the inhabitants of the forest show to the viewer that if we don't respect nature, then it will fight back, and we will not win. I think that this message holds up with the modern day attitude to nature, and will make viewers think about how we treat the earth, and how we can change our ways...


                
Don't really know where to begin , for me it was love from the first sight , the quality is just top-notch in every single way you look at it , well written story , characters with intimate depth that'll draw you weather you like it or not , the demon boar chasing Ashitaka scene never fails to amaze me , GOD i need a Yakul in my life , whichever animal it is except a smelly one :P.in short , this movie is my #1 Japanese anime movie so far & i doubt that it will be less than that.
Firstly, I was blown away by the character development in this story. It is surprisingly complex and intriguing. This movie will make you want to become vegan, stop over-consuming, and befriend wild animals; it's great. It's a truly motivating film that will compound the importance of eco-consciousness. The type of inter-connectivity with nature and reformation of society is exactly what humanity needs as our world is becoming more and more depleted.


                
From the title Princess Mononoke ,one may think that the movie's main center is around the story of a princess ,but in fact it is not. The movie Princess Mononoke follows the journey of a prince named Ashitaka as he leaves his homeland in search for the someone to reverse the curse he received. In comparison to many animated motion pictures this movie contains violent scenes. Although, these scenes are partnered with the voice of nonviolence and its aim is to achieve peace through understanding each other's perspective. By using this, the director and writer ,Hayao Miyazaki, brings to life his story with his excellent directing skills, making this one of the best animated motion pictures of all timeIn the first few minutes of the film the violence already begins. Ashitaka takes on a demon infested boar as it comes charging toward his town. As he is fending off the boar, his arm becomes burned, leading him to become cursed. This cursed arm protects him as he leaves town ,but does so by enchanting his arrow, causing him to decapitate enemies more than once throughout this film. Because of the humans' destruction to the forest, many of the stronger animals seek vengeance upon the humans. These animals such as the wolves lead by Moro, attack the humans and try to kill the leader of Irontown, Lady Eboshi. Throughout the film the violence escalates between the two sides and the corpses of some of the creatures are depicted. This violence, although strong at some points, is used show how violence can escalate into more violence.The violence pictured in the film is used to show how understanding each other can be more beneficial. Throughout the film both sides, the animals and the humans, constantly see each other through their own view lens. The humans are at first shown as the evil character in the film ,but as the movie begins to unfold reasons are made for both sides. Lady Eboshi destroyed the forest for land ,but had good intentions to use it for her people, while the animals care for the land and are just reacting to what the humans had done to it. Ashitaka is the one who acts as the mediator between both sides as he tries to stop them from attacking each other. He does not chose a side and is more interested in preventing other creatures from dying. In the end it shows how violence and seeking revenge can be destructive. This is shown when Okkoto, the boar spirit, leads his stampede of boars to attack the humans ,but is instead surprise attacked by the people. This allows the people a chance to follow his dying body to find the forest spirit and take it's head, causing the forest to be destroyed until the head was returned and the forest was reset. Hayao Miyazaki beautifully brings this complex story to life through his brilliant directing. Each character throughout the movie has life to it whether it is San ,the girl known as Princess Monoke, or a minor characters in the background. Body language in the characters are skillfully thought over as Yakul's feelings after the wolves begin attacking Ashitaka's body is shown. Yakul, a red elk creature, is shown trying to buck San off and even when San tries to get him to come over he paws at the ground in uncertainty. The small white spirits called kodama are also all given varying expressions as some would be appearing in different places. When each appeared they would be shown doing various things like tilting their head or carrying each other. The music choice and timing fits the action and dialogue, especially in the beginning when the monster is shown attacking the village. The music begins speeding up in apprehension and even changes as the monster comes closer to the people to show apprehension of a looming fear.Princess Mononoke is a beautiful movie about conflict that will take any viewer young or old away into it's world. It cautions the viewers of the movie about the effect of only understanding one view and teaches how learning about others reason can help to bring to a mutual understanding that is closer to peace. Each frame of careful constructed animation makes this movie not only one of the best animated movies in Japan ,but the best movie of all time.
9.2/10 I am one of the biggest fan of Miyazaki's work. This movie is also the one of the most interesting movie of his. I've watched this for more than 2 times, and what I've found out was that more and more I watch, more and more meanings I've found from this movie.After watching this, and while watching this I really had lots of thoughts of what is good and what is bad. In one person's view, something might be bad, but other might think that it is good. It had great lesson of people having different views of justice.This movie was very deep and really fun. It showed great views of human and animals. I really loved the ending of how everything that was destroyed recovered.The reason why this movie is one of my best movie is because it has great deep meaning behind just a kid movie. I guess this is the strongest skill of Miyazaki.I strongly recommend for people to watch this because I feel like there's lots to learn from here.


                
I just watched this for the first time recently, and I loved it! i had only seen one other Studio Ghibli film (Spirited Away), so I'm relatively new to their films. But because I loved this film so much, and Spirited Away is one of my all time favorites, I can't wait to watch some of their other work (already watched "My Neighbor Totoro", and i loved it).It has a great and original story, which i wont spoil anything from. I went in knowing nothing about it, and I think it's the best way to watch it. It also has some great characters, and a great settingThe movies is filled with tons of creative creatures, and the world they live in is equally as creative. All of this is boosted by the incredible animation. Studio Ghibli is known for their incredible animation, and this is no exception. If you're expecting some cheap, lazy animation, you will be pleasantly surprised. It was surprisingly violent, and the action was directed very well. Funny how an animated film has way better action than most action films today.In conclusion, Princess Mononoke is one of the best animated I've seen in years. It's fast paced and action-packed when it needs to, and it's slow paced and emotional when it needs to. It blends action, emotion and comedy very well, and you should definitely watch it.Highly recommended for fans of Animated films, or just well made films in general.9/10


                
It was beyond great and amazing...! And remembering that it's produced in 1997, it makes me honor and respect this movie even... even better. The characters are lovable and hateable, that's how characters in movie should be like. Some characters are just so "human" I want to slap them in the face, and by saying some, it already includes the good and bad characters. And the imperfection of the characters stance, that is another element that makes this movie works for me.The storyline is not a plain one character's problem which is typical and weak, it's a multi-sided one that makes you able to view everyone's "importance" in what they are doing and therefore understand the "why" in their actions.Without forgetting that, what I love most from this movie is the fact that it encourages people to love the environment and not being so greedy with our human's ambition, and it teaches us to understand that our prejudice about what we don't know sometimes is the thing that makes us do bad things, and it shows why people do some bad things and why war happens and... oh my, I can't arrange the right sentence of how great the movie is.Just watch it!!!
You really don't have to be into anime to appreciate some of the movies that the genre has to offer. Some of them are being simply so good and captivating that basically everybody should be able to get grabbed by it. And I feel that this is one of those movies, that is being a great blend of adventure and fairytale elements.It's really a movie that speaks to your imagination. It's set in a fantasy world, that still feels and looks a lot like our world and the movie is literally loaded with some great and impressive looking fantasy creatures, with the one even bigger and more amazing than the other. In essence this is a mankind versus nature type of movie, in which nature does a lot of fighting back! I can definitely see how "Avatar" got 'inspired' by this movie and it features some similar themes and at times also a similar type of atmosphere in it. And I should say though that I liked this movie far better than "Avatar"! The themes worked out better and were overall more effective and as a whole the story of this movie worked out more pleasantly.I should admit though that the movie can get quite hard to follow at times, will all of its things that are happening and characters that are in it. But this is a 'problem' I have with basically every anime and it very rarely ever ruins the movie experience for me, so it's no complaint or problem really. The movie has some great strong characters in it that can hold their own, amidst all of the great and powerful looking creatures in this movie. And there really are a whole bunch of characters in this movie but this never becomes anything distracting and the movie also never looses its focus. All thanks to some great storytelling skills of course, by Hayao Miyazaki.The animations are absolutely great looking and help to give the movie a great and effective fantasy atmosphere. What I also like about it is that's being such an easy thing to exaggerated things when your animation it, especially all of the action but everything in this movie feels 'real' and doesn't goes over-the-top with things, despite the presence of lots of fantasy elements and characters in it.Another thing worth mentioning is the musical score by Joe Hisaishi. Some great stuff!Whether you like anime or not, this is a great fantasy-adventure movie for everybody, everywhere!9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.nl/


                
Simply put, Mononoke Hime (or Princess Mononoke) is the best anime movie I have ever seen.Miyazaki creates a beautiful world where demons and gods walk the earth. The scenes are beautifully drawn and animated. The characters have good depth.Basically, it is Miyazaki at his best. This is his most intense film, and frankly, I thoroughly enjoyed it.Only criticisms are that a few scenes have annoyingly sparse dialog. Well, that may just be me.Anyhow, it is a must see.


                
This film may not be as fun as Sen to Chihiro no kamikakushi and Howl's Moving Castle, but it's still my favourite because of the great plot.The film started with the Prince who gets a curse from "boar king". He then leaves the village to find a cure for his curse. Coincidentally he arrives at a iron-mining town and later meets Princess Mononoke on animals' side in the war between animals and humans. At last, in revenge for the death of the boar king, the boar god starts the war.You'll see there's much Japanese mythical imagination throughout the film, but it may not be the kind of film for family as you won't find much or even any laughter in the film but the illustration of the devil, blood and wounds. Anyway, Miyazaki tries to remind us of the importance of environment protection. Humans' greed may get the life-taking deer god's revenge in return.The whole film runs very smoothly yet slowly, but what I like best is the whole theme and also the way it's presented. You'll just enjoy the film itself as a kind of imaginative story, or give it some more thoughts because it's not usual to find many in the industry comparable to the works Miyazaki produces.


                
Complex, simple, emotive, stark, bleak and truly brilliant, Miyazaki's Princess Mononoke is a work, not only of animated art, but truly a landmark in cinematic achievement. Miyazaki, first bit the conflicted notion of human nature versus Mother Earth in his 1986 work of Nausicaa of The Valley of The Wind and truly brought this issue to the fore in many a persons mind. Mononoke, is the defining glory, capsulating over ten years of thought and hard effort. It is intrinsically deep, and powerfully moving, with the notion and human sensibility of love, being the driving force, and, like in many a Miyazaki movie, is the answer to the problems. Compassion and understanding, key humanitarian traits, that we as a species often take for granted, and fail to utilise. After suffering infection and contracting a fatal disease from a dieing Shisigami, or demon, Ashitaka our films major protagonist, sets off on a journey to travel far to the west, leaving behind his native clan and position of prince to discover the source and cause of an old gods transformation into demon. Driven by determination and honesty his search brings him to Iron Town, and a sacred Forest, where he must view an on going feud with "unclouded eyes" and bring peace to a region, so fraught with hate and war. Paragraphic summaries, however, do not credit this film nearly enough. It is a landmark film, and while Akira alerted the world to the presence of anime, it was Mononoke that smashed through into the mainstream to enable this joyous art form to be enjoyed in the West. Princess Mononoke encapsulates the very essence of what it is that makes us human, yet Miyazaki understands there are two sides to every coin. He does not skirt over the issue, that we as a race have the ability to destroy, to act for our own selfish needs, instead he forces the issue, while concurrently highlighting that we also have potential. The ability to make things right, is buried deep within our psyche, it is intrinsic to humanity and the differential between us and animals. He shows if we cling onto our ethics and morees we shall prevail. A must for any fan cinema.


                
This film works like clockwork and is spotless as a silicon chip in a vacuum-sealed semiconductor lab. Granted it's not as epic as "Nausicaa", the superb action sequences, the terrific accompanying score by Joe Hisashi, and the gritty harshness of its dramatic themes made "Princess Mononoke" a much tighter package, as well as a more elaborated version of the message put forth in "Nausicaa." I understand that Miramax's distribution and marketing of the film up to this point has been rather low-key, but I hope somehow this film will reach enough people to make a change in the mindset of the American public. A note to parents, this is not "My Neighbor Totoro" or "Kiki's Delivery Service." There is some violence in "Princess Mononoke" which may startle younger audiences.


                
