Pulp western writer Holly Martins (Joseph Cotten) arrives in post-war Vienna to work for old friend Harry Lime (Orson Welles) but is told that Harry is dead. The city is divided under the control of the Allies. British Major Calloway (Trevor Howard) tells him that Harry was a criminal. He decides to investigate Harry's death. Anna Schmidt (Alida Valli) is Harry's girlfriend. Harry's friends Baron Kurtz and Popescu describe the accident but Holly is told by another that there was a third man.The best part of this movie is director Carol Reed. His camera work is amazing. The best scene for me is the balloon man. When he walks around the corner, it is the funniest and most shocking moment in the movie. Orson Welles is so tied into this movie but I don't find him threatening enough. He's more of a trickster. I would like Harry Lime to be scarier. Also Anna is an infuriating character. Overall, the story is fine. Joseph Cotten is great. The movie is a cinematic art work.


                
I found the musical score to be completely distracting on the movie. In my view, it was not matched at all well to the content and locale. It would have been more appropriate for a movie set in Hawaii or even in Spain, but not in Vienna. The guitar just doesn't work.


                
THE THIRD MAN is an effective piece of late '40s film noir, but in my opinion is a rather overrated one, accompanied as it is by a distracting zither score that some believe is the film's crowning achievement, aside from Robert Krasker's B&W photography. Joseph Cotten gives his usual low-key performance as the pulp writer who wants to track down what really happened to his friend, Harry Limes (Orson Welles) whom he suspects has met with foul play and Valli is similarly low-key in her role as Limes' lonely sweetheart. Trevor Howard is excellent as Major Calloway who tries to help both Cotten and Valli, warning both of the dangers they face.The B&W Oscar-winning photography of post-war Vienna is crisply detailed and shadowy in its display of virtually empty cobblestoned streets at night and the background score is unusual and sometimes even striking. But therein lies the trouble. Not all of the famous Anton Karas zither score seems appropriate for the on screen action, although whether this is intentional or not, I don't pretend to know. For me, much of the score works against the story instead of creating the proper amount of tension in the script, as atmospheric as the Austrian music is.If ever a story of post-war Vienna troubled by corrupt officials and black market thieves and murderers needed an orchestrated score by a Bernard Herrmann type of composer, this is it. Others have praised the zither score to the skies, but I'm of the firm opinion that "The Third Man Theme" itself is the high point of this particular score, effectively used every time the mysterious Orson Welles appears.His theme became enormously popular as "The Third Man Theme" and deserved its success as a single--but as others have observed, the rest of the zither score becomes a bit monotonous after awhile and plays against what is happening on screen instead of deepening the emotional impact of the story. In fact, there are times when it becomes distracting and even irritating.It's an interesting, almost semi-documentary kind of film from Carol Reed that has Welles appearing only toward the halfway point and then only briefly. He gives one of his better performances, more controlled, less florid than usual, although the film is carried chiefly by Cotten, Howard and Valli and some superb photography. The story is told in such a cold documentary manner that there is almost an air of detachment about connecting to any of the characters we are supposed to care about. In this respect, it is Trevor Howard's Major Calloway that comes across as the most likable and fully developed character in the story.Trivia note: The kitten seen in Valli's apartment and devoted to Harry Limes is not the same creature that rubs against him in the doorway scene, an obviously older cat. How did they think a sharp-eyed movie fan would not notice??


                
The Third Man is all sizzle and flimsy plot. The sizzle is impressive. The music, locations,dialog. The plot is little short of ridiculous. Characters are introduced and never heard from again("Baron" Kurtz, Popescu, Dr. Winkel). They are mostly red herrings. Hired thugs, out to kill, half-heartedly chase Holly Martins (Joseph Cotton)briefly and vanish from the plot. Who hired them? Why do they give up so easily? Certainly Holly is not hard to find. He keeps coming back to his hotel. A little boy, wandering alone at night, identifies Holly Martins as a murderer and there's a brief chase. It has next to nothing to do with the plot. Harry Lime (Orson Welles), after presumably trying to kill Holly,tells him he'll come whenever his friend calls. Master criminal, con man deluxe, cool cat that he is, Harry walks straight into the most obvious of traps. Anna Schmidt (Alida Valli)loves Harry Lime to the point where she can never love another man yet there's nothing lovable about Harry Lime. And so it goes a comic book story and characters with stunning illustrations within glossy book covers.
My Rating : 7/10Cinematographer Robert Krasker (who won an Academy Award for his work) sets the mood as Carol Reed shows us a man (Joseph Cotten) arriving in Vienna following WWII on an invite from his friend (Orson Welles), who he finds was killed in an accident shortly before his arrival. He investigates his "third man" theory. Writing too much will give away the film and I'm not about to do that. Just go watch it.


                
Based on C4 airing Jan 2002Great theme tune known to millions, desolate shell shocked Vienna, tilted camera angles, long shadows, all very atmospheric. Surprisingly the movie seems both fresh and dated at the same time, back in 1949 this must have been a revelation.Though Welles gets little screen time he steals the show, oh what might have been.7/10 well worth watching.


                
The negatives of this movie must be blinding!  "The Third Man" is as dark as it gets.  It is a very interesting experiment in Modernism.  Up is down and down is up.  "You've got everything upside down," one character says to another and in those five words we have the motivating idea of the movie. And, closely related, is the breakdown of the hero concept.  "The world doesn't make heroes," Orson Welles says.  Nevertheless, with an arguable amount of success, Holly Martins tries to be one.  This is part of what keeps "The Third Man" from being completely bleak.  Holly Martins search for "the truth" looks forward to that of Frank Bigelow, the protagonist of the next year's Noir classic "D.O.A."  Both men are sent hither and thither (amidst environments that range from the indifferent to the down-right unfriendly) to retrace the details of a crime whose trail of clue's is quickly growing cold.One of the most conspicuous aspects of the movie is the heavy use of canted camera angles.  Usually, camera techniques are lost on the average viewer, but you can't miss it in this one.  The average conversation bounces back between two characters, one with a thirty degree tilt to the left and the other with a thirty degree tilt to the right.  Simple but effective. 
And you can't miss that ubiquitous zither music.  Annoying: yes.  To be sure.  But, the fact that it doesn't really seem to ever fit the images gives "The Third Man" a surreal, exotic feel.  Nevertheless, I still think they could've gotten the feel and spared us a few of those annoying, manic tunes. Finally, Orson Welles, of course, is great.  His two most memorable scenes are the one with the kitten in the doorway and the ferris wheel scene.  In his first shot, Orson's cherubic, mischievous visage lets us know immediately the plot is getting thicker than a Sequoia. 
On the ferris wheel, Orson perfectly embodies that villainous archetype: the Rotten Bad Guy with the Great Lines.  Here he voices an idea that (while interesting, has been taken way too seriously):  "Nobody thinks in terms of human beings.  Governments don't.  Why should we?"  And Cotton's response (through the rest of the movie): "Well, I don't really know but I will anyway."  This is the response (never actually verbalized) that motivates every anti-hero hero from Sam Marlowe to Detective William Somerset (Morgan Freeman's character in Se7en).  Good answer!


                
Another gap finally filled in my viewing catalog! The mood and setting is almost everything in this classic of American writer Cotten tracing his childhood friend Welles in post-WW2 Vienna, with a wrap-up no one could've dreamed of. Starts slowly but builds surely into an enthralling and entertaining mystery thriller in the best Hitchcock tradition, with fine characters and striking noir photography. The climax in the sewers is impressive, but my favourite bit is the fantastic scene in the ferris wheel between Welles & Cotten!Now for my complaint: the music theme. I know it's famous because it stands out- but I seriously find it SO out of place in its la-di-da strut, that it wrecks the thriller mood, and I'm convinced this would have fared even better with a different score. Nonetheless- an essential cinematic staple, indeed.7 out of 10 from Ozjeppe


                
The Third ManReed's impressive tricks on hiding the trump card right under your nose has old magic and familiar structure hidden in there. And even though this uncertain shady streets follows a typical cat and mouse chase, unfortunately there seems to be very little skin in the game on terms of narration. And despite of the fact that the storyline suggests the inseparable chemistry between the lead characters, there is very little romance among the antics. Plummeting downwards by an immense pressure of almost overstuffed material, Reed seems to be in some sort of hurry to catch up the next act. In order to do so, it achieves a ferocious pace but doesn't quite glorifies the thrills and stakes of the circumstances.The makers could have easily milked out more cinema by savoring the concept and slowing down the procedure for a better effect. Nevertheless these minor complications can easily be leapt over by a gripping thriller that it maps out on screen. Welles as the ultimate flip of the act, has unfortunately a one dimension side of his to portray, and yet with spooky expressive performance, he sticks the landing. Cotten as the leader that we all follow, the victim, the protagonist, has fairly much wider room to factor in along with Valli's love angle.No matter how thought provoking and absorbing Reed's world is, it certainly is too mechanical to bubble up as a free spirit. There are too many strings tied for it to be independent of the traffic which at times holds it back; the semantics is the double edged sword, both productive and consuming. The donated blood and sweat of Reed pays off for his meticulous execution that still holds up after decades. The Third Man is the pre-war inquisitive concept that is held by an equally opposite competitive action.


                
Holly Martins a novelist comes to visit one of his friend Harry Lime, but later founds out that his friend died on that day only. Holly comes to know that no strangers were there when Harry Died in accident, which creates a doubt in his mind that whether it was an accident or a murder? From the Harry's porter he comes to know that there was a "third man", who was he? is the question Holly seeks in the movie. Later on some events unfolds in such a way forcing Holly to change his mind toward Harry. The movie is set up during the post war period, opening shots shows Vienna which has been destructed by the war. The most amazing thing about the movie is the camera work and the editing. The movie is of 1949, and by this it can be said that during that point of time people would have loved it, as the plot is so intriguing that you cannot leave your seat for once. Last but not the least the character of Anna Schmidt will make you love her more and more.
Really awesome shots. All the tilting lets you know something strange is going on, but I still fell asleep for 10 minutes. Not a superlative film, as has been said the soundtrack is annoying and the plot is stretched 10 minutes too long. Also I wouldn't really call it film noir, as Netflix does, nearly 75% of the film happens in well-lit interiors or daytime streets of Vienna and although we're ostensibly seeing the Viennese "underworld" in action, it's all a little too civilized (and British) to count as American film noir. All in all, worth a look if you like classics.One minor note, I recently watched Porter's "Laura" for a film class and this movie, which came out 4 or 5 years after "The Third Man" is clearly inspired somewhat by this one. A great B-movie that should have been A-list, check out "Laura" if you like "The Third Man" or vice versa.


                
While I regard the "Third Man" as artistic, very strongly so, in the sense of being "minimally graphically depicted, filled with memorable images and intelligently photographed,I disagree,for many reasons, with calling it more than very good. I review the film here because its artistic successes have been much imitated, as have elements of its storyline. The story of "The Third Man" can be stated simply. "A writer of genre westerns travels to Vienna to find his boyhood friend Harry Lime, at Lime's request. He discovers the man has recently died, a fact attested by several of Lime's friends. The local occupation force's leader, whom he seeks out to ask about the death, warns him to stay away from the case, that Lime was a thoroughly bad sort. Deciding to investigate the death and perhaps clear his friend's name, or at least prove the authorities were wrong about Lime, the writer becomes involved with Lime's girl friend, finds rumors of Lime's death were exaggerated, then must face a final crisis--what to do about the man." Acting in the film is decidedly uneven, I assert. As the writer, Joseph Cotten captures the man's psyche but he does not sound like a writer of westerns. As Lime, Orson Welles is understated, quirky, powerful at times and generally perhaps believable. Trevor Howard as the head of the authorities is not as strong as he soon will be in a series of 1950s triumphs, while Alida Valli as the girlfriend seems the best feature of the film, visually and professionally. Unfortunately, owing to the noir nature of the writer's central role--he cannot ask the police for help, since he is ignoring their assessment of Lime's bad character--and to his being a stranger in Vienna, the characters he meets remain intelligently defined but on the adventure level of types and acquaintances. Even Lime's friends cannot be individuated; so that the best scenes in the film, by my standards, occur when Cotten or Valli has something specific to do--she being questioned by police or he by literary overly-intellectual zealots, he chasing after her, or she telling him he does not understand his old friend. Lime ,at one point, revealing himself to the man he had sent for, defends his action in committing black market crimes; he famously likens the people (whose lives he is destroying) to "ants" he is stepping on, which is what people glimpsed from the top of a Ferris Wheel upon which he and the writer are riding look like from that remove.. The motive for Lime's needing to disappear after being found out as the perpetrator of a deadly dangerous fraud seems more real to the viewer, I claim, than does his idea that he might get away with such a crime for any length of time. This I found to be quite unconvincing. And it goes to the heart of three matters--why Lime sent for his old friend, what he thought he was doing and how convincing is the entire plot. But the shadow-haunted, textured B/W quality of the scenes filmed, the over-used but generally splendid Anton Karas' zither accompaniment and the artistry with which director Carol Reed has presented his story are the triumphs of the project. Credit for the artfulness belongs to cinematographer Robert Krasker, set decorator Darion Simoni, assistant director Guy Hamilton and others such as art director Joseph Bata, Ferdinand Bellan, Vincent Korda, John Haworth and James Sawyer.


                
This was a film I saw many years ago, and without a vivid memory of the film in its entirety, I felt another viewing was in order before I wrote any comments. It was probably over 25 years since I had seen The Third Man, which would mean I was under 18, and at that age, I was really more interested in films that provided surface entertainment, rather than social commentary or a visual impact.With that in mind, I wanted to absorb everything this film was reputed to contain. What I found was a film with tremendous cinematography, several extremely powerful images, and a few memorable exchanges of dialog. However, it was not able to create an overall mood of other films typical of the genre. This may be due to my dislike of the score, which interrupted the growth of tension or intrigue, rather than enhancing it. Overall, the acting was pedestrian.As a mild excuse, the copy of the film was poor, and the sound quality substandard. I would like to see this film again, in a theater if possible, but certainly, a better print couldn't hurt.


                
To say this film is very famous is kind of making a moot point--if you've heard of it, you've heard a lot about it, and most people who pay half attention to old movies have heard of it. It's a real classic, containing everything that makes movies great: great cinematography, great acting, and great story.In war torn Vienna, a pulp Western writer discovers that his friend has died in a suspicious accident. He decides to look into it and finds out that though all official reports say that two people carried the dead man away, a doorman at a local hotel saw three. Our hero decides to find out who that third man is, deciding that he's the key to finding out what really happened to his friend.This movie is pure film noir. The canted angles and chiaroscuro are set in relief against a war-torn cityscape that provides extra terrain for the shadows and chases that make film noir so exciting. The image of Orson Welles entering through a door has become an icon, and Carol Reed is very respected for auteur-ship of films like these.There's a discrepancy between the American and British cuts of this film. I'm not so sure what it is, but I saw the British cut and it was very good, so I'll imagine whatever the ten minutes were that were cut out of the American edit are probably important stuff. I don't know why this happens so often, but it's America for you.--PolarisDiB
This movie is considered one of the best Film-Noir movies. Shot in Black and White by Robert Krasker. Yes! It looks good, but the first hour of the film moves so slow. Only when Orson Welles's character Harry Lime appears (Which is 40 minutes to the end of the film), I started to feel the thrill of this film. Unfortunately, I don't know how, but I knew that the Third Man was Orson Welles, and that Harry Lime faked his death. Knowing that ruins the interest in the first hour of the plot, as the first hour is the investigation made by Holly Martins.The story of the Third Man reminds me of a short story by O. Henry called "After Twenty Years". Two friends meet after 20 years, and find out that their values are in conflict as one became a crook the other became a cop. The cop will meet the crook for the last time before sending him to prison. Unforgettable scenes: * The Old Clown walking with Ballons, casting a huge shadow over the street. Impressive! * The Sewer Scene is thrilling and fast paced. Wonderful! * The Ferris Wheel scene. I've actually been on the huge ferris wheel in Vienna at the Prater.
I don't know just what all the people sees in this movie. Personally, I liked Graham Greene's book very much, but when I saw this film I felt it was not at the level of the original story. Right from the start (we got a Rollo Martins who suddenly becomes Holly Martins, and so on), the characters, circumnstances, and general atmosphere are very different in the two versions. I would not ask for an exact copy, of course; adaptation for the big screen is not that. But I would have been pleased to see a GOOD adaptation. And personally, when I saw this one I felt the magic was gone.


                
Some of the mystery in this mystery film is very quickly spoiled early on with the application of simple logic. But aside from that I have further complaints about this classic. On the other hand, I can't say I didn't enjoy it either.What the story has going for it are some fairly interesting characters, some acted very well, and a nice mystery plot. More interesting are the relationships between some of the primary characters and the expected turn-about in character direction. I like that few of the characters are what we initially think they are and how their relationship to each other changes. There are also just a few really well done scenes that are still pretty memorable.One of the problems with this film is that it's not much of a mystery. It's not hard to figure out what's going on from the start, which sort of neutralizes a little of the suspense. Another issue is that it's not consistent. There are a number of really good scenes and there are a number of mediocre scenes. That's not to say it isn't interesting, and unless you're really focusing on the direction, you might not see it--I didn't until I was looking at it a second time.But those issues aren't too big. I suppose my biggest issue is that it feels like a popcorn movie. It doesn't have a potent "so what". You saw glimpses of important decisions that might have been made, but the story is so railroaded that you never really get a sense of you wanting the characters make decisions, but rather, just follow along. It's an enjoyable popcorn movie, mind you, but you never have to get invested in it.And so, I guess it was a letdown for me. The movie has a lot of esteem as a classic and such, and I think that led me to believe that it would be a particularly impressive movie. Rather, it just ends up being an enjoyable but rather simple mystery tale. I guess I prefer my movies a little less obvious. The zither music is a neat diversion though. 7/10.


                
This is a very good film, but it could have been better. The plot, while clever, is rather predictable. (I figured out who the Third Man was as soon as the Romanian guy denied there was a third man). Also, while Welles' brief performance is probably the finest of his career, Cotten's acting is rather flat and uninspired, making his character more one-dimensional than is really necessary. The cinematography is inspired, truly some of the finest to be found anywhere, but the editing is rather choppy. The movie deserves to be on the AFI 100 list for its contribution to cinematic history, as it is really the forerunner of the entire film noir genre, but on its sheer artistic merits it does not quite rank with Fantasia, Network, The Manchurian Candidate, and a number of other films AFI placed farther down on the list. However, on the whole The Third Man is certainly worth seeing--Welles' entrance (however predictable) and the superb ferris wheel sequence can make the film worthwhile all by themselves.


                
While this remains one of my favorite films, the choice of the actress "Valli" remains a major disappointment to me.She lacks any sort of expression throughout the entire film except for maybe, what, two scenes? Other than that, she holds the same expressionless sad puss throughout the entire picture. Good grief - couldn't they have found someone who could actually act?? They could have pulled someone off the street to "act" her part better.And apparently she really thought a lot of herself, based on her insistence that she be credited by one name only "Valli". How utterly precocious & vain, especially considering her complete lack of talent. Exactly who did she think she was - the next "Garbo", as she was supposedly promoted when this picture came out? This picture, while terrific, could have been so much more with a better actress - or actually, ANY actress - in the female lead.


                
Many people have recommended this movie very highly to me, and maybe I went in expecting too much. Don't get me wrong, this movie is the very definition of a noir, but that's also where it fails. I've tried to watch The Third Man from start to finish twice, and both times I ended up falling asleep and having to finish after my unexpected nap. For a crime movie, it isn't very exciting, and if you miss one or two bits of conversation the whole rest of the film will be confusing. Maybe noir just really isn't my thing, because I appreciated the lighting style and general cinematography, but I just couldn't seem to stay interested in the plot.
Actually, i didn't like the movie's music because it is not fit into the movie. And it wasn't even thrilling. But cinematography deserve the Oscar and last scene was so beautiful. It was really interesting because i think the movie's genre is comlicated i mean it haven't a clearly concept. It wasn't real crime movie, it wasn't a romantic movie, it wasn't definetely film-noir and thriller i gave up 7 but it even deserve to watch. i believe its all reason is the music choosen.
When this movie was released, there was a lot of classic noir. This film has the feel of the noir era only with bigger stars than films like The Narrow Margin for example. That is because we have Western script writers writing a film noir. It does work pretty well because of a talented cast. Orsen Welles plays Harry Lyme, a mysterious character who fakes his own death before Joseph Cotton (Holly Martin) arrives on the scene. It is then up to Martin to find out about Lymes life, yet he can not shake the feeling perhaps Lyme is not dead after all. There is a lot of support here that is very talented from Bernard Lee(see his support of 007 in Dr. No) to Trevor Howard (see Noel Cowards's Brief Encounter in 1945). Robert Brown, another Bond series regular, has an accredited role as a cop in the storm drain sequence.The storm drain chase at the end of this is the main highlight of the film. But prior to this, it is pretty much film noir. Carol Reed, the director of James Mason's Odd Man Out in 1947 seems to be the ideal director in this one. Reed gets a lot out of any cast, and that is not an exception here. His direction of this final chase of Lyme is nearly flawless.
I was not extremely impressed, finding this movie slightly overrated, but that is not to say that it wasn't a good movie. The storyline was interesting enough to keep you engaged (even with its plot holes and shaky justifications). The shadowy scenery of the dark cityscape (especially the shots in the sewers) was wonderful almost like a work of art as much of the film was. Even the opening credits were mesmerizing as strings on the zither vibrated to produce a catchy little tune. The main complaint I had was it seemed to lack intensity and engagement. The story was not dull, but the characters (or actors) were somewhat cold and lifeless which didn't create a very good emotional connection.


                
"The Third Man" is a mystery movie in which we have a novelist who travels to shadowy, postwar Vienna because of the death of one friend of him. When he arrives there though he finds himself trying to investigate the mysterious death of his old friend.I liked this movie because of the plot and even though it's an old movie it had a good storyline. Also the direction of Carol Reed was equally good. I have to admit that I did not expect to like this movie at first but after the first ten minutes of the movie I was surprised. About the interpretations, I have to say that I liked Joseph Cotten's who played the novelist Holly Martins and of course the beautiful Alida Valli who played as Anna Schmidt.Finally I have to say that "The Third Man" is a really good movie with nice plot and I believe that if you are a fan of mystery movies then this will be one of your favorite movies.


                
A Stunning, Atmospheric Film to look at with Dialog that Crackles and is Universally Considered one of the Best Films of all time. The Setting is Post War Vienna and the City's Landscape with Huge Sculptures and Bombed Out Buildings was Ripe for the Filming and Film it They did from Every Conceivable Angle and with Extreme Lighting Flourishes that make this a Favorite Among Film-Noir Fans.But there are Three Things in this Movie that are Intensely Irritating. So much so that it Balances all the Great Stuff, but Honestly and Objectively, make this only Above Average and a Very Different Film.The Music...Nothing but Oddball Zither and near Two Hours of it might have You Screaming in Pain or at the very Least Turning the Sound Off.The Woman...Constantly Moping about and Pining for Harry just gets Sad and Boring with Her relentless Drooping Demeanor and Praising the "God-Like" Lime. Her strong Rejection of Holly Martins in Virtually Every Scene as he Pants after Her like a Dog in Heat is just Embarrassing.The Foreign Language Without Subtitles...Unattractive People Speaking Non-English all the time that goes Undeciphered because it is not Subtitled is a Distraction that Demands the Highest of Tolerance. The Elderly Woman Wrapped in the Blanket Takes the Cake.Overall the Good Outweighs the Bad and it is a Film that is Essential Viewing for Anyone but the most Aloof Movie Goer because it is Rated so High and it is a Visual Treat and the Dialog (that is in English) can be Intriguing and Amusing. If You can Tolerate the Three Irritants above it can be Considered a Fine Film.


                
