This show always makes me laugh. I've been watching for almost my entire life....it was basically my childhood! This show has always been my favorite adult cartoon, and maybe even one of my all time favorite cartoons! All of the characters are likable in some way. This show was also a miracle for adult cartoons' reputation, along with Rick and Morty. While I feel like Family Guy isn't doing so well in its later seasons, along with the Simpsons, and American Dad has quite a couple of duds, I feel like South Park really stands out. South Park is also a very creative show. It has an art style that I've never seen before in a show. Also, it has such controversial jokes and plots that many adult shows wouldn't DARE to step into. If you enjoy controversial humor and hilarious shows, I'd highly recommend South Park. :)
South Park is probably the most misunderstood show in TV history.Sure, it does have fart jokes but what it has really involved into is a show that depicts a wide range of current events, pop cultures references, social problems through the lenses of a group of 10 year olds and all the wacky characters that surround them.The fact that the drawings are fairly simple also makes a lot of people shy away from it, but actually this show has a completely unique approach to several divisive or thought-provoking subjects. To name a few:'The Hobbit" looks at how photoshopped photos makes society expectations of a woman's body hard to reach and the amount of pressure it may put on little girls (whilst taking hilarious jabs at Kanye West and Kim Kardashian)"You're getting old" takes you over the nightmare that is feeling like you might be mentally older than you friends and that may make left outConsole Wars episodes dive into the consumerism involving Black Friday, video games and the world's obsession with Game of ThronesThese are all great episodes and I think the show if anything has aged well with time.The other brilliant thing about South Park is that because each episode gets produced in the span of week, it can be more up to date than any scripted show - just this season it referenced Kavanaugh nomination controversy in an episode even before he was eventually confirmed.Second 10/10 I have given on IMDb and South Park is well deserving of it.


                
I remember when these four little boys were nothing but private greeting card art. Now look at them!In all seriousness, I love this show. This is the funniest adult cartoon there is, and thank GOODNESS Comedy Central took this series and allowed the creators to do "almost" anything. If there was an alternate universe for "Peanuts", you've hit it in "South Park".There are very few (if none) episodes I didn't like. We all have our favorites, and my number one is still "Cartman Gets an Anal Probe". I laughed until I cried on that one. The next one that is very close to that is last years (2002) Christmas Special when Jesus was "packing" to rescue Santa out of Iraq after he was shot down. This was one of those episodes where I DARE you not to laugh and enjoy it.The supporting cast about South Park is also stellular. The lives (and minds) that intertwine with Stan, Cartman, Kenny and Kyle are just hilarious. Chef, Mr. Garrison. Kyles Mom and Dad, Cartman's Mother, Butters, Timmy!, Sherrif Bar Brady, Principal Victoria, Wendy, BeBe, and..Big Gay Al..etc....etc..you name it, they are just too much.Wonderful and ground-breaking (even though the animation isn't state of the art) nothing is out of bounds for these guys...South Park is an instant classic and a great time to be had by all.


                
I love this show so much! I think this show has sometimes lost it's edge, but it always managed to get back in the game.


                
South Park is a great cartoon, even with it's occasional pitfalls every season. It combines satire, music and comedy to create a terrific masterpiece of an animated show. Trey Parker and Matt Stone bring the weekly antics of a inbred mountain town in a way that has never been done before and it is drop dead funny. Sometimes it seems like the seasons get better, sometimes they seem to get worse for some. But episodes like "Chinpokomon", "The Passion of the Jew", "Tolerance Camp", and "Clubhouse" are classics. And most episodes get funnier every single time I see it and thanks to Comedy Central giving Parker and Stone full control for language, nothing is out of bounds.


                
I read in complete disbelief the comments that called the show racist, homophobic, anti-religious and even one that said it promoted animal cruelty. LOL! There isn't a single race, religion, political group, sexuality, gender, nationality, celebrity etc etc that it doesn't make fun of. The show even pops fun at itself in some episodes, signalling to the world that they themselves are open to ridicule. If you think the show has a nasty message about a certain group then your just not getting it and i'm glad you have ceased watching and have moved on to more brain numbing programmes that don't cause you to think (might I recommend 'Friends').


                
South Park Is the best TV show on Planet Earth. I actually think it's better than Rick and Morty. But, does it deserve a 10? 
When people who only watch Rick and Morty hear South Park, they think it's a very lazy and crude show (I will be ripping my friends' love for Rick and Morty to shreds). South park is actually the opposite, it is intelligent, funny and in some places heart warming and sad.
The characters are perfect, I love Cartman, Kenny, Stan, Butters, Randy and my personal favourite Kyle. The supporting cast are some of the most memorable characters, not as good as The Simpsons.
The episodes are some of the most memorable scenarios ever put on television. Hilarious episodes like the zip lining episode, unexpected episodes like the Christmas Critters episode, episodes exploiting people opinions and views on the world like "Chinpokemon" and "Passion of the Jew", very emotional episodes like "You're getting old" and my personal favourite episode "Raisins", very dark episodes like "Scott Tenerman must die" and the very important "Osama Bin Laden has Farty Pants". There's such a variety than Peter Griffin doing something stupid or a wacky Sci-Fi adventure with Rick and Morty.
The show has fallen. It's now a very boring show. But, instead of looking at the present, we have seasons 1-17 to rewatch. I have many respects to Stone and Parker for giving us a show that even my mother can love.


                
''South Park'' is the best television series of all time. It's hilarious and clever, while teaching valuable lessons and morals. It has social political commentary on current day event. The plots in each episodes are interesting, and the characters are funny and likable. Unfortunately, lots of people don't like it because of how inappropriate and vulgar it is, even though what ''South Park'' says in the show is completely accurate. Sadly, people won't learn to love ''South Park'' because they're sensitive to religious beliefs or vulnerable to dark humor. "South Park" is forever the best show ever created, and people need to learn to realize this.


                
South Park continues to excel as perhaps the best show on television( in my opinion at least). While the last few seasons hinted at a possible downtrend, the current season has been hilarious, smart, clever and downright enjoyable. Some people look at the show and they see the crude humor and the sometimes offensive positions taken by the characters. However, South Park is so much more than that. It tackles many different events that occur in the world in a smart and funny way. Matt Stone and Trey Parker always find the best way to parody the major events in the world. Everything they put into each episode is supposed to be there, even though it may seem offensive or disgusting. In order to truly appreciate South Park, you have to look past the obvious things, and look at the meaning behind the things that are said and the actions that the characters do; because when this happens, you see the true magic that makes South Park one of the best shows on television
Let's just go ahead and say it...South Park is the greatest comedy show in television history! Most people don't know what to make of this show. Most see a cartoon, hear kids speaking bad language...then get completely confused because most episodes actually include a coherent plot and a moral message. Because of this, the show has morphed into one of those shows where people absolutely love it -- or terribly hate it. Count me in as one of the ones who absolutely love it...this is my favorite comedy TV show. And my favorite 1/2 hour TV show. And my favorite Animated TV show! What gives "South Park" big points from me is actually how unique it is. Some would scoff at that comment, but seriously...name me one other show where Elementary school kids talk like they really do (dirty!). One where people shove food up their anuses and excrete it orally (haaa!). The day I see another TV show talk about the size of one's crap (and arguing whether or not it is a record) is the day I'll consider South Park typical! :) The seasons get better and better as they go...so if you haven't seen an episode yet, I suggest the newer ones. The first couple seasons seem terribly dated when watching them today. But the newer ones are fresh and very original.Along with "Real Time With Bill Maher", "South Park" is the best show on TV! JD


                
Although crude, abrasive and rough around the edges, Southpark is perhaps the greatest modern day political cartoon being made. I am continually surprised by how the creators write, create and air an episode within a few months of the event the are "discussing".The reason this show keeps me engaged is its ability to remain non-biased and illustrate the ridiculousness of the hype around the subject matter in the episodes. From smoking to racism to Scientology to Britany Spears, Trey Parker and Matt Stone find a way to get me to question subjects that I normally take at face value. At times they even make fun of themselves for the sake of proving a point. It seems that every time I get into a discussion about current events I can site and episode of Southpark to support my (or someones) point.I ask that no matter how terrible you think the show is, watch it and look past some of the obscene jokes and interpret/understand the underlying meaning in the show. I am surprised English teachers aren't more supportive of the show given the symbolic nature of most of their characters.


                
Americana par excellence. Big medicine to boot!
These guys really do deserve a medal..


                
Stone and Parker are brilliant maniacs, and they proof it during every season of South Park. Forget the lame animation, it's the writing that propels this show. Garbage like Family guy tries to be funny, South Park probably throws away jokes that show would love to have. No one gets a break. The rich, the poor, the right, the left, and so on. It's always topical and for the most, gut busting funny. Just a brilliant and funny show that rarely falls on it's face. Just a great show. Unless one is a PC fool, then just don't watch it.


                
Thankfully I bought the bluray of Seasons 1-5 on a dvd box set!. Totally worth $40 because this show is amazing! It's absolutely hilarious and entertaining with genius plots every episode. To most people it all seems like a typical dumb show like Family Guy and such but let me say this show is way more than just foul mouthed elementary school kids telling gross jokes. This show actually tackles real and very dark real life problems covered and hidden behind all the comedy that's emphasized. Political, religious debates are thrown in this show, as well as environmental issues and the way society is throughout the late 90s up to now. If you haven't seen this show...just watch it. And if you don't like it. Then you're still missing out.


                
I like some episodes of this show. South Park in recent years has been more about the town and it's other characters; not always just focused on the four young boys. Garrison seems to no-longer have in drama with his sexuality, gender or any drama for that matter; Liane id not really a sex manic at the moment. But certain things haven't changed; Cartman is a bigot that makes him the character who is he. Butter is always confused or curious. Stan is always righteous, Kenny seems to be Princess Kenny/Mytserion or whomever he wants to be, Kyle is still a Jew. So this show may go onto it's 20th season. Well let the twisted humor live on!


                
This is one of the wittiest television series. Characters are perfect. Voice for characters is so nice that it could not have been better. Eric Cartman bring totally unimaginable, humorous ideas. Butters, Stan, Kenny, Iyke all help bringing up taste to stories. I just love how they make fun of famous celebrities, TV series, movies etc. People might have issues with some of the stories and language used throughout, but if you like comedy with satire and some adult references you would enjoy this series.I liked the episode based on Warcraft game(season 10,episode 8), if you are going to start watching it you can start with this episode.Big applause for Trey Parker and Matt Stone the creators of South Park. They also have voiced many characters in the series.


                
When I was younger I never had any intentions to see this particular program. When my younger siblings would watch it I would shut it off and yell at them. I thought it was a stupid and immature show, boy was I wrong. To date I've seen probably around sixty of the episodes (I could be off), I own the movie and season 5. I only started watching the show a couple of months ago. You see I never watched it before, but late night at 1:30 in the morning on the FOX station where I live, this show is played and when you just get home from work and you want to watch something more that infomercials of TV, this was perfect. My sister and I watched it together and soon fell in love with it. The jokes are up to date and hilarious. The characters are the funniest and the show is all around an outstanding achievement. I have now come to realize that Matt Stone and Trey Parker are geniuses and I have now seem much of there work because of the brilliant show. It amazes me why I like this show because my movie and television favorites range immensely. My favorites shows are "Queer as Folk" (USA only), "CSI: Crime Scene Investigation", and of course my newly beloved "South Park". My favorite movies are the entire "Lord of the Rings" Trilogy, "Brokeback Mountain", and "South Park: Bigger, Longer, and Uncut". So if you are or were like me and too stubborn to watch to wonderful show, give it a chance I'm positive you'll love it.


                
South Park is the best. I love everything about it. The hilarious characters, the good animation, the excellent humor, and anything else about it that I haven't mentioned. Hence my name, you can tell I am a big fan of this show. I love all the episodes, especially the Imaginationland trilogy, made into a made for TV movie basically. The show is without a doubt one of my favorites, and I really don't care who knows it or not. South Park is great. The only episodes I really hated were "Stanley's Cup" and "Major Boobage", but the rest of the series is pure gold.10/10


                
When "South Park" first came out I ignored it and thought it was another passing fad for young kids. I never gave it a chance. I figured it was crude for the sake of being crude and didn't watch more than five minutes of an episode.Then I saw the movie, which I thought was just about one of the funniest things ever. "Uncle F***a" had me in tears. "Bigger Longer & Uncut" is one of the most consistently funny films I've ever seen, and even as a musical/animation it worked very well.So I gave the TV show another chance. I fell in love with it. I watch it much more now. Sure, it is very crude, sometimes a bit too much so. It's immature and juvenile. But it's also very clever.Trey and Matt get away with loads of stuff other people could never get away with on TV. I don't know how they keep pushing the boundaries. One episode of "South Park" had so much swearing, a profanity was outlawed from public television "indefinitely." Sometimes the gags are kind of lame because they are so juvenile, but for the most part it's really funny. Matt and Trey basically do all the voices including celebrity impersonations.I think this is a really clever, really self-satirical show that's sorely needed during times as restrictive as these. With "South Park" pushing the boundaries on public TV we can all sleep safely at night knowing our nation's level of tolerance is in good hands.


                
first off , Matt Stone and Trey Parker are geniuses . This show isn't afraid to go where other cartoons have ever gone before , and second all you people need to stop bagging on this show because the show is a F***ing masterpiece. I applaud Matt Stone and Trey Parker for having a set of balls


                
If I had to choose only one TV show to watch - it would be South Park. So far they haven't gone to the politically correct side and continue to make fun of fat people, ugly people, gays, transgenders, blacks, redheads, disabled people, deformed, poor people, immigrants, foreigners, midgets, religion, politics, you name it. And it is so refreshing!! I lay awake at night worrying that it will become PC. Some of the episodes are confusing and not so funny but for me it continues to be that rare beacon in a dark dark lackluster PC-riddled entertainment storm. And FYI - I'm a baby boomer - not a teenager.


                
This show is the best show in this world. I sincere thanks to the creators of this show. Superb comedy, superb music and superb plots. Eric cart-man is just dope. It is a MUST WATCH. I hope this show continues for years. To all those who haven't seen this show yet............Dude, why are you alive! just watch it online else u will miss the fun.This show is the best show in this world. I sincere thanks to the creators of this show. Superb comedy, superb music and superb plots. Eric is just dope. It is a MUST WATCH. I hope this show continues for years. To all those who haven't seen this show yet............Dude, why are you alive! just watch it online else u will miss the fun.


                
While many of the TV haters think of south park of a inappropriate immature show that is all about how vulgar and explicit we can be or how gross and how many fart jokes we can make which in that case they mistaken this show with family guy. Instead of the funniest and best written adult animated TV. Which is all about how kids act naturally aka when there is no adults around and if you ever been to a public school now a days it is way to accurate. South park also usually has its own message at the end For example It hits the fan a episode many people thought was just how many times can we use the s word uncensored on TV, but were wrong when the whole message of that episode was why are certain words different and offend people when other words don't and a very good point why is OK for TV dramas to curse and say curse words when a animated show wants to everyone flips out shown in this episode which features the s word 182 times.


                
I started watching this show a couple of years ago. The first episode I watched had the "Timmy" character as the main star (?). Of course - I immediately thought to myself, "Is there no shame<U+0085>is there?" I was also - laughing so hard, I could not stop crying. This is a show for those who have no political allegiance and were born with that rarest of attributes<U+0085>thick skin. If you like this kind of humor (and I do) the laughs are non-stop, cutting edge and always outrageous. If you are offended easily, watch something else. Maybe a show like 'Friends' is right up your alley. You will hear the same overly-clichéd and acceptable hard-left jabs at conservatives, which are all reinforced by the tiring sounds of obvious laugh-tracks. These guys (on South Park<U+0085>not Friends) are no one's lapdog. They dig at everyone and anything. Nobody is holier-than-thou and everyone wears a comedic target on their back. Because of this approach, I feel the show is more honest about its humor (much like, 'Saturday Night Live', was in the '70s), where nothing is sacred and nothing is expected. The big difference is that you don't have to wait the entire show for a laugh. The writers are not a bunch of Suzy-suck-ups and write on strictly impulse<U+0085>now that is courage. Additionally, I think each one their little animated characters are destined to become cult-heroes<U+0085>or not. Fun show and thanks for the laughs. I cannot wait to see the spin these guys put on 'The 2014 Sochi – Olympics."
This is-by miles, leaps and bounds-the funniest show I have ever seen. This is coming from someone who watches the simpsons, family guy, drawn together, robot chicken, chappelle's show, and mind of mencia on a regular basis. How Matt Parker and Trey Stone come up with this stuff is amazing. The stuttering kid Jimmy is alone enough reason to watch this outstanding show, and I don't think I need to tell you about the infamous Cartman. Watch this show whenever it is on- it is arguably the funniest show on TV today. Now that chappelle's show is defunct (temporarily) South Park is king of all comedy central shows. Nine years and STILL going strong. I hope it keeps it up until 2009, which is when I've heard it will end. But hopefully, it won't end even then.10/10. Freakin hilarious.


                
