The title of my review says it all. This show had great stories for over a decade and then they decided to get all silly and try to have a story arc every year. I have trouble watching an entire new episode now.


                
I love to watch the classic episodes of this show all the time. Because they are funny and cool, and Cartman's voice is my favorite, but in their later years they were still funny but not as funny as before.Pros: The characters are well designed, the jokes based on real celebrities are funny, and the parodies of other shows are also funny. I like how they always make it so that it isn't supposed to be real life based and something really crazy of unreal happens in every episode. I also like how in most of the episodes Kenny dies, that never gets old. Cons: In the later years Cartman's voice changed to a more serious style and that ticked me off. Also in the later years in the original production they would have bleeps in place of a character saying F--- or S---, but now they use words like that without bleeps and it crude and not funny. If you watch episodes on TV you might not notice that but when you watch it online you will. They will have a character saying (bleep)(bleep)(bleep)(bleep)etc on TV but you know if you want to see that online or on I-Tunes you will have to listen to F---,F---,F---,F--- without bleeps and nobody wants to hear that. They also might show a suggestive body part and have it blurred out or a black bar over it you may think "oh ha-ha thats funny they would not really show that on the show though", but if you think that you are dead wrong. So if you want to see the show at its funniest watch the censored version or the classic episodes.


                
First of all I must say scriptwriters of the south park is very brave.Because they can kidding every kind of religion and every kind of political idea.They don't care what other people said.They don't afraid of anybody and honestly it's so cool.And if we are talking about jokes in south park the truth is sometimes jokes could be very mature and about adult stuff.but except this things south park is very funny with Eric,Stan,Kyle and Kenny.If we are talking about the effects and vocalization actually we can't see fascinating effects in the series and you can't hear amazing voices.Songs which characters sang are awesome and funny.I'm really fanatic of this guys the series is almost same age with mewhatever I must go but if you didn't watch south park ever you need to watch it at least 1 time


                
I loved this show so much i have watched it 2 time from beginning to end of season 19 and enjoyed it every time.but it has changed so much since S20 it's like show's creators purposefully trying to make it bad or they are in a hurry to end the show.from good plot and good humor with complete relevance to the show's plot(usually people's issues and problems) to best facial expressions and voice and move subtleties , this show had every thing.it was both funny and serious at the same time so you wanted to pay attention to every word.now it is all yelling and repeating a joke over and over without a specific purpose.like Al Gore or manberpig.this was my personal opinion and i know many will not agree with me.sorry for my english speaking.
This show is truly the smartest shiw i've ever seen. it may seem dumb from the outside but if you truly watch the show with an open mind you will see the genius behind the show. if you turn on any episode in the middle of the episode, you will have no idea what's going on. the plot takes so many twists and turns in every episode.


                
Haven't seen "South Park" for at least 15 years. Took time to watch the entire series (277 episodes and 1 movie to date) and was very impressed with how it still holds up and challenges social standards and sociopolitical ideals with clever and often brutal satire. Some amazing episodes in there.This year I worked through all of "The Simpsons", "Futurama", "King of the Hill" and "South Park" episodes ever made and it is clear that "South Park" became the strongest contender for animated comedy and social relevance some time ago, mostly competing with "The Simpsons" for pole position. That show has lost the plot, grown stale as it nears 30 years, and appears to be winding down. "South Park", however, feels like it is still on the boil and could remain hot for many more years to come.


                
This is an animated sitcom set in a small town in Colorado. It centres on nine-year-olds and is a satire of various aspects of society. It's well-written, has interesting characters and is often very funny. It has been running since 1997 and its 20 seasons have 277 episodes in total. Many episodes are excellent - but as with any long-running series, some episodes are mediocre.


                
Cartman is funny but i hate him. half the time things turn out the way he predicts and that is really sick and messed up but sometimes it is so idiotic that it makes me laugh. However without Cartman there is no southpark. I like butters on the male characters. I also like Wendy but she is the only girl that I know. I hate Cartman's mom she's really stupid and annoying for enabling Cartman like that especially in Make Love, Not Warcraft while Cartman plays Cyber warcraft she allows him to take a dump in a bucket so that he doesn't leave the game. Also Randy is much worse. I hate him most of the time except in Medicinal Fried Chicken. Randy at his worst going undercover dressed like a female hooker and actually blows people. my favourite episode was 'Scot Tenorman must die', It is hilarious but shows Cartman as really dark and twisted but also clever. The best episode by far is "The Return of the Fellowship of the Ring to the Two Towers" the only thing that comes close is "Good Times with Weapons". other episodes worth mentioning are: The Death of Eric Cartman, Professor Chaos, Fishsticks, Whale Whores, , Coon vs. Coon and Friends including other episodes the kids superheroes in action. Faith Hilling, Sarcastaball and Game of thrones spoof trilogy where cartman meets people in the betrayal garden right before he betrays them. Also another special episode worth your time is 'Butters' Very Own Episode'. there are many more episodes cool episodes but when watching there is a limit to how much you can watch at a time due to the crudeness.
This show is pure comedy gold. Everyone takes one look at it and sees the silly animation and the foul mouth young kids and automatically assume its the dumbest show ever but on the contrary it is one of the smartest comedies on T.V. Trey Parker and Matt Stone are clearly very smart and very talented writers using hilarious satire in their episodes to laugh at the world.This show is about 4 foul mouth young boys who live in a small town in Colorado called South Park. They are always the source of crazy things happening and they always get into wacky and hilarious adventures.This show is one of the best comedies on T.V and one of the best shows on T.V period. It has been a bit of a disappointment lately though however because I think their earlier episodes were much funnier but I don't think thats because the guys have no ideas any more I think they are just getting old and lazy after 15 years of this show.


                
In times of mass media dominance and mind making machines forged by huge corporations it is quite important to have a counterparts challenging the created common standards.South Park may be obscene, politically incorrect, exaggerated or even perverted, but in the end is one thing: Honest! Frankly I don't agree with most of the ways certain issues are being dealt with in this show but I have to give credit for the fact that it delivers aspects worth looking at on a lot of topics. Matt Stone and Trey Parker dare to ask subtle questions which are truly worth being asked, and even more, they base a lot of their thoughts on important human emotions which have a justified reason to be explored. In a society of terrorism, (pseudo)-tolerated religions and homosexuality, racism, stupidity and mistrust towards governments all that people have left is objectivity. South Park doesn't just try to suggest an opinion, it goes even further, it presents both sides of the problem and leaves the opinion mostly to the viewer. This is precious in a lot ways, for one it offers choices, a point that should really be considered in times of an opinion controlled by the mass media. In another way it forces the audience to approach important issues from both colliding sides. Furthermore it dares, a fact that may chase many people away, but in the end it's those people who don't dare to confront themselves with the real issue itself. So in another way it distinguishes the cowards from the (real) brave.South Park sympathizes with the idea of self esteem, openness and thought, and by exaggerating it I believe they do a very good of illustrating those points. Let's face it, we are being lead by MTV, VH1, CNN and Fox News... People don't know who to trust anymore, all becomes a show of "who's more trustworthy?", a commercial, a campaign, a fake... Real intentions are being blurred by phony commitments and promises, so why not have a look on the side? This show may be very offensive to a lot of people, I respect that, but if people just let go of prejudices and fake beliefs, South Park offers a perfect interface for global cultural acceptance and understanding. In some way it's stupid, but on the other it tries to make you realize how stupid reality even is. Very interesting!


                
I'm not going to lie, South Park is one of my favourite shows on TV. It is testament to the talent of Parker and Stone that after all these years their show has remained just as funny, intelligent and completely up-to-date on serious issues. The last two season before this one may have been a little rough with many fans speculating that season 21 would be the last fully serialised season of the show as it appeared that the duo were not able to reach the highs of season 19 again.season 22 has brought new life in to the series however by managing to keep continuity with previous episodes while moving in a more episodic direction. The episodes themselves seem to have a theme about speaking out against something that is wrong and not allowing yourself to become bored and desensitised to the real issues, a topic that South Park is no stranger to covering. However this season also takes time to analyse the show itself form small fan complaints such as the mistreatment of Kenny in later seasons or the lack of episodes centring on the four main charters together to the much larger issues surrounding the shows contribution to the attitude of ignoring real issues.Season 22 still features the trademark gross-out humour of the show, the final two part episode featuring one of the more horrific scenes in the shows run, but manages to balance this with real subsistence that can spark proper debate if you are willing to hear them out. Just like ever other season of South Park a lot of people are going to hate it, this is the show where one character is a talking poo and another is a towel that is always high (both of which play a role in this season). But for fans that feel like the last few seasons have let them down or anyone that hasn't given the show a chance yet and has become bored of the repetitive nature of shows like The Simpsons or Family Guy this is a great place to pick up the show.


                
This show, not "The Daily Show," not Dave Chappelle or "The Colbert Report" or the putrid "Mad TV" reruns, IS the big money for Comedy Central; dare I say, it is the glue keeping this channel from falling apart. It is, coincidentally, also the funniest program.Matt and Trey have crafted a highly amusing adult cartoon that is always outrageous but also clever and original. These two men seem to have a keen eye into the minds of all humans, whether child or adult. Kids REALLY DO talk and behave like the Fab Four on "South Park," albeit probably in junior high rather than grammar school. Unlike other delicious gross-out cartoons, like "Ren and Stimpy" and "Beavis and Butthead," "South Park" does make an explicit and conspicuous attempt at satiric commentary. Unfortunately, this is Matt and Trey's weakness. They focus too much on news-of-the-week stories, with explicit messages parroted by one of the kids (usually Kyle). It gets old and preachy really fast. Still, while Matt and Trey try to shove their view of mankind down our throats, they at least make extremely funny jokes along the way, delivered by some of the most memorable characters in all of toondom (yes, I mean it!). I can say with a straight face that Eric Cartman is as durable a cartoon legend as Donald Duck or Homer Simpson; he is that much a symbol of the worst aspects of the human character, which Matt and Trey feel we all possess. Their messages are really preachy (which, unfortunately, keeps this show from being a flawless classic), but they exist in a well-developed milieu of misanthropic debauchery known as South Park, a stand-in for the foibles of mankind as well-cultivated as Dogpatch, Okeefonokee, or Springfield. With my academic horse manure out of the way (I have no idea what I just wrote), this show has stayed funny throughout the course of nearly ten years, something that cannot be said for "King of the Hill" or even "The Simpsons." Season Ten has retained much of the witty humor that has characterized some of the latter seasons of "South Park." Matt and Trey may be preachy, but I like this show because they also know how to have fun and enjoy themselves. While not lampooning mankind, these two jokers love to parody any show they enjoy on cable, such as "Dog the Bounty Hunter", the nanny shows, or any MTV show with hedonistic rappers or teenage girls. Couch potatoes and sociology professor alike can find something to love about "South Park." Please watch this very funny and smart show.


                
Around where I work I would sometimes hear my buddies talking about South Park. i would think to myself why would they want watch that? But then one night I was flipping through channels I found an episode of south park. Since there was nothing else on I decided to watch it. It was the episode called an elephant makes love to a pig. I cracked up at it. And soon I really got into the show! (When I watch something and like it I get into it) Every now and then there is a bad episode like the vampire one eat pray queef or the china one but usually the show is hilarious. My favorite episodes are Somalian Pirates we, fishsticks and the passion of the Jew


                
I've certainly seen South Park scenes that made me cringe and wonder if the childish or outright profane references are necessary. I don't think Parker and Stone write perfect humour, and occasionally they step over the line without positive effect.For the most part, though, the profanity is an integral part of the show's message. Sure, it might attract some viewers who simply enjoy the sheer grossness of the dialogue, but it also serves some important purposes. The profanity creates a context in which the other themes of the show are portrayed from a different standpoint than those taken by mainstream media (whether it be a simplification, division, criticism or a representation of multiple views on the issue). Many episodes combine a foul or "immature" theme with a popular current issue, setting up both plot lines as ridiculous. In the same vein, it mocks the common standard that everyday behaviour like violence, profane language, sexuality and even normal body functions are off-limits for display on television, and in doing so prepares the viewer for uncomfortable subjects.I don't think a cartoon that simply poked fun at the headline issues would do as well. It takes some additional creativity, and sometimes shock, to really draw in an audience, and South Park does it quite well.


                
I do like South Park without a doubt. I'm always entertained by the humour in it, more so I'm into the kind of humour in it just like I love the humour in other shows like Family Guy. I just adore the characters and the way they act or talk rudely, also there has been many episodes that made me laugh out loud.I just have to be honest with one thing. This show tends to go over the top sometimes. I mean, they get away with a lot of things that I doubt any other show would get away with. Family Guy gets unnecessary hate for being offensive, with less major things, but if they were shown on South Park, they wouldn't be considered as offensive. That's what I don't get (for example the fact that Jesus has appeared many times in FG, people thought it was offensive and blasphemous, but if it happened on SP, it wouldn't have been seen as offensive at all.) So what makes this show get away with more than it probably should? Don't get me wrong I don't get offended or butthurt easily like some people but it's just common sense. I do like this show a lot, but what is it that it gets away with a lot more than Family Guy, or in fact any show ever would? I'm focusing mainly on FG because it gets the most criticism. I just want to know this, sensibly. I'm not an easily offended person at all.


                
If you have a squeamish stomach and get very offended. Then this is not the show for you. As it has four boys with the faces of angels but the mouths of sailors.Still a show that is really enjoyable and really funny by Matt Stone and Trey Parker.As we follow the antics of Stan, Kyle, Cartman, and Kenny. As they live in the beautiful fictional CO town of South Park. As they watch TV shows and movies that they are not allowed to watch. And curse like sailors.It is seen from their point of view. Way before Seth McFarland and Adult Swim on CN, South Park started it all. As well as put Comedy Central on the map in 1997! Don't watch it as much as I used too but on occasion. Still very enjoyable and funny to watch!
