--If you have seen this movie please read on, if not Do NOT read, this contains many spoilers--The story idea is an interesting one, I do agree with that but, some of the dialog, and scenes are a bit far fetched. They fly to the others base, it's all burnt up a destroyed, they walk in unaware, of everything(no dialog),and then start asking where everyone is. The inside has so many holes in the walls its basically an ice cube tray, and the place looks like WW3 on the inside and out! They walk in calmly and "don't notice?!" the burnt corpse they walk right by. What an unrealistic scene. Then when they are reviewing the footage they retrieve from that lab, they are looking at a big shot of the middle of the arctic, with some snow cleared a large area of ice.. One character says, "looks like there is something buried under the ice"...Wow he has superman vision! The space ship, is buried about 100+ feet under the arctic ice(can any human see 100+ feet into ice, ever been ice fishing? well it's impossible.)and he some how manages to see it, it's ridiculous. Now for you people that actually raked this movie a 10! This is a question for you! They decide, to test the doctor's blood that is locked in the shed. They approach the door and: #1) The door is unlocked and no valid reason was ever given how the doctor opened the door, since it was pad locked from the outside. #2) they find that within 2 days he dug a huge tunnel under his shed, complete with a large area, and on the inside a 3/4 complete space ship... I mean seriously. How can a person/alien move that much snow in 2 days(watch The great escape(1962) this will explain how long it takes to move dirt), then escape your padlocked shed and have time to steal helicopter parts and build a 3/4 complete space ship? Not like those aliens moved extremely fast, it was completely unfeasible. Then the lights go out, (and I HATED this part) they realize the generator was down. Kurt russel says, "We are not going to make it out of here alive" ...um why? Can't fix the generator? Can't fly the helicopter(you are a pilot, if you forgot)? Cant get in one of the many snow machines and warm yourselfs up? ....BAD line! Just give up hope the second the generators down? No, you try to live,if anyway possible...so stupid. Last but not least this was made in 1982 so i realize, the special effects were kinda weak, but there are so many other problems with this film, it's amazing that people would rank this so high. There are A lot of other issues within this film as well, too many for me to list really. This movie is HIGHLY overrated (currently) ranked higher than Terminator, I mean come on, if your going to rate this make it your own opinion and don't follow what others think. Really, is this movie that good? Nope!5 - 10 Stars, and I am being extremely lenient.
An ultimately bland, dull, and pointless exercise. As slow moving as 'The Big Chill,' John Carpenter's version of Campbell's classic 'Who Goes There?' is more faithful to the monster but ultimately as thrilling as a term paper.While the Howard Hawks film re-wrote the monster into a simple marauding, though intelligent being, at least that film built a sense of menace and a hurtling momentum to its story. Carpenter's version is slow, talky, dull, and punctuated only by over-the-top silliness that shows his puerile obsession with gore-puppets. The 'paranoia' of people who may not be who they seem plays much better in 'Invasion of the Body Snatchers' or 'Planet of the Vampires,' or even in Campbell's own story. This version is simply so slow, the characters so stilted, the story so jumpy and plodding that the final act of the film is a relief, not an experience.


                
I've only seen one other film that affected me as badly, and as permanently - Pasolini's "Salo". There, the film was revolting for a reason. Here, it is just revolting, badly written, and badly acted. Nothing but pure shock and gore and the most repulsive special effects I've ever seen. No story, stupid characters, and patently ridiculous. There are ways to be frightened, but this is about as entertaining as mutilating yourself.I swore when I saw it back at its release that if John Carpenter had been in the lobby of the theater, I would have punched him for making me feel so thoroughly disgusted. That still holds true. Whatever else good he may have done, I have never been able to have any respect for Carpenter after seeing this. He has talent beyond doubt, but this film also shows that he has a heart of pure shlock.I truly hate this movie, and I wish I had never seen it.


                
The ending of this piece of trash ruined the entire movie, which, in itself was not that good. If you want to see the REAL "Thing", go watch the classic film from the 1950's. Now that one was scary and with a decent ending. John Carpenter may be great but, in my opinion, he totally missed it with this one and wasn't even close to the '50s version. In the original version, everyone in the theater, both kids and adults were on the edge of their seats and everyone was talking about the movie after they left the theater. This version started out much the same as the original one but deviated, dramatically, as it progressed. I saw the original as a kid and it scared the heck out of me. I even had nightmares about it that night. The only thing I might say about the original is that it was in black and white and it MAY have been better had it been in color, which was not that common back at that time. This one should have had a totally different title because it really was nothing compared to the 50's version. I've never understood why screen writers, producers,directors, etc. think they are better than the original. Boo-Hiss.


                
so i just rented this movie, I'm only 22 but being on the internet hearing so much about this horror movie "the thing", i knew that despite me hating bloody/gory movies, i was eventually gonna have to see it. well this is my take: sure it was creepy and pretty disturbing effects and the tension and paranoid feeling is OK (although done better in older scifi films like "body snatchers") but lets face it, this movie was and is a cult movie. no way this was ever going to be a mainstream film. and today, movies like this that are old and gross seem to be very popular in todays goth/punk culture of death, anyone notice? no wonder its got such a (highly undeserved) rating on IMDb! older movies from the 70's/80's that are known to be gross and twisted with those supremely gross special effects are actually more popular now then they were back then. i think its just a stupid trend and shows was perverted times were are living in. movies like the thing, army of darkness, Texas chainsaw massacre, Halloween etc (just look at all the new remakes!) are all more popular now then they were back in the day. and no greater example of this then the Thing. i think its just a really lame trend that needs to go away and fast! this movie was a onetime view and nothing more. certainly not something you can watch 20+ times unless your like a sick freak or something. seeing ppls heads getting torn apart and see poor innocent dogs getting brutally attacked by some idiot monster (guess there isn't intelligent life out there huh?) just isn't my idea of a good time at the movies. movies IMO are meant to make you feel good or if anything, have the good guy win in the end. but movies like this are dumb and depressing. i don't need real life fear in movies, unless i know the good guy is gonna kill the evil thing. i just think movies like this are too gross for there own good. i mean, you didn't see movies like this in the 1950's or even the 60's that much. pretty scary when you think that you can get away making disturbing movies like this, and they are even worse today! thanks to movies like the Thing and even Alien, we now have these insanely graphic gross-out movies by the ton. well, you can be sure i will never give them the time of day. I'm not a fan of ultra scifi cuz most of scifi tends to be creepy, gross and depressing with always a question to things. i don't like that, reminds me too much of real life. but there are some "alien" movies i really do enjoy, like Independence Day, Star Wars movies, Predator (which although it has SOME blood, its certainly not over the top gross like some of these others). but overall, not a big scifi fan, and the thing is just too gross for anyone IMO. only the most depraved of people would actually enjoy this kind of movie, along with the evil dead and other films of that ilk.


                
This is the worst movie I have ever seen. As Kurt Russell did in the movie....this film should be burned. The 50s version was much better. And the ending was terrible. I have never seen this before...and now I am sorry I did. This is a case of bad film making. If u are thinking of watching this movie....do not waste your time.


                
I watched this movie given that it ranks pretty solidly amidst the imdb top 250. I must admit that I am generally not a big fan of horror movies but as with all other genres, if the movie itself is good and delivers a good experience (e.g. Alien, Scream, Saw for horror, to name a few), I may like it. Entirely different is this movie. The effects are ok (probably quite good for the time), however, the story is completely relying on the shock effects derived from the way "the Thing" kills the crew. Otherwise, there is no atmosphere, no tension, NOTHING. Even despite Ennio Morricone being the composer of this movie, I am wondering if there is any scene where music is properly used or even creates tension. Overall for me quite a disappointment, I would have expected more from a movie rated that highly. An utterly awful and stupid movie, like most horror movies.
John Carpenter's The Thing is a movie that's mostly remembered for its disgusting special effects. Remove them, and the movie isn't all that special. It has some scary parts, but most of the time it just relies on lots of gore and cheap jump scares. The Thing is also a very boring movie. I had the same problem with Alien, nothing very interesting happens in between the monster scenes. I didn't care about the potty-mouthed characters in either movies. None of them are likable.***Warning, spoilers for the original Thing!***The original The Thing didn't need any gory effects to frighten people. It is one of those meaningful sci-fi/horror movies you rarely see these days. It has a message. Scientists shouldn't mess around with dangerous things (heh). Unlike the remake, the old version had a more optimistic ending. I miss stuff like that in modern horror movies. That a movie can be scary and still have a happy ending. Carpenter's movie is just meaningless and depressing. The Thing shows up, slaughters a lot of dogs and people, and in the end everyone (eventually) dies. Hooray! Just like in real life, right? Except for the part with the scary alien monster, of course.I don't think nihilistic crap like that is necessary in movies like this. I'm not saying that the movie should have ended with the monster turning out to be old man this or that, and with Kurt Russell winking and saying "Rooby Rooby Roo". But there should always be some glimmer of hope at the end of a movie. There's enough horrific stuff in the real world, can't we at least let the good guys win in the movies?
Very slow and talky. Acting is bad. You know acting is bad when actors stand around and every time someone says something they stair at each other. The whole film relies solely on the few scenes with the transformation of the alien creature, which are too gross to be scary. Why would an alien travel to Earth just to be buried under ice for 100.000 years and turn into grotesque monsters that are good for nothing? Additionally to being badly made, this movie is meaningless.


                
It was perfect casting for Kurt Russell in this movie as the dominant, laconic alpha male in amongst the nerdy scientists. The opening scene of the dog being shot at from the helicopter clues you in to the fact that this is a very disturbing movie. I do not care for the insipid dialog or plot line, with dogs and people tuning into disgusting, morphing monsters. I don't care for the plot twist of everyone the in the movie being suspected of possible contamination, in danger of becoming monsters themselves. The special effects were terrifying and excessively gory. I want to see different horror movies that are much more entertaining than this piece of crap.


                
