This could easily have been a Star Trek episode and have been wrapped up in half the time. If only they had a universal translator or spoke Norwegian! The Thing may have been state of the art in 1982, but it just looks cheap in the 21st century where we are used to awesome CGI effects.I cannot believe that these men are "researchers" – they seem more guys you would find in a police station, both the cops and the criminals. So, you can get high at the research station? And roller skate around it? Not very professional, indeed.Kurt Russell channels Escape from New York's Snake Plissken for John Carpenter who directed both films. How does Kurt's R.J. MacReady, who is the station's helicopter pilot, know everything and always have the right answer? MacReady wears the worst hat ever worn in the movies.Don't bother with this unbelievable farce.


                
Don't let the extremely high rating here on IMDb fool you, this movie does not deliver. It honestly did nothing but bore me the entire time. The movie starts off slow, and never really gets going. There's no character development with any of the characters sans Kurt Russell, and the movie relies on Gore & special effects for it's scares. Trust me when I say there's absolutely nothing suspenseful about this movie, and the paranoia theme doesn't work here. What we basically get is some shape shifting Alien that apparently was frozen for thousands of years, which apparently a group of Norwegians was able to carry to their base, which then escaped and started attacking the group of Americans. That's the plot right there. What it does is it basically stays hidden as a dog for a very long time, apparently not in the mood to make it's attack, and only gets caught because apparently the sounds of dogs barking annoys it enough. And let's not forget how the seemingly immortal Shape Shifting Alien dies in such a laughably easy manner. Kurt Russell and his crew spend the entire time burning it down, and yet it somehow still finds a way to survive, making it seemingly immortal. Then at the end Russell blows it up easily with a stick of dynamite, which for some reason he never thought of doing before. We also have no idea what happens to the Nauls character, as he just disappears into oblivion. Apparently his character wasn't needed anymore, so the makers of this film decided to get rid of him by sending the character to go investigate something he saw, even though the character Nauls knows there's an Alien out there waiting to take over his body. Honestly, what sense does that make? That part right there was very poorly written. As to the ending, it really makes no sense because it features Russell's character and Childs sitting there wondering if each one is possibly The Thing, despite Russell just recently killing it. And if either one was The Thing, why didn't it attack the other? Why sit there drinking whiskey with a human when you could easily finish him off? It makes no sense to me. Also, neither apparently care to leave the freezing area, apparently leaving us to believe they both just die there. Anyway, the only points I give this movie for is the special effects, and the atmosphere. The location of Antarctica was fantastic, and the special effects for it's time were astounding. Other then that, this movie is poorly written and really boring. Pass on it, 3/10.
John Carpenter's nightmarish variation on the well-regarded 1951 chiller "The Thing From Another World" features a colorless cast of macho dullards led by Kurt Russell who tangle with unseen enemy at an Antarctic outpost. Overloaded with gross-out special effects, the movie seems destined to appeal mainly to connoisseurs of splatter-cinema (and, in that regard, it was somewhat ahead of its time). Carpenter, working from a weak screenplay, does all he can to raise shudders with the minimal material, but his atmospherics are disappointing, as are the performances. Still, the outlandishness of the violence stays with one--it's memorably disgusting. *1/2 from ****


                
I made a huge mistake when renting 'The Thing'. Yes, it is a classic, but it just didn't fit my taste. First of all, I thought it would tell about a spirit, a ghost or something like that, but no, it was about a space creature! And god I hate space creature movies (except E.T.)! Especially this one. It was boring, though the idea was good and special effects too. But still, I didn't like it. Maybe it was the actors, maybe the directing... The dialogs were dull and stupid and the characters too. Only good thing about this film were the lovely Husky-dogs (which of course died during the movie...). So in one sentence: The Thing is a movie, that no-one who doesn't want to die because of boredness, shouldn't rent.


                
