Antarctica, winter 1982. The team on an American research base get surprised by a couple of mad Norwegians who is chasing a dog with a helicopter, trying to kill it. All the Norwegians are killed and the Americans are left with nothing, but a dog, a couple of bodies and questions. That's the beginning of the greatest horror/thriller film I've ever seen.From the very beginning all to the end you feel the tense, paranoid mood. Helpless and alone out in no-mans land. Ennio Morricone was nominated for a Razzie Award for his score. Why I don't know 'cause as far as I can see his score is simple, creepy and very good. It really gets you in the right mood.The acting is great! The best performance is probably given by the dog who's just amazing. As for Russell and the others on two legs I can say nothing less.You may think 1982 and special effects are not the most impressive? Well, think again! You haven't seen it all until you've seen this. Bodyparts falling off and creatures changing forms... Rob Bottin has done a great job witch today stands as a milestone is special effects makeup.The movie didn't get a big response when it first hit the big screen due to other alien films at the time and so it's not very well known. In fact you can almost consider it an unknown movie. Nobody I've asked have heard of it. However the movie has managed to survive for over twenty years as a cult film on video and DVD. Twenty years is a long time and except for the haircut the movie is still pretty much up to date. This movie is to be considered a classic.The movie is without doubt one of my, if not my favorite. I've seen it several times, but it's just as good as the first time I saw it. As a Norwegian the only thing I don't like about this movie is that MacReady keeps calling the Norwegians swedes!


                
This is one of the classic Guy films. Horror sci fi as it was meant to be - a real story with good acting. Giving us something missing from almost all horror movies - depth and character. Providing a much needed respite from the cardboard cut outs pasted and slashed throughout, that have been filling the genre for decades. Which has given this style of movie-making it's well deserved reputation and status - of being both Invalid and Not Art. Though John Carpenter himself has been one of the staunchest purveyors of such ilk, it is my humble opinion that he did well with this one, and maybe two others.One of the best uses of curious as a tool, it lures you in a bit unexpectedly with a somewhat whimsical, almost playful beginning. Rich in atmosphere, while stark in landscape - you find yourself as intrigued by the people as you are the monster. The remoteness of the region gives a true sense of the isolation of the real life McMurdo Sound Naval Station (as it was called when I was in the Navy) which is on the very southern tip of Ross Island in the Antarctic, and is the portal for all things going to the South Pole. I think now it's simply known as McMurdo Station, with the story taking place at a small satellite station outside (probably fictional), as McMurdo is mentioned in the film.Kurt Russell who started acting as a kid when I was a kid has never taken Hollywood too seriously, which I've always thought was pretty cool. He's done his share of trash films over the years, but there's been a handful of roles that have more than demonstrated his caliber as one of our great actors. His version of Wyatt Earp is by far the most recognized and almost as good as George C. Scott's Patton. I said almost. He's the center of a strong cast of seasoned actors with many recognizable faces and solid performances. I watched it last night with a good friend who had never seen it, and it was just as good as when I first saw it in the theater - almost 30 yeeeaaars ago. Add it to your library, you'll watch it many times . .


                
The movie opens to a frozen wasteland of Antarctica, as we spot the lonely figure of a dog fleeing from its pursuers. It's a bleak, unforgiving setting and a perfect opener to this movie. The Thing, based on John W. Campbell Jr.'s novella Who Goes There? is one of the finest horror movies ever made. In a way it reminds me a lot of Alien, another masterpiece of horror. They both have an isolated setting where no help will be forthcoming, they both feature an attack by an unknown alien entity and they both have unbelievably good special effects, the sheer brutality, goriness and impossibility of which are the stuff of nightmares.The Thing adds the fact that its alien is capable of assuming other shapes, and the movie evolves to a tense hide and seek game and as the pressure rises, the group of scientists and researchers starts to crack. It's an intense experience with long scenes of unbearable atmosphere followed by short bursts of soul-chilling terror facilitated by the special effects of one Rob Bottin, a master of his craft.It's a well-told story, ending on a perfect note that isn't too uplifting, but neither is it a complete downer. Easily one of the best endings to a horror film I've ever seen and the rest of the story is told equally as well. Perhaps my only nitpick is that some of the characters and their actors aren't as strong as, say, in the Alien. There's perhaps one or two too many for all of them to get enough screen time to really shine. On the other hand, some are really good, like Kurt Russell's MacReady or Wilford Brimley's Dr. Blair.This is a movie that every fan of horror owes to himself or herself to see at least once. Its special effects are so scary that I actually wouldn't recommend this to anyone who's prone to nightmares. They're not nice to look at, they're not pleasant and under no circumstances should any child ever see this film. It's that frightening, that good at what it does.


                
John Carpenter's brilliantly suspenseful flick is a great fusion of Sci-Fi and horror, adopting the classic body-swap theme and taking it to the extreme. A remake of the Howard Hawks produced 1951 original, Carpenter keeps the Cold-War themes of paranoia and trust as a backdrop of alien takeover and impending doom amidst madness and the isolation of the Antarctic setting. Carpenter's direction as always is excellent as his camera glides through the lonely world of the characters whose inhabitable environment is about to be corrupted by the primordial fear of body takeover. But here and much like the work of David Cronenberg, Carpenter doesn't hold back on the incident, as through some fantastic special effects we are witness to some insane moments of surreal gore. However, he never loses touch with the human side of the story, as in the face of everything shocking happening in front of us, we are left with perceived notions of trust and suspicion.9/10


                
On my mission to watch the IMDb top 250 I have only recently delved into the horror genre and I have been surprised in how much I have enjoyed them. I had watched Psycho (9/10) a while ago but in succession I have watched "The Shining" (10/10), "The Thing" (9/10) and "Alien" (7/10) in that order. One of the criticisms which annoys me greatly about "The Thing" is that is lends itself far too much on the success of "Alien". I don't think it lends itself to "Alien" at all and I hope to explain why this very similar film is superior. The characters and performances are spectacular from everyone involved and are the most three dimensional I have seen in such a large cast. In most horror films (including "Alien") not all of the characters need to be unique and relatable- especially the weaker, more expendable characters. In "The Thing" EVERY character is important, not just to increase the viewer's investment in the characters and their horrifying situation but the whole plot and concept of the film is dependent on it. The thing imitates other lifeforms so characters need to be fleshed out to make the thing as scary as it is in its ability to perfectly confuse the humans as to what it is. The paranoia, the sense of isolation, the sense of claustrophobia and the sense of innate fear is palpable at all times in the film by watching the genuinely enthralling events occur. There is great variety in terms of characters- even before the thing appears- which is incredibly interesting to see it develop. We see MacReady assume leadership and the doubts over it, we see Gary's leadership deteriorate, we see Blair's madness, we see Clark deal with constant accusations, we see Child's aggression and stubbornness. This is to acknowledge just a few of the more pertinent characters who have layers of depth as the film progresses. The unmentioned characters would be particularly notable if they were in any other horror film but they are even dwarfed by the main cast in "The Thing" showing how great it is. To say that "The Thing" copied "Alien" by having an alien attack an isolated large crew of relatable characters is wildly false- especially when this is a remake of the 1951 and adopted from a short story. Even if it is inspired by "Alien" it is superior to the film in terms of characters which is largely due to their unique situation of an alien that imitates your closest friends thus adding far more nuance to each individual. The film is far more tense that any film I have seen- including "Alien". There is a constant sense of threat because the people who you are friends with and depend on for survival in numbers include things which are trying to kill you. I don't know what's scarier; being in a group of people knowing that at least one is a thing waiting to kill you or being alone knowing that there is a thing out there who is trying to kill you but nobody is there to help. Its utter genius in my opinion and, again, far more nuanced than "Alien" where there is essentially just a predator in a spaceship who is trying to kill all of the crew- you feel safer in the group but not on your own which already cuts the fear factor in half. Then there is the fact that in "Alien" there is surprisingly little conflict between the humans and alien unless the people are alone and/or looking to come into contact with the alien. In fact there is little physical opposition to the "Alien"- nobody attacks the alien to test its strength unlike in "The Thing" where flamethrowers are used throughout. In "The Thing" there is a constant evolving and escalating situation; the humans defeat a thing and get the upper hand until another thing assimilates another human and shifts the balance. In alien its a predictable one-way street and the outcome is visible a mile away. In "The Thing" we see an incredibly good ending which is highly ambiguous and adds richly to the complexity of the film. The Thing in short is infinitely more complex and cerebral then "Alien". I haven't even mentioned Ennio Morricone's fantastic pulsating claustrophobic score which helps to heightens the tension. That being said the periods of silence in the film are also extremely welcome and effective. The use of practical effects in this film are simply phenomenal and, whilst alien has some good effects whenever the alien is present on the rare occasion, is far better than "Alien" or any contemporary. its a shame that we don't have practical effects like this anymore and rely too heavily on CGI- it so much less realistic. The direction is great from horror legend John Carpenter and, although this is my first film of his, I can't imagine that he has made a better film. In short this film is fantastic and needs to be seen, I am tempted to go back and give it a 10/10 but I'll save that decision until I venture onto my first reviewing.


                
What can I say? John Carpenter does it again! Wonderful movie about an Artic Expeditionary group trapped in the Artic with little time left to live. It all starts out with a helicopter chasing a wolf/husky through the glaciers shooting and throwing bombs at it. We soon learn that this dog is actually the carrier for some intergalactic "Thing" that can change into anything it touches, well attempts to in some cases. AEWSOME special effects and gore; I love gory films, and almost lost my cereal on this gem. I strongly recommend watching the Collectible Edition with some hour or more of added behind the scenes of the movie including the special effects. Kurt Russell does a wonderful job with his style of witty humor (pouring his whiskey into a computer's motherboard after he loses to it over a game of chess). His lead role really sets the mood for this movie's "entrapment" feeling.
The Thing is in my humble opinion maybe the greatest of all of Carpenter's films. It's great on so many levels, I'm having trouble deciding what I will start with.All right, first of all, the story is great. We follow a group of researchers, on expedition in Antarctica, far away from civilization. The thought of being helpless in freezing cold conditions without the chance of getting any help is disturbing enough. And as an extra layer of complexity, we have the paranoia and mind-bending element of who-can-I-trust?. Since the group is faced with a never-before seen threat that spreads like a virus no-one knows what to do or who to trust. And the longer times go, and the more of the crew gets tainted by the alien, the more the paranoia grows. I think essentially why I love this movie so much is because I always try and imagine myself in their situation. Would I panic? Would I turn into MacReady or would I become "the thing"? I get goose bumps just thinking about it.The score, for once not made by John Carpenter, is really really good. We usually hear Ennio Morricone's music in western movies, but he has done a tremendous job with the music to The Thing. Since the music is so essential to the feeling of a certain film, the composer has a crucial task upon him. Morricone made it with brilliance and finesse, and the mood of the picture hits you right at the first credits. Awesome!So the special effects might not be comparable with todays CGI technology. That doesn't matter, really, in my opinion. It's not only the realism in monsters that decide how good the scares are in all horror movies. Really good horror movies can always depend on the mood setting, the story and the (un)expectation from the viewer. And those things are all as good as they can be in The Thing. Also, the effects aren't bad to begin with, I just wanted to prove a point.The ending is fantastic. MacReady does the right thing, and ends the film being a hero. He knew his life (or any other's) couldn't be saved, but instead of crawling into a corner and cry like a little baby he did the only right thing. He went out and put an end to the whole thing by blowing up the place, leaving nothing but the bister winter to keep him company (and Childs who cared to show up some explosions too late). When the end credits roll I'm really impressed by this movie. It has me captured frame-by-frame all through the runtime every time I see it. The Thing undoubtedly has an important quality -- it makes you think and it makes you involved, and it makes you want to watch compellingly all the way to the end.


                
What fuels "The Thing" is a feeling more than an idea. After establishing the characters and the premise that any one of their colleagues could be an alien impersonator, the plot takes a predictable line, as character after character's humanity is tested. But what kept me engaged was feeling the need for a community. Kurt Russell's MacReady maps out the lay of the land for us, but then needs to determine who he can trust. Poor judgment here could be fatal. His methodology to determine who is human and who is not is simple, but we soon learn that the answer always changing. An ally now may try to kill you an hour later. A great theme given today's political struggle to accept refugees while faced with an attitude of xenophobia. Considering the "aliens-as-us" premise, Carpenter sketches out the characters well, and they are convincing, given the extreme circumstances of the story. Although the pre-CGI special effects may seem dated now, they are still effective and make your skin crawl. I recommend this to a new generation of moviegoers.


                
The Thing is directed by John Carpenter, has a screenplay by John Lancaster, is based on the novel Who Goes There? by John W. Campbell Jr, has music by Ennio Morricone and stars Kurt Russell, Richard Dysart, Keith David, Wilford Brimley, T.K Carter, Peter Maloney, Thomas G. Waites, Richard Masur, Joel Polis and Donald Moffatt.Carpenter's film is a remake of the 1951 film The Thing From Another World an adaptation of Campbell's story. The fifties film does an excellent job of portraying the isolation of the team and their fear but it lacks the terror and realistic special effects of this remake. The Thing is a bleak horror film, there is no happy ending to be found here and in places it is a tough film to watch.Antarctica, 1982 a Norwegian helicopter flies over an American science base. It becomes apparent that the two men on board are chasing after a husky that has run into the camp, they are shooting at it and trying to blow it up. The American commander thinking the base is being attacked kills one of the crew and the other is killed when the helicopter is blown up. It is not clear why they wanted to kill the husky and the team think they must have gone crazy from the isolation at their base. The husky is put in with the Americans dogs.The American's pilot MacReady (Kurt Russell)and the teams doctor Dr.Copper(Richard Dysart)fly to the neighbouring Norwegian science base and what they discover there terrifies them. The base is destroyed and they find some dead bodies including something that looks half human and half something else. They bring it back to the base and try and find out what it is. They conclude it's alien (a suspicion that's confirmed when they look at some tapes they found at the Norwegian base), these show that team digging a spaceship out from under the ice and recovering an alien from the craft.The husky that was being chased is the alien and has taken on the appearance of the husky. When it's in the kennels it transforms and tries to assimilate the other dogs into itself. That's prevented by the team when they hear the disturbance and then everyone comes to realise they are being threatened by an alien. The film really becomes scary when they realise that this thing could have assimilated one or more of them and someone in the team may not be human after all. The team no longer knows if they can trust one another or not and have to try and uncover the alien among them.The entire cast are superb especially Russell as the heroic Macready. Wilford Brimley is also memorable as the scientist who realises that the team can't in all good conscience leave the base because they could take the thing back to civilisation and it could infect the population.Ennio Morricone's chilling score that sounds like a heartbeat really adds to the horror atmosphere and the special effects help make the story realistic. As with Alien (1979)not using computer effects but physical things that the actors can interact with and that look real gives the film a realistic look. You get scared because what you're seeing looks so real.The films ambiguous ending and realistic effects have no doubt helped the film achieve the fame it has today and both are quite the talking point. The Thing is one of the best horror films ever made and is a must see.
This is the classic John Carpenter re-visitation/tribute to the original 'The Thing From Another World' which was adapted from John W. Campbell's book, 'Who Goes There?', and it begins like a slick and subtle action in the Antarctic movie just before it gradually develops into a spectacle of mind-blowing special effects and paranoid tension.Kurt Russell, Keith David and Wilford Brimley are among the occupants of a remote research station in the Antarctic when they discover the remains of an alien creature frozen in the ice that is able to assimilate any living organism by reproducing its cell-structure. This premise provides Carpenter with the perfect disposition to build an overwhelming sense of distrust, for anyone could possibly be 'The Thing', and Rob Bottin's make-up crew magically provides some of the most amazing creature effects that still haven't been matched to this day, making this one of the most ghastly science fiction movies ever made. Carpenter has a knack for creating music and tone that induces a feeling of uneasiness and dread, and the William Lancaster script focuses on suspense rather than dialog and characterization. The most memorable and terrifying scenes include; A dog that is actually the alien is abruptly stopped just as it is about to imitate the other dogs in the first scene where the creature shows itself, and not to forget to mention the infamous "spider head" scene which for many is the film's most gruesome highlight. This is one of the great films that forged itself timelessly from the world of nightmares and unknown horrors, and will remain as a major contribution to monster effects history.
Since the very beginning we all realize that is going to be a long and difficult winter for all the men of the research station in Antarctica. Besides the fact that must be really frustrating to be working in a station like that without your family and women, the winter looks even more difficult in part because now they can't make a communication with anybody so practically nobody will hear their screams. That cold and lonely environment is perfect for the story of this film, story of paranoia, human behaviour and unknown things. That aspect of the unknown things is brilliant, first everything starts with an unusual situation: a Norwegian helicopter is pursuing a Siberian husky, trying to kill it. Not knowing why that Norwegian went crazy shooting everywhere, the men of the station kill him and the dog stays there. And since then they start to investigate, first to know more about the Norwegian station and later to know more about a thing that was defrost. Of course thanks to their science skills they obtain great information about what was really the dog and how that thing is able to imitate other life forms. Now the paranoia begins with everybody trying to survive and not trusting in anybody. Here the best part of the film begins with that thing that could be anybody. Of course every team has a leader, here is RJ MacReady (Kurt Russell) who is the helicopter pilot and definitely the smartest and the only who still can think about a possible solution, also realizing that the thing is trying to survive just like them. The last part is just great with the "still humans" knowing that they are not going to survive but with the hope that they can take with them the thing. In the end the only thing they can do is to wait there for a little while<U+0085>see what happens."The Thing" was the first studio film made by Carpenter but it was released just after "E.T." back in 1982 and was a theatrical failure but definitely is a terrific film with many great visual scenes; of course the ones when the thing appears are my favourites. The cast is also pretty good with Russell in his best days, just after his escape from New York and now with more hair and beard ala Morrison. The rest of the team is good too and is odd that there aren't women in the entire cast.Conclusion: "The Thing" is just another great film of John Carpenter that gained more audience with the video, laser-disc and DVD releases. In these days when in America there is nothing but remakes of the classics, remakes of Asian films, prequels & sequels, mixes between two films and stuff, is almost a fact that another remake of a Carpenter film is coming. Now this film is probably going to be remade and if the thing will be just like in the past years, after seeing the remake where are going to re-watch this 1982 version just to take off the bad taste in our mouths. It's true that this film is also a remake but in this case is more faithful to the original story and is just great.Region 4 DVD: Although the box doesn't say this is the single-disc collector's edition of "The Thing". It contains many bonus materials: the really interesting and informative 80 minutes documentary "John Carpenter's The Thing: Terror Takes Shape" (the only problem with this documentary is that it doesn't contain Spanish subtitles), the classic director commentary also with Kurt Russell, Production Background with the description of settings and characters, photos of the cast, Production Art and Storyboards (great concept sketches), Location Design, Production Archives, Outtakes and two scenes(frame by frame and full motion), Post Production (cool photos of the premier and posters), Production Notes, Cast and Filmmakers, Theatrical trailer. THAT'S A DVD!
A helicopter chases a husky across the frozen landscape of Antarctica. The two Norwegians chasing the dog seem intent on killing it. The dog makes a bee-line for the American science station in what appears to be an attempt to seek safety. But is that really the dog's purpose? The Americans discover the dog's true mission only after it's too late.I'm almost embarrassed to admit that I hadn't seen The Thing since its initial theatrical run. Because so much of the movie had slowly slipped from my memory, I have never placed it on a "favorites" list (until now). In fact, I had forgotten more of the movie than I remembered. I can promise that I won't wait another 23 years for my third viewing. The Thing is a no-holds-barred journey though some of the best that sci-fi, horror, and action have to offer. The movie never lets up and rarely gives the viewer a chance to catch a breath.If you haven't seen this movie in a while (as I hadn't), the special effects will surely have stuck with you. They're gross, disturbing, and an excellent argument against the overuse of CGI in horror movies. Rob Bottin should have won an Academy Award for his special effects work on The Thing.But it takes more than effects and gore to make a "good" movie. It's the interaction between the characters and their real feelings of mistrust that elevates The Thing to the lofty status it has achieved. These are men who have worked together in extremely close quarters with little outside contact. Trust is important in this kind of atmosphere. But when it becomes clear that there may be a problem with various members of the group, they're quick to turn on one another to save their own necks. The paranoia is fascinating to watch.As far as I'm concerned, The Thing's ending is perfect. Too many movies attempt to spoon-feed viewers the answer to every question raised in the movie. The Thing leaves you with as many questions as it does answers. Good call, Carpenter! I only have one minor quibble with the movie and it's based as much on my recent viewing of The Thing from Another World as anything. Try as I might, I can't help compare the two movies. I would have really appreciated a better opportunity in The Thing to get to know who these men are. The characters can be described as paper thin. The 1951 movie was more character driven, and as a result, I cared more for the characters.
John Carpenter brings us this Brilliant remake of the thing from another world. An alien is found in the Antartic, frozen in time awaiting its chance to live again. It shape-shifts into whatever it kills and then it kills again.Carpenter achieves Horror in two ways, one is the very Graphic Alien Scenes, which are both Horrific and very Visual. The other method he uses is far more subtle and effective, he shows us into the Psyche of the Potential Victims, their Fear and Paranoia are captured wonderfully, creating some great moments of Suspense and Tension.The Cast all deliver good performances and Kurt Russell gives a performance that is very different to his all action Snake type role. He shows us that he really can act and he personifies carpenters ideas perfectly.Top Horror Sci/Fi 9/10
"Paranoia, paranoia, everybody's coming to get me!" Harvey Danger, Flagpole Sitta John Carpenter's "The Thing" is a remake of the 1950's classic science fiction movie where in his updated version, paranoia has never gotten so creepy. After his 1978 movie "Halloween" where horror pictures proved that evil will never die, Carpenter takes evil to a whole new game.Set in the Antarctica region where like "Alien," nobody would hear anybody scream, a group of researchers doing God-knows-what happen to stumble upon a Norwegian rifleman shooting at a dog where after the gunman is shot down, questions are being asked by the group including the no nonsense pilot R.J. MacReady (Kurt Russell) in which they see more what they bargain for.During the film after an attack scene involving an alien dog, the investigation group fears that something has hit them and will never get out. Paranoia leads to fear, fear leads to questioning and those seeking questions will finally have their answers.John Carpenter's The Thing is a "don't turn off the lights" movie where even during it's time despite the fact that E.T. hogged all the credits, it proves to be a classic thriller from icky special effects to make you either scream or shield your mouth to scenes that you'll remember in your nightmares.


                
Let me get this out of the way: I am not a biased fan of this movie. I did not grow up with it, I did not see it once, get scared, and then love it when I was older, and I did not watch it with any hype or weighted opinion whatsoever. I'm not really a John Carpenter fan. I am a hardcore horror fan who has seen the majority of what the genre has to offer. I am an adult, and I watched this last night, 9/17/08. I'm not sure it's possible to find an opinion that is more unbiased than mine when I say: The Thing rocked.First and foremost, the reason The Thing works is because it does not bash your over the head with a block of cheese, unlike most "classic" horror movies. Some of the effects are a bit outdated, despite what the lifetime fans would have you believe, but not so much as to look cheesy. At all. There is very little gore<U+0097>nothing that the average parent wouldn't let a 8-year-old see<U+0097>and the gore effects are also outdated, but it doesn't take away from the movie. I just found it downright refreshing to watch a movie that didn't try to kick me in the balls. I've watched so many ultra-gory movies lately, The Thing made me remember what it was like when movies didn't use gore to make the viewer feel like crap, but instead used gore as part of the actual story. It's the perfect movie to watch on a snowy night with your girlfriend/wife or your kids.The reason The Thing isn't cheesy is because it submerges you in atmosphere and suspense and mystery, then it punches you. The creatures are not generic whatsoever, and some of them are downright weirdly awesome. (Spider-head, anyone?) The plot is pretty generic, if you can even call it a plot at all. Here is one of the greatest movies of all time, and it does something that you wouldn't expect: it doesn't really have a plot. No, The Thing is true survival horror. There is nothing here except the desire to survive, and that is the only plot. The opening scene hints that the creatures are aliens, but, really, the movie never says much about their origins other than that. Watching this movie is almost like watching people in an arena try to survive<U+0097>you don't watch it for the story. What makes The Thing original and different from the other movies like it is the small details, like setting, the creature designs, the characters, the ending, and so on.People who get bored with this movie don't understand suspense. I can understand that, because in the generation that we live in, suspense is dead and buried. Suspense has been replaced with either (1) lame action, or (2) lame dialogue scenes that "build characters", even though the characters are pure clichés. Suspense is the feeling of "I know everyone is going to die . . ." that you get before anything happens. I can count the amount of movies that get suspense right on one hand, but The Thing honestly pulls it off. If you're a fan of suspense movies<U+0097>and no, I don't mean Wolf Creek, I mean like Alien<U+0097>I do not know why you haven't seen this movie already.Then there is one more thing I need to mention: The Thing isn't Alien. It never will be Alien. It is not quite as good as Alien, though it has more action. It is, however, the only movie I would ever mention in the same breath as Alien, because it does come very, very close.Overall: This is by far the best Carpenter movie I've seen, and one of the few movies I've ever seen that understands suspense. It's easily one of the best horror movies of all time, and I'm saying that as someone who find most "classic" horror movies pure cheese. Watch this movie. Watch it now.9/10


                
It's the antarctic, it's an American research centre and it's f**king cold outside. However, when a rival Norwegian research team turn up shooting at a dog, it looks like they've gone stir crazy and are put down for their own good. However as time progresses it becomes extremely apparent that they were very much in possession of their faculties and were not only fighting for their survival but for the survival of the human race.This is the start of John Carpenter's masterpiece (Rather then Halloween) and the film is made memorable for two things, first the effects, that never cease to amaze and dazzle the viewer in their complex and unending ability to shock, terrify and bemuse. Let's get something right that Spielberg recently had a bone with over the first three Indy films. matte paintings that look good are fine, CGI that looks like a play station game is not. The effects in this film are real, you know you're looking at something real and this makes for a film that is all the more unsettling.Next the acting and the script. In this film we feel the sweat and unpleasant camaraderie that people cooped up in this kind of environment feel. There are uneasy alliances and downright detestation of some people, they're not friends they're colleagues and it shares with Alien the distinction of putting these human relations in perfect transfer to the big screen. The script and acting make the effects real because you believe in how the people are with each other. Its ordinariness makes it real.For those of you who have not seen it watch past the first 30 minutes when you might think you're watching a kitchen sink drama in the Antarctic. Trust me, it's worth the wait.Nuff said Em


                
The easiest kind of horror these days are obviously cliché fests overloaden with cheap jump scares. All of which require little in the way of intelligent writing or cohesive storytelling. The Thing (1982) however, takes us back to a time when psychological and intelligent horror films were in abundance, and this is definitely one of the best in that regard.The Thing is undoubtedly one of the scariest movies ever made. There are very little cheap jumpscares, since The Thing focuses on the most difficult kind of horror to create; The psychological. The scare-factor in The Thing is simply because of the combination of excellent framing, eeriness in atmosphere and ofcourse the haunting soundtrack by Ennio Morricone. The extremely disturbing roar for 'The Thing' also contributes to the terrifying feel of it. All of these factors give the audience an uneasy and on-edge feeling that both enhances the tension significantly and creates a haunting atmospheric feeling. Ofcourse the practical effects ( Possibly the most discussed and praised aspect of The Thing ) are also a significant factor in the creation of actual fear and disgust throughout this film. When comparing these special effects to those of a later prequel, The Thing (2011), a painstakingly obvious verdict is that the latter's overuse of CGI really looks phony, ridiculous and not at all scary in any way. You could call the practical effects of The Thing (1982) absurd, and that is exactly what it was going for. The practical effects look disgusting, haunting and menacing. Besides which, the 'Thing' was shown far too often in said prequel, as opposed to the little screen time in this particular film, which significantly drains the tension as the psychological side of a largely unseen 'thing' is about the most intelligent feeling of unease one could get. That is why this is more than just a mere 'monster' flick, as the emphasis is on the tension and paranoia instead of the actual gore.As stated before, the original soundtrack by Ennio Morricone is an absolutely haunting piece that breathes fear ridden atmosphere like no other. A sense of hopelessness, paranoia, and a literal mimic of a human heartbeat are all present in the score. The opening scene of a helicopter attempting to shoot down a dog/wolf while Morricone's score is playing is quite possibly one of the most absorbing, haunting & beautiful opening scenes ever made.The acting is excellent, which is ofcourse a pretty rare thing in a horror film. There isn't a single weak performance visible, and a unique stand-out has to be the half dog, half wolf actor Jed. Never looking at the camera or crew, while maintaining this sense of alienism in him ( Especially the scene where he is first lead to the kennel, followed by his haunting wall-stare ), truly make it seem like this is the actual Dog-thing. Characterization is not as thorough and in depth as for example Alien (1979), but none of the characters are forgettable and each acts according to their personalities. Most of the characters are shown to be resourceful and intelligent, since they quickly figure out the Thing's intentions and origin, as opposed to the usual stereotypical horror dumb characters. There might not be much interesting in terms of the narrative itself, but The Thing's strength comes from the way that the situations themselves are filmed, and director John Carpenter purposely left a lot of key events off-screen, to feed the eager anticipation of the audience even more, and leaves us wondering, just like the characters, who to trust.With very little over the top exposition and a superb flow of visual storytelling ( Like the scene in which 'twoface' revives and assimilates someone, which is shown with a slight movement beforehand while blood starts dripping down, as opposed to ham fisted dialogue ), The Thing is indeed an intellectual piece of horror filmmaking, and Carpenter was ofcourse one of the best in the business at this regard. There is a lot of purposeful ambiguity ( Especially in the much discussed final scene ) which only enhances the paranoid and unknowing feel the audience receives.The Thing is one of the most frightening films ever created, and does this through superb direction and tension building, extremely disturbing and terrifying practical effects, but above all, the creation of paranoia and inner fear and mistrust. When you analyze the situation our characters are in, there are very little films that have a more terrifying premise, since this alien organism is disguising itself as a normal human being, and could be anybody next to you at any time. Thus it is definitely one of the greatest horror flicks ever created.


                
Childs: "I just cannot believe any of this voodoo bullshit."Palmer:"Childs, happens all the time, man. They're falling out of the skies like flies. Government knows all about it, right, Mac?" John Carpenter's The Thing really is something else and I can't even imagine how impressed I would've been if I was there to watch it when it came out. There's a reason why The Thing is praised by many critics and considered to be one of the best Horror movies ever. It's visually repulsive, in a good way, thanks to the isolated setting in Antarctica, fantastic make-up and practical effects. In fact, this may be my favourite Horror movie ever based on practical effects. Personally, I prefer practical effects over CGI. A good combination of both works as well. The Thing remains complete as both a Horror and Sci-Fi movie.Besides being eye candy, the paranoia caused between the researchers is something well executed. It's by no means deeply layered or complex. In fact, it's rather straightforward but just like the researchers you try to focus and pay attention to all the little details as you're trying to figure things out for yourself. Each scene made me wonder: "What would I do in this situation", which is something I happen to like. It's safe to say that there were no holds barred when it came to imagination. To top it all off, you have Kurt Russell, which takes a sip of his bottle of J&B every couple of minutes, and some cheesy but acceptable dialogue. The Thing will forever remain an iconic piece of work, no matter how much the movie industry transforms.


                
The Thing is one of the best horror movies, but it was a box office flop as the gore and bleak tone was too much for audiences at the time. The basic premise: an alien virus called The Thing infects people, assimilates their body and controls their mind. The Thing emulates the human in an uncanny way. It's up to the viewer to guess which of the people are innocent and which of the people have been turned into aliens.The first half-hour is slow by modern standards but it builds the setting well. The make-up artistry is superbly done to create terrifying moments. The tension between the characters and their mistrust of each other in this situation makes for some intense moments as the situation continually gets worse.


                
Carpenter is an outstanding horror-suspense director, but he simply outdid himself with "The Thing," crafting a horror film rarely touched by any other in intelligence or quality of the ensemble cast. The film truly captures the horror of Campbell's short story, light years ahead of the 50s version, while maintaining the same fearsome idea: that there could be things out there that will take us over, absorb us, and we would not even really know. It's a hysteria that drove many 50s science fiction flicks, but by the 1980s it could be reduced to its pure essence, without that heavy-handed "US vs. the Soviets" thing.When I saw this in the theater in 1982, I felt queasy several times during the film. Yes, as in "about to throw up." It was the uncanny realism of the special effects. It has been remarked that The Thing, and the special effects that embody it, are truly a living character in this film, and it is true. Rob Bottin, Stan Winston, Bill Sturgeon, and the makeup/creature crew did things that could never be done as realistically with CGI effect. And director Carpenter uncompromisingly selected only the best of it for the final cut, as anyone who has seen the "deleted scenes" can attest. Gone are any stop-motion animation or slightly imperfect scenes. The artistic triumvirate and its perfectionist director created the ultimate thing.The ensemble cast of characters, trapped in an Antarctic science station where a creature that absorbs all life forms in their own image gets them one by one, is amazingly good. Yes, Kurt Russell gets first billing and survives to the last, but every character, down to the Norwegian rifleman who tries to warn the Americans of their impending doom when a seemingly harmless husky trots their way, is perfectly cast and plays his perfect role in the grand scheme of things.The film scares, amuses, excites, spellbinds, disgusts, simply everything you could ask of a horror film. Every time I see it, I like it better despite knowing how every character will end, and how the web of dread, hopelessness and helplessness is cast to the bitter end by The Thing.
I have probably added +1 to my rating of this movie due to nostalgic reasons. I watched this movie when I was young and I loved it and remains to be one of my favorite horror movies. However, this is probably more an indictment on the horror genre in general, as it seems that not many great horror movies are made now-a-days.I love the setting and atmosphere of the movie as well as the storyline. Stuck in Antartica on a base with a handful of men and a deadly morphing alien that takes over your body which was dug out of the ice.Considering the age of the movie, the effects are OK. I can get past them...even the "spider head", which was quite horrifying to a 10 year old boy.Another thing I like about this movie was the absence of any pointless love affair. In fact the movie lacked females altogether, which seems to be quite rare in today's movies. In all honesty, I felt this added to the atmosphere of the movie.There are a few minor dumb dialog and plot decisions, but does not detract from the movie for me. One thing I found a little silly, was the ending with the alien managing to almost build a spaceship out of spare parts. Ummm.... A little illogical and far fetched, but I will forgive it.Overall if you like a good horror and have overlooked John Carpenter's The Thing, then it is very much worth your while to give it a look.
What can I say about John Carpenter's magnificent The Thing that has not been said already? It is a masterpiece of suspense, paranoia and dread. . Why does the film work so well you ask? The setup is standard stuff, establishing that the characters are isolated and can expect no help from the outside but it is the realization there could be an alien among them, and any one of them might not be human, is what launches The Thing into a spiral of escalating tension. The quest to identify the alien consumes about half the movie's running time, and includes several red herrings and the gripping blood test sequence in which MacReady uses a hot wire and samples of everyone's hemoglobin to clear some members of the crew and damn others. The final confrontation with the alien, despite providing the most grotesque special effect of the movie and allowing plenty of pyrotechnics, is anticlimactic. Then again, after the extended suspense of the middle section, it's hard to see how any resolution could rise to that level. This is great filmmaking and the Thing came during Carpentar's most fertile period as a filmmaker. Kurt Russell shines as do the rest of the all male cast. If you enjoy horror, suspense or thrills than this movie, more than thirty five years old is unmissable.


                
John Carpenter's "The Thing" presentation has aged like wine over the past 3 decades. One of many strong points foe the movie's presentation is how simple but effective the soindtrack really is. The movie starts with a wide shot of a vast snowy mountains and plainviews in the anarctic, and that synth beat just gives off a atmosphere that most horror movies fail to give. After a scene of a helicopter chasing a dog the film cuts to a group of American researchers in a base camp, it truley shows how these characters are far from help and society and close they are to danger. (It's like the characters in Alien being in space, letting the audience know that these characters are alone. Another horror sci-ci masterpiece)
After the Americans save the dog and themselves from being shot by a Norwegian researcher. They go out to investigate in the Norwegian campsite and find out that chaos caused the deaths of the other Norwegian reasearchers, but know what. The scene makes the viewer feel like they're there with characters by making the chaos of the campsite look believable. It makes viewer keep guessing and wondering if what happened and the mystery is excuted perfectly.
After the two researchers come back with two gruesome bodies that seemed to be intertwined with each other, they have the biologist disect it to find out if it give any details on what happened. The practical effects by Rob Bottin stay strong throughout the film and haven't age one bit. The visuals is masterful on every level, the gorgeous cinematography, the effective use of colors, to the realistic effects makes the movie even more impressive, being the fact that it was made more than 3 decades ago.
Before all the characters decide to go to sleep we see the dog enter one of the character's room. You the character petting the dog but it's only shown through shadow on the wall. This scene clearly shows someone was affected by "the thing" ( witch can imitate someone)but it doesn't reveal who exactly it was. John carpenter has even said that he used someone else that wasn't include in the cast to be the character shadow so it would be more mysterious on who affected first.
Because of this it keeps the viewer guessing who is and who isn't by "the thing".
The film does an amazing job presenting paranoia between the characters abd their conflicts.
The Thing one the most intense and smartest horror films I ever watched. It needs to be seen by every horror fan.
Forgive me for expressing my undying love for one of the best sci-fi horror flicks of all time. I (re)watched 'The Thing' for the umpteenth time today and my admiration towards the film and for all those behind it, has only augmented. Here are five reasons why the film will remain a cult-classic for the decades to come:1. The man himself. John Carpenter. Fresh off 'Halloween', 'The Fog' and 'Escape from New York' which were all commercial successes, Carpenter took over the reigns to direct his first studio picture – 'The Thing', which would be set in Antarctica and deal with a bunch of researchers who come in contact with an extra-terrestrial being. Unlike the one-massive-monstrous antagonist in Christian Nyby's 'The Thing from Another World', Carpenter wanted to present a more devout adaptation of the science fiction novella by John W Campbell Jr, and introduce a shape- shifting, human(or rather all living being)-assimilating alien. While this meant a lot of additional work, Carpenter seemed up for it. He shot the film in artificially frozen sets, and extensively applied practical FX to recreate the claustrophobic terror. However, the movie was a box-office failure, owing partly to the success of Spielberg's E.T and Ridley Scott's Blade Runner.2. Practical FX by Rob Bottin(A then 22 year old) Bottin worked on the sets of 'The Thing' for a year, a project he worked his butt off for, so much that he had to be treated for stress-relief afterwards. Bottin worked with concept artist Mike Ploog to design the various gruesome creatures, their transformations and assimilation phases that would take centrestage in the film. The creatures looked absolutely scary yet the suspension of disbelief while witnessing the set-pieces was kept minimal. The spider-creatures, the two-body assimilation, the defibrillator chest chomp, the dog-things, everything looked on- point and downright grotesque. What is indeed sad to notice is the fact that while the 2011 prequel starring Mary Elizabeth Winstead had also employed practical FX by Amalgamated Dynamics (ADI), they were almost completely replaced digitally with the application of subpar CGI. The irony here is, critics and audiences alike wrote off the 2011 film citing horrible CGI in place of practical FX. Even the 1982 film's FX were shunned by the critics at the time of its release. Some even went on to call it a moronic, B-grade slaughterhouse film that used stuff like rubber, foam latex, gelatin, creamed corn, mayonnaise, strawberry jam and KY jelly for its effects. However, when the movie eventually achieved its cult status, the effects work was slowly getting the appreciation it had always deserved (some uncredited work from Stan Winston too!).3. The minimal soundtrack by Ennio MorriconeThe minimal beat-and-eerie-tune compositions (especially the Main theme) make my hair stand up every time they start playing. 'The Thing' is also one of the rare instances where Carpenter himself hasn't composed the music. It was indeed satisfying to see Morricone win the Golden Globe and the Academy Award 33 years later for 'The Hateful Eight' which held so much similarity to his compositions in 'The Thing'. I'd rate the OST for 'The Thing' as one of my personal faves when it comes to music in film. An ironical fact is that Morricone was nominated for a Worst Musical Score Razzie. I wonder what those guys were even thinking (or smoking!).4. Kurt Russell (& to an extent, Keith David)Kurt Russell as helicopter pilot R J MacReady left the audiences with a character that was certainly going to be remembered for ages. He was a bold, quick decision-maker who did just about anything to survive. It is impossible to fathom another actor who could have pulled off MacReady so well. Fun-fact is that Kurt almost blew himself up while throwing a stick of dynamite in a scene towards the end of the movie. That climactic scene where MacReady and Childs (Keith David's character) finally sit down to share a scotch while they decide to wait out, is truly unforgettable. It is also notable that the cast comprised purely of men.5. Legacy – The prequel, the video-game, the comics, the theme-park attractions, the yearly screeningsIt took nearly 29 years to spawn another film set in the same universe (which ended up as a prequel detailing the events at the Norwegian camp mentioned in Carpenter's film), that was partially able to recreate the ambiance and narrative style but lacked memorable characterization and the replacement of CGI over practical effects made it look sluggish.The video game (that served as a sequel) received positive reviews and it was deemed an excellent showcase in survival horror. The 'trust' system was met with praise. Personally, I loved every bit of it.. the storyline, the voice-overs, the in-game mechanics, the seemingly impossible-to-defeat boss levels.Alan Dean Foster, Dark Horse Comics and Clarkesworld Magazine published comics based on 'The Thing' at different points in time, all contributing as off-screen prologues, additional material or simply as heritage for the film.Haunted attractions based on the film were featured at some of the theme parks in the U.S.A.It is indeed inspiring to hear that 'The Thing' is annually viewed by members of the winter crew at the Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station during the first evening of winter. It is also viewed by scientific personnel at the Summit Camp on the apex of the Greenland Ice Sheet.
It's a pleasure to review this movie as I have seen it so many times. Even more so, since recently I showed it to my 21 year old friend for the first time. Had you been there for the amount of "NOOOO", (Gasps), "WHAT" & "OH MY GOD" reactions, all of which left me in tears. It proves that John Carpenter's gross out remake of this 1950's Sci-Fi classic, continues to work its magic even today.Based on the short story "Who Goes There?" by John W. Campbell. A group of researchers in Antarctica, stumble across an alien life form at an abandoned post. You never fully see it, and it can assimilate its host whilst picking them off one by one. From there on tension rises, and trusts are tested. Leading to some of the most jaw dropping, gruesome creature effects ever committed to cinema.Watching this recently in the Blu-ray format, just shows how timeless this movie really is. Kurt Russell brings us an incredibly likable anti-hero, whose most prominent scene stealing moment is the legendary "Blood Test" scene. All this with Rob Bottin's spectacular creature effects, and Ennio Morricone's tense heart beating soundtrack paints "Antarctica" as if it was another planet (Actually frozen sound stages in Los Angeles, and British Columbia).Final Verdict: "Halloween" (1978) is a classic, but "The Thing" is John Carpenter's masterpiece. It continues to remain superior, regardless of any recent sequel-prequel homages. 9/10. Brilliant Sci-fi Horror.
