I will never forget the first time I saw Jaws. I was glued to the seat from start to finish. I jumped, I held my breath; this was one of the experiences that made me fall in love with movies. This was probably the first film where I completely forgot everything around me. I was there, in that boat, in that gloomy cabin, with those people - everything seemed so real (and alas, the sea never looked the same again). When I watch it these days I still marvel: the atmosphere and the performances in this film are simply magical. Spielberg without the schmalz. He has never been better.My vote: 10 out of 10Favorite films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/Lesser-known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget and B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/Favorite TV-Shows reviewed: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls075552387/


                
JAWS = Timeless Cinema.It's true, few movies tell a story better and in a more compelling way than JAWS - the original summer blockbuster, which was a world-wide smash-hit or "phenomenon" upon it's initial release in May of 1975. Forty-one years later it still stands as one of the best movies of all time and having seen it well over 100 times in the past 30 years, I can firmly attest to it's extreme longevity and at this point it would seem JAWS' ability to entertain me, myself and the masses is indefatigable. In other words: JAWS IS ETERNAL. An ageless, universally beloved masterpiece and due to the films great originality, it has always been easy for me to admire it.The films great cast of Roy Scheider, Richard Dreyfus, Robert Shaw, Lorraine Grey and Murray Hamilton really pull together here and throughout the film they play off each other beautifully, the cast exudes a type of "naturalistic chemistry" that's rarely attained in movies. That's one of the key reasons why JAWS is such a cohesive and enduring movie and if you haven't noticed over the years, all of the scenes in this movie gel perfectly, with not a single scene being wasted or without purpose. Deftly directed by a 27 year-old Steven Spielberg throughout the course of mid 1974 to early 1975, the production was a troubled one (primarily due to malfunctioning mechanical sharks) and the budget ballooned to several times it's original estimate, but as the film resoundingly shows they succeeded in creating a gripping masterpiece of cinema - that's often mimicked in one way or another, but has certainly never been bettered.Set in the fictitious locale of Amity Island (as most know, in actuality it was filmed in and around Martha's Vineyard Massachusetts) JAWS tells the story of a once-pleasant sea-side community, that suddenly finds itself being terrorized, by a huge Great White shark "That's a 20-footer... 25, 3-tons of em'" that's gone -rogue- and has staked a claim off the beaches of Amity Island. Naturally this causes confusion and commotion among the town folk, bounties are set, amateur shark-hunters recklessly take to the water and throughout the bloody-tension-filled affair, the towns various entities of local government are constantly clashing with each other; in other words lots of friction and stubborn, thick-headed resistance bubble up and the tension is at times so thick, you can cut it with a knife. Basically what it is, is enough people have to be eaten by the shark, before the mayor and his circle of cronies finally pull their heads out of the sand and come to the same obvious conclusion - that Martin Brody, the sharp-witted and instinctual sheriff had already concluded. So add governmental haranguing as yet another element weaved into this intricate, yet cohesive story.The film is bi-sected into two distinctly different acts, with the first half taking place mostly on the dry ground of Amity Island, with a few boating and swimming excursions, but still largely land-based. However, in the second half, we find ourselves adrift at sea aboard Quint's boat, for the remainder of the movie - which most would agree is the more exciting part. The role of the shark-hunter "Quint" is BRILLIANTLY played by the late-great Robert Shaw and is, by far, the films most-memorable and most-colorful character. Rarely is a film character so vividly well put together and as memorable as the cantankerous Quint, with his voice being the key reason; plus he has some mighty colorful "fisherman's tales" to tell, as you will find out. You can thank the numerous other "bigger names" that, for varying reasons, turned down that role of which there were several, with Charlton Heston and Robert Mitchum being just a couple of them. The action and excitement are all cranked up several notches in the latter half of the film, with much tension between the three ship mates, Brody, Matt Hooper (a marine biologist) and the ever-salty Quint. This iconic film concludes with what's literally "Smile you son-of-a!" an explosive finale! That which has long stood as one of cinema's most memorable, if not improbable, endings.The Music: As Steven Spielberg has said, the music of John Williams is half the movie and it easily ranks as one of the most memorable and effective film scores of all-time. A powerful and ingenious orchestral score, dripping with gloomy atmosphere and with much in the way of toothy serrated menace and of course JAWS has what's probably the best-known movie theme ever written. Williams' award-winning music for JAWS not only took his career to the next level, but in a very big way helped resuscitate a dying art-form; that of course being large-scale orchestral film scores, which had been in steady decline since the mid to late 1960's. Williams' score for Star Wars just two years later would yet further benefit that cause to even greater effect.On The Oscar Front: JAWS took home three Oscar's (for, best sound recording, best score and best film editing) and damn well should of had another or two, Best Picture being one of them.Ultimately JAWS stands as a grand and regal film classic - that only an idiot (or a heretic) would not like.......and yes, because of this movie and it's infinitely lesser sequels, I shudder at the mere thought of being in the ocean.**Update**: The wreck site of Quint's ship the U.S.S. Indianapolis was discovered on August 19th 2017, by a deep-sea search team lead by Microsoft billionaire Paul Allen 72 years after her infamous sinking. Her watery grave rests some 18,000 feet below the surface of the Philippine Sea.Thanks Paul, it's been a long time coming.
On the fictional New England resort island of Amity tourism is the main industry and each summer the beaches are backed with people hoping to swim in its beautiful waters<U+0085> the last thing the authorities want is news that a shark has killed somebody. When I girl disappears at sea it is first assumed she just drowned but when her body is found the Island's new Police Chief, Martin Brody, wants to close the beaches but the mayor is determined to keep them open and pressures the local doctor to certify that she was killed by a boat<U+0085> a second death, just off a crowded beach, causes a major panic and the mother of the victim offers a three thousand dollar reward to whoever catches the shark. This attracts everybody with a boat but doesn't impress local fisherman Quint, who demands $10,000, or shark expert Matt Hooper, who Brody invited to the island. After further deaths Brody, Quint and Hooper set of in Quint's boat, the Orca, to hunt down the great white shark that has been terrorising the island. Once they find the shark it becomes clear that catching it will not be easy.This iconic film has certainly stood the test of time and is as gripping as ever. The story is relatively simple without any real twists and that is one of its strengths. It is very much a film of two halves; the first land based as Brody tries to get the town authorities to take the shark seriously and the second out at sea as Brody, Quint and Hooper hunt down the shark. These three, brilliantly played by Roy Scheider, Robert Shaw and Richard Dreyfuss respectively, are great characters and the scenes between then on the boat are a delight; sometimes tense, sometimes funny and, when Quint tells the story of what happened when the USS Indianapolis was sunk positively chilling. The shark effects are pretty impressive, only in the final scenes does in took a bit rubbery; of course it helps that we aren't shown too much of the shark early on. The music, by John Williams, is great<U+0085> not just the famous 'shark theme' but also the other music. There are plenty of scary moments throughout the film; some at least as frightening as horror films largely because of its familiar setting and the fact that even though shark attacks are rare we all know that they do occasionally happen. Overall this is a great film that can be enjoyed by most people<U+0085> if you don't mind a few scares. It is a must see for anybody who enjoys classic movies.
Jaws is a movie the I grew up with, it's like the first real horror film I ever watched. What a great one to start with, right? This movie not only scarred me out of the water, I was afraid to go to the bathroom! I thought Jaws was going to pop up out of the toilet and bite my butt! :D I know it was silly, but that was how much Jaws effected me. I know also that it has not lost it's effect to this day. I'm questioning, because it seems like all the terrific horror films came out of the 70's.Jaws is based on the best seller book by Peter Benchley. Steven Spielberg, before he was STEVEN Spielberg turned this horrifying book and made it into a reason to hate sharks. He brilliantly took what could have been a cheesy movie and turned it into a classic that will never be forgotten. To this day, I still need a friend to hold onto, it's that score! Duh na... duh na.... dun dun dun dun.... Oh, my gosh, that music just scares the heck out of me! On such a low budget, Jaws not only turned into one of the greatest horror movies of all time, it turned into one of the greatest movies, period.Jaws starts off with one of the most terrifying scenes in horror movie cinema, a young pretty girl goes into the water and is brutally attacked and killed by an unknown creature in the water. The next day Chief Brody investigates suspecting a shark attack, and urges the mayor, Larry Vaughn, to shut down the beach, but afraid of a panic and less tourists, Larry ignores the chief's suggestions and keeps the beach open leading to another attack on a young boy. Brody calls in Matt Hooper, a marine scientist to see if they can find the shark. But when another attack ensues and almost kills Brody's young son, Michael, he, Matt, and a cocky man, Quint go out to find Jaws themselves.This turns into several of the greatest cinematic scenes of all time, like the "Indianapolis" speech brilliantly given by Quint, how he describes seeing his first shark was just so intense and you couldn't turn away from the screen. Then, one thing that is interesting about this movie, you do not see the shark until Brody is just chucking blood to attract the shark over his shoulder and Jaws appears roaring out of the water! "We're gonna need a bigger boat!" he replies to Quint. And then the scene where Jaws jumps onto the boat and Quint is trapped sliding into Jaw's, well, jaws! That's the scene that nightmares are made out of! Jaws is one of my favorite films of all time. It's one of those films that should never be missed, because it is so important. To many, including myself, the shark looks fake, but it's your imagination that gets with you. Spielberg embraced that and you could tell there was just something special about him. Jaws will scare you out of the water just like The Exorcist scared you to the church! 10/10


                
A man eating shark is terrorising the holiday island of Amity. Police chief Martin Brody, shark hunter Quint and marine biologist Matt Hooper set sail in the hope of killing the great white monster.Jaws is responsible for many things, it's responsible for propelling director Steven Spielberg's career into the stratosphere, it was responsible for a downturn in the package holiday trade, and it was responsible for shaping the summer blockbuster release practise's. There are many other things which one doesn't need to bore you with, it's just true to say that Jaws is firmly ensconced in movie history, if one hasn't seen it then one surely knows about it, it is, even today, part of popular culture.But is it any good? Is it worthy of a long standing reputation as one of the greatest monster movies of all time? Hell yes it is, one or two easily overlooked flaws aside, it busted the box office {world wide} and tapped into a primal fear that resides in the majority of mankind, the unseen that resides in the sea.Jaws sets out its marker right from the start with a truly shocking and attention grabbing opening sequence, from then on in Spielberg {learning from Hitchcock for sure} tweaks the tension to have the audience living on their nerves, even as character building {by way of Brody's family arc} sedates the pace, we just know that it's all relative to an extension of fear and terror that is around the next corner. After the first victims remains are found Brody glances out at the ocean, Spielberg perfectly framing the shot to say so much that we are about to be witness to. Jolts and shocks pop up from time to time to help build the unease whilst Spielberg makes the audience wait before we even see what it is that so coldly and efficiently destroys man, and then the claustrophobic switch as our brave protagonists are out at sea on Quint's boat, unaware that the giant menace is now hunting them, eyes as black as death itself.So many great scenes linger for all time in the memory, the entrance of Quint is a hum dinger, a mournful widow reducing Brody to a stunned realism, the Indianappolis monologue, the bigger boat! Just some of the reasons why I personally love cinema so much. The score from John Williams is as effective as any for the genre and Robert Hoyt's sound team's work furthers the dread unfolding. The cast are superb and uniformly excellent, casting aside technical problems {and genuine resentment at times} to portray this story with verve and genuine depth of feeling. Yet Roy Scheider {Brody}, Robert Shaw {Quint} and Richard Dreyfuss {Hooper} were from from original choices, Charlton Heston was wanted for the role of Brody, Sterling Hayden and Lee Marvin were both mooted for Quint, and John Voight was Spielberg's preferred choice for Hooper, whilst Jaws author {and co screen writer here} Peter Benchley was heading for the top by asking for Newman, Redford and McQueen!! Imagine that!Still it all turned out well in the end because Jaws stands the test of time as one of the best films of its type to have ever been made. No amount of complaining about continuity and a rough looking mechanical shark will ever dim its appeal, even as I revisited it recently for the hundredth time I still got tingles all over my body, file it along side King Kong in the pantheon of Monster Masterpieces, 10/10 always, now go enjoy your dip in the ocean.


                
I know what some of you may think, the shark looks fake, sure it does, but put yourself into the shoes of a movie-goer in the summer of 1975.Jaws is one of the greatest films ever made, not because of it's technical achievement at the time being, but because how Steven Spielberg, frankly took a far-fetched idea and made it scary. Jaws has a simple story of a twenty-five foot great white shark terrorizing civilians of Amity Island. Eventually, the town's chief of police(Roy Scheider), a marine biologist(Richard Dreyfuss), and a fisherman(Robert Shaw) are tasked to taking down the shark. The film was known for have technical difficulties with the animatronic shark, but that was a blessing in disguise. Because of this, Spielberg manages to create tension and fear among the audience because you don't see the shark at all. Leaving your imagination to do all the work. The opening scene is downright terrifying hearing the woman screaming in agony, being dragged around by a shark we cannot see. Also the use of barrels was a stroke of genus by Spielberg and his team as it implied that the shark was near or present. What really makes this film work are the three leads. They share an impeccable chemistry between each other. Brody is a paranoid police chief, effectively portrayed by the great Roy Scheider, Richard Dreyfuss is hilarious as the wisecracking marine biologist Matt Hooper, who frequently butt heads with the rough and tough fisherman Quint, brilliantly portrayed by Robert Shaw. The three leads make these character believable and so the audience can go on a real journey with them. I cannot see this film without Steven Spielberg. In the end he put all this together, with no script, no crew, technical malfunctions, and scrutiny. How Spielberg managed to pull this movie off under massive pressure is beyond me. It's a testament on how great he is. Give credit to the writers Peter Benchley, Carl Gottlieb, and uncredited writer Howard Sackler for providing the film's story and sharp dialog. Who can also forget the incredible score by John Williams. Outstanding. Along with Star Wars, Jaws was pivotal in establishing the modern Hollywood business model, and the start of the blockbuster trend. 10/10
Widely regarded as the film that began the "summer movie blockbuster era", JAWS (1975) was also rightfully one of the year's most critically acclaimed movies. It was also the recipient of an Academy Award Nomination for Best Picture and a winner of Oscars for film editing (Verna Fields) and music score (John Williams).  One of the reasons the film received no acting nods is that everyone involved is so good, how could one single out just one or two? (I personally feel Robert Shaw should have gotten a Best Actor nomination, however). Roy Scheider is wonderful as New York cop Martin Brody, who has relocated to a small coastal island town, only to have his bad case of "aquaphobia" put to the ultimate test. Richard Dreyfuss is perfectly cast as a shark expert and provides some truly funny comic bits along the way. Lorraine Gary (who director Steven Spielberg says was the first person to be cast for the film) does an excellent job of being the concerned wife and mother. Finally, there's Murray Hamilton, who gives one of the best performances of his career as Mayor Vaughn, who seems to be more concerned about the economy of the town than the safety of the residents. In a way, Vaughn is really the film's villain. Solid cast indeed. The screenplay (by Peter Benchley and Carl Gottlieb) is tight and well-written, as is Spielberg's direction. Whether it was the mechanical shark's failure to operate correctly or Spielberg's decision to simply see less of the shark until the end of the film, the "less is more" idea works perfectly, particularly in the opening scene, which is chilling to this day.One thing I do want to add: if you choose to watch this film at home, do yourself a favor and rent or buy the WIDESCREEN version. The full-screen pan and scan version is a travesty that ruins the great camerawork that Spielberg and cameraman Bill Butler made. I always recommend the widescreen version but it is especially important for JAWS.No offense to fans of ONE FLEW OVER THE CUCKOO'S NEST, but this is the film that should have taken home the Oscar gold. Grade:  A+


                
In My Opinion, This movie does what it should do.. keep you glued to the screen, gripping the arms of your loved one or sofa and 100% re-watchable. I grew up on this movie and book, And can say without a shadow of a doubt, Steven Spielberg did indeed make a classic, not only that he set the path for other amazing movies by other amazing directors, proving 'Young Talent' should be given a chance, as he was... He choose the right cast members, the right scene locations, an amazing and truly epic composer in John Williams and made us all remember that iconic music. its had its critics and its 'Follow Up' movies but to me there is not one scene or moment I would change in Jaws. it is exactly what it was intended to be.. a Summer blockbuster, To scare you into keeping out of the water and in your cinema seat


                
Synopsis: A police chief of a popular summer retreat island finds the tourist season in jeopardy when a great white shark attacks. With the mayor pressuring him to keep the beaches open for financial reasons, he teams up with a marine scientist and a certifiable fisherman to hunt the beast. My Take: Is there a better horror film out there? I say no. This movie has it all, jumps, tears, laughter, and (most importantly) tension. Spielberg proved out of the gate that he knows where all of your strings are and that he can pluck any single one at will. What makes this film so incredible isn't the shark at all. It's the people. They are real three dimensional characters who share our fears and feelings. A simple example being when one mother walks up, slaps the police chief and sobs, "My boy is dead. I wanted you to know that." Recommendation: I would also recommend Spielberg's made for T.V. movie Duel.


                
When I first saw the film, "Jaws" I was immediately frightened by the unseen terror that pulls the human psychosis to the depths of the ocean...literally! Steven Spielberg had made himself the most successful director of all time when he went all out with this one! Running to the back of the house and turning all the lights on were just a few things I resorted to after watching the opening for the first time!!! I Never watched anymore of it until 1-3 years later. I was highly hesitant because to a young child, a skinny dippers suffering to the wrath of the giant unknown mouth was the most horrifying sequence in film history at the time...and it still is now! Once I finally got the courage to view the film, I was still in for a lot of surprises. The cinematography is superb in its ruthless attempt to bring the audience to the depths of a powerful ocean, and to the eyes of the dark, wretched creature the inhabits it. The story of the killer shark attacking the unfortunate island in the world is more than scary. It could have been any place in the world, and it had to be Amitty Island. The shark could have easily lost it's way in the swaying currents of the ocean, but as the opposite inhabitants of the beach get angry, this big mother is here to stay! The technique is wild, absolutely wild, and John Williams score earned more than an Oscar for it! Creepy piano notes enter this films titles, and the blue depths of the uncharted territory beneath the sea let us all know that no sense, however small, was to be spared. The first victim, alone will haunt those who view it for the rest of their days, and the rest of the story is more like a battle. This strange battle is often more focused on understanding the other side. What Brody, Quint, and Hooper must do is plunge into the depths themselves, and seek out the unruly monster of the sea. The common theme in this terrific classic is survival, and why not? Survival is a natural instinct to all animal alike. The shark must survive, as it makes so clear by snagging unsuspecting swimmers, but also the people, they to have to survive, but the island is not big enough for both man and fish together. Always a joy to experience over and over again, this film is the ultimate scare show to end them all! Sometimes, a lot of us fans can not seem to get enough of this instant classic!


                
I wasn't alive when this film first was released. I wasn't there to witness the hysteria that followed in its wake. By the time, I was born it was already well-established in Western culture (and had spawned three atrocious sequels). Only films like Star Wars can match this movie for sheer cultural impact. Even today, over thirty years after it's original release, when people think of sharks, they think of Jaws.Perhaps much of this owes to its realistic fright factor. Jaws reached people in a way very few films have because it seemed oh-so-plausible and, more importantly, it made people wonder 'Could that happen to me?'.But let's look past the social impact of Jaws and at the film itself as a piece of entertainment/art.I sat down and watched Jaws the other day. I didn't mean to. Somebody else was watching it, I came in and decided to sit down and watch a few minutes. I stayed for the rest of the film, loving every minute. That quality- that watchability (if that is a word)- is one of the things that make Jaws great and helps it to stand out even from its illustrious brethren in the IMDb top 250.Some films, like Jaws, are fantastic. However, not all fantastic films are instantly and consistently watchable like Jaws. For example, Shawshank Redemption is a top movie but its not the sort of film you can sit down and watch at any time. Jaws is a top movie and you can sit down, watch it from start to finish and enjoy yourself no matter how many times you've seen it before.What specifically makes Jaws good then? First off, the story- a small island community heavily reliant on the tourist trade finds itself menaced by a man-eating shark. Simple but effective.The main character, Sheriff Brody (superbly played by Roy Schneider), is tasked with managing this crisis. However, he is continually hindered in his efforts by the Mayor (and other locals) who are adamant the rising body count should be no impediment to the summer trade that is their lifeblood.Eventually, Brody calls in marine biologist Matt Hooper (another great performance, this time by Richard Dreyfuss) who helps him convince the Mayor (with the help of the growing number of dead) that there is a real danger to the island in the form of a great white shark. In a bid to end Jaws' reign of terror, they hire grizzled shark hunter/fisherman Quint- a brilliant character brilliantly portrayed by, in my opinion, the standout star of this film, Robert Shaw- and together, the three go off to hunt for the eponymous villain.This triad of superb characters played by sublime actors is key to Jaws' triumph as a movie. The second half of the movie is simply these three men in a boat but with their chemistry (admittedly aided by a very strong script and good direction) who needs breathtaking scenery, romance, mind-blowing special effects (though I have no qualms with what is essentially a prop, I know people think the shark looks crap) and the like? I think the proof of the pudding- and perhaps one of my favourite scenes in all of cinematic history- is the scene where the three heroes are comparing scars. I have two reasons for saying this.One, it shows the growing bond of respect between the two seamen in Quint and Hooper who, despite their differing methods and upbringings, find common ground and good laughs in the wounds they have suffered in their travels. At the same time, poor old landlubber and mild mannered Brody only has his appendix scar to reflect on- which is masterfully shown in a subtle piece of acting/directing.Two, I think that Quint's 'Indiannapolis' speech is the best I have ever seen. Robert Shaw's impeccable delivery (plus the reaction of his allies)and the script itself help make this moment my favourite in the entire film. It's worth buying the DVD for this scene alone- believe me.I've eaten up a lot of words with my worship of the characters and that particular scene but don't go thinking that's all there is to this film. There are other great elements- there's plenty of action, adventure and thrills and spills. The only thing that's missing is a needlessly tacked on romance- yay! As for themes and messages, Jaws has plenty of them too. You have man's struggle against nature, the value of money over life, Quint's Ahab-esquire obsession with gaining revenge for his fallen comrades and even the 'ever present in every Spielberg film' sub-story involving fatherhood.As you may have guessed, I can't rate this film highly enough. If you've never seen it, you are missing out. Pure gold- 10/10.
I saw this film when I was about 8 years old.  And what I remember most about it, is thinking that I had found the most frightening film that I had ever seen.  When I asked my parents if there really was a Jaws and they reassured me there wasn't, I still thought they were lying ( and they were, he does exist, I'm sure of it ).  To this day, almost 20 years later, I am still frightened to go swimming.  I have been to the Caribbean twice in my life.  Once to the Bahamas with my high school graduating class and once to Acapulco for March Break.  Neither time did my classmates or friends venture into the water because of me.  " Did yo know that most shark attacks happen in three feet of water of less? " I asked them.  Needless to say the hotel pool was well utilized on both trips.Jaws is perfect on every level of film making.  It has incredibly well developed characters, so well that we feel their fears and their bravado when we are supposed to.  The direction is some of the best I have ever seen.  We are but marionettes in Spielberg's fingers.  When he wants us to feel, he pulls our strings and masterfully we feel scared or horrified or even amused.  A perfect example of this is the killing of the Kinter kid, the second death of the movie.The scene starts off shortly after Chrissie Watkins is killed.  There are people playing on the beach and in the water.  Brody ( the police chief ) is sitting tentatively watching things intently.  He hears screams from a young girl.  But of course they are playful screams.  Then we see a man playing fetch the stick with his dog.  Finally we meet Alex Kinter.  He goes out on his raft into the water.  Then we see the shots from under water.  It's as if something is approaching.  We're really not sure if we are being teased here or not.  But then we see a stick floating in the water and the man calling out for his dog.  But he is not there.  Then we see more kids splashing and then we cut to a shot approaching the Kinter boy on his raft from under water.  And the music.  And then...... well, we all know what happens.  Now that is a director masterfully manipulating us.Jaws stands up to and surpasses any film these days that is considered brilliant and it surpasses anything that came before it.  This film should have cleaned up at the Oscars.  After all, what film is remembered more? One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest ( a very good film ) or Jaws?  The answer is quite clear.
Every once in a while the right talented people are at the right place together and come up with a masterpiece. "Jaws" is definitely one of those movies, that is thanks to the amazing cast and the crew the classic masterpiece that it is today.Let's face it, the story is dumb and silly and in a way very average. Spielberg magically turns the silly story into a tense exciting thriller with brilliant dialogue and classic scene's. Mark my words, "Jaws" is a movie that will never be considered outdated.Everything in the movie works so well! The acting, the dialogue, the tension, the typical Spielberg humor, the music, everything! It's hard to name just one thing why this movie is such a masterpiece. It is the mix of everything combined that makes the movie work. Probably my favorite thing about the movie would be the dialogue, they are very raw and performed well by the perfect cast. Another thing of course would be the music and I'm not just talking about the main theme but about the entire musical score in general.The cast is great but they are mainly great together. All of the Scheider/Shaw/Dreyfuss scene's are like three ingredients thrown together and the end result of it is pure gold.And than Bruce the shark. Yes, he really looks believable even now days.A real classic masterpiece that launched Spielberg's career10/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
Jaws is an epic movie and it is My favorite shark film.Great acting by Roy Scheider and Richard Dreyfuss but the acting was superb in My opinion by Robert Shaw!The shark itself was awesome!The view of the water in Jaws is spooky and it makes you feel that anything can be in it!The music by John Williams is great and the direction by Steven Spielberg is terrific!Jaws has three other sequels but they aren't classics like this!If you like shark movies and haven't seen Jaws or even if you have check out Jaws today!


                
My Rating: **** out of ****. Steven Spielberg is one of the best American directors working today. He has made many films that have been hailed as classics. Yet before the Dinosaurs, Holocaust, Peter Pan, UFO's, and Indy there was the Shark. Jaws represents one of the masterpieces on Spielbergs resume. It is also probably the "Quintessential Spielberg Film." Jaws was very popular when released, it was the gighest grossing film of 1975. It spawned three sequels, which were all inferior. In fact, no film about Sharks or any killer fish has been able to come close to the level of Jaws. The genius in Jaws is its ability to build suspense. The Shark is never really shown till near the end of the film. When ever the Shark is approaching its victims, we get the Sharks point of view, instead of seeing the Shark. These POV shots combined with John Williams very effective score, make the scenes when the Shark is about to devour his victims much more effective. Evry actor does a nice job with their performances. Roy Scheider brings Martin to life. Martin is not a showy character but Scheider is able to make us like him. Richard Dreyfuss exhibits energy in his performance as Matt Hooper. Robert Shaw is very effective as Quint, that Indiannapolis speech is still very chilling to me. Lorraine Gary and Murray Hamilton also give solid support. People always talk about how fake the Shark looks. I think its passable but today it would definitely be done by CGI. However, the Shark is not seen that much in the film so its not that big of a deal. I would like to say Jaws is Spielbergs best film, Schindlers List closely follows. But I would like to see Close Encouners and the Indiana Jones films again. I did not like Close Encounters the first time, and I like the Indiana Jones films but they never stood out to me. If these films dont surpass Jaws, then it is definitely Spielberg's best film.


                
Most horror films are just brutal or disgusting, with the whole movie just consisting of people being brutally attacked by the horrifying creatures. "Jaws" is an enormous exception. In this film, Chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider) who refuses to close down a New England beach over 4th of July weekend due to a recent shark attack. After more attacks, he, a marine biologist (Richard Dreyfuss), and the owner of a boat (Robert Shaw) set out to destroy the shark. The shark is not even really seen for over an hour into the film, making the concept of a shark rather than the shark the source of the horror, a sense of brilliance not found in most horror movies. Also, the film revolves more around the characters and the decisions they must make to deal with the situation, which really brings about a more interesting aspect of the film. Audiences don't want a film to dwell on the horrifying objects that can't communicate; they want to expand on characters and people. That's what makes this such a great film. It's intense, a bit scary, and has little bits of humor throughout that make it fun to watch. The ending proves to be a bit too intense for me, so I don't feel it's absolutely perfect, but very close.**** out of ****


                
The best way to start my review of "Jaws" is to just get right to it and say that this film is one of the greatest movies ever made. I love this movie, and that is that. Located somewhere in the northeast, the fictional town of Amity is run by a bureaucratic city council that has tunnel vision with nothing but the bottom line of dollars and cents in mind. The deputy is lost in his mind and the sheriff is one Martin Brody, a man who hates the water but lives on an island. "It's only an island if you look at it from a boat" Brody says. Amity also has a shark problem. A 25 ft long Great White shark has just staked a claim off the coastal waters of the island, and the shark has decided to feed on hapless beach goers.Sheriff Brody wants to shut the beaches down until the matter can be resolved with the proper shark experts, but the mayor and city council fear that shutting the beaches down will impact the vital summer tourist economy of Amity. It doesn't matter how many people get devoured by the shark, the people in charge don't want to lose their summer dollars. The beaches must remain open and Brody is in a constant volleying act between the suits that run Amity and the shark itself. This film is what I consider to be one of the first "modern" movies. It was made in 1975 and it simply feels much more modern then anything that came before it. Filled with one liners, this is an action movie that predates the current action flick genre. The plot is fantastic and the acting is excellent. But not only did this film have a well oiled story that was tightly directed, and an esteemed cast of actors, but the film had such a profound impact on pop culture that will be timeless. Jaws is loaded with quotable fun lines that resonates and stays with you: "You yell barracuda and everyone says 'hunh, what'?. You yell SHARK, and we got a panic on our hands on the 4th of July"."We're gonna need a bigger boat"."That's one bad hat Harry"."I don't think you're going to understand this problem until it swims up and bites you in the ASS!" The line I quoted for my summary heading is probably my favorite, just because it adds insight into the mentality of the sleaze bag mayor of Amity. Mayor Vaughn is out to protect the financial interests of his town and he views the brash young oceanographer Matt Hooper as someone who has arrived in Amity with nothing but his own rich boy interests working for him . Hooper couldn't possibly be here to do anything but lobby himself for a possible National Graphic cover could he? The notion that Hooper would want to help Brody protect the people of Amity doesn't even seem to cross Vaugh's mind. No Hooper must be here to be a glory hound and nothing else. Such is the mindset of the bureaucrats that run Amity. The mechanical shark in Jaws (nickamed "Bruce") reportedly would not work very well for director Steven Spielberg, subsequently Spielberg resorted to point of view shots to achieve the terror he desired. This was an inspired piece of genius, far better then actually seeing the shark. The shark later is represented by an assortment of different floating objects, from dock piers, yellow keg barrels, and of course it's own dorsal tail fin. We don't always see the animal, but we are convinced it is there. When we finally do see the shark towards the end of the picture, it doesn't matter that it looks fake as hell, it's real within the context of the movie and that's all that matters. Probably the aspect of this film is bringing together three different characters to take part in the journey of man vs. nature. Brody is the level headed family man, Hooper is the intellectual college grad, and Quint is the gruff old seamen with his own vendetta against sharks. Perhaps the single best moment of the movie is near the end when the shark has 3 barrels attached to him but still won't drown, the engine of the ship is burnt out and Quint calmly comes out and throws a couple of life preservers to Brody and Hooper. Quint however does not put HIS life preserver on (because of his own creepy tale with sharks). Quint knows very well what sharks can do to a man and this moment all 3 men realize the ship is sinking and they are running out of options. Just a fantastically shot and brilliantly acted moment. I was born on July 3rd of the year this film was released, and every 4th of July it has become a habit of mine to watch this film. Watch this film, and don't hold the mechanical shark against it, I promise you won't regret it.
Jaws is one of the best films ever made and probably one of the greates blockbusters also. The dialouge for this movie is excellent and my favorite actor in this film, Robert Shaw, is so memorable and timeless. The shark scenes were so creepy and brilliant it just can't ever be missed. The scariest scene throughout the whole film is the scene where they go scuba diving and see a man's head that pops out from a fisherman boat. That was totally freaky and got me goosebumps. There were no flaws in this movie except some corny acting but still it was 1975 film and the 70's films have the best movies anyways. I highly recommend this film if your a big shark fan. Also keep out of waters!Hedeen's outlook: 10/10 **** A+


                
In a quite peaceful town named Amity. When a young woman (Susan Backlinie) goes swimming, she was attacked and killed by a great white shark. Police Chief Brody (Roy Scheider) contacts a man from the National Geographic Institute (Oscar-Winner:Richard Dreyfuss) for help and a hired fisherman (The late-Robert Shaw) are going to haunt down the great white shark.Directed by four-time Oscar Winner:Steven Spielberg (Close Encounters of the Third Kind, Jurassic Park, The War of the Worlds-2005) made an terrific suspense thriller with elements of adventure and horror. Scheider, Shaw and Dreyfuss are excellent in the film. This was the highest grossing picture of 1975. This movie won three Oscars for Best Film Editing, Best Music Score and Best Sound Editing. This picture was also nominated for Best Picture.The First DVD from Universal. DVD has an sharp anamorphic Widescreen (2.35:1) transfer and an strong:DTS 5.1 Surround Sound (Also in Dolby 2.0 Surround Sound). DVD Extras are an One Hour Documentary (Which it was originally two hours on the 1995 Laserdisc), Trivia Game, Deleted Scenes and more.The Second DVD for the 30th Anniversary Edition from Universal. DVD has the same anamorphic Widescreen transfer from the previous DVD. DVD also has the DTS 5.1, Dolby Digital 5.1 and the original Mono soundtracks. DVD contains the original 1995 two hour documentary from the Laserdisc Edition. DVD also has an vintage 1974 interview with director:Spielberg, Deleted Scenes, Outtakes, The "Jaws" Achives and a Collector's Photo Journal Booklet. This movie is Based on a Novel by Peter Benchely (Creature, The Deep, The Island). Which Benchely also co-written the screenplay with Carl Gottieb. Which Gottieb went on to co-written "Jaws 2". The new DVD doesn't have the some of the features from the previous 2000 edition. But this new edition should keep fans of "Jaws" happy. One of Spielberg's best films. This is also one of the best popcorn movies ever made. Panavision. (*****/*****).


                
Jaws is the greatest movie ever made, but what do you expect from the greatest director to ever sit behind a camera. Jaws should have won best picture and Spielberg should have won best director because Jaws was better than any other movie made in 1975 by miles and than any other movie EVER made. In my opinion Spielberg should have won several Oscar's before he finally won it in 1993 for Schindler's list. ET should have won best picture and director and close encounters should have won some major Oscar's too. Also Indiana Jones and raiders of the lost ark and last crusade were better than any movie made the same year they were made, so he deserved some more credit than he got for those. Jaws has everything you need. It has three brilliant actors who do an excellent job, especially Robert Shaw, its scary, jumpy, tense, funny , edge of seat excitement, and believe me once you see it you will never feel the same going into the water again, ever.


                
Jaws is one of the best. The acting is great, the suspense is great, it takes its time, and moves slowly in a good way. This started big box office films, and almost none have matched it. Big films nowadays move way to fast. You don't ever get to take in the moment. With Jaws you always get to take in the moment. Everything moves at a good pace. The characters are all very good. The dialogue is great. A lot of people complain that the shark looks fake. I think it looks way more real than if it was CGI. It is also very scary. After this film nobody would go in the water. Jaws is an iconic piece of film that I love and will always love.4 stars out of 4


                
There was never a great thriller like Jaws. Why is that? Because Jaws was legendary. It's suspense is surprising. Jaws is about a great white shark that terrorizes a summer resort in a small town called Amity. The police chief played by Roy Scheider, is determined to find out how to eliminate the shark after it's eaten one of the citizens of the town. Later in the film, a marine scientist, played by Richard Dreyfuss explains that the first victim in the movie, in the beginning of the film says that it wasn't no boating accident, it was a shark. Then, the Fourth of July comes up and the people of Amity are having a good time until the shark shows up. After the panic on the fourth of July, an grizzled fisherman, played Robert Shaw, plans to hunt the shark down and kill it. So, Dreyfuss, Scheider and Shaw team up to eliminate the shark. Director Steven Spielberg's has a great sort of suspense shots. Thought the shark is not seen the entire time, that is great because it is how Alfred Hitchcock directs suspense. It is what he calls playing with the audience like a piano. Jaws is one of the best films of 1975 and it's also one of my Top 10 best movies I seen. <U+2605><U+2605><U+2605><U+2605> 4 stars.


                
What makes Steven Spielberg one of cinema's best directors is his unique ability to consistently inject character development into all of his films, regardless of what genre they are categorized in. Jaws provides the perfect showcase for his talent. The movie transcends its B-movie roots due to the high quality of the performances. Roy Scheider, Richard Dreyfuss, and Robert Shaw not only deliver refined, three-dimensional performances, but have terrific chemistry together. Jaws could very well contain the best ensemble acting ever - it rivals The Godfather and 12 Angry Men.That Jaws is a first-rate thriller as well, makes it a film to be treasured.


                
"Jaws" is a movie for the ages. It's an example of what happens when the right people come together for the right reasons, for the right movie.Firstly, author Peter Benchley co-wrote the screenplay (the screenplay itself is adapted from his own novel of the same name) that became one of the new, classic scary-stories of our time: a huge great white shark is terrorizing the residents of a small New England beach community. Amity Police Chief Brody (the recently departed Roy Scheider), marine expert Matt Hooper (Richard Dreyfuss), and grizzled shark hunter Quint (the late Robert Shaw) are the heroic three who volunteer to have a climatic showdown with this man-eating menace appropriate described as mother nature's ultimate killing machine.I should make it clear that for years I was never one of this movie's biggest fans. So I just kind of avoided it - the theme just didn't appeal to me, since I've never been afraid to go swimming at the beach. But guess what? "Jaws" is the classic adventure-horror of our times, and I am now amongst one of its many, many fans. A lot of things are classic about this movie - it's pointless to even describe them here.Also, I'm sure there are a number of scientific inaccuracies about the true nature of sharks (the recently departed shark hunter who inspired "Quint" always said he felt sorry for the shark in this movie) and whether or not they are truly something to fear - but, you know what? - it's Hollywood, they always win. And I'm also sure that the liberties with sharks were liberties well-taken for the sake of dramatic potential: This movie did its job in scaring the living daylights out of a lot of people.Most importantly, other than serving up great scares, suspense and adventure, "Jaws" is responsible for starting the career of Hollywood director Steven Spielberg. "Jaws" was his claim to fame; it's also the movie credited for starting the summer blockbuster phenomenon (this currently ranks pretty high amongst one of the highest-grossing movies of all time), and spawning three sequels and countless imitators. Spielberg would go on to do great things in his career, long after "Jaws," and he still continues to do great things to do this day because of this movie. It's probably one of my favorite movies of his and one of my favorite movies of all time."Jaws" is a movie not likely to ever go away any time soon. That is part of its appeal: its ability to remain an important piece of cinema and a pop culture phenomenon that continues to genuinely frighten us even 33 years after its release. And that is also the mark of a truly great film. It's a powerful example of what film-making can really do when the right people are involved in the right movie, for the right reasons.10/10


                
I remember watching parts of Jaws when I was much younger and finding some scenes scary. For a long time, I've been wanting to watch the full movie and now that I have, I can tell you one thing. This movie hasn't aged that well.When you look at other timeless classics such as Star Wars, Spielberg's Indiana Jones, Alien, E.T and so on, they certainly have aged very well and still are certainly watchable and can either be feared or called "epic" Unfortunately, the same cannot go for Jaws, at least in my belief.As I was watching this movie, I was so impressed with the first half of the movie, the build up where a few people get killed and they attempt to close all beaches that I couldn't wait for the final part of the movie. The first half contained everything a movie needs; great buildup to a movie. Remember, the Empire Strikes Back. We watched 90 minutes of build up before the Luke vs Vader duel. Remember Helm's Deep from Lord of the Rings? We had a lot of build up to the final battle. Same went for Return of the King; the first half of the movie was all build up to the epic conclusion. The problem with Jaws for me is that the first half gets me so excited to see how everything will conclude that once it did, it was thoroughly disappointing.What I meant with "It hasn't aged well" is that by now, the shark really looks pretty bad and unrealistic. However, we can appreciate all the trouble Spielberg went to get the shark to come onto the big screen back in '75. Also, the acting is good and the story is good but another little issue is that John Williams' soundtrack to the movie doesn't add much tone anymore.Maybe I over hyped the movie but the ending seemed so sudden. When Hooper finally goes underwater to see the shark, there was only 10 minutes of the movie left. Also, back then, this movie may have been an absolute masterpiece and true horror but now, the story of a shark killing people is kind of stupid. That isn't to necessarily say I found it stupid. I didn't. But its another example of why this movie hasn't aged all that well. Whilst Hooper and Brody are good characters, Quint isn't necessarily the same.Jaws may be regarded as a cult classic but whilst this movie is great in its first half the final half of the movie to me is a massive let down and extremely slow. Disappointing movie unfortunately for me.
