I don't think its any argument that this can go down as one of the most influential films of all time as it set Hollywood on a road filled with blockbusters. At the time it was the biggest box office hit in the world and for its budget, it was quite an achievement. It still isn't without problems. There isn't much character development and the movie relies heavily on its shark attacks to keep the movie moving forward. But there isn't much arguing the movie's overall significance in the history of cinema.The first few scenes are quite a thrill even with it being almost 40 years later. Once you see the blood cover the water it instantly sends chills down your body. It takes a while for Richard Dreyfuss to get to the screen, who is by far the best part of the movie. But I would still say that the 3 men who are chosen to kill the shark aren't that interesting. But in terms of the look of the shark, I was stunned at how real it appears to be. There are some movies made now that have worse effects than this. It also amazed me at how dumb the people in this movie can be. The people on the beach are ALL aware of the recent shark attacks but yet they still feel they need to swim in the ocean. It reminds me of the citizens of New York during the Spider-Man movies. People in the world aren't that dumb.I was also taken back by the idea to break their only communication to the world on the boat. I still don't know why they destroyed it with a random baseball bat? Why is that on a boat? Nevertheless the movie did a lot for cinema and cemented its impact on special effects used.+big impact on cinema today+Richard Dreyfuss-dumb citizens and unrealistic choices7.5/10


                
Even after 30 years this is still good. the bloody scenes and effects, the scares that you KNOW are coming, the rubbery shark. Roy scheider as chief Brody going on to to be in Blue Thunder, Richard Dreyfuss going on to be in Mr Holland's opus and close encounters (or had he already been in that?) and Robert shaw (he of the Rank - gong banging fame).They definitely needed a bigger boat, and a saner captain. the shark is most likely the biggest star. lines like needing that bigger boat, asking that son of a b*t*h to smile. the singing in the boat at night to break up the tension.how would this be made today? seeing the shark more and earlier in the film no doubt, a cgi shark and more violent attacks i think. but this is un-re-makable!excellent!


                
A 25-foot Great White shark is doing what he knows best <U+0096> swimming around and eating when he gets hungry. In this case, his diet consists mostly of the people off the coast of Amityville, and Martin Brody (Scheider) the newly hired police chief has to not only protect the townspeople but also find the shark and kill it. Unfortunately, he has a few strikes against him right out of the box; the Mayor of Amityville is so mercenary he pretty much has to have a body dropped in his lap before he will acquiesce to closing the beach, he hires a crusty old curmudgeon of a shark hunter (Quint, played by Robert Shaw) who, while being good at what he does, has a beef with everyone who comes in contact with him (particularly oceanographer Matt Hooper, played by Richard Dreyfuss), and finally, Brody suffers from a little thing called hydrophobia.The story is simple, yet the film is so well put together that it has held up as a horror classic for the last thirty years. Spielberg, at the time with only a few films and television shows under his directing belt, created a masterpiece with the film "Jaws", a film that is so good; its flaws become almost trivial when making an overall assessment of the film. Several great things occurred due to serendipity with "Jaws". Probably the best known was the trouble the crew had with the mechanical shark that led to underexposure of the monster; subsequently leading to a greater scare with the shard did appear. Spielberg, even with these formative films, knew how to create suspense and tension. The image of the three men on a rickety boat in the middle of the ocean where a man-eating shark who is looking for a 5th victim awaits is pretty scary. And that is one of the less obvious moments <U+0096> never mind the shark bringing down a young boy, a dog, a young woman and man. (Unusually, the goriest actually being the death of the child.) Throw in a now iconic soundtrack and we have ourselves an instant classic.Formally reviewing "Jaws" is pretty pointless when the movie is not only thirty years out of the can, but has been analyzed to pieces, but a mention has to be made about its lasting effect on pop culture. I know of at least one person who still will not go in the water as a direct result of this film, and while it is fair to expect that I was completely terrified of this film when I was 7 or 8, I'll admit that the movie poster still scares the hell out of me. I think the greatest thing that I found with "Jaws" is that a film that I remembered being so terrifying as a kid actually turned into a film that was terrifying for a completely different reasons when viewed as an adult. With this viewing I found "Jaws" to be more spine-chillingly suspenseful than anything; I really felt a sense of hopelessness for the plight of these men, and was scared on their behalf <U+0096> more of an adult kind of terror than anything that simply goes "Boo!" "Jaws" isn't perfect <U+0096> it actually has a pretty convenient ending that made me go, "Wait <U+0096> but- how will they<U+0085>.huh?" But like I said earlier, it's things like this that make you realize that the rest of the film was good enough to forgive this transgression. I have always had a conflicted relationship with Steven Spielberg films; on the one hand, and as a self-labeled life long film student, I know how commercial his films are. But on the other hand, I can't deny that he makes damn good films. Maybe I should just lighten up about it and just enjoy, which I did while watching "Jaws" again, many years after seeing it for the first time. 8/10 --Shelly
This was the film that shot Spielberg to fame. A sleepy seaside resort Amity Island has an unwanted visitor for the summer season. Conscious of the fact that the island needs visitors for the economy they try to ignore the evidence of the man eating shark and go on as normal.The three leads Scheider, Shaw and Dreyfuss are excellently cast and put in fine performances. It's a bit surprising that Shaw in particular did not even get nominated for the best supporting actor award. It's a true tribute to Spielberg's craft that the head scene is still frightening even though you know what's coming.


                
Here's the problem with not having sat down and watched "Jaws" until just last weekend.  SO many cartoons, movies, and so on have parodied this movie, I felt like I'd already seen it about thirty times.  Then again, this is such a great fish story, it deserves all the tribute.One thing that I'm still not so clear on.  See, I was born a few years after this movie was released.  I have a *really* hard time believing that not so many people were cautious about swimming in the ocean before this.


                
In the history of the cinema, this film (along with Star Wars, Raiders of the Lost Ark, etc.) will be remembered as the beginning of a new era.  One hallmark of this new era, which is still with us, is that the genres that used to be confined to B movies--such as science fiction and horror--are now the subjects of major, respectable motion pictures.  To me, it is a little sad that the "big" movies no longer aspire to serious themes, but instead confine themselves to the stuff of comic books.  After 1975, mainstream movies were no longer for adults, but are instead geared to teenagers, or perhaps to the child within us. People go to the movies to see fancy special effects and get cheap thrills, not necessarily to explore interesting characters and stories.That being said, the movie that started it all is still enjoyable on its own terms, particularly the second half, when it becomes a Moby Dick story of three men on a boat chasing and being chased by a big fish.  The movie does a good job of showing the camaraderie that develops among the three.


                
Here is my note for the movie: 7/10.That means good. Quite a lot! The film included a very good suspense music announcing the shark. I really don't know how much it cost. But for me it was succeed! Good film. Good suspense music and especially very good shark size. I haven't seen such a big shark of my life and that was what I liked the most in the movie. Apparently, Steven Spielberg is the most famous director of all time and he made many good movies!!! One of my favourite Steven Spielberg's films were Jurassic Park (with dinosaurs),Jaws,and perhaps some other ones (perhaps). Steven Spielberg is a genius.If you are under 16, you shouldn't see the film. Perhaps a little bit stupid of me,(I said PERHAPS)but I am fourteen and I saw the bloody scary movie. I saw it three times in total and I still like it! BE CAREFUL: it contains a lot of blood and like I said in the review:you are not obliged to see it if it scares you a lot. Actually I am not really sure, because, even if you are under-age for a certain kind of film, perhaps you could still watch it (if doesn't scarre you, of course) but I am really not sure.Don't ask me any more questions about it. I really recommend Jaws.If you are a fun of horror movies I could recommend you the Jaws film.(it was an Asperger review).


                
This film was recommended to me by a friend. Little did I know how amazing, awesome, epic and just weird the film would be.One of the greatest classics it seems. A shark is uncivilized and kills many of the residents in the area. So they get a few people to solve the problem, mainly an officer, a shark expert, and a sort of druken 'I do it for fun and money" type of guy. In the end, the last guy dies, and the other two survive.I rate this movie 7/10 for a few reasons. I actually did like it. The jump scene was perfect. The movie was great, the plot was well done. However, there was a lot of cussing [-1 point] and smoking [-1 point] and I'm the type who can't stand gore and blood. I was able to handle it mostly, but a few of the deaths were a bit... eh.. to me [-1 point].But all in all, this movie is still epic and wins. :)
***SPOILERS*** It's when teenager Cassie, Susan Blacklinie, went skinny dipping one evening in the waters off Long Island Sound that she attracted this giant 25 foot great white shark who ended up taking her out and under for his dinner! With the July 4th festivities about to start the seaside town of Amity, who's economy depends on tourist summer dollars, the news that a killer and man eating shark is on the loose off it's waters is the last thing that the town fathers and its Mayor Vaughn, Murray Hamilton, want the public to know about! It's when against his better judgment due to the pressure put on him by Mayor Vaughn Amity Police Chief Brody,Roy Scheider, kept the beaches opened that the killer shark strikes again gulping down another victim in front of hundreds of terrified beach goers including Chief Brody. With panic engulfing Amity and after a false report of having harpooned and killed the shark he strikes again this time in shallow waters off Amity Island. This on July 4th taking down another victim and thus closing the beaches indefinitely until the shark, the real killer shark not a cheap imitation,is finally put out of commission!With Mayor Vaughn and the town fathers finally coming to their senses their forced to hire the famed shark hunter Captain Quint, Robert Shaw, at $10,000.00 plus expenses to track down and kill the man eating shark before he adds more victims to his already impressive body count. There's also the young wise cracking Oceanographer Hooper, Richard Dreyfuss, who goes along for the ride together with chief Brody on Quint's shark hunting boat the Orca. It's Hooper's know it all attitude about marine life and sea fearing that starts to get under Quint's skin and almost leads the two to go at each other instead of at the killer shark. It's only later on that Hooper gains a new found respect for Quint when he finds out that his obsession with sharks and wanting to kill them was the result of an incident back in WWII where he almost ended up together with most of his 700 fellow US Navy sailors, on the torpedoed USS Indianapolis, being eaten by one of them.With the three, Quint Brody & Hooper, shark hunters out at sea is when the killer shark, efficiently called Bruce, comes out in the open with his razor sharp and serrated teeth, as much as three rows of them,flashing. From then on it's a battle between man and beast on the open seas with the killer shark making the best of the situation. It's his turf or waters that he's battling in and he knows every drop of it. That's until Brody now on his own with nothing to lose, but his life, overcomes his fear of the high seas and together with a high powered rifle and full oxygen tank finally turns the tables on the surging like a train locomotive Bruce the Shark. With Brody leaving about just enough of him,all 25 feet and three ton's worth, to fully pack an 8 to 12 once sardine can! P.S "Jaws" released in the early summer of 1975 became the biggest money making hit in motion picture history in only just six weeks after it's initial release! Surpressing and almost doubling the profits of the previous money earing champ "The Godfather" without as much as breaking a sweat in doing it. Not at first thought to become the mega monster hit, with all the troubles and delays in filming it, that it turned out to be "Jaws" astounded the movie critics as well as it's own cast & crew members who before it's release had them feeling that it was going to be the "Bomb" of the century, and end up destroying their careers, who tried to distance and disown themselves from the film. Check out the author of the novel "Jaws" that the film was based on Peter Benchley as a TV reporter on the Amity beach just before the killer shark springs or swims into action.


                
Amity Island in the northeast is popular tourist attraction for beach goers. In 1975, Jaws changed everything. A young woman goes missing during an ocean swim. She is found on shore and the medical examiner rules her cause of death as due to shark attack. Police chief Brody(Roy Schneider) wants to close the beach but is overruled by the mayor. Shortly thereafter, a boy is killed by the hungry creature and mommy dearest puts out a bounty for the sharp toothed murderer. This brings out a hoard of lunatics trying to win the money, without success. The town then hires a professional hunter, Quint(Robert Shaw), to exterminate the carnivores and bring peace to the community. Quint, sheriff Brody and a marine biologist Matt Hooper(Richard Dreyfus) hop a boat and team up for the great white shark hunt. The action is exciting without any of the present day cgi special effects. Good acting, a good story and Spielberg make Jaws worth it.


                
There is no doubt about the fact that "Jaws" is a classic. And it is also an influential movie that helped open up for many other movies in its wake.The story in "Jaws" is one that I think everyone is familiar with, even if you haven't seen the movie before. Because it is just one of those movies that everyone knows. But briefly summarized, it is the story of a massive white shark turning up in the waters of a popular beach resort and wreaks havoc on the swimmers. Sheriff Brody teams up with eccentric captain Quint and marine biologist Matt Hooper to rid the waters of the deadly shark.While this movie was released back in 1975, the year I was born as well, it still holds its ground today. Sure, some of the effects are outdated by today's standards, but other effects still prove effective and great. What makes the movie still stand its ground is not the effects, of course, it is the solid storyline and the amazing performances by the cast."Jaws" have some really impressive and very memorable performances by Roy Scheider (playing Brody), Robert Shaw (playing Quint) and Richard Dreyfuss (playing Matt Hooper). Furthermore, there are also some good supporting appearances from Lorraine Gary (playing Ellen Brody) and Murray Hamilton (playing Mayor Larry Vaughn).It is the intense storyline of the movie that makes the movie watchable over and over again, and I don't have count of how many times I have actually watched "Jaws" throughout the years. And this is also what makes it a classic, because the movie is timeless.Furthermore, the movie also has an impressive soundtrack. And everyone knows the theme music to "Jaws", even people who might not have watched the movie."Jaws" is definitely a movie that has withstood the test of time, and it is a movie that future generations will enjoy as well, just as us who grew up watching this movie (and its sequels).


                
Having seen a re-release of this back in 2012 this is one interesting shark film that sparked off the shark film craze! Martin Brody the sheriff a small island town of Amity off of New England investigates numerous shark attacks in the water after a young girl goes skinny dipping in the sea & get's attack by an unknown 'killing machine'! It's only until they discover bites marks on a whale that they discover it could be something far worse, a Great White Shark! He & 2 other guys go in search for the shark & to kill it!The film itself was great for it's time. Considering I myself wasn't around then I think it is a unique film all round! The suspense was also great in this film too teasing the audience until 3/4 of the way into the film! It's definitely one of those edge of your seat films admittingly, though in all honesty I have seen better shark films, like Shark Night 3D or Bait 3D which were both epic films, though Jaws is just as great!The kills were OK, not to my standards but OK for a film of this calibre. The ending part was truly great, (Though not as epic as Jaws 2's ending) it was still a great way for the shark to get killed off!I overall, thought this was a great film, not the best I have seen but a true classic! 7/10
I was VERY young when I saw this movie. I'm thankful for that for two reasons: there is NO WAY I could watch it again now without some therapy so I'll be able to keep enjoying water sports, and also because that was a time that movies need not be ultra-primo CGI to be "impressive". This just scares the crap right out of you on its own.I remember hearing later that this movie unintentionally led to the hunting of Great Whites at a shocking level, which (if true) is horrible. As a surfer, spending days in an ocean Great White-free would be great, not having to worry about what's lurking about in my vicinity, and if it sees me as a juicy snack food. I have to say that the danger man-eating sharks pose to - well, man, is not a new concept and didn't start with this movie. So if a Hollywood movie made people suddenly afraid that sharks are a somehow new invention and needed their numbers suddenly controlled, I can't help but say how horribly sad that is - mostly for the sharks, but also for the people that let movies rile them up like that.On a side note, I've heard of new(er) inventions that can keep a shark basically uninterested in you. Or at the very least, keep your limbs intact should the unthinkable happen. Sign me up! That being said, whatever my mother was thinking letting me watch this at such a young age (or ever, for that matter), especially with our frequent family trips to the beach, I have actually hoped for some kind of way that I could mentally block Jaws - at least on beach days. I'm actually thankful to have endured Jellyfish stings because Jellyfish don't friggin' eat you.I remember this being a good and captivating movie, and likely the first "horror" movie I'd ever seen, sans ghosts; made up of real creatures and actual, possible events. It got the "horror" classification from me because I was terrified, just TERRIFIED, and came close so many times to needing to leave the theater if for nothing else than a change of pants. Good G-d. No demon from the front gates of hell could have an effect on me like one of these creatures.My summers were never the same, even with all my childhood friends in my pool with me, in crystal clear water. The deep end was, without a doubt, off-limits for me. Had our household had only a bathtub but no shower, I would have had to be the dirtiest kid on our block to ever exist - we're talking Charlie Brown's smelly buddy level - because bathtubs were ruined for me too! For the record, it wasn't until years later that I learned how to surf. How or why, I ever managed to turn that idea into a reality bewilders me to this day, even though I love to surf. I'd have to say prescribed anti-anxiety pills may have helped the mental process though (the balance part, not so much). Waiting for a wave can be nerve-wracking. I'm good at it now, but I'll likely always have mini-panic attacks every time I think about the fact that my legs are dangling off a board into water that I can't see into past a few inches (the Pacific is murky). And seeing a dolphin in the distance? Forget about it.Need a visual into what has haunted me now my whole life? All I need to say is this: the cover of the movie. Just LOOK AT THAT THING! That swimming woman? she looks Barbie-sized compared to Jaws.This is without a doubt a scary movie - but never say you haven't been warned! I recommend it, but NOT if you ever want to have peaceful thoughts about that swim you want to take tomorrow, or ever again at any time for the rest of your life.If he's reading this - you are a talented, talented man, Steven Spielberg. Kudos to you. But I will never forgive you for scaring me like that!
JAWS was rightfully one of the year's most critically acclaimed movies and the recipient of an Academy Award nomination for Best Picture. It's the kind of film that proves that a small story can be much more meaningful than a larger one. Roy Scheider is wonderful as cop Martin Brody, who has relocated to a coastal island town. The screenplay is tight and well-written. The cinematography is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. From an artistic standpoint, there were some plot elements and character developments I didn't think were totally needed. They do however drive the story, which seemed to be their purpose, so I can accept them.


                
This movie is a real classic. The first ever movie with an over-sized animal that has a taste of human flesh. This movie was made back in the seventies but they did a really good job with it. Probably due to the fact that Spielberg directed it.This movie is about a island community where everyone basically spends all their time at the beach and on the ocean sailing. Soon though disappearances start to happen and they figure out there is a hungry creature in the bay.This movie will always be a classic and a great thriller. All the actors did a great job and there is some heart racing moments in it as well


                
Roy Scheider, Robert Shaw, Richard Dreyfuss and Lorraine Gary star in Steven Spielberg's 1975 thriller based on the novel. This takes place on a resort island, Amity and begins with a young girl falling victim to a great white killer shark. Soon, the shark kills again and starts terrorizing the residents on the beaches. Police chief, Martin Brody (Scheider) tries to keep them out of the water and stop the shark with help from a fisherman, Quint (Shaw) and marine biologist, Matt Hooper (Dreyfuss). Gary plays Martin's wife, Ellen who is also the mother of their 2 children. This classic paved the way for many killer shark/creatures in the water imitations. It's definitely one of Spielberg's best with a great cast and unforgettable score by John Williams that I recommend.
Perhaps I am showing my age because I found it a chore to sit through Jaws every time I tried to watch it. Jaws was the first blockbuster and it is indeed a rousing sea adventure but the way it goes about it seemed rather pedestrian to me. The shot selection and camerawork is great- which is a given fact as this is Steven Spielberg we speak of. The acting is great throughout and the trio of Chief Brady, Hooper and Quint have become a fixation of cinema pop culture over the years, primarily because their banter and experience aboard the Orca is what most people remember. And of course the Shark itself which is probably even more scarier than movie monsters because they actually exist.


                
Jaws is a film which has probably suffered from its own popularity. Watching it for the first time now, inured to the endless tawdry sensationalism of all the shark attack stories that have followed, the great original loses some of its punch. The first half, in particular, suffers badly from this, and the uninteresting family relationships and bargain-basement small town politics contribute to a sense of shallowness and predictability. It is not a worthy setup for the second half, in which the film comes into its own. With the three men on their boat and the shark in the water, the tension is high, the dynamic between the men and its development under pressure is fascinating, and the shark feels genuinely mysterious and menacing, particularly with the clever minimisation of visual contact with the model. The ending doesn't quite do it justice, but on the whole the second half is a damn good yarn, and makes the film worthwhile on its own. Iconic.
The acting were superb. You can clearly see the terror on the 3 main actors' acting throughout the film, especially the ending. Even though the shark looked a little fake, it WAS released in 1975 so that was already awesome.I went into this movie expecting something thrilling, something that will leave me scared to go into water. I was left with a sense of disappointment. There wasn't enough suspense, and in some scenes, the music killed the vibe. The ending was... not what I expected for a horror film and it left me with an unpleasant feeling. The death scenes were not clearly shown/depicted. And I get that this film wasn't trying to be gory, but not being able to see the deaths and the bodies kinda made me feel frustrated.I know that the making of this film required more money and time than expected and that it took a heavy toll on everybody, especially Steven. But that's no excuse for the poor execution of the ending. There were some unnecessary scenes that could be cut to save budget and they could have used that time to increase the suspense and thriller feel.But overall it's an awesome classic movie that I think everyone should watch at least once in their life.


                
I saw this movie recently and though I've heard a lot about this movie before, today I watched it only because I saw that the director of the movie is Steven Spielberg and hence expected at least an above average experience. And after watching it, I can say that Mr Spielberg really has lived up to the expectations his name has built. A very nice movie of it's time, one of the classics and other than being a real entertainer taught me a thing or two about oceans.


                
How is this movie good? Let me count the ways.First, it's a classic made by an icon, and both started their own version of cult, so watching it is almost didactic. Second, it is refreshing to be reminded that low-tech ways of creating constantly rising tension are at least as powerful as extensive views of most gory scenes. You don't need to see the monster to be scared thoughtless, and the scariest beasts live in the imagination, especially if you add just the right soundtrack.Third, there are some visually hypnotic moments, like the reflection of rapidly flipping pages in Brody's glasses that convey nicely the turmoil of his mind. Or the violent cloud of blood in the water at the very end. Beautiful.Fourth, it simply is entertaining


                
by no means a light-hearted family bonding movie of survival however. It's an outright claw and scramble your way to safety, every man for yourself - I guess we have to work together now bloodbath. This ride gets down to brass tacks right away. No build up. You are off on the first hill full speed ahead."Jaws". humph. Jaws. Wrong title for this movie. The name of this film should be "Mayor Larry Vaughn the B!@#$%d". To me - what's the shark? The pinnacle of natural organic breeding that happened to spawn one of the biggest sharks on the planet. That's like anthropomorphizing a volcano and calling the film "Lava Hands". That mayor single-handedly murdered at least 5 poor innocent folks just to keep his little tourist town revenue stream up. But, like real life - I don't see jails for the likes of this guy. Sadly - in the end - we don't see him out on the boat, taking up arms, and dying trying to right things in the progress. Classic. Now that's real! Now, you would think these kinds of plot devices and over all story arc to not be a Spielberg trope or standby, odd - well, that's because this movie is actually based on a popular book released barely over a year prior; and after Steve processed it, add an timeless Mr. Williams - and bam. It's an instant classic movie.The pacing in this film overall, and dating still stands up well to time. It has believable characters, the actors mesh well, and it has far more than it's share of horror aspects cemented in place. Horror? This is a horror movie? Oh, bet your ass it is - when you think about it, it's actually worse. This damn thing could be out there right now, stalking swimmers - ready to "swallow whole" the next hapless poor soul. It's a 25+', 3 ton, hunting, stalking, never-sleeping, murder machine.. and you cant see it until it's right up on ya. Oh, and by the way, bullets loose their kinetic energy after less feet in water than you realize. So good luck.What's best overall about this film? IT IS PG. No kidding. This film had more gore than half the rated R horror films in the last 15 years, and it has legs, arms shooting off. It has people being eaten alive, bitten in half, and desperation at ridiculously stressful moments. It has FULL FRONTAL NUDITY. But - no swearing. Thank god! This might just be something you couldn't show at church. That's something I forget to mention about yesterday's film, Poltergeist... another Spielberg film - PG. No kidding there - faces ripped off, parents smoking pot with kids in the house, mom getting raped by a entity... but no swearing. Whew! This film, a first in it's series is a classic Hollywood example of starting a franchise after a clear ending - simply due to the overwhelming success. While it's not the first killer "believable" animal horror film, it's definitely one of the earliest that comes to mind in your average horror fan.
Jaws, now an iconic American film, was a film built around the premise of suspense. Why was the film so successful? What separated this film from other scary movies from the 70's & why are we still talking about it in 2016? To begin with, the soundtrack of the film utilizes an escalating trombone to instill tense, dramatic, and suspenseful moments in the film and counter it with silence, another tool of suspense, to build to those moments through emotion before the action starts. Throughout the film they utilize the technique of matching eye lines across cuts to form continuity and the illusion that these two separate images are looking into each other's eyes. Most notably this is seen in the opening scene with the kids on the beach. The guy is in one cut looking to the right, in the next cut the girl is looking to the left of the screen. This implies eye contact between these two characters, a method used commonly in film making nowadays. Lighting was also used effectively for continuity purposes in Jaws, using the angle of light to indicate that people are in different sides of the room in different shots, primarily in the cabin of the ship at night when the men are out hunting the shark. In fact, certain shots of individuals faces make this movie stand out because of the effect they have. In one of the first few scenes with the character of Brody the camera moves with Brody as he walks through crowds of people along the dock. We're following him because he is the main character, & the use of the camera like this shows the audience this in a subtle way. Close ups of people's faces can also do a number of things as are shown in this film. They can make you wonder what the character is thinking and bring you inside their head, or they can bring you, the viewer into the scene, creating a feeling of intensity or shock. Intensity is created when close shots are taken in the water during the shark attacks bringing you into the moment. Shock is found in the close up of the woman's face staring straight at the camera when she sees a fin in the water. Because of the close up, as a viewer, you can relate to her emotions and feel the shock for yourself. In one of the many beach scenes close ups and wide range shots are used to show our main character Brody viewing the water beyond the people who are close in the shot. A quick zoom occurs on Brody's face when he sees the shark, giving us a similar sense of realization as we watch. Techniques like this bring us viewers into the story and make it relevant to our own lives because we can relate to the emotions we are feeling on screen. Close ups aren't the only thing that make Jaws an effective and timeless film. As I had previously mentioned, lighting plays a role as well. Silhouettes and shadows lend an eerie and otherworldly, even dangerous, quality to the scenes. You're never shown everything. Shots were taken from beneath the surface of the water up at swimmers implying the perspective of a sea creature. These shots add to the suspenseful element because paired with the soundtrack of the film you start suspecting that something will come from that depth you are looking at the swimmer from. The same techniques are used in slasher movies when the camera approaches the unsuspecting victim from behind. You don't see the attacker but you know they are there. When the lights flicker and go out in the cabin of the boat near the end of the film the scene then cuts to low lit silhouettes bringing the story from the somewhat lighthearted sense of camaraderie with the men singing together to the dark realization that a shark is hunting them down (and vice versa). The shark itself is mostly portrayed through things being pulled through the water. The ominous presence of the shark can be attributed to the fact that the shark itself is not seen (at least not fully) for a large portion of the film. Its movement is implied through the dragging of these objects. The viewer doesn't need to see the shark to know it is there. When the line on the fishing boat starts being pulled, little by little, you know the shark is responsible and that something in the scene is about to happen. There is so much to discuss about Jaws and why it stands out, the scene of the nails on the chalkboard disturbing chaos and making even the audience uncomfortable, the boat setting out through the image of shark jaws to remind you what they are setting out to, or even how Hooper and Brody's reaching shore in the closing scene imply a happy ending, because honestly Jaws is filled with so many scenes and well used techniques to warrant its recognition. It is suspenseful and daring, as well as comical and overall entertaining. The film brings you in as a viewer to feel a part of the story, as any great film should be able to do.


                
This is Not Director Steven Spielberg's Most Overrated Movie, that would be "E.T." (1982). But it is Certainly Overrated. Overwhelmed by the Popularity and Zeitgeist of the Whole Thing, It was Certainly a Blockbuster and Cultural Phenomenon in 1975.A Slickly Made and Innovative Movie for its Time, Spielberg had Enough Clout and Money to Experiment with the Genre and was a Creative Talent that Crafted a Different Look and Feel to the Film that Helped Make the Movie a Slightly Offbeat Experience. John Williams Haunting Score Helped.But the Movie has Some Things that are Far From Perfect and Keeps it from Becoming a Masterpiece that So Many Claim. In the First Act, Spielberg Borrows from Howard Hawks and Includes a lot of Over Talking that is Just as Clunky as When Hawks Kept Pushing that bit of Pretension on Audiences.The Second Act is Corny at Times with Roy Scheider's Chief Brody Character Channeling Every Teen Sci-Fi from the Fifties Trying to Convince His "Elders" that there Really is a "Monster on the Loose", and When Robert Shaw's Over the Top "Old Salt" Shows Up, the Camp becomes Quite Silly at Times.The Third Act Suffers Mostly from Mechanics of the Shark Kind. When the Shark Jumps on the Boat, Suspension of Disbelief Goes Out the Window. But the Movie is Entertaining and it has Become One of Those Band Wagons that Everyone wants to Jump On for Fear of Being Left Behind. Objectively, it's a Fine Film, Better than Average, and Deserves Credit for the Now Famous Tapping of that Middle Class Angst that the Director is Well Known for Exploiting. Spielberg is a Craftsman, a Playful Filmmaker with Great Talent and an Ability to Know What the People Want and Gives it to Them in Heavy Doses.Jaws was His First Film of the Sort, and He has Never Really Changed and Strayed Only Occasionally from what Might be Called Populist Entertainment Rather than High-Art. At the Former, He is the Master.


                
Yea, "Jaws" is considered a classic for many people. I admit this is my first time seeing this, and I'm not that amazed as people say this movie makes you be.The first hour is not that interesting and nothing much really happens. Just a bunch of old people talking and talking. The movie actually isn't interesting until you finally see the sea monster. The actors do their jobs very well, but the writer could have made it with more action; that's one thing that ruined it for me.Spielberg's direction is great, but "Jaws" is not changing anybody's life; it's just pure entertainment with the ending we wanted to see.


                
