The film is developed in New England in a shore community named Amity . There , people are terrorized by a giant shark that attacks pacific tourists at the local beach . Police chief Brody (Roy Scheider) happily married (to Lorraine Gary) tries to convince local authorities (Murray Hamilton) who reluctantly listen him to empty the resort place , but the large shark attacks and the victims run afoul and provoking a real carnage and those serving for lunch . Then , the policeman , an icthyologist (Richard Dreyfuss) and an expert seaman (Robert Shaw) determine to track down and kill it . The valiant trio is forced to fight for their lives in a mortal confrontation . It's a magnificent film with an excellent creation of tension , thriller , terror , emotion and brief gore . The shark attack images deliver excitement united to creepy score by the master John Williams (prized with an Oscar) who heightens the suspense . Outstanding movie features true to life interpretations of the trio protagonist with an amusing and marvelous relationship from them and specially Dreyfuss and Shaw for an intelligent and thoughtful dialog based on Peter Benchley novel . Luxurious cinematography by Bill Butler and being stunningly directed by Spielberg who is only 27 years old . The picture won three well deserved Academy Awards . The motion picture is today considered an authentic classic . Followed by three much worst sequels , they were respectively directed by Jeannot Swarc , Joe Alves (Production designer of the original) and Joseph Sargent . Rating : Above average , indispensable watching , you will have on the edge of your seat .


                
This was when I liked Mr. Spielberg's movies. Jaws was an original movie that gave us suspense, entertainment, and a little bit of fear when going ocean swimming. The Spielster filmed some of "Jaws" in Australia where great white sharks are a regular feature on the beaches. The sharks never swim between the flags though so you are safe there.Some movies don't age, although unfortunately for "Jaws" the special effects cause it to age quite quickly. I won't hold this against the Spielster though, with "Jaws" he came out with a classic.A well earned 7.5 out of 10 for the Spielster this time.


                
Jaws is about a new police chief named Martin Brody played by Roy Scheider. As a new police chief in a small beach town he quickly is informed that a local woman has been killed by a shark. With the 4th of July holiday approaching the chief knows the beaches will be packed as well as the water. He tries to talk Mayor Vaughn played by Murray Hamilton into shutting down the beaches, but the Mayor has not intentions of doing such a thing. The Mayor's main concern is the amount of money the town is going to make over the weekend and doesn't want to scare any of that money away. The Mayor refuses to shut down the beach even though Chief Brody and a scientist who studies sharks Matt Hooper (Richard Dreyfuss) beg him to.The 4th of July weekend approaches and the town has all heard of the shark who has killed a local woman and no one is in the water. Mayor Vaughn encourages the people to get in the water, and they do. This ended up being a bad idea. Shortly after the people began playing and swimming in the water the shark appears, and ends up killing a local man. The Mayor then realizes something has to been done, especially with the thought that his children were in the water that day as well. So the Mayor agrees to pay a local fisherman he request amount to kill the shark, and the Chief as well as the scientist Hooper join him. This local fisherman named Sam Quint, played by Robert Shaw, seems to have a great deal of experience with sharks and definitely views them as something to be feared.This trip out to sea ends up being a shocker to them all. The first time you really get to see the shark is when Chief Brody is throwing chum in the water and the shark sneaks up and then pops out of the water. Chief Brody is in such amazement all he says is we are going to need a bigger boat. Up to this point in the movie you really don't realize how big the shark is, the buildup of size in the beginning of the film you understand the shark is larger than normal, but the first time you see it you are amazed by its size. At this point the battle is on against the shark. Along this trip you learn a lot about the people aboard the boat. One of the greatest moments of the film is when Quint gives his story about being aboard the SS Indianapolis and you learn why he has the feelings he has about sharks. The movie Jaws was released in June of 1975, which was the year I was born, but has always been one of my all time favorites. Jaws was one the first horror movies I ever saw and it really scared me. I still do not like to go into the ocean to this day because of this movie. There are several parts of the movie which give you the view of the person being attacked and puts you in their place, which is frightening. The most memorable items of the film is the music. That music is universal for a shark. When you start to hear the dun dun<U+0085>..dun dun<U+0085>.dumb dumb dumb, it just sends a feeling of fear all though your body.


                
Blockbuster is a bit of a dirty word in "serious" film commentary. It gets associated with base commercialism, the motion picture as mere product, simple fare with no long-term appeal. But such an assessment does a disservice to the savvy filmmakers who make the hits, as well as the movie-going public who make the box office figures. You can fake art house sophistication, but you can't fake popular approval.Jaws was adapted by Peter Benchley and Carl Gottlieb from Benchley's best-selling novel. In many ways it follows the book closely, but there are some key differences. In the novel the mayor was being pressured by the mafia, and bizarrely enough there was a subplot in which Hooper has an affair with Brody's wife. With these aspects gone we have a story stripped of anything that may introduce a different tone - anything that might have been the focus of another story in its own right. The plot and dialogue are succinct and direct, especially in the earlier scenes. This is not a picture that wastes time getting itself going.And a lot of the racy pacing is down to director Steven Spielberg. Like John Ford before him, Spielberg has great economy of expression, often working two ideas into a single shot. In Roy Scheider's first scene, we get Scheider on the phone in the foreground while his wife tends to their son's injured hand in the background. The details of the phone call aren't important, we just need to know that it happened, and thus Spielberg can afford to balance it with something that demonstrates the significance of our hero's family life. The tenderness Scheider feels towards his two boys is the closest this picture comes to having a subplot, and it is something largely brought out by Spielberg. For example, scenes like the one in which the younger son imitates Scheider's every move were improvised at the director's behest.But more than conciseness, Jaws has dynamism and punch. Like another ace director of the previous generation, Victor Fleming, Spielberg encourages performances that really move. Take a scene like Richard Dreyfuss's inspection of the first victim. Rather than a professional study, the scene is staged like a heated argument, the actors waving their arms and snapping out their lines. Almost always there is movement – characters walk as they talk, or stand before a busy crowd. The few moments of stillness – Scheider with his family, the stirring Indianapolis speech – are those of subtle significance, and their calmness helps them stand out.Of course Spielberg didn't operate in a vacuum. The invigorating style of Jaws is aided immensely by the tight editing of Verna Fields. Fields uses techniques of the art film – jump cuts, rapid edits – but with the difference that her use of them is purely functional, never attention-grabbing or stylistic, and as such she disguises her cuts to make them blend in like finest mise-en-scene. Take the beach scene where Scheider scans the seascape, fearful of another shark attack. Most of the cuts take place as an extra walks across the screen, softening them so that we barely realise the angles are changing.And it all works of course. Take this kind of professionalism, and you can make an exciting, box-office busting thriller about a shark, a dinosaur, a killer truck or whatever. This is why, when all those rip-off shark flicks began to appear (and I don't just mean the Jaws sequels – the more recent Shark Attack franchise makes the Jaws offshoots look like masterpieces) they were invariably awful. They took the premise, killer-sharks-versus-humans, thinking that alone could make a hit. These are the true lowest-common-denominator cash-in trash. If a movie gets audiences flocking in to see it in phenomenal numbers, it surely must be a high-quality piece of entertainment.


                
This is one of those rare films that has won so many awards that it's hard to keep up with them. For example, it won two Academy Awards for "Best Sound" and "Best Film Editing". It was also nominated for an Academy Award for "Best Picture" and while it didn't win on that particular night it later did win a Golden Globe award for "Best Motion Picture-Drama". Likewise, Richard Dreyfuss won a BAFTA award for his performance as the oceanographer named "Matt Hooper". And there were other awards and nominations as well. In all it was quite impressive. Now, as far as the movie is concerned, this is definitely one that I can recommend to all but the very young and faint-hearted. Although there isn't much gore, graphic language or nudity it still has enough drama and suspense to keep a person's interest throughout most of the movie. Personally, while I thought the special effects were more than adequate for that specific time period, I still would have preferred a bit more gore to make it seem even more realistic. Additionally, I thought some of the film got a bit bogged down by the dialogue-especially while the three main characters, "Sheriff Brody" (Roy Schieder), "Captain Quint" (Robert Shaw) and the aforementioned "Matt Hooper" were at sea waiting for the shark to appear. Even so this was a very good movie and as proof of that one need only look at the number of sequels, clones and similar movies which have been spawned (no pun intended) due to it. Definitely above average.
This blockbuster about a shark feasting on crowds at a summer resort launched Spielberg's career into the stratosphere. The success of this film can be attributed to the chemistry among the three stars: Scheider as the police chief, Shaw as the shark hunter, and Dreyfuss as a marine scientist. Shaw, who met with an untimely death three years later, is particularly memorable as the cantankerous Quint. Of course they are just supporting actors to the real star: Bruce the shark. Spielberg does a masterful job of generating suspense and terror. Williams adds to the tension with the throbbing theme music that is quite effective if unoriginal (he lifted it from Dvorak's Ninth Symphony).


                
Jaws. A shark is killing people in Amity Island. The only people who can stop it are Chief Brody, Hooper, and a sailor named Quint.In the beginning scene, a girl decides to go skinny dipping in the ocean. Not a very smart move. We see her getting attacked, but by what? A shark. We don't see the offender, but the girl dies, and we assume there is something terrible in the water.So, that's how it starts off. Events lead up to the thrilling climax. We are quickly thrilled by a fast-moving story. The audience is excited when the three men set out at to kill the menacing shark.Sure, a movie 30 years old probably isn't scary right now, but perhaps at its time. So, what do we have, here? You will be glad to watch the thrilling, fast-moving, and genius movie "Jaws." Well, it's entertaining at least. The story is a bit similar to many B-movies, but "Jaws" doesn't have a moment of bad acting or a single plot hole. Peter Benchley and Steven Spielberg are geniuses. The only things I didn't enjoy were the fact that the shark was pretty cheesy, and that there were boring parts. Oh well<U+0085><U+0085> 8/10


                
Jaws is without a doubt one of the most deeply effective thrillers ever to come out of Hollywood. The film has humour, good acting, a very good musical score by the world's best movie composer John Williams, and good special effects for its time. Jaws also holds one of my all time favourite movie characters. The rude fisherman we all know as Quint. One scene that always grips my nerves is the heart pounding pier sequence when two fisherman attempt to catch the great fish but become prey themselves. After seeing the film, going into the water was my number one fear especially if I was lying on an air mattress. Another thing I loved about the film was not seeing the shark, just seeing the barrels pop up, letting you know the shark was there and could appear at any moment.From the moment when Chrissie is taken by the shark to the moment when the credits role while John Williams beautiful theme played, I was blown away by the film. We'll always remember that classic line that set the mood for the second half and put deep shivers down our spines "you're gonna need a bigger boat".


                
I first saw Jaws in 1975 and found it one of the most thrilling movies I'd ever seen. It became one of the most parodied movies of the 1900's because of the use of a huge mechanical shark that was more funny than terrifying. I can honestly say, however, that the movie still is great entertainment. I think it panders to our innate fear of what is unseen and lurks under the surface of the water. In fact, the glimpses of the fin and the outline of the creature under the water were more effective than the closeups of that huge, fake mouth. In the movie, the small resort town in Maine is the victim of the ocean monster which pops up in its major tourist attraction, its ocean playground. Roy Scheider and Richard Dreyfus were just starting to make their mark and both excelled in Jaws. Director Stephen Spielberg went on to create many more great productions. Robert Shaw's performance as shark hunter Quint is memorable as the character who has a love-hate relationship with killer sharks. The movie is about a small resort town terrorized by the 25 foot shark at the start of the summer tourist season. The sudden crisis pits police officer Brody, played by Scheider, against the town mayor (played by Murray Hamilton) and the local merchants. The first attack takes place unexpectedly in the dead of night. The police chief is unable to get authorization to shut down the beach and the death toll mounts. The audience is gripped with tension every time the camera zooms in on the swimmers. In his quest to hunt and kill the shark, Scheider is aided by the erratic and foolhardy Quint (Shaw) and Hooper (Dreyfus), a trained shark expert who is often at odds with Quint. The incredible size of the shark stuns both Hooper and Quint but the challenge raises their resolve to fight and the two men become comrades in their fight against the beast. Scheider marshals the talents of Quint and Hooper and draws on his own substantial reserve of courage. What follows is a classic man vs. beast struggle. At one point we get some comic relief on the boat as Quint and Hooper compare battle scars, while drowning their fears in alcohol. Quint also tells a harrowing tale where sailors perish during the war in shark infested waters waiting for help. Note: Robert Shaw, who played the shark hunter, died only three years after the release of this move at age 51. He was a writer and an alumni of the British theatre scene, who also played in movies alongside Sean Connery and Richard Burton. Shaw lived a full life and as well as his career as an actor, he was married three times and had ten children.


                
Truly, one of the greatest pictures ever made.The film is about capturing a killer shark that feeds on humans. It's a spectacle to be seen on the big screen. The first half or three-fourth of the film is about planning how to go about capturing the shark. The last part is all in the sea. It's an amazing film because the way it traverses from scene to scene. The film involves a lot of character build up and a basis for the shark to be killed. It also keeps minimalistic in sound and gets loud only when needed.The sound design and the music by John Williams is a study in itself. The editing is precise and keeps the movie gripping. To be fair, there are hardly any dull moments in the film, even though the end is known. The journey is so interesting that the destination feels like a by-product of the journey.Steven Spielberg grew in stature with this film. I am told by my uncle who saw the film in theater 1970's when it got released that it was indeed a phenomenon and one of his friends does not enter into the water even today that is 40 years after seeing the film he is still afraid of sharks. Though funny, it is indeed true and confirmed by the person itself.It's impactful and must be revered for the change it brought about in mindset and understanding of the sea the nature of sharks.Acting is stupendous and though I don't know any of the cast, they played their roles superbly and are heroic in their own ways.A 4/5 for one the great films ever made, though it lost it's aura a bit as technology got updated, it must be seen for the content.


                
Synopsis: On the shores of a quaint northeast town, a gigantic man-eating shark is causing police chief, Martin Brody, some major issues. The mayor is breathing down his neck not to close the beaches because of upcoming summer profits on the 4th of July weekend. Thus, a team made up of the police chief, an oceanographer, and a deep sea fisherman is set to go after the ferocious great white shark. Review: When the film Jaws came out, the film became a massive hit and was highly praised by audiences and critics alike. Nowadays, it almost seems that Jaws is becoming under-appreciated and not taken a granted for. There's a lot to like about Jaws but it makes sense to start out at the beginning, when the lovely skinny dipping bombshell, happens to be the first victim to the ruthless sea beast. The panic in her eyes felt real and this kill immediately hooks the viewer into the movie. The music in this scene, by John Williams isn't necessarily catchy or explosive, but it's perfect for the underwater shark perspective, when approaching the swimmers. The film is steered, no pun intended, but the three high-profile actors, Roy Schneider, Richard Dreyfuss and Robert Shaw. Schneider was fantastic, seemingly a normal everyday person, while on the other hand, Robert Shaw played an eccentric, beloved shark hunter sensationally. In the latter half of the film, when only these three characters are shown throughout, are easily the best parts of Jaws. Shaw gives great line, after great line and the special effects for the shark improve in each underwater scene. It's only when the shark is seen above water to be a little fake. Each Spielberg film I see of his is different than the rest, since I feel he has no agenda and no style to filmmaking. He's an unique director that put together a marvelous, transcendent film, Jaws.


                
Steven Spielberg's "Jaws" (1975) is a very tense movie. The film works on two very different levels: one, a simple shocker and the other is complex character study of three people ("Police Chief Martin Brody" played by Roy Scheider,"Matt Hooper" played by Richard Dreyfuss and "Quint" played by Robert Shaw) dealing with horrific shark attacks. All the leads give excellent performances, so, unlike nowadays in a disaster movie, you actually care about the people nearly being (and in some cases) eaten alive by a giant shark (and the shark dos not looks very rubbery to me!). But be warned, the climax is very bloody and tense. Not a film for young children! A movie definitely worth watching.


                
Steven Spielberg's "Jaws" was a revolutionary motion picture for its time. Before its release, the notion of a 'summer blockbuster' simply didn't exist. Then, this movie came along and became an unstoppable pop culture phenomenon, grossing a then-record $123 million dollars at the box office amidst a wave of critical praise.The story is a fairly simple one. In the sleepy island community of Amity, the normally placid waters are disturbed by an unwelcome visitor in the form of a deadly great white shark. The police chief immediately senses the danger but the town's mayor is reluctant to close the beaches just as tourist season is kicking into gear. When matters escalate the police chief takes it upon himself to recruit a grizzled fisherman to hunt down the dangerous predator.Since the producers wanted to make the shark the star of the picture they didn't go out of their way to cast any big names in leading roles. Instead, they went for talented actors best known for supporting or ensemble roles. To that end, they decided on Roy Scheider as police chief Brody, Robert Shaw as grizzled fisherman Quint and Richard Dreyfuss as shark expert Hooper. All three gave memorable performances, especially Robert Shaw, whose 'U.S.S. Indianapolis' speech is one of the movie's high points. Apart from these three, the acting is ably handled but fairly undistinguished except for Murray Hamilton as the fast-talking mayor.Spielberg's direction is superbly handled, yet he was unaccountably snubbed by Oscar voters. His handling of the film's suspense is so assured that I found the hairs standing up on the back of my neck when watching scenes that were already deeply embedded in my memory. The fact that the mechanical shark didn't work very well was actually serendipitous since it meant that Spielberg had to employ a 'less is more' approach that left more to the viewer's imagination. Another absolutely essential part of the film's allure is the iconic theme music. John Williams' score ratchets up the tension to an almost unbearable degree.Ultimately, the movie brings together fine actors and a compelling script, guided by a master director just beginning to come into his own. The effects may not be absolutely perfect but given all of the difficulties faced, that's no surprise. Minor imperfections aside, "Jaws" is undeniably a top notch thriller that could very well make you afraid to go into the water.


                
Every shark movie after this (except for Deep Blue Sea) is a felony.Wow! Talk about captivating, Spielberg was at the top of his game here with this movie that cost $9 million dollars and made over $470 million dollars. It was also responsible for introducing the idea of summer block buster releases as the movie was shown in over 450 screens, accompanied by an extensive marketing campaign.The movie is based on a novel of the same name by Peter Benchley, but Spielberg focused on the main theme "the shark" removing all the other subplots. Shot mostly on location on Martha's Vineyard, Massachusetts, the film had a troubled production, mostly due to the mechanical shark's malfunctions, it also overran its budget and ran past its schedule, and some of these reasons are why some believe Spielberg opted out of being involved in Jaws 2.The movie plot was thus: During the summer break some teens were having a night party on fictional Atlantic resort Amity Island. One of the girls went skinny dipping while her friends continue to party on the beach. While waiting for a boy to come join her she got pulled under by something that leaves only you the view with the idea that death came.When pieces of her body washed ashore, the Police Chief Brody (Roy Scheider) feared that it was a shark attack and wanted to close the beach for the town's safety, but Mayor Vaughn (Murray Hamilton) disagreed.His point being, the town's people survived mainly on tourist trade and the July 4th holiday was also approaching so he refused to close the beach.He soon changed his mind after a boy and a man also died due to shark attack. He then decided to hire Quint (Robert Shaw), the only local fisherman willing to take on a Great White.The movie score is something that will stick with you and it resembled that used by classic thriller director Alfred Hitchcock. To overcome some of the difficulties encountered Spielberg mostly used an ominous, minimalistic theme created by composer John Williams to indicate the shark's impending appearances.Jaws have had three sequels, none with the participation of Spielberg or Benchley.Jaws also won three Academy Awards for Best Film Editing, Best Original Dramatic Score, and Best Sound. It was also nominated for Best Picture but lost it to One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest (which starred Jack Nicolson).www.lagsreviews.com


                
....give this movie praise, along with everyone else. In the beginning, it's a shallow, predictable, embarrassing 1970s 'horror/shock' flick.By the time the longshoreman enters the picture, along with the bearded scientist, the movie takes on a whole new tenor. Now it's about something else, something eternal, and this is where the movie finds its light. This is why the movie is revered the way it is. There's something cosmic about that shark, the skipper, the scientist, and the policeman. These people love the shark (except for the cop), and they hate each other. They are jealous lovers of a shark, in a fatal embrace.A good story for kids or adults, it transcends itself.


                
What could make a man go out into a hostile environment and fight a monster. This is the very heart of this story. When a rouge shark stakes his territory off the shore of Amity Island, the community responds first with disbelief then shock as the shark repeatedly takes victims.3 men venture out to catch the shark. Salty sea dog and shark hunter Quint has his own reasons, which I won't reveal here, but are not so dissimilar to that of Captain Ahab in Moby Dick. Hooper, a marine scientist has always been fascinated by sharks. Police Chief Brody who is scared of the water who must protect his community and his own family.Each person is an interesting character, and that is what makes the movie special. Mostly importantly it has the shark, a genuine monster that regularly causes the deaths of people in modern countries. If you have ever even paddled in the ocean you have visited the home of monsters.This movie is fabulous adaption of Peter Benchley's very famous book. The formula created in this movie for the battle between these men and the beast has been copied endlessly in monster movies since, but never so well.It genuinely reawakened humans fears of sharks (but shark fear was written about in Jule's Verne's 20,000 Leagues under the sea) and stopped people going to the beach. However, Peter Benchley has since spent much of his life campaigning against his own book for the preservation of sharks. In truth sharks don't often eat people, the usually take a bite, think "yuk" and spit them out again.It is a movie that should be on everyone's must see list and worth returning to if you are feeling jaded by some of the current monster fests.


                
The premier summer blockbuster is still up there as one of the ones to beat when it comes to big-budget entertainment, representing relatively thoughtful and character-focused film-making which favours slowly ratcheting up the suspense over overtly shoving it's plastic shark down the audience's throats. It's this restraint that allows 'Jaws (1975)' to hold up as well as it does, with the stellar score combining with brief glimpses of the beast to tick us over until a woman is whisked beneath the waves or an unsuspecting swimmer's blood bubbles to the surface and by the time the animatronic actually pops up in full, we fully believe it because we're immersed into the world and invested in the characters that occupy it. It's a roller-coaster ride that fills you with every emotion on the spectrum, one that's impeccably crafted despite all its behind-the-scenes chaos, and the fact it can take its time to include a harrowing war story but still end on the explosive, frankly quite silly, note it does is actually rather commendable since it does all of it so utterly successfully. 8/10


                
This was a truly revolutionary film in the film industry. It was really the first time people attempted filming primarily from hand-held cameras. Not only that, but they filmed on the Pacific ocean on small boats with small cameras. In the production of this film their were a lot of firsts. They took huge risks and were successful.In the making of this film the had a mechanical shark that was unlike anything ever made. It was more advanced than any other used anywhere. It was huge and by itself it didn't look like much but with the shooting and editing, the shark was able to scare crowds and bring the added effect of terror to the film. What also helped make this movie scary was the soundtrack. The infamous string noise(DA-na) of the great white going in to attack was what startled me the most. It was unsettling.Something great that the cameramen did was shoot at water level, giving the audience the impression that the great monster was just under the surface ready to strike again. This film was great and truly a masterpiece. The work that went into in and the "revolutionary" ideas in filming of this movie really helped pave the path of what can be done in filming if people took the chance to try something never done by others before.


                
Jaws is a film directed by the now legendary Steven Spielberg (Saving Private Ryan, Schindlers List, A.I. Artificial Intelligence) in 1975. It is written by Carl Gottlieb (Jaws Franchise, The Jerk) and Peter Benchley (Jaws franchise, The Deep) who also wrote the book. It stars Roy Scheider (Jaws franchise, The French Connection, 2010), Richard Dreyfuss (Close Encounters of the Third Kind, American Graffiti, Pirhana 3D) and Robert Shaw (The Sting, From Russia with Love, A Man for All Seasons).Jaws is about a small town called Amity who begins to be terrorized by a rogue shark. The sheriff (Roy Scheider) gets a crew of three including a scientist (Peter Benchley) and an odd fisherman (Robert Shaw) to go after it.What makes this film most famous is probably the incredible soundtrack by John Williams (Harry Potter franchise, Star Wars franchise) writes an incredible score that has now become famous. Just listening to the theme of this movie will make you frightened and nervous about what you know is bound to happen on screen eventually. It won best score at the Oscars and is now synonymous with anything having to do with sharks.Another aspect of this film is Robert Shaw's performance as Quint, a crazy fisherman who becomes obsessed with catching the shark. Anytime he is on screen he downright steals the scene. His performance will be looked upon as the classic crazy fisherman and will be copied until the end of time. Every time I watch him I see something new and he never seems to disappoint. While the special effects of this film might've been great for the time, sometimes they do not hold up as well as we remember. However despite that, this is an action-packed, dramatic film that will be remembered until the end of time and really brought Steven Spielberg's name to be as famous as it is now.


                
The reason we're so damn scared of sharks lurking in the water is because of one man: Steven Spielberg. His most iconic film revolves around a killer shark terrorizing a local town in California. With classic music and the unaware presence and location of the mighty beast, Spielberg has truly crafted a terrorizing film. "Jaws" is not only a classic film, it's the begging of a major fear in nature. Sharks are deadly creatures, there's no doubt, but the initial fear of these majestic creatures started once the "dun dun dun" music and the mysterious camera view from the sharks perspective hit the screen in the 70's. Every horror filmmaker should learn from this film. Instead of pouring boodles of blood constantly and showing gratuitous guts and bodies being mutilated (which is pretty much all you get in horror film,s these days), Stevey makes your mind scared, and it's his subtlety that messes you with and makes you jump from your couch. We only see Jaws for about five minutes on screen. Yet he scares us throughout. We don't know what the heck we're dealing with, that's why we get scared. We don't know where he is in the water or who he will strike next. The direction that leads us into fear of the unknown is why this is a classic. Steven Spielberg made his legendary work likable due to not only his masterful use of horror, but his cutting edge visual effects. Once we do see Jaws, it's a sight to be reckoned with. Nowadays we're so use to magnificent special effects that this would seem like nothing. But from a 1975 perspective, this is mind- blowing. Steven Spielberg's classic tale of horror and the relationship between man and nature is a film you really must see to call yourself a true movie fanatic.


                
This is a great movie, no doubt about it. 10/10. However, "Jaws" has just been toppled in terms of underwater horror in Shark Attack III, where there is a much more scary Megalodeon shark which is 100 times bigger than the big shark in Jaws. I therefore recommend watching "Shark Attack III" - at least the scenes with the megalodeon shark.


                
Who hasn't seen or at the very least heard of the classic 1970's film, Jaws?? It's so well known and won three Academy Awards for it's fine filmmaking. The plot of course revolves around the humongous shark that is terrorizing the small coastal town of Amity. The characters that the film focuses on is Roy Scheider and Richard Dreyfuss. They are the men that ultimately end up going up against this beast of the water. There are certain things I liked about this one. One of those things is the casting, I thought the actors did a good job with the material.The writing is also well done, the dialogue is important, because most of it is about the shark and determining what's to be done about it. But if I'm being honest, my favorite part of the film is the atmospheric aspect of it all. The atmosphere plays a big role in the effectiveness. The atmosphere and the music are probably the two most memorable and important parts of Jaws. The opening sequence combines those two things perfectly! The film is fun, exciting, and overall well made. I'll admit that I don't love it to the extent that most probably do. It's not on my favorites list, but it's still good. 8/10 for Jaws.
I enjoy this movie. Surprisingly, it didn't make me not want to go in the ocean ever again, which it seems to have that effect on a lot of people. But then again, I'm more of a pool person, not a beach person, so maybe that was the main reason I wasn't scared.This movie takes place in the peaceful community of Amity Island. But in the lovely Summer, out comes a furious shark from the depths, and it's killing everyone it can. After not caring and/or believing about the shark, people still go into the water. Until people are killed mid-swim. Jeez, does no one listen? Now, a particular set of men must hunt down the shark and kill it, before it kills themOverall, I give this movie a 6 out of 10, which in my ratings book is: Good.
If we reconsider this three man crew. - we can come to the conclusion that Quint, even though he was the owner of the boat, was the man who stuck out like a sore thumb on board. Brody and Hooper both wore glasses and Quint did not. Do you think that they should have taken advantage of their position and overpowered him? Strength through unity? One man without glasses would not be much of a problem for two men in glasses. These observations can be extended further if one looks close enough. Hooper had a full beard Quint just had a moustache Brody had neither. But he did have glasses. The amount of facial hair decreases from Hooper down to Brody. Or if we look at it the other way - the facial hair increases if we go from Brody, through Quint up to Hooper.
