I re-watched this film recently and was blown away by the absolute suspense it invoked in me. My daughter (whom is 17) and I were both stunned at the quality and realism of a film made in 1975!! Our TV is 55 inches which showed the movie off to it's full potential and it certainly did not disappoint.That iconic moment of the young lady going skinny dipping in the dark with her male friend is utterly haunting. You know the horror of what's going to happen, the buoy dinging in the background gives you the chills. Steven Spielberg captures pure terror in that scene.Jaws completely absorbs you, as the trio of shark hunters venture off to try to snare the great white you begin to feel part of their adventure. You fear for them, get excited with them and dread what will happen next. When that fishing line starts spinning your heart starts pumping. This is pure class.The dynamics of Richard Dreyfuss, Roy Scheider and Robert Shaw's relationship(s) work brilliantly. The differences in their characters persona's is such that they rub each other up the wrong way, disrespect one another and wind each other up but in the end they are there for each other and develop a bond that I think surprises them all.As things begin to unravel your heart goes out to the trio and trepidation is the only way forward. They have the fight of their life on their hands, their bravery is boundless. You feel in awe of them. An absolute legend of a movie which I am grateful to have been able to watch and enjoy.


                
The film opens with a shot of a group of teenagers enjoying a campfire out on Amity beach... A couple leaves the group for a midnight swim... The silhouette of a woman is seen in full flight toward the sea... Her dress, bra, and panties fly toward her drunk admirer who can't make a fist to catch them... In a delicate splash, Chrissie goes swimming in the cold ocean, drawing herself into deeper water... When a wave of pressure lifts her up and eases her down, her face begins to show a certain fear... Her eyes go to the beach where her friend, too drunk to stand, is struggling with his shoe...Chrissie turns and starts for shore... But her expression freezes... Something terrible is hurting her underneath... She struggles with all her forces, but she is soon submerged in a horrifying scene... Police Chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider) reacts quickly to the news of shark attack, and emerges with enough poster-board, wooden stakes, nails, paint and brushes to close every beach on the island... But as Amity is a beautiful summer resort with clean air, clear water, and beautiful white sand beaches... Mayor Larry Vaughn (Murray Hamilton) tries with his town officials to convince the insecure police chief to file the incident as a 'boating accident.' Brody reluctantly agrees, but later regrets his decision after few more fatal incidents... The shark has claimed Amity Island as his territory...Quint (Robert Shaw), an eccentric old shark killer, offers to kill the menacing Great White Shark for ten thousand dollars... Matt Hooper (Richard Dreyfuss), an arrogant young oceanographer, proves that the giant shark that killed Christine Watkins is still on the loose... 'They caught a shark. Not the shark,' he determines... and predicts future outbursts of attack activity in the area...Brody, Quint and Hooper become allied in a life-and-death hunt... They go after the monstrous creature with rifles and poison pistols... They try to tire him, slowing him down with coiled ropes and barrels... They fight him with everything, harpoons, poles, gaffs and compressed air tanks...Shaw is absolutely convincing as the colorful master fisherman whose obsession for destroying sharks was triggered by an actual incident in World War II... Scheider is quiet likable as the dedicated family man who doesn't even like the water, swimming or boating... His line to Quint ('You're going to need a bigger boat.") suggests a specific cause...Dreyfuss manages to humanize the picture while stealing it... Spielberg alarms us with unexpected twists, and heart-stopping scenes wonderfully engaging... His grasp for sustaining the feeling of terror comes not only from what we see, but from what we're afraid we're going to see... He uses an imposing classical score to prepare the audience for something really scary that is about to show up... With every breath, every thought, heart beat and movement, the realism of the increasing menace is present from the opening to the end... And believe me, we are never allowed the relief of looking away from the screen<U+0085>
This movie began it all. It is a pinnacle benchmark for other movies to come. It launched Steven Spielberg's career, terrified audiences around the world with amazing acting, a pounding musical score and most of all unbearable suspense. Chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider), lives on Amity island and is living a rather relaxed life as chief of police. But all of a sudden, a killer shark invades the waters of Amity and its up to Brody to stop the predator. Richard Dreyfuss plays Matt Hooper, a marine biologist and Robert Shaw sea experienced fisherman Quint. It still carries all the power it did back then in 1975 and i seriously do recommend you seeing this if you haven't, and if you have, watch it again!


                
There's something terrifying about open water that has etched itself upon the human psyche . Undoubtedll this is because our natural survival instincts tell us to keep away from it . We can't see , hear or smell what's under the waves and we can't breathe in water either and anything that can has got one over on us . Why do you think there's been so many legends about sea monsters ? And the success of JAWS is entirely down to the way that it exploits mans fear of the sea The great thing about this movie is how focused it is , Spielberg's cut out all the crap from the book like the politics of the town , and the sexual subplots and made the ending truly climatic . Compare this film version to Peter Benchley's BEAST which is basically the same story where a greedy capitalist is in denial , an obsessive boatman tries to catch the monster etc the only real difference is that BEAST features a giant squid as the monster . You would probably be correct in arguing that JAWS is the only time when a film adaptation actually improves over the source novel Sadly at the age of 28 the then unknown Steven Sielberg seems to have reached his creative peak . True EMPIRE OF THE SUN , SCHINDLER'S LIST and SAVING PRIVATE RYAN may contain more artistic achievements but JAWS is certainly a more consistent movie that's difficult to fault . The only time there's any disappointment is when the eponymous shark appears in the last segment of the movie . It's obviously a giant animontronic model of some kind and since Spielberg has spent so much time using very effective suspense like the soundtrack and the shark's POV for much of the running time the on screen revelation is unfortunately going to be a disappointment But let's not talk about minor disappointment and just admire what the director has given us here . We know that someone is going to get chewed up on the crowded beach so Spielberg teases us . A fat woman walks past the screen and the audience snigger " I bet she'd make a good meal for the shark " so everyone in the audience puts money on Mrs Obesity being eaten , especially when she's surrounded by cute kids because cute kids never get eaten in movies . ooopppps I spoke too soon . Perhaps the reason it is a good film is because Spielberg has ignored convention , certainly we don't get drowned in sentiment or family life , unlike say THE TERMINAL or ET . Non existent are the other Spielberg faults like overlong shot duration , here everything is shot in a very snappy manner and the movie is quite rightly regarded as a classic fright fest


                
Often considered to be the ultimate summer blockbuster, Jaws (1975) goes even further than that; standing as a truly radical and exciting piece of film-making, rich in character, action, energy and technique; and filled with some truly iconic moments that have endured throughout the subsequent thirty-five years and still retain the power and ability to shock and excite the audience in more than equal measures. For me, it's an example of almost perfect film-making, setting the template for many of Spielberg's greatest films in terms of structure, presentation and impact; with that opening sequence grabbing our attention with a swift combination of alluring sexuality giving way to full-blown horror and dread; further whetting our appetite just enough to make us persevere with the eventual scenes of dialog and exposition that immediately follow. Here, Spielberg is also able to suggest the kind of danger lurking ahead, creating a sense of suspense for the audience that will pay off in the final third of the film, where we find non-stop action, drama and pure character dynamics.Much has already been written about the sharp vibrancy of the story and the slow build up to the eventual revelation of the event that triggers the narrative and sends us headlong into that four-way battle of wits that dominates the film's final act; with the screenwriters taking an obvious leaf from Hitchcock - and in particular, The Birds (1963) - with that idea of a small, seemingly idyllic island community being terrorised by an ecological, naturalistic horror that is never fully explained (and remains all the more terrifying for it). It remains that perfect combination of script, direction, casting and hook; in this case the frightening and iconic score of John Williams, which benefits from a two-note simplicity in keeping with the rest of the film, and the basic idea of an unseen, unstoppable evil, waiting in the most innocuous place of all... the sea! Spielberg's confident approach to a cinema of this scale, even at such an early point in his career, is already apparent; with the problems behind the scenes actually being used to the benefit of the film, turning something that could have been a fairly obvious maritime disaster movie with a fake rubber shark and producing a film that was slightly more enigmatic, character driven and open to interpretation.For example, you can clearly read metaphorical interpretations into the portrayal of the shark and how it affects this community; bringing out the quiet desperation of the islanders and the corruption of its town officials who just want to keep the money rolling in, regardless of the cost; are of which are fairly prevalent when we think of the film in the 70's context, post-Watergate/post-Vietnam. However, the film isn't limited to political subtext, with the action, characters and deft handling of narrative momentum all adding to the overall great viewing experience; with the director's truly heroic command of framing, shot structure and tight use of editing to make the most out of the film's few genuinely affecting shock scenes. It's also more violent than the PG rating would suggest, with Spielberg once again getting away with the kind of brutality that would have condemned a less popular filmmaker; something that we can also see in the violence of Saving Private Ryan (1999) and the more recent Munich (2005).It's odd to consider now that Spielberg was, despite his success, always thought of as a lesser talent compared to the likes of Coppola, Scorsese and Bogdanovich; his style and influences too populist to appeal to serious cineasts and his films apparently too lightweight to be compared to the similarly great likes of The Last Picture Show (1971), The Conversation (1974) and Taxi Driver (1976). With this in mind, it's surprising to see that Spielberg is now the most interesting, exciting and edgy director of his generation; still as populist and business-minded as ever, but taking great risks with films like the emotionally complicated A.I. (2001), the low-key and minimalist (of the not entirely successful) The Terminal (2004) and the vitriolic and oddly reflective Munich; as mentioned above. Obviously, he is a great filmmaker - as those particular films and many more will attest - however, for me, Jaws is something of his masterpiece; made all the more impressive for the fact that it was produced at the very beginning of his career and was only his third feature-length film as director.


                
'Jaws' is considered the pioneer of the Summer blockbusters. After all, its impact and success made it a much copied movie, by giving birth to 3 sequels and different movies inspired on it (such as 'Deep Blue Sea'). But 'Jaws' is definitely THE Summer blockbuster (and also the one to own).Steven Spielberg was in the beginning of his career when he made this movie. Although he made other movies before, this was his first hit. Its success surprised even Spielberg himself. The movie is based on a 1974 book (same title) by Peter Benchley. I read the book and there are many differences...Filming of the movie took much longer than planned. It was supposed to take about 2 months, but ended up taking more than 5 months (also due to reliability issues with the mechanical sharks).'Jaws' is considered a classic in its genre. Indeed it is a great movie but also shocking. It is intense and combines strong suspense and horror. The shark is immense and intimidating. It is clearly over-sized, but that also makes the movie more terrifying. It looks a bit rubbery at times, but I don't think it looks as artificial as many do. Nicely filmed, the movie takes place in a fictional Summer resort town (Amity Island). The place looks very appealing, the sandy beach is big, beautiful and very inviting. And that's where the brutal shark's attacks occur. It's heaven and hell at the same time.The movie's got some of the most horrifying deaths ever in a movie. While not the scariest movie of its kind, it surely is scary when it is. In fact, I often read and heard that when the movie came out in 1975, never before had the cinemas been so full and the beaches so empty. It wasn't just because of the movie's euphoria, but also because of the shark's attacks seen in it (maybe more than the sharks's attacks in real life). Today the movie continues to marvel and shock audiences.And the soundtrack by the genial John Williams is strong and powerful, very appropriate for the movie. It gives the sensation of being spooky and carried with suspense, the feeling that something terrible is about to happen.Roy Scheider portrays the town's police chief Martin Brody. Richard Dreyfuss stars as the marine biologist Matt Hooper. Robert Shaw plays the rude fisherman and shark hunter Quint. Murray Hamilton is Larry Vaughn, the selfish Mayor of Amity Island. Ever since the beginning, Brody wants to close the beaches to protect beachgoers from the shark's attacks, but is overruled by the Mayor, who refuses to close the beaches because of his greed for money and also refuses to listen to or believe anybody. His selfishness costs lives, as we see in the film - including a child's life.The first half of the movie focus more on the attacks and also lets us know Amity Island and appreciate its scenario. The second half focus on the attempt to hunt the great beast.The movie's poster is great, even more so in the DVD cover.


                
According to his own recollection, novelist Peter Benchley stated he considered his story involving a huge shark attacking beach swimmers several years before the movie. When the book came out, Steven Spielberg first thought it would make for a good scary movie. That was before he became aware of all the technical problems involved. At one point he hated the project and anything having to do with it. To his credit, he finished the difficult film and it became a true Classic in it's own right. The actual story is based on the 1916 account of New Jersey beach goers being attacked and devoured by a real life shark. It is no surprise, when you see the film "Jaws" be prepared for some unexpected shock scenes. There are several which if you're seeing it in the dark room, at night or alone, you'll find yourself seeking company, comfort or a large weapon. To my way of thinking, it is the actors who imbue the film with such artistic reality, they cause audiences to re-consider going swimming in the ocean. Spielberg did an excellent job in finding Roy Scheider to play, land loving Police Chief Martin Brody. Robert Shaw is superb as Quint and his ' USS Indianapolis story' makes for mental horror. Youthful newcomer Richard Dreyfuss is excellent as Matt Hooper, the 'professional' shark expert. Murray Hamilton plays the fiscally stubborn Mayor Larry Vaughn. Together the cast add their personal signature to this incredible film and place it on the shelves of the finest movies ever made. ****


                
The movie starts out on Amity Beach where a group of kids is having a pow-wow. One girl goes swimming...and its all downhill from there. The movie is awesome, and it can be scary. There is quite a bit of blood and gore, but that just adds to the fearlessness of this movie. It can make you laugh, cry, cringe, and fear to enter the water, all in just two hours of sitting in front of your television. The movie presses on and just keeps filling your cup with suspense. Now on to ethical stuff. Even though its rating is PG, it probably isn't appropriate for kids under oh...ten. But most of the movie is appropriate and the only bad thing is the blood.All in all, this movie has something for everyone, and you should get in your car, go to a movie store, and rent it!


                
Of the many blockbuster films Steven Spielberg directed, I wonder if this might wind up as his most famous years from now. Like Hitchcock and "Psycho," it certainly was his most shocking and scariest film. For months, people were afraid to go into the ocean after seeing this film. Few people knew what a Great White Shark looked like, but they have ever since this film came out!No, it doesn't hold the terror it did when released about 30 years ago, but it is still scary, still entertaining and moves at a fast pace. This is a quick two hours of movie-watching. The shark, which can look a little phony on occasions, is still frightening and the music has held up even better than the special-effects. The creepy music whenever the shark is near still can get your adrenaline flowing!I didn't find any of the human beings too appealing. The more I watch this, the more I wish the shark had eaten more of them, like Richard Dreyfuss and Murray Hamilton.


                
Before E.T,Raiders of the lost ark and Minority report comes Jaws...not only Steven Spielbergs first blockbuster but the very first blockbuster to have existed on this earth today...Some young viewers may be put off by how old this film is (its 36 years old this year... and the shark is not cgi) but for those of you who like modern Spielberg flicks (Indy 4,Minority report etc.) should give this a go. I'll promise you'll like it :) Jaws also won 3 Oscars for Best music,Best editing and Best sound... and was also nominated for Best picture.This is a movie that has tension that the sequels cannot possibly live up to...for the rest of the 70's Spielberg did mainly sci-fi blockbusters-and in the 80's,90's and 00's Spielberg balanced his blockbusters (Raiders of the lost ark,Jurassic park,Minority report etc.) with some more mature works (Schindler list,Saving private ryan,Munich etc.) so if you never seen any Spielberg films... i recommend you start here.


                
This was the first time i've seen jaws, and it blew me away! The acting was top notch, the action and special effects were grade A and it totally immersed me in the feeling of underwater horror. In my opinion the best scene by far is the shark cage scene, the realism of the shark was brilliant.The only reason I didn't give this marvellous piece of cinematography a ten was that some times the voice acting didn't hold up with the acting or the action.All in all this is definitely a brilliant film and a must have for fans of the thriller genre. (I watched the DVD version)
I have always loved this film but watching the 2 hour documentary on how it was made recently on the Bio channel, it made me realise what an absolute triumph it was. Spielberg dragged this film up by the scruff of the neck and made this film a classic. It was dogged by technical issues, budget problems and a massive lack of support from the studio. The crux of the film's success lies in the camaraderie between the main characters, most of which were 2nd, 3rd or 4th choices. One of my favourite scenes is where Brodie is brought back to reality by his son imitating him at his dining table. Beautiful. That is why the vast majority of Spielberg's films are so successful because he makes the characters so believable and vulnerable and so we care about them.


                
if this movie is great and not only great but an example that paved new ways for film makers to test out new territories and go beyond.The technique that Spielberg used in this movie and later in many other breath taking thrillers is all hope is lost and not yet , again you feel there is no way back and a nice trick and back again.This Pressure building that is getting more and more intense sequence by sequence is the bases that PIXAR used it on Toy Story and almost every movie they made, not to mention Back to the future.The entire world of film making owes Spielberg because of this roller coaster ride.This movie is the role model not just for Pixar but many many other Studios, Writers and Directors.Mr.Spielberg , Salute


                
'Jaws' was and still is highly successful as a film and critically. It continues to be the first and ultimate Summer blockbuster.More recent but similar films are much more violent and gory. But still, 'Jaws' was quite a shocker at the time and even now it still is shocking. With this film, Steven Spielberg broke new ground in 1975 just like Alfred Hitchcock did with 'The Birds' in 1963.Unlike more recent sharks's films, this one is solid in its story and as a film. Also, the shark isn't that much seen, being more of an unseen assassin that is slowly introduced. This may be blamed to the reliability problems that plagued the mechanical sharks, which limited the role and made this a challenge to make. But it was worth it because that makes the shark more mysterious and also contributes to make this film the long-lasting legacy it is. Another reason is because the shark looks a little rubbery although it doesn't look too phony and still looks intimidating and petrifying.The director did the right choices for the cast. Roy Scheider is very convincing as the police chief Martin Brody. Richard Dreyfuss is a comic relief as Matt Hooper. Robert Shaw was one of those "old school" actors who, more than portraying the characters, seem to become them. All of this thanks to his performance as Quint, a character who is cocky, arrogant, crazy, rude, cynical, more stubborn than a mule and pirate-like yet hilarious at the same time. Murray Hamilton plays well the Mayor Larry Vaughn, a character who, in the name of the town's interest, ends up doing the opposite: a series of poor decisions. Even the actors who have minor roles were finger-selected.Cinematography is great. Amity Island looks very appealing and inviting and it has that wonderful golden sand beach. Reminds me Porto Santo island.This fascinating film is rich in suspense and horror element and can even count with a creepy soundtrack (the power and the magic that comes from the maestro John Williams). This soundtrack has that quality of mystery and horror. Sends chills down the spine and this sensation gets bigger just imagining that the shark is coming through.All of the deaths are shocking. Each death is as shocking as the other one/s. They are brilliantly made and directed. The death of Chrissie Watkins is terrifying and so are her screams. Alex Kintner's death is one of those that affect me most and you can hear him screaming either. It hurts more to see a child dying so horribly than an adult. The scene when deceased Ben Gardner shows up is sudden and scary. The guy who loses his leg... another shocking one. And Quint's death is the goriest and the one you see closer. Plus, to see the shark tearing him apart and the pain he cries out can make most people freeze. There are also two implied deaths (of two dogs) which are unseen, therefore uncertain.Where this film leaves a little to be desired is in details such as the fact that the 2nd half focus a little too much on the attempt to hunt the shark and a particular use of a long take (the bit when Quint tells his USS Indianapolis story - but fortunately that is nothing compared to the excessive long takes of 'Before Sunset'!) Nevertheless, they could have done, for example, scenes with Brody's wife and kids (and show Michael recovering from the shock he had and returning home) and show Brody returning home to announce that he killed the shark and his wife and kids congratulating him and hugging him at the ending.Now, these are just flaws, but this film is great. A cinematic benchmark. I believe it caused people the fear of going in the water at the time but I am also pretty sure that doesn't happen nowadays and ever since many years ago.Title in Portugal: 'O Tubarão'.
It is Spielberg in all its essence. It creates restlessness, creates mystery. It has its familiar parts, parts of friendship. It is emotional, well narrated.I take great joy seeing it as I saw the Spielberg I was waiting for. The entire film is designed, designed, composed, in an exceptional way. You can see that I had a wonderful time in the whole process. Even if I had all kinds of problems. Flat to flat you see as you have thought, to compose it stupendously. It has an amazing staging. As it moves the actors inside the plane and how it moves them to give depth of field and to narrate of beautiful form.His wit is seen in planes as when he receives a call and the phone is at eye level and behind things are happening. Or when the woman goes to fire the policeman to the boat. All designed.The actors are great. All are different, all their characters grow. They come to empathize and you believe them.A photograph that being clear, is not video camera, if it does not contribute something.I think this was his first great work, after having had a sea of <U+200B><U+200B>wonders.
I have to say this film is still good to watch all these years later. It's a good out to sea movie that can leave some people afraid to get into the ocean waters! Great acting by all involved, well filmed as well - plenty of action to watch on the screen and not just with the shark attacks - lots of character interactions that are fun and sometimes intense to watch. The story is good as well - for a horror movie it's really good.I still enjoy watching this movie - I remember it from my childhood so it's a part of my growing years of watching movies.9/10


                
Many if not all shark movies are garbage. But Jaws is the movie which does the shark formula right. After a girl gets dragged under water, pieces of her wash up and people start investigating what happened only to find out that a man eating shark is in the water. This movie has so many memorable scenes and every time someone goes to a beach, people always do the music to annoy you. Jaws is a truly brilliant film which is often called one of the greatest American films ever made. AFI put it at number 56 in their list of the 100 greatest movies. This is a truly brilliant film and it's considered the first true summer blockbuster. Many of its scenes are highly iconic and some scenes left a permanent mark in movie history as we know it. The 3 characters who went to kill the shark all had terrific performances. This is one of those films that about every kid knows about. This movie is so quotable and I could recite many famous quotes from the movie. Even though the shark looks artificial and fake nowadays, there's no denying that the film had an enormous impact on cinema. This movie made everyone fear the water and it will likely be watched for many generations.


                
Made in the year of my birth, I can remember seeing this when i was very young, and i came away from from it terrified. I would go to bed and wrap myself in my duvet (somehow that made me feel safer - the reason why now escapes me). Only one other film that i saw as a child had this effect on me and that was Alien (i could never get passed the face-hugger leaping on to John Hurt's face). Although i realise how amazing this movie is, and can still thoroughly enjoy watching it (the scene on the boat with Richard Dreyfus, Roy Scheider and Robert Shaw comparing scars is pure genius), i do think that for a new audience it must appear a mystery as to why it was ever considered scary. Even its rating has been lowered for today's youth.To be honest the special effects which seemed so terrifying now look quite comical (The ending, when the shark flops on to the boat and chomps Robert shaw, looks kind of like a giant grey rubber dildo). The story and Cast stand the test of time well, but the truth is, there is nothing here to scare the modern audience.All that said, i can't think of a modern day equivalent thats even close to being as good as this was in its day.Still a classic 9/10
directed by a young Steven Spielberg, this movie has been ruined by it's terrible sequels......it's simply an unforgetable classic horror film........with great performances, with an oscar winning musical score by John Williams(without this score the movie wouldn't ever cause the same great impact), and in general a very well made movie that started Spielberg's career as a major film director.... the movie caused great impact at the time of it's release.....but much of the impact is now lost due to it's sequels and to it's numerous imitations.......so don't try to get yourself caught with the sequels or any other imitations, because Jaws is the only great one there is ****1/2 out of 5


                
Based on Peter Benchley's best-selling novel, Director Steven Spielberg's 1975 shark saga set the standard for the New Hollywood popcorn blockbuster while frightening millions of moviegoers out of the water. Jaws was a mega blockbuster at the time, becoming the highest grossing film at that point and changed the way Hollywood release and marketed movie. Both the film and the novel was inspired by the historic event of the Jersey Shore shark attacks of 1916. The movie starts out with the infamous scene of a moonlight skinner dipper getting drag under the ocean. In the morning, the town of Amity Island finds out that she was attacked by a shark attack. Police chief Martin Brody (Roy Scheider) orders Amity's beaches closed, but is overruled by mayor Larry Vaughan (Murray Hamilton), fearing it would hurt the summer tourism on which the town's economy is heavily dependent on. When the deaths continue to pile up, Brody brings in ichthyologist Matt Hooper (Richard Dreyfuss) and shark hunter Quint (Robert Shaw) to kill the killer Great White Shark once and for all. Quint is larger than life and even cartoonish because the story needs this character. Quint is the ring leader for the great "Boys" adventure which is the turn this movie takes in the last third act of the movie and the best part. Quint, Brody, and Hooper. They laugh, they argue, they are tested, they bond, and it work. Robert Shaw does a great job in the role, and the whole USS Indianapolis speech was amazing. His overt bravado and Machismo was greatly needed to play counterpoint to Hooper's nebbishes. He is the story's Captain Ahab. It was one of the things they change from the novel. Another is cutting most of Benchley's many subplots, like Hooper having an affair with Brody's wife, which is great in my opinion. In my opinion, Richard Dreyfuss was the weakest of the three main characters. It was so unlike the character from the book. Still, Hooper should had the same ending as the novel. It was disappointing. I do like Roy Scheider as Brody. I love Roy Scheider's ad-lib of the line "You're gonna need a bigger boat.". I just wish his fear of the open water was explain. It was generalized and non-specific to fit the expected fears of most of the audience. Brody is the everyman character so he must be most generalized, least brave throughout, least in control throughout. He does not become "heroic" until he is finally all alone and must do whatever he can to kill the beast, which he does the vicarious triumph of the audience through him. The film had a troubled production, going over budget and past schedule. Due to that, Spielberg rarely show the shark, until the third act. The shark instead is shown by camera point of view of the creature looming in the ocean or close shots of its fin. John Williams's orchestral theme, the creepiest since Herrmann's Psycho also plays a part. Spielberg decided to mostly suggest the animal's presence, employing an ominous, minimalistic theme created by composer John Williams to indicate the shark's impending appearances. The music gives it a pulsing heartbeat. It ramps up the tension from point to point and brings the film to higher and higher plateaus. Due to the lack of shark presence, so critics might say, this is the greatest B movie ever. I disagree. It's not a B movie. It's a movie that follows the same structure as B movies. B movies are not necessarily bad. They're cheap and they put the premise before character and plot development. The two things that separate Jaws from B movies are the deep characters and the insane budget. The writers cared so much for who the characters were that it could not be a B movie. I just recently saw the movie again and I am amazed how well it holds up. Spielberg was a master at showing his skill and awareness to story, setting and character. Then the art! There is a shot of Brody looking out the boat window while reflected in the glass is the yellow barrel being dragged out to sea by the monster shark. Brilliant! It is sublime in illustrating the magic and exhilaration of this great "Boys" adventure! The reason why Jaws works as a good horror movie is because who can deny it? Great White Sharks have killed people in the past, and aren't creatures of morality. Great white sharks are apex predators. Their physiology and whole lives even are centered around killing. Nature can be scary and brutal; why not show it as it really is? Great White Sharks, although they are indeed misunderstood creatures who don't outrightly kill people for pleasure or even sport like humans do. They have been known to kill people under the perception that they have mistaken swimmers as wounded prey. Hence their attraction to loud noise and splashing. They are indeed a force of nature, but as humanity has learned time and time again, nature is a dangerous thing, and great white sharks are some of the most deadly the ocean has to offer. Some people got offended because it portray sharks in a bad light and help cause some species of sharks to be nearly extinct due to hunting. New studies have shown that the danger great white sharks pose to humans is greatly exaggerated and I agree, they are dangerous, but it's rare to have shark attacks. What isn't exaggerated is how popular the movie got after the released. Its spawn horrible sequels, and a few Universal Studios rides. In the end, Jaws is a pretty good horror movie. Filled with terror and adventure, Jaws continues to make new generations of fans afraid to go swimming. Let Jaws take a bite out of you!
instant classic and one of a kind that has not since been emulated Jaws is one of the two movies that got me into film making.From the camera movement to the actors all way to the perfect direction from Steven Spielberg.The effects of this movie also help the movie with the shark not being revealed often.Stil watch again and again to study and to enjoy.the characters are so well developed and conflict against each other and the island where it takes place really gives you a sense of the world they live in.as they all depend on the island and it beaches to remain open especially the mayor who clearly does not care of the safety of his people.honestly i would love to give this movie 10/10 but its not perfect movies do age over time and that is the only thing that lets this movie down.


                
I have seen this movie so many times, and it is still one of the best all time best films ever made.Well before the days of special effects, CGI, and 3-D Spielberg did his best making this film with scenes of a mechanical shark. And the film is suspense filled as most scenes don't show the shark directly attacking the victims, yet it's often the things that are hidden and underneath that are the most terrifying like an underwater great white. And most memorable is the pulsating original theme score from the film, you've heard it many times as it just carries the suspense and drama of the film along so well.Based on Peter Benchley's novel(I must say a must read)"Jaws" is set in a New England northeastern island resort town of Amity. And all of a sudden unexpected bodies float ashore and deaths are reported. And the worst fears of the ocean have come to service a great white shark is responsible. So enter the town's sheriff stressed out Chief Brody(wonderfully played by Roy Scheider)and upon his assumptions and investigations he's meet with resistance and protest from the town mayor Mr. yes man and the politically corrupt Mayor Vaughn(well done by Murray Hamilton)as it's better to lie about shark attacks to the citizens for fear of losing money as people will not want to vacation in Amity if reports of shark attacks are true. Brody does the best to cope with it with support from wife Ellen(Lorraine Gary).Still matters need to be taken further so enter two problem solver helpers one in the form of Sam Quint(Robert Shaw)a weathered and crazy odd ball shark hunter who's methods are unorthodox and then to complete the twosome it's young hotshot educated marine scientist Matt Hooper(Richard Dreyfuss). And along the way this film turns into a suspenseful adventure of shark hunting that's helped by the wonderful and pulsating score it just keeps you on the edge of your seat, as in the end your happy to be served a big great white lunch with the death of Jaws! Overall a film classic one of the 70's better pictures and one of cinemas better suspense thrillers. Well remembered for it's strong and pulsating score which moved the drama and suspense of the film along so well. And the way the scenes were shot Spielberg made many of them hidden and suspenseful by doing them underwater proving what you can't see is most often the most dangerous just like the opening sequence of Chrissy's death. And the way that Steven shot the film even though tough and difficult by filming water scenes and moving the camera a lot on boat was well done and his working of the mechanical shark takes a big bite out of today's special effects and CGI and 3-D works. Really probably Steven Spielberg's best. "Jaws" is a very memorable cinema classic, one of the all time best films.
Saw this again on TV last night and it still works; it's one of the great monster movies alright, but the only thing wrong with it is the monster. Oh, the vast majority of 'Jaws' is spot-on; Spielberg has correctly concentrated on the characters and not the situation. The mayor's grotesquely 'loud' jackets are just a little too obvious a labeling device but otherwise the town and its characters ring true, and we are swept along with these ordinary local folk as the plot develops. Robert Shaw's Quint has a few rather hammy scenery-chewing moments, and the actor does occasionally appear to have had himself a wee private party before filming some scenes. Still, he is supposed to be a local weirdo, and so his 'crusty old sea-dog' shtick isn't too much of a distraction. The changing relationships between the three men on the 'Orca' is another welcome subtlety often missing from horror movies. After establishing a supremely sinister presence throughout the movie, we must inevitably see the shark, and the more we do, the less we want to. The much-trumpeted animatronic creature doesn't really look alive, and even back in 1975 when audiences had no access to movies outside of a theatre, the moment when the 'shark' rears up out of the water and flops against the stern of the Orca looked absurdly like the attack of a colossal salami sausage. It's not a perfect movie, but 'Jaws' is most of the way there, and aspiring horror writers could do way worse than take a leaf or three from its meticulous care with the characters. After all, they are our stand-ins, and if we don't identify with them then horror turns to farce or worse still, tedium.
Thanks Steven Spielberg, that you found the way out of the complete storm the making of this movie was. All you movie-fans already know the story, and I just want to share my profits of It. The unique mind of a shoot that Spielberg holds, make him one of the greatest in my opinion. (OK, the whole team behind him should be applauded too, for getting this together.) It still stands out, as 40 year old piece of film, and matures continuously like a fine wine. Still watching It from time to time, one can always find new angles to enjoy. Born this summer, I never saw it fresh, of course. But I can imagine the hype it represented 1975. Nevermind the fake shark's failures, or the sometimes deficient facts of the script, the luck of the casting is what really stands out. Without the grumpy Robert Shaw it would have been a complete different movie. Without Richard Dreyfuss as the logical, sensitive marine Biologist it would not be the same, too. Roy Schreider's sheriff of the Amity Island struggles with both family and the city community for keeping the people "out of water". You can easily find extracts of yourself in all of the three men: Stubborness, fear, insecurity, resignation and anger. That is why I like this movie so much. Watch it with Brody's eyes, next time with Quint's. The other next time with Hooper's. And another time with the Mayor's? Just never, ever buy the fact of some kind of a smart shark. Because it will ruin the experience of this classic "sea-thriller."


                
So, this is the movie which put the summer blockbuster on the map. This is the movie which made the line "We are gonna need a bigger boat" one of the most iconic lines in all of cinema. The soundtrack of this movie is one of the most influential and has been imitated by numerous other musicians. Jaws revolves around the life of a police chief whose duty is to ensure the safety of the people swimming in the water. Due to a killer shark who manages to kill two people, chief Brody tries to close the beach but is not allowed to do so as the people in that area are dependent on the tourists in order to run their business. However, due to the death of another person, the beach is closed until the killer shark is captured. A fisherman volunteers to do so in exchange of a hefty reward. After that the chief, fisherman and the marine biologist who was called in for his expertise on sharks. Now, on the boat we witness some of the most thrilling scenes seen at the time it was released. The soundtrack heightened the suspense which made it all the more riveting to watch. The film features a number of unusual camera angles which is a testament to the perfectionism of Steven Spielberg. The movie is well-known to have gone well over budget and also exceeding its production time by 100 days. The final product though makes it worth the wait and Jaws propelled Spielberg into stardom. Jaws must be watched by one and all but be prepared for one hell of a ride.


                
