PK. A movie expected to be a super hit much before its release because of Aamir Khan's presence and Raju Hirani's direction.PK, to me, doesn't fall in a good movie category. Its just an OK film. Its nowhere close to be the best works of either Aamir or Raju Hirani. Both can do better films than this one.The story of the movie is quite pathetic. The plot is kind of stupid and immediately leads the viewer to feeling as to what a wrong decision to watch the movie.The social message given by PK has recently been conveyed by OMG Oh My God movie in a much better fashion.Audiences are just appreciating the movie for Aamir's presence and acting. Aamir has acted much better before. He looks like a cheap imitation of Tom Hanks from Forrest Gump.


                
This movie is filled with obvious jokes and tired clichés. Its like a bland blend of ET and Forrest Gump or something. There isn't a lot of engaging character development or original ideas being presented.Amir Khan constantly walks around awkwardly with his eyes wide open, constantly getting himself into what is supposed to be funny misunderstandings, but that really just fall flat and are often repeated and beaten even further into the ground. "Wow, you can just get free clothes from the 'dancing cars'!". I am not usually a big fan of Indian movies, but Amir Khan can do and have done better than this...Maybe all these religious problems in the film makes this movie work if you are Indian, but this "wrong number" crap that the movies keeps repeating just seems like such a juvenile idea. Do people really believe this stuff and as soon as someone says "wrong number" and points out that some gurus prophecy didn't come true the universe suddenly becomes clear to them? What is this movie trying to say? Even after seeing this movie I don't know. Maybe that you shouldn't put too much weight on religion or something, but I think that this message might ring hollow for a lot of people outside of India.


                
This may be my first and last Indian movie. The English subtitles on the BR are terrible. I wanted to give it a shot but.. here I'll give you a spoiler line that gives nothing at all away because it makes no sense. Father: "You're born 40 days, you get a name XXXXX(not translated name) When you get hips." ".. Can remember the name of your partner." "The name is not to say it can." Daughter: "Dad, the name given to the world holiday." "Do not do it again? - They?" Dad talking to PK: "How much money themselves want, huh?" "Money trying to scare you into XXXX(not translated name?) huh?" PK: "-No. -They xxx(not translated) hell fire. Protest worry about his emotions."....What the? Its like they translated it verbatim. No care for correct syntax or making actual sentences. Aren't there allot of English speaking people in India?Also didn't know this was going to be a musical... (or half musical i would call it)Given that I'm not a fan of the half musical stuff, it was too long, and I could not fully understand what was said because of the subtitles.The story was alright.. If the same story had been told without the BS i didn't like, i'd maybe give it a 6-7. No idea why its rated as high as it is. (clicked on a fans profile in the forum and they were giving most movies from India 10/10.) Disappointed PK stuck with the god idea even though he decided all religions were wrong and he was being lied to. Nothing like being brainwashed.I'm not anti subtitle/foreign movies - watched Iron Monkey Unmask The Legend just before watching this and the subtitles in iron monkey were spot on.
Rajkumar Hirani comes out of the cave and serves a story to an originality-starved audience about an alien who addresses, and later discusses, stark and serious issues regarding the inhabitants of Earth using humor and superficial philosophy. The final product is a parody of these issues which are openly contrived using humor and illogic. The irony of the whole drama is at the gist of the movie, which most of us are happy to term the best film of 2014.Touching a topic so sensitive and bold as divinity, the writers manage to mix the dramatic narration with ounces of lousy humor. That is the biggest problem PK faces as it moves ahead with its fabler.Starting off with a cleavage-revealing, poem-loving Indian Jaggu (Anushka Sharma masquerading as Donald Duck), the story hits the cliché bumper right at the beginning. In a Belgian city infested with Hindi-speaking Indians, she falls in love with a Pakistani (typecast Sushant Singh Rajput), which, of course, her pious family prohibits. Following another cliché, which is made to not look like a cliché at a later period, Jaggu becomes a TV reporter out of thin air. Then comes the alien and helps her ante up the viewer ratings of the channel she works for. The alien PK (Aamir Khan), all his characteristics a gimmick, from his language to his nuances, acts so dumb, I started losing faith in science as well. Jaggu's family is forgotten both by Jaggu and the audience, only to be reminded later by the shaky screenplay.This personality, which is supposed to intrigue the audience, asks certain questions we already have heard before. He tries to answer these questions like an Engineering student answering in an oral examination. The similarity: diplomacy. He quickly acclimatizes himself according the traits of human beings and that is when Hirani's fading creativity emerges into the silver screen. PK lands in Rajasthan where humans are busy sharing bodily liquids in cars with open windows. Even if it was a way of addressing the issue, I'm afraid the film should be categorized as an NGO or even better "the moral police."PK successfully addresses issues such as Pakistan-India conflicts, value of Gandhiji as a figure in currency notes, God's existence, culture, tradition, religious orientations, religion per se, religious practices, marriage, sex, terrorism (at a laughable juncture), cigarette smoking, and alcohol consumption (to name a few). But it never absolves the purportedly guilty audience by providing any answers, hacks, or tweaks to sort out or cleanse these issues. Much like how ineffective the statutory warnings that play before the beginning of Indian movies are, PK, as a celluloid, fails to pull itself together and emphasize on a point.The direction is fine, but the ridiculous screenplay contributes to an array of goof-ups, and eventually gives birth to nonsense. Many primary characters in the film are seen laughing in most of the frames, probably to remind the audience to laugh along, because as far as an agnostic like me is concerned, I may have chuckled 2-3 times. The narration tries so hard to induce humor, it ends up exhausting itself.Other than a fine collective cast performance, there is no other factor that I can generally laud PK for. And what the hell was that 18th century depiction of a spaceship (straight out of Rakesh Roshan's ancient film Koi... Mil Gaya) doing there? My 2-year old niece could come up better than that. CGI, thus proved, should be done without in Indian cinema.All said and done, the film urges its viewers to stop idolizing God, but instead do something that PK never exemplifies in the film. As God- fearing patrons walked out of the hall after watching PK, I could sense an essence of dwindling religious beliefs in them. By the time they reached the parking lot, the beliefs were at an all-time high. People who had been PK-ized minutes ago had suddenly rolled back into being themselves: choosy, God-fearing hypocrites. And that is the shoe- shining effect of PK: it suggests everything, but confirms nothing. The power of a gimmick is evident with PK, and it is in our senses that we differentiate.BOTTOM LINE: Other than blatant addresser of few serious issues, PK could best be described as a united advertisement for Duracell batteries, monsterjobs.com, Vijay Sales, and Maruti SX4 which all had the single advantage of being endorsed by Aamir Khan, arguably an epitome of creative-guy-to-naive-guy story.can be watched with a typical Indian family? YES


                
I had high hopes and went to catch the first show, unfortunately i was disappointed. They took an excellent concept and mucked it up(Watch K-Pax for comparison). Seems like a gang of low IQ creative team sat around and tried their best to add commercial aspects to the story line. If you have a brain and any semblance of logic you will hate sections of this movie. Pro: Aamir, Courage to serve Science Fiction elements to Indian AudienceCon's: Cliché concepts, Too many songs, Anushka's lips are damn ugly,Verdict - If you can possibly switch off the logic circuits of your brain or do not have any this may be fun for you


                
PK is a not a good movie but not the standard of Rajkumar Hirani. I was expecting an explosion but what i got is a diwali pataka. not even 50% of 3 idiot or Munna bhai. those films are simply classic. PK is not even giving the excitement of Dhoom 3. and repeats the story of God tussi great ho. i mean how Rajkumar Hirani can do anything like that? why the Alien is interested in only one subject i.e. the religious matters. what about the rape's the murders? ppl died in train blast but no one cares. Alien highlights only the wrong following of the relegious acts and rituals. c'mon Hirani saheb there is a lot more then just that an Alien can fix.


                
While the movie has its funny moments with Great Acting by Aamir Khnan, as a parent i was disappointed by overdoing of few vulgar moments in the movie, Parents beware and check before taking your kids to this movie. As for the movie it is a vulgar copy of another movie on same concept which was better depiction and presentation of the very concept which both movies try to explore. I lost interest half way because the director gets carried away with overdoing of vulgarity. The movie starts off well but goes off track because director wants to cram too many idealistic views and gets diverted from the original theme, many things and events don't make any sense, its gets too dramatic and boring at times. Acting wise, this is yet another Great performance by the Best Bollyhood has in modern times, Aamir, After Dhoom3 , this is yet another amazing performance and his naturally wide ears come to his advantage for this Role well suited for him. All other supporting cast is OK nothing exceptional. Overall an OK film if you leave your kids at home, nothing exceptional or Original which few others are going gaga over.


                
It is a successful comedy. Most wittiness is developed from the idea that there is a planet where all beings there do not lie. I cannot help but notice that this idea was first seen in "the Invention of Lying" in 2009.The movie only touched the appearances of various religions. The director was trying to impose his concept that there is a God but the priests in all religions are God's wrong managers. They use people's fear to threaten and manipulate them. In the movie, a fabricated story of a popular guru who possesses no spiritual power but uses lies to deceive his followers.All the theories and stories may be partly true in reality. It points out the superstition problem in some societies yet also disregards the deep meanings behind religions.
It's nothing less than shocking that the collaboration of stalwarts like Vinod Chopra, Rajkumar Hirani and Aamir Khan has resulted in something slightly above mediocre.If you're looking for a film in the league of the Munnabhais and 3 Idiots, PK is not even close.Anushka Sharma & Sushant were just a waste in the story, too much focus on Aamir cost the movie.Songs or background score is average and couldn't impress me. Second half of the movie is just average which made the film irritating to watch.One time watch I would say!
This film has been made by a bunch of atheist propagandists who want to spread the nation with depression, hatred and hopelessness. An anti-religion film made by pseudo-intellectuals who think hat they are so smart and know it all. It is an insult to compare Hinduism with other religions like Christianity and Islam. Hinduism is the true religion and this film has made a mockery of it. I think every Hindu should get together and boycott this film. Boycott this insult to humanity and disgusting film. Let us stand together and fight for our faith. Aamir Khans character asks, "Where is god?".....Even the filmmakers haven't seen god because they are clueless people. God can't be seen, but he is watching all of us. Everything is decided and very few thing are in our hands. God chooses what will be done to all of us. If something bad happens to you then that means you deserve it due to your past sins.... "Karma" they call it. Everything has a reason. I say this film is very bad with ill intentions.....


                
the movie was worst it was against sentiments! the movie sucked! yet beautiful actors,good acting!beautiful,nice movie.the movie was worst it was against sentiments! the movie sucked! yet beautiful actors,good acting!beautiful,nice movie.the movie was worst it was against sentiments! the movie sucked! yet beautiful actors,good acting!beautiful,nice movie.the movie was worst it was against sentiments! the movie sucked! yet beautiful actors,good acting!beautiful,nice movie.the movie was worst it was against sentiments! the movie sucked! yet beautiful actors,good acting!beautiful,nice movie.the movie was worst it was against sentiments! the movie sucked! yet beautiful actors,good acting!beautiful,nice movie.the movie was worst it was against sentiments! the movie sucked! yet beautiful actors,good acting!beautiful,nice movie.the movie was worst it was against sentiments! the movie sucked! yet beautiful actors,good acting!beautiful,nice movie.the movie was worst it was against sentiments! the movie sucked! yet beautiful actors,good acting!beautiful,nice movie.the movie was worst it was against sentiments! the movie sucked! yet beautiful actors,good acting!beautiful,nice movie.the movie was worst it was against sentiments! the movie sucked! yet beautiful actors,good acting!beautiful,nice movie.the movie was worst it was against sentiments! the movie sucked! yet beautiful actors,good acting!beautiful,nice movie


                
1. The overall intent of the movie to view the situation from an alien view is good neutral mode and is a good concept. 2. However the movie touches the core of existence of mankind: its beliefs on which millions in the name of religion has lead to take people to highest levels of spiritual existence or many have got martyred/killed/sacrificed etc.3. On this topic the movie needs to be sensitive to focus and address the core issues where the situation and intent needs to be corrected, but carefully avoiding crafting a comedy on the basic core beliefs. E.g. go strong on superstitions, dong is, wrong practices, but be careful not to hurt basic beliefs on gods.( not to make fun of Lord Shiva, which is score belief of Hindus, which is where the problem here lies)But being a Hindu, the basic tenets it has taught me is religious tolerance, and openness. This I see also in a wide dispersion, but considering this to be a weakness where someone can experiment and cash out in media space is not a good idea.4. The movie does badly on point 3, and hence in rate only a 3


                
