When we hear Aamir Khan working on a movie from Rajkumar Hirani, we expect something original, something unique. But this was a letdown. I failed to understand how Hirani spent 5 years after '3 Idiots' to write a script propping itself up shamelessly on the theme of 'Oh my God'. Not unexpectedly, the religion chosen to convey disdain for religious practice is, of course, the most docile one. It was a laugh-riot, no doubt when the protagonist reaches Earth and is stumped by the idiosyncratic religious practices. Aamir Khan did well but in some scenes labored & exerted more than required. Anushka Sharma was peppy and posh. However the subplot involving her romance with a gentleman (Sushant Rajput) was a sort of a distraction. Really the director was not sure of the strength of the main storyline and had to introduce such subplots. Also we should note that glaring mis-cast: Parikshit Sahni looked grandpa to Anushkha, not her father! Equally surprising was the under- utilization of Boman Irani. Also noteworthy was a sudden introduction without rhyme or reason of a lecture on sex and condoms. Agreed that a condom sponsor may have insisted on this, but this is not something I expect of Aamir. The whole audience was decidedly squirming. And what about the dancing cars? Is this become the standard operating procedure in India? Pretty gross and utterly unnecessary. A let down even for an ardent follower of Aamir. Amen!


                
This movie is made for an under 80 IQ young person. Wow! That's the majority of India. You also have Aamir Khan which will bring audience to the cinema halls. Put some religion masala and lot of emotions (especially by the background music) to compete the blockbuster bhel. Who cares about plot holes, dead looking sets, same old story, mediocre acting and dead music. Now, lets discuss story. The alien is shown to arrive on earth alone, without any co-workers or any instruments for his research. He finds "dancing cars" with their one window down and cloths on the back rest of the seat near to that window always and anywhere he needs to change the cloths. He doesn't understand the language but never tries to catch a hand until he meets Bhairo Singh! Strange na... Even stranger is that when Bhairo Singh tells him not to try to hold a man's hand, he understands and thereafter tries to catch only females' hand. That comedy extends extends whole 10 min including a song! He finally gets a chance to hold hands with a BHOJPURI sex worker in Rajasthan to absorb her language but he doesn't absorb any part of her life story, not that I'm aware of. But then he is shown to hold hands with a Sardar and this time, he absorbs only his recent story and not his vocabulary and dialect! What! Are there any filters available what to absorb and what not? Same is also true when he holds Jaggu's hands. Also, after the jail scene, why Jaggu (a young modern foreign return open minded journalist) refuses to hold hands with the alien is not understandable. And one another thing is not understandable that why the alien is "talking" to the other aliens in last scene when they don't need to talk to exchange the thoughts. These are just a few story flaws, there are many more. What are you doing Mr. Perfectionist?
This is the first review that I am writing and had to write because I am not convinced at the rating of this movie against its originality! If you like to see sensible movies and genuine creative movies, then this will not make the mark. The movie seems to have script and jokes copied in chunks and pieces from Oh my God!, Koi Mil Gaya, and some English movies. The comedy scenes except for handful were not new or first time seen. Script wasn't strong. The dialogues not great. The performances were just okay! Amir's expressions, body language, the way he runs, nothing seems legitimate, but looked overdone. Music and songs - yuck !! Nowhere close to 3 Idiots or Munnabhai series! Just a mix of different scripts, roles, and comedy scenes.Overall - Average or below. Unless you have extra money and time to spent - Don't go PK.


                
Maybe my wife and I are the only ones who felt disappointed with P.K. When she watches the film she's looking purely at its "entertainment" value. I'll admit, for me a film should make sense also. P.K. didn't work at either level. Both of us absolutely loved all Raju Hirani films in the past. We expected this film to be good too but didn't go with very high expectations and had not read up much. After watching the film her rating is 3 and mine is 5 so I settled for 4. The first half was barely tolerable for her but I was not to lose hope easily, I thought the second half will probably carry the film through. The second half did arrest our attention more, yet it let us down on the whole. It was definitely not "experience of a lifetime", as one reviewer commented. The number of small gripes is too many to mention here. Here's a sample - repetitive jokes on lead character's name; way too much Bhojpuri; a person of Parsi accent is shown as a fanatic Church going Christian who throws Aamir out of the Church (how could this have slipped through, I have no clue. Parsis are Zoroastrians. BTW, we are neither Parsi nor overly religious). We found the religion ass-whacking being stretched too far and too long in the film. The whole alien thing was tiring too - a sculpted body for an alien didn't make sense; an evolved alien specie that communicates telepathically is shown to have the same range of emotions as humans, that didn't make sense either.But those are all small gripes. What I found most significant though is that the film fails on a more fundamental level on its core theme. Hirani picks easy targets with religious heads and fundamentalists like the earlier film (OMG). Also like that film he successfully points out the apparent meaninglessness of religious rituals but does not force people to look inwards to self-reflect. Nor does he address the more difficult question of a substitute to religion. (More serious seekers may find the answer elsewhere, for example, in the amazing Anastasia book-series by Russian author Vladimir Megre)In final analysis P.K. is a lame attempt at mass appeal. It fails at both entertainment and providing meaning. A big departure from Munna Bhai films and 3 idiots. Let me predict that the film will also see a sharp decline in box office collections after the initial hype is over.


                
To be very frank, I didn't go to watch this movie because it was Aamir's movie because he bitterly disappointed me in Dhoom 3 but I rather went to see what Raj Kumar Hirani and Vidhu Vinod Chopra had to offer. Now coming to review. I have rated this movie 4/10 as there was no surprise except for that bomb blast which was needless IMO. You could see the plot from the church seen. There were way too many inconsistencies and i felt like I am watching the mixture Lage raho Munnabhai and OMG. The movie was full of illogical and mother of coincidences sequences.. They tried to make it funny but man i got bored. Thankfully Aamir downloaded Bhojpuri bcoz language itself sounds funny and there was nothing funny which character added to the movie. I liked the fact that Boman Irani for once played a positive character in RKH films and Mr. Parikshit Sahni had his trademark typical dad role which hadn't changed from Munnabhai to PK. They could have made it so much better. Disappointed
PK. A movie expected to be a super hit much before its release because of Aamir Khan's presence and Raju Hirani's direction. But PK, to me, doesn't fall in a good movie category. Its just an OK film, one time watch that too at home. 1st half was interesting and funny but later it was annoying and diverted towards total Hindi masala non sense...looked so stupid. The biggest negative thing is they failed to prove the points raised in the movie plot..religion or society..I liked OMG a million times more..it was a movie that was shot sensibly and made sense..And coming to Amir's movie, Talash was a better plot than this!


                
I can't believe this film has 8.9 rating. there is nothing new. The director keeps on repeating his thoughts from his earlier films and others like oh my god. about 0% novelty.. less than mediocre content. no real great moment in the film. it is just an amalgamation of his earlier ideas. amir khan is just how he has been in 3 idiots.. nothing new at all. anushka sharma doesn't act much. adoloscents who haven't seen hirani's earlier works will like it. superstitious people looking to shed some of it might find some reason to do so. but for me it was quite pointless film which was much less entertaining than 3 idiots, though this one doesn't preach any dangerous ideology like 3 idiots.


                
After watching '3-idiots', i went to watch this one with so much expectations.In short, i was disappointed. The plot is weak and has already been explored in a variety of movies. Great for a 30-min documentary but a total drag for a two-and-a-half-hour movie.The insane amount of hype for this movie made it all the more disappointing. Not worth your time or money. Also, the climax was predictable, that made it even more boring.Strong performances by the cast though.I hope RKH comes up with a better movie next time.I give it 4 out of 10 - disappointed at something that could have been so much better. I appreciate most of the world seems to disagree with my view.
Now let me first state that i am an Hindu though non practicing.I personally didn't get what the movie was trying to say. Was it trying to say Hindu religion is stupid and Hindu gods don't exist and all the Hindu god-man are thieves.Why was Pakistani angel added to the story? For no apparent reason only for scoring brownie points with the Muslim audience.As per the movie Islam is the perfect religion as there are is no bad stuff in the religion. Movie didn't saw any bad stuff about Islam.I mean come on would rajkumar hirani put his life at stake or would aamir khan put his career at the stake. Hell no way.Just around the time this movie was released there was a terror attack in peshawar school and 100's of kids were killed.While Pakistan banned an Indian movie rannajhana because it had an Muslim girl fall in love with hindu guys.
Whats the BIG DEAL? 8.9 OUT OF 10 guys you cant be serious. Its a movie with a simple social message. If that whats everyone is looking out for go watch the movie OMG! OH My GOD it was much better. This is not Aamir Khans best movie, watch Lagaan, Taare Zameen and you get the stuff. Its an average movie. I can t understand why is everyone is going crazy about the movie, its a one time watch maybe. If they really are trying to give a social message, then they should probably stop looting the public by charging such extravagant amounts for the tickets. Anushka looks horrible after her plastic surgery, and Boman has become predictable. Aamir is OK, a bit irritating with his constant wide eyes looks in the movie.


                
I had a great expectation from Raj Kumar Hirani after Munna Bhai MBBS, 3 idiots. But honestly PK is nowhere close to those. The story line is heavily inspired from Oh My God which has a far better and matured story line. Compared to that, PK story line is quite amateurish. If you have already seen something better, something inferior would not catch your eye for sure. The last sequence is very very childish, specially when in TV interview Anushka calls up Pakistan Embassy. PK finds enough money to live and clothes to wear when necessary from dancing cars! so many times and so unrealistic. Sanjay Dutt was completely unnecessary. I watched 3 idiots multiple times, even i watch it when it comes on TV. But this movie was like one time watch only. Music and acting was good. Expected much much better than this.


                
I watched this movie today..I found it similar to the Oh My God..I would to like to give 5/10 to story as it is copied from Oh My God. Anushka looking good no doubt but she did overacting in some scenes.Only the thing which i liked in this movie is Aamir Khan..But some scenes he acted like Dhoom 3.I think his fever of Dhoom 3 is still there.End of movie has been made keeping in mind that every person of India is foolish.I am sorry i am saying that but its true.I heard many positive things about this movie but when i went through it , it was nothing more than a Bad storyline movie..I am sorry for this review but i am very angry for wasting my 153 minutes for this movie.Finally i would say watch this movies Aamir khan is fantastic but u may find it quit boring in middle sometimes.Thats it..
Well the opening of movie was good but the way movie progressed increased my disappointment progressively. The script was ordinary. The whole point of Anushka being in foreign land was to draw a conclusion at the end that one from a particular religious community can not be stereotyped as someone who always betrays. Come on, was that a necessary point to make and that too by comparing the whole belief (or should I say mis-belief??) of another community? Also, how do you fall in love with a person so quick (that too in just a song sequence) to take a decision of marriage. I know it can happen in Indian film, but in Star studded film?? :)Why a need of dancing car sequence?? To me it looked like very unnecessary just to get some attention. The probability of finding a dancing car is very less than probability of finding a Dhobi Ghat, it can also serve the same purpose. I am not a conservative person but when a movie is made with star actors then we need to understand that kids will also go with parents and watch movie. Another scene of co**m. 2-3 mins wasted in that pointless scene. You are comparing it with marriage celebration? That was also a unnecessary scene. The whole scene looked imposed with superficial smile from Boman and Anushka. And no consideration for kids watching this movie? (I am not sure how this movie is rated)Dialogues were fine at times with humor but overall the humor content was below average. MBMMBS was far far better. But the choice of another actor in last scene was good :) He looked like alien :)Music was below average. Lyrics could have been better. I would give 5 out of 10.
