SPOILERS!!! (If you can even call them that.) Nathan just tricks folks who think he is generally there to help, by saying he is going to help them or there business. He ends up talking them into some stupid gimmick with Nathan PROMISING them that it will work...in the end he ends up making every one feel awkward and annoyed...they get mad at him, he "pretends" not to know why, the end...THAT'S every episode for you, I swear!!!...this HUMOR is just awful. It's not even humor...it's like he's borat on Xanax minus everything funny about borat...and xanax...Overall? don't waste your time! I BEG OF YOU YOU'RE NOT MISSING ANYTHING GOOD! 0/10 if I could go that low...I'm not telling you what to watch...I'm just telling you why you shouldn't watch this terrible unfunny show.
I just started watching an episode because it was the next thing on and literally all he did was scam people into buying things with the thought that Johnny Depp was there to sign stuff. RIDICULOUS. A woman spent 80 something dollars and when she didn't want to keep it the guy took her to a Johnny Depp impersonator so he could sign it all so she would keep it. This is whats wrong with today's world. It ruined any other chances of me finishing the one episode let alone watching another. The host, Nathan, had a really extremely dry personality. This show wasn't even remotely interesting. Some of the other reviews said that it was funny... Yeah I don't see that at all what so ever.
I liked the first episode of this show that I watched but the three I've watched since are just awful. I don't know why this guy thinks he is so funny.I do get and like dry humour but this guy just is not funny at all, the only funny stuff is how people react to the ideas the show's producers and writers give the real people to do in their business, like making poo yogurt.The poo yogurt episode was the first I watched and I laughed a lot at that one.Maybe the host is also the writer or producer or creator and if so he obviously is incredibly funny in that manner but he is just not funny on TV, there are way better hosts out there who could do a better job with these people.


                
