Sadly, this show is full of cliches in every possible dimension. The acting and the dialogues are very low quality. The grown up characters are ridiculous, superficial and annoying, their reactions to external stimuli, the way they talk and fight is so dumb that it just melts your brain. It also adds to their superficiality that they are all beautiful, and at all times.
they just dont look like real people in these situations. The flashback pattern becomes terribly annoying soon: we have person x in either adulthood or child age, they see a ghost, we hear some sound effect or scream, then the series switches to person y or to person x at a different stage of their lives. the continuous dramatic camera rotation, overpolished backgrounds, cheap "gothic wannabe" darkening of the picture are equally bad. The plot is messy and ridiculous. But its even worse than that: OK lets say you live in a mansion and one of your kids is afraid to sleep, what do you do? You take them to bed with you? Maybe the mother takes the child to bed and dad goes to sleep in one of the other 300 rooms, maybe you put her with the rest of the kids. No! they have to let her sleep on a couch in a dark huge living room with the mother crashing on the floor (lol) til the child sleeps only to leave after that to let the "child alone sees ghost" pattern unfold in a dramatic setting. Theres so much to say about this overhyped series but I dont want to waste the readers time. People should stop making bad tv popular because then we ll keep getting "cheap" stuff like this. Unless the reviews arent real, which is also likely.
Little horror and more family drama. It could have been squeezed to 4 episodes.


                
Brilliant beginning but ending is boring as hell.
Looks like this series got the Lost syndrome. Nice characters and lack of good storyline.
In the middle of season it completely loses ability to frighten someone


                
What a load of rubbish. How can a horror keep sending you to sleep


                
It started off quite promising. I was determined to see it through to the end hoping it would pick up and the scare-factor would turn up a notch. It didn't. The endless monologues bored me to tears and I quite often struggled to keep my eyes open. It was all wrapped up a little too nicely with a cute little bow at the end, that it left me feeling somewhat disappointed and struggling to see how viewers have rated it as 9/10 on IMDB.
Every (stock) character in this fiasco has his or her catchphrase and distinguishing quirks, and watching it one can almost visualise the writers' little index cards for each one. Motivation: none. Situations: risible. Dialogue: infantile. As for the scares, the only scary thing about this garbage is how highly it has been rated here. Now that is a haunting thought.


                
The best part about this series is in episode 7 when they are talking about what paint to use on the walls.


                
This show isn't really about the haunted house, because it excessively shows the problems faced by the siblings, which is really obnoxious and boring. The scares of the house was left out, which is really disappointing. They focused too much on the siblings and forgot about the house. Supposedly they made it balance between these two but it didn't happened. What a shame for a promising show.


                
All the kids here praising this show have either only seen the first 5 episodes or have a job at Netflix.The ending kills the whole show. Cinematography is ok throughout, but not special. Character development is ok (these days there's no room for real depth) but falls short because of the Netflix formula: quantity > quality.Don't believe the hype and watch out for Netflix bots screwing with the ratings on IMDB.


                
I like the actors in this series a lot, but the whole story seems to be a bunch of non-sequiturs, All the other 1 star reviews pretty much cover my feelings...dull, boring, the "I can fix it" trope, I got enough of that for a lifetime watching Lost.


                
My Rating : 0/10An important point to be noted - I see that majority of the reviewers who've given a 10/10 rating have hardly ever written other reviews - that goes to show the credibility of their film-watching experience and taste and perhaps their motive to promote a current show to higher ratings. This is currently an 8.9 and #51 on Top TV Shows. Do you really think this is anywhere near the brilliance of X-Files or Twin Peaks or Black Mirror? Only then does it deserve an 8.9 (which is what I was hoping for before I started watching it!)I wish I could give it a negative rating. 'The Haunting of Hill House' is some of the worst TV watching I've done in a long, long time and it takes a lot to piss me off as I appreciate the hardwork that goes into making TV programs (Admittedly it's not easy making those editing decisions that the crew has made here for the back and forth structure of the timeline however it's the story which is weak and completely misses the point of the whole 'haunting' thing which is what the marketing tells us, there's a stupidly sensitive family melodrama going on here all of the time instead of scaring the hell out of the audience with something truly haunting - talk about an opportunity missed - perhaps when it gets a Season 2 it might pick up pace like most TV shows do) and I'm a fan of Mike Flanagan's previous work (I highly recommend 'Hush') so I'm surprised how bad this has turned out.It's painfully, insufferably slow. There is hardly ANY horror. The timeline 'twist' of the show is garbled along with the non-sense that the 'room' (those who watched the show will know the one with the red door that no one seems to have the key to) acts as 'multiple' rooms for the children. Honestly, the ending episode is so illogical and shows the immaturity by the filmmakers to try to 'come up' with something à la Nolan's brilliant Interstellar tesseract time-warp sequences mixed in with friendly ghosts, dead characters and repetitive scenes we've seen in earlier episodes. Instead watch 'Dark' if you want something that is truly engaging from episode to episode and shows consideration and respect to the viewer's time and intelligence. Time is precious and 10 hours for a drawn-out show such as this is so utterly unrewarding and unfulfilling.An absolute waste of time. There is nothing 'haunting' here. The ghosts are lonely and they just want some friends to keep company! How dumb is that?! This is 2018 and we've seen all the horror, crime, suspense there is...so I request the filmmakers to at least give us something engaging and intelligent and not just film something in darkness so as to be indecipherable where the viewer is visually struggling to see what's going on (and add stupid CGI effects in post-production) ...that's a cop out for a lack of talent or imagination or content. Go watch some Hitchcock or Lynch or hell even Sam Raimi for some inspiration!


                
5 episodes in and was bored and confused. Flashbacks, abounded and not usually anything to do with the House but personal issues. Took awhile to get siblings straight. And while the story kept popping up with vague references to original movie with knocking walls, etc it had none of the originals creep factor. Instead we get a usual "monster in the basement" , "white lady" and relatives ghost. The plot more involved with the new PC of showing people overcoming personal issues like drug addiction and how the producers neither racist or anti gay by the now stereotypical mixed marriage couple and lesbian character thrown in. Plot is thin and no real Lead character to empathize with. Maybe because Stephan King liked it everyone falling in line? Hill House my number one Horror Movie. Watch the original instead.


                
One of the worst Netflix shows I have ever seen. Not a horror. A weak melodrama about a family with each not having a single likeable quality. Stretched out to 10 long episodes that could of easily been four.
Key points:
Not scary
Not entertaining
Frustrating
A waste of time
If you like this show you need to broaden your horizons.


                
I'm on episode 7, and I will finish this series and update my review. However, it's been a frustrating day and a half slogging through this melodramatic yawn-fest, and the only way I feel I can properly release my frustrations is to waywardly join into the chorus of adoring praise.
Let it be known that I start many series on Netflix and I can't say I'm easily impressed. I don't know what exactly has zapped the current generation of their intellect and skyrocketed their tolerance for extremely cheesy dialogue and story sappiness, but becomes extraordinarily apparent when watching the latest "hit" TV series and some movies (though movies don't tend to be as bad, and thank God for indie gems, that is all I have to say.)
HOHH was once a book (by book I mean NOVEL - by the way, does anyone ever read those anymore?) so disturbingly horrifying that many actually experience unwanted supernatural phenomena while attempting to read it. I am one of those people and thus I cannot say I've actually finished the book, though I plan to, when I get up the courage. I am definitely a believer and I don't care if Shirley Jackson ever was, but she managed to tap into something eerie and evil throughout her career as a storyteller and is definitely a legacy in terms of horror. I'd heard that the TV series paid homage to the book but didn't try to follow the same storyline. Fine, I said. I almost welcomed the deviation as I wouldn't imagine any slick, big budget, ad hoc outfit consisting of modern day cast and behind-the-scenes Hollywood people would be able to pull together anything that could even resemble a classic horror novel.
Sometimes these things work out better than others. Anyway, I was hopeful and especially enticed by the hype floating around social media that it was "so scary people are vomiting". Now THAT sounds like my kind of horror, and the fact that it was a 10-part series out just in time for Halloween was the icing on the cake. Usually horror flicks are gone in one 90 minute swoop. 10 hours of hellish scares? Great!
Ugh. How gullible can a person get to believe that kind of hype?!
The "I was seriously scared" reviews MUST be coming from people who would only plunge their baby toe into cinematic horror territory via a Netflix original series - I absolutely guarantee any genuine horror fans couldn't muster up the daintiest of hushed gasps at even the high points of tension.
The fact that this show is not at all scary is not actually the worst part, though, unfortunately, because I can deal with a horror that isn't actually scary so long as the story draws me in.
I'm not saying it doesn't have potential, or that it's not atmospheric (actually, it quite is, so kudos on that front) BUT --
One of the biggest problems is that all of its characters (for the most part) are flawed past the breaking point of being able to care about them. What an insipid cast of self-absorbed A holes. Dumb as anything, all of them. Weak, too. Why on earth are they all blaming each other and showing so little empathy for each other when they all know the terror the others went through that summer in the house? They're all so angry with each other when it is so obviously the house that is the problem. You would think they all thought they were the only one that suffered. In fact, they do all act like that. It's really weird.
Another major issue is that there is very little in the way of mystery or twist as the story unfolds. Sometimes the characters suck but you keep watching (or reading) because you want to find out what happens next or have little mystery by little mystery solved. It's kind of the point of storytelling. But strangely, there is just no intrigue here at all. Everything is so mind-bogglingly obvious, and the fact that none of the characters can pull together and figure anything out made for a very frustrating viewing experience.
My final criticism involves the "PC-ification" of modern day television, and it's not particular to this show. Must we be BLUDGEONED OVER THE HEAD with the interracial relationships, super sappy dialogue, token gay character, over-obvious proportional representations of every brand of human being that exists on this planet? It's incredibly annoying, and even though the white-washed casts of TV & movies of yore were rightly criticized for fitting everyone into a neat little box, going so far in the other direction is really actually distracting, and plenty of times it just feels forced & unnatural.
So, there's my 2 cents. Update to come.


                
This is not a horror or thriller. This is a lifetime special with 2 - 3 jump scares included to sneak into the October horror releases. If you could just not call this a ghost story and instead a meditation on family miscommunication and dysfunctional marriages then it would be fine. Passable even. But this is not a ghost story this is a eulogy given to horror series everywhere. PS. Show it don't tell it. Everything interesting happens off screen or is told 6 - 7 hours after you cared.


                
If you want family dysfunction and arguing with slight backdrop of ghosts that get less creepy the more you learn about and see them?! THEN THIS IS THE SHOW FOR YOU! fall in love with it for the first three episodes then feel crushing disappointment as the middle drags on but you cling on to hope because there is a slight glimmer left that it nurtures before the ultimate ball drop in the final act.
Prepare to hate every single character in this melodramatic soap opera.


                
Movie is not that bad but nothing more than a medicore, poor acting, father has ridicolous fake lenses, characters are selected to fit the standartd of ethnical and gender divirsity. The best about movie is a few scary moments of each episode and fantastic post production. Beside that acting is poor, story is boring most of tje times and action is slow. Defenetley not a 9/10 movie ! I


                
Watched 10 minutes and shut it off. I didn't care about any of it. Faces melting, story on top of story on top of story. Convoluted. Just tell me a story.


                
This is not a horror show. Why is this getting such high reviews? I love horror but this is a melodrama with a few horror jump scares. And that's it. The writing is overly expositional and the acting is stiff and awkward. The editing is extremely confusing at times and the logic is sometimes inconsistent. But above all, the characters are incredibly dour and dull. Its like watching 6 feet under without irony or wit.


                
I can only hope that the outraged ghost of Shirley Jackson will rises from her grave to wreak bloody revenge on Mike Flanagan over this bastardization of her
work. This abysmal, shambling, elephantine soap opera has nothing--NO thing to do with her story, and only the title and the names of the characters have been appropriated to con the unwary into watching this tripe. As for the few supposed scares it contains, I have been more frightened by my neighbors fishing stories.


                
I don't get it that people are terrified from seeing this show. I'm a difficult sleeper but thanks to this show i fall asleep immediately. People that likes really horror and not horror that is a joke, DON'T WATCH THIS. When you think, now it's gonna be better and scary. It becomes more and more a joke. People are kids that cries a lot from fake horror. 100% drama, 0% horror. Shows like this deserves a ending after the first episode.


                
I watched three brain numbing episodes. I'm absolutely amazed at all the wonderful reviews this show received. I made it to episode 3 because of all the Stellar reviews. I kept thinking clearly the people who gave the Stellar reviews and I are not watching the same show. This show doesn't get anywhere near good much less excellent. There was nothing about it that caught or kept my attention. My mother who isn't generally a fan of horror (because she gets scared) thought this was extremely boring to watch. So there you have it a woman who doesn't even watch horror found this show excruciating boring. I'm very much a horror person and I advise you not to waste your time even on one useless episode.


                
Its garbage. nothing happens. literally. you just spend an hour watching some pointless stuff that is pointless.


                
It is good that the series is attractive for a certain target group. But I really do not understand the enthusiasm. Especially when yoy have watched good horror movies like the conjuring, indidious, annabelle, poltergeist.Why am I less excited.
the scary moments are too orchestrated and make no sense at some times. It is like the writer thought: well now is a good time to throw in a scary moment after a long dialogue.Why does the girl see the mother at once with a ghostly face. Movies like the conjuring, time their scary movies very well and it always makes sense.the flashback and flashforward make the story chaotic to my taste.it is too, over the top, political correctI have the feeling that this movie is more targeted at the female sudience.
-.


                
So I watched the 1st episode and could not wait for it to end. It had exactly zero scares. It started by introducing ~8 characters. Then 10 mins later the characters were all grown up. Frankly because of the way the show constantly jumped time periods and locations, I had some trouble keeping track of who was who. Regardless, it was boring. A few sets (such as Hill House), looked more like sets at Universal Studios or Disney than real life. Very fake. Just like the fake bright blue contact lenses the father wears. That's the problem, it all seemed very "Hollywood" and not convincing at all IMO. Part of the show takes place in the past (80s?) yet nothing matched that time period. Everything (haircuts, etc.) looked too modern. Overrated.


                
