I have never written a review before. This series undoubtedly deserves my first. I have never watched a show that is perfectly written, cast, directed, and executed. This one will always be my favorite series of all time with companies like Game of Thrones, Orange is the New Black, and Black Mirror.Thank you, every single person involved in the making of this phenomenal series, which I want to binge-watch and also don't want to finish it without taking the time to truly appreciate it!


                
This isn't just great horror - it's brilliant filmmaking.Everything from the writing to the cast to the cinematography to the editing is just amazing. I was immediately hooked in from the first episode and wasn't able to stop (thank goodness I started in the morning and have a cold... and therefor a good excuse to lounge in front of the TV all day!).By episode 3 I was texting family members who texted me hours later to tell me what episode they were on.It also scared the bejeezus out of me, and that's hard to do. I watch a lot of horror and am fairly jaded. It takes a lot to scare me. This isn't blood and guts and gore, and although there are several jump scares they aren't cheesy. Instead, they are well placed and appropriate and did the job. Mostly it is atmospheric and paced beautifully to make the most of every scary moment. It wasn't over-the-top with supernatural silliness, either (although it is definitely a supernatural story). They presented in a way that felt... well... possible, and the characters (for the most part) behaved in ways that made sense for their personalities. And those personalities evolve wonderfully. You really get a sense of what the family history has done to each person based on what they experienced. You can see how they developed their foibles and strengths. Such rich characters.The editing was well-crafted. You are jumping around a lot in time. For the first few episodes it was a little confusing, but pretty soon you adjust to the "tells" which let you know where you are in the story, and I loved how bits and pieces were revealed in snips and dribbles, until a full picture emerged. You are in a constant state of both anticipation and curiosity, waiting for scenes to be expanded upon. Every answer raised questions. I feel bad that people who don't enjoy horror will end up missing one of the finest new productions on the air right now. It's that good. It's horror, sure, but it's also a mystery, a family drama, and a psychological thriller.


                
I'm quite a horror junkie, and it's so rare to find such an engaging horror series. Fantastic atmosphere, the creepy bits weren't overdone so none of it seemed hokey, acting was spot on, and in the end I didn't feel cheated by the plot line (no holes or strings left dangling, I really hate when that happens). Usually I can tear apart horror movies because of inconsistencies or impractical things but I saw none when I binge watched this show. Just fantastic all around, and I really enjoyed the way it was told, the past and present and how it flowed so well. I recommend this 100%.


                
This show is about life and death, the two conditions we all know. Personally watching this show made me cry many times. I'm a guy who never cries. This show is directed perfectly. Acting is also perfect. The mother's soul is acted in a way where I've never been so moved ever. Carla gugino is so incredible that it brought me to tears. She might be the best actress on the planet right now. I feel different after watching this show. The child actors are amazing as well. Just watch it. Words can't really interpret it in a fair way. Feelings based on your own life experiences will let you experience it in your own way.I've watched many many tv series in my life and this one blew me away. Netflix is doing it, they're letting true artists control everything. This show makes me yearn for more seasons because every actor including the children make it so good. Enjoy. And be prepared to be jump scared one time really really good :).


                
Really well written and acted, with a good story and characters. Thos is everything AHS should have been.


                
The Haunting of Hill House is HANDS DOWN the best horror series I've ever seen. It's a meditation on death, grief and trauma. It is equal parts scary and engaging. The best character development I've seen in a long time and a huge leap forward for horror. We need more horror like this. It has disturbed me and moved me. It's portrayal of the supernatural as more of a human experience and less of a "poltergeist" type is revolutionary. It, to me, makes more sense to believe in ghosts than I ever thought was possible


                
Dont trust the people who are writing under 9 review and calling themselves horror fans. 
NEWSFLASH: you dont need to be scared from beginning to end in order to get a good horror movie.
You need to appreciate good characters, good script, good cinematography, good scares (timingly scares!!). You need to build relationship with the characters to feel their horror and their pain and their sufferings. This show does that all. Since the beginning, you bind yourself from one character leading to another character. You call their names out when you see them in a transitional scenes. This show is like "This is US" for horror genre. And damn! How beautifully they connected each single piece by the end as i cried buckets.People who are slightly complaining about this show, go watch your nightmare on elm street typa sheet, ya winky little twinky with a taste of a rookie noob!


                
This is what I've been waiting for. I am a huge horror fan and a huge fun of this show. I almost cried at the end of episode one because I've been waiting for a show like this for so long. Thank you!


                
I binged it! 1st few episodes are slow, but things soon built up and you start learning all the horrifying secrets. I like the fact the series doesn't solely depend on jump scares and is able to create an atmosphere that draws you in and scares you to the core. The story is told using the characters' personal experiences, almost every episode unfolds the perspective of a separate important character, adding bits and pieces to the story. The scenes are intelligently created and demand all your attention (lots happen in the background). Overall, a truly modern horrifyingly crazy experience which may leave you scarred for a while. 
PS: Beware for those statues, they turn heads randomly (creeped the hell out of me!)
The dance portion with Nell and Arthur is so emotional....<f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00A2>
This is my very first time writing a review for a movie, but I felt compelled to do so after watching this series. My 19 year old daughter and I love horror films and I suggested that we watch this...it literally had us hooked from the very first episode. This was flawlessly directed and produced and the cast is superb. Each episode flows seamlessly and the transitions between the past and present are impeccable. It is incredibly creepy, mysterious and touching all at the same time, we were covering our eyes on some parts, jumping at other parts, and crying too. The narrative of the script is unbelievable and once you watch all the episodes, it all falls into place. This by far is my FAVORITE series that Netflix has produced and that I have ever had the pleasure of watching. If it were ever to be released on DVD, I would most definitely purchase it!


                
The people writing bad reviews for this show are either intellectually bankrupt, expecting tons of "jump scares", or more likely, distracted while trying to watch the show. Please put down your cellphones and prepare yourself for true cinema.Great character development. Flawless transitions between time periods. Excellent cinematography (especially episode 6; truly incredible 1-take shots). Great acting. Creepy as hell without being over-the-top. Delves deep into the psyche of each character. Excellent at capturing the nuances between each character and their relationships with each other family member.I've had 2 siblings pass away this year, and aside from the supernatural aspects, I felt like I was watching a replay of my family during the immediate aftermath. Had me captured from episode 1. Finished the series in 1 day by myself and now I'm rewatching it again with my fiancé. Watching it the 2nd time is even better than first because you pick up on so much more, and there are tons of Easter eggs once you know what's gonna happen! Well done, Netflix.


                
Great cast. Great script. Well directed. Horror at it's best with well thought out characters, haunting locations and perfectly paced.


                
Maybe one of the best television shows ever made. pretty much all there is to it. superb.


                
Netflix did a cool job weaving this story into different parts and eras. The family aspect is also really nice. There is something really endearing about it but also super screwed up. Watch it!


                
You may want to give up after the first three episodes, it's a bit of a slow burn to begin with and definitely doesn't provide a quick hit of horror, but the characters draw you in - Theo's story is particularly intriguing. Ultimately, this is a much better horror series than anything else out there at the moment (Sans AHS which is in a different league)


                
An amazing bone chilling and well done show! This so perfect and unique that nothing even close to this has ever been created for TV. Harror movies 90% of time fail to sufficiently scare us in 90 minuets, so I was a bit skeptical to commit to 10 episode, but glad I did. The dialogues are well written, the characters are well developed, the shots are beautiful, and there is no bloody unnecessary loud music/ noise to make up for lack of creativity. Netflix utterly makes up for no "Stranger things" this October with this amazing show. Thank you, Netflix!


                
Im a huge fan of thriller tv shows, and ive been waiting for YEARS for something as good as this! It is so good that i had to force myself to take it slow and not watch it all in one weekend because i did not want it to end.
it reminds me of how good american horror story season 1 was.
the actors are playing their characters flawlessly, there is so much emotions, and the story is way more than just about a haunted house, its about a family and it made me cry so many times. i love it


                
When I heard it had a rating on rotten tomatoes of 100% I knew it was going to be epic, but even with high expectations, it still amazed me more than I could have imagined! More than anything, this is a show that truly deals with grief. It definitely cannot be categorized as simply horror, because of the in depth issues that are tackled, such as addiction, grief, guilt, shame, neglect, etc. The depth of the characters and how they interact with each other is amazing, and the horror aspects are also top notch. I am dealing with grieving myself, for a few of my family members who were so near to me, so the grieving part of this show also helped me face my own issues head on. This show literally helped me face some personal grief and all the while was an excellent story, overall and was surprisingly heart felt. This is one of my favorite series ever!
I never write reviews although I read them on a daily.
This show is a perfect blend of sad and scary.
I couldn't watch it at night and I thought I was desensitized to scary movies.
It felt personal and raw


                
An excellent binge-worthy psychological thriller. The story is perfectly weaved throughout the episodes showcasing the story from all of the character's perspectives. Excellent cast.


                
It's a fantastic Thriller. But the character development and layers of complexity and the storyline I felt were all met with a proper ending. This is a fantastic show. Big shout out to the writers!


                
So good I finished it in 2 days!! Very well adapted. Very clever how all the pieces fall into place. 15 out of 10 from me! Just brilliant.


                
This should now be the gold standard for horror tv series. It is simply perfection. Why is it perfection? It strikes that perfect balance of horror and heart, the visceral with the psychological. The cast, while not big names (besides Carla Gugino) all inhabit their roles like second skins, so well that this will surely be each of their career performances. Each and every performance is genuine and perfect.
The pacing is very well set out, interspersing the horror scenes with the terrific dramatic performances, so even minutes into the first episode, you already care about the characters. The director hits every note perfectly, every reveal is perfectly set up to make you fall in love with the characters as you watch their lives unfold. The dialogue is genuine, nothing feels forced or fake, and every action and reaction makes sense, which is rare in horror today.
I've been a fan of director Mike Flanagan since 2014's Absentia, and have loved his movies Oculus and Hush, but this is his Tour de Force. It's going to be hard for him to live up to what is a perfect series. PS- Ignore the bad ratings. Based on those comments I believe they were written by people of low intelligence, people who need things spelt out for them.


                
I think I've figured out the difference between today's "elevated horror" and the more traditional horror that we so often write about on these pages. The slasher killers of my childhood didn't have complicated backstories or motivations, at least at first. The Shape killed because he was a killer. Leatherface and his family killed and ate because that was just their life. Sure, Jason was a mentally challenged child who drowned in a lake and somehow lived on the bottom of it for some time before coming back three movies in and wearing a hockey mask, but his mom, for all her faults, loved him.The terrors of today's horror? It all comes down to bad parenting. The Graham family of Hereditary was doing more than dealing with the King of Hell, they were dealing with years of family madness and secrets. Jay Height wasn't just dealing with a sexually transmitted demon in It Follows, she was dealing with parental neglect. And in The Babadook, the real beast was just the crushing boredom of that film. It was that Amelia Vanek is a mother that blames her child for her husband's death. She is, you guessed it, a bad mother.There are times when you want subtext and reasons behind things. And other times, you just want to be scared. After all, when you're looking for significance where there should be none, Freud would like to remind you that "Sometimes, a cigar is just a cigar."It's no secret that I'm not a fan of "elevated horror" or trying to find the meaning behind everything -- ironic as I spend a good chunk of my days debating movies right here. It's more that I hate when people have agendas and force them into every movie. Sometimes, I just want that cigar. to be a cigar. Sometimes, I just want to watch a scary movie.So it was without no small trepidation that I entered into the ten-hour commitment that came with watching Netflix's new The Haunting of Hill House, an adaption of Shirley Jackson's 1957 book (which was already made as 1963 and 1999's The Haunting).In the summer of 1992, Hugh and Olivia Crain plan on flipping an old mansion, just as they have with several other homes. Along with their five children, Steven, Shirley, Theodora, Luke and Eleanor, they go face to face with the paranormal, barely escaping with their lives (well, I lied, not all of them make it out as Olivia dies). Nnearlyalry a quarter of a second later, another death in the family brings the Crains back to Hill House to confront a lifetime of an absent parent, a lost mother and the ways that they've tried to handle so much grief and pain.The story starts with Steven Crain (Michiel Huisman, Game of Thrones), the author of the book The Haunting of Hill House, which details his experiences in the house, as well as those of his brothers and sisters. The fact that he's written this book -- and made the money from it -- has been a point of contention between he and his family ever since. That may be because of all the Crain family, he was the only one who didn't see anything. His books and a lot of his life have been lies. At the end of the first episode, he finds his sister Nell hiding in his house. That's when he meets a ghost for the first time -- his sister has committed suicide inside Hill House hours before.Each episode introduces us to another member of the family, from control freak Shirley (Elizabeth Reaser, Ouija: Origin of Evil and Annabelle: Creation as an adult; Lulu Wilson from as a child) to child psychologist and psychic sensitive Theodora (who is married to director/creator Mike Flanagan, working with him on his other films like the aforementioned Ouija: Origin of Evil and Gerald's Game) and Nell's twin Luke, who struggles with addiction. Their lives and stories intersect and build upon one another, showing how the house and what happened on one night have ruined their lives in one way or another.I've always had a theory that ghosts aren't real. What we see in these apparitions aren't things that go bump in the night, but moments where reality has been recorded over and over, like an old VHS tape, with the more horrible moments of life eating through the layers of reality, replaying over and over again. Hill House works that way, with the ghosts the children saw in the past simply being their future. I really want to discuss the moment that Nell realizes who the ghost she has seen her entire life is, but doing so would completely ruin this show if you haven't seen it yet.I was surprised by just how emotional this show made me. Credit for that is due to Timothy Hutton, who I've always known is an incredible actor, but he really proves it all over again as the father of this brood (the same role in 1992 in played by Henry Thomas from E.T. The Extra-Terrestrial). Carla Gugino is wonderful, as usual, as the mother who may never go away. I loved the long cuts that the actors got to use, which really added to the emotion of this. For example, the first fifteen minutes of episode six are all one straight take with no edits or cuts (there are only give cuts in the entire episode!). And bonus points for having Russ Tamblyn in here, as he was Luke in the original The Haunting!I love that people are reporting sleep disorders and anxiety attacks after watching this show. Have we really grown so weak as a species that shows like this can trigger -- that word! -- us in such a way? I enjoyed this show, but I don't enjoy reading clickbait articles like this that basically collect the tweets of people who should never, ever watch Cannibal Ferox. Just let a cigar be a cigar. Just enjoy scary shows for what they are.But don't just take it from me. No less of a voice in horror than Stephen King had this to say: "THE HAUNTING OF HILL HOUSE, revised and remodeled by Mike Flanagan. I don't usually care for this kind of revisionism, but this is great. Close to a work of genius, really. I think Shirley Jackson would approve, but who knows for sure." You watch it for yourself on Netflix.
