All the time I was watching the series I was expecting for something new and something interesting....
But the story has stuck. All around the same things. No progress. Very depressing and boring.


                
How on earth does this thing have an 8.9/10 rating (as of Nov 2018)? This was one of the most frustrating viewing experiences I've had in years. I wouldn't have guessed it from the first few episodes, which I enjoyed despite some misgivings, but by the time the last one rolled around I was saying "Oh god not another monologue" every ten minutes.There are some impressive storytelling flourishes - I'll give it that, and a lot of work obviously went into the production. But that can't save a series that feels bloated, self-indulgent, overly verbose and melodramatic and stuffed with monologues.It also features many of the frustrating habits of horror films - parents that don't listen to children and dismiss whatever they say; adults that repress supernatural experiences despite overwhelming evidence; poor communication between characters (there would be no show if these people spoke to each other); characters who ignore all the signs and engage the supernatural by themselves in the dead of night without telling anyone else, etc. And it's not that I don't like horrors. I love a good horror - but with this one (and with so many modern horrors), the overall arc of the storytelling feels cheap and pointless. Never again will I trust the hype around a show without doing some research myself.


                
Poorly acted. Apart from two of the kids the majority of the actors do a terrible, exaggerated job. The young version of the dad is especially painful to watch - and why does he have to have those terrible coloured contacts??
Over-graded. Letting EVERYTHING have the same blue tone is just plain lazy, and in stead of adding style and character it just makes everything monotone.
Over-hyped. The hype is way bigger than this show. With only ten episodes this should have been tight, but is drags for at least 4 of the episodes. And the 'scares' are so rare that they're hardly there <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0095>


                
I really wanted to like this and I'm really trying to. But I just can't. As for the filmmaking aspect, it's great. But as far as it being "freaky" or "scary" as people claim it to be, I don't see it. Claims such as "bone chilling" or "mind bending" just don't hold water. It might be scary to a five year old, but as my expectations of it being terrifying, I am bored out of my mind!This is not a horror series by any means as it claims to be. It is a family drama disguised as gothic horror. Big let down.<f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008E><f0><U+009F><U+008F><U+00BB><f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008E><f0><U+009F><U+008F><U+00BB><f0><U+009F><U+0091><U+008E><f0><U+009F><U+008F><U+00BB>


                
I agree with the user who said "I think Netflix paid for all the good reviews". If you like This Is Us, and can handle some Halloweenish GCI then you will love this. I don't mind getting investing in the characters, but as adult they all become so dull and so long winded! It was better when they were kids. There is also no real explanation as to who the The Hills were, or why they haunt the house....or The Dudleys either. There is just a random twist with the caretakers at the end that is never really explained. And if The Dudley's knew there was something wrong with the house, why did they let a family with kids move in? That is only one of many plot hole questions I have.Just to nit-pick for a moment, as a licensed embalmer, the set up , embalming and restoration were all wrong. But no one would really notice unless it was your job, I guess.This is really about a family and their personal drama and issues...with something that bangs on the wall every now and then. It could have been amazing but they really missed the mark on this one.
This is another one of those movies/shows that has an excellent story and great actors, but in which the writer seems to be a beginner. For me, the best stories are those that flow from a reasonable starting point, to an ending which seems to answer most of the questions which might have formed along the way. A good storyteller also understands that we each have an imagination which can draw on our own experiences and other stories to fill in the blanks and allow us to become uniquely immersed in the story. Lately, a lot of movies and shows seem to be coming from writers who do not have a firm understanding of storytelling. They waste a lot of time explaining the obvious, building out personalities of the characters with unnecessary content, and jumping back and forth along the timeline to explain things which need no explanation. This is one of those stories. It could have been a 3-hour edge-of-your-seat thriller, but instead, it is drawn out into 10 episodes of useless content, leaving nothing to the imagination. Final feeling after watching the entire season: BORING!!!


                
Monologue after monologue. The entire story could be fit into 3-4 episodes, or one movie if it wasn't for all the long pointless boring monologues.And when you strip away the monologues and slow drama elements, what you'll have is a very typical, all the usuals of a family-in-a-haunted-house drama.There's absolutely 0 doubt that reviews here are artificial/manufactured, hence why I've stopped refering to them anymore. What a shame, the internet's biggest movie database's most useful function is corrupt.


                
The acting is not too bad and same goes for the effects.I was told this was the show to watch and spent 10 hours trying to stay awake waiting for something to happen and nothing ever did. This is a dull drama series, with little horror and no scares, that flitters between different timelines. I regret not giving up after the first two episodes and moving onto something else.


                
Because of all the good ratings I watched this with my wife. I am a horror fan and really thougt that this is The One for us - I was wrong. The acting is good but not fantastic. The tension is there for approx a total of 15 minutes of 10 episodes. Thats a total of 15 minutes of tension of a total of 10 episodes.
I really don't now whats so scary about this tv-series. In some of the episodes we are very near to give up and just stop watching because we are so bored. One episode is like being at live theater instead of watching TV. It's like the director wanted to experiment with long camera takes and thougt we all would love his art work. I don't! It doesn't give me anything - I want horror.
This is slow, boring, not scary but well played.Conclusion: It is a well played family drama with some nice included scary parts.
But it is really not a scary horror Tv series. It is not!What i Like: The Descent, ils.
What i don't like (boring): Paranormal activity.


                
I was totally hyped after the first episode but the next episodes are boring. Here is a summary: bla bla bla cry bla bla *jumpscare bla bla cry kill bla bla bla bla bla


                
The series started strong with an interesting story line and plenty of haunts that keep you on edge. It got weak in the middle as it spent too much time jumping back and forth between timelines. It got a little monotonous. You can only replay the same flashback so many times from a different point of view before it gets old. Plus when you throw in too many instances of haunts, it's kindof like "why are they even still there?"
But, the end really ruins the show. The final episode basically rewrites the whole story. The house goes from being a place of evil that drives people mad then feeds on their souls (for no known reason) to essentially an atheistic heaven where the dead live on forever as ghosts surrounded by the ghosts of everyone else who died in the house, free to interact and speak to the living. (Again with no reason how or why). It is so over the top it is almost advocating suicide. Then there are the preachy monologues and individual 'trials' which I guess are supposed to be biting social commentary. I stopped paying attention to the monologues.
I'm not sure if I'd recommend watching it. It was reasonably well done with alot of original takes (but also alot of cliches), but it got preachy and man they wrecked it bad in the end.
I dropped out half way through, did not finish. I honestly expected it to be a horror series and instead this turned out to be a slow psychological drama with mostly stupid characters. Literally just barely a step above your most run of the mill TV soap opera.


                
I am very willing to give a horror TV show a chance.The series has a non-linear narrative which is actually pretty agreeable. We keep switching between this family whose parents are trying to flip this magic house and years later when we see the father and the five kids deal with the after effects of this and figure out what's happening. It isn't a straight switch back and forth to two internally linear narratives, but it is a bit all over the place. It's one of the show's greatest credits that it structures itself in the way that makes sense; that it tells the story it wants to tell in a way that staggers the reveals and makes for what almost could have been a very compelling series just for its story even if it wasn't that scary. I liked that in the middle there are episodes that are dedicated to the experience of specific siblings up to a point. It really had a scope that required a several hours to tell rather than just being an over inflated movie.The issue is in the style. I get that tropes are tools and I don't mind it's this old school haunted house affair. There are a few wonderful sequences where the suspense was powerful even though I've seen the same character alive in the future.But it is still generic and cliche filled. The show relies too much on visions, things that are not really there just to startle us but ultimately do nothing. The family drama that gets far more screen time than anything cool is way too soapy and every single female character is annoying. It took me half the series to tell them apart because there is a lot of personality overlap when they are adults. The show also jacks itself off over its lesbian character. Representation is great but either not make it a big deal or make is a crucial plot point. It is painfully obvious they are pandering. The father is by far my favourite character because he is mellow voice of reason amidst the volatile females. Having multiple woman characters who discuss more than their love lives counts for little if you make them all two dimensional yelling machines. It's not progressive.The usage of the familiar zombie/spectre make up kills any chance of feeling vintage. Too many moments are ruined this way. There is a "Red room" (not any less on-the-nose colour?), predictable twists and plot lines that go nowhere (the girl from rehab, that girl getting sexually abused).O feel this would have been ten times better if they had just stuck in the past. Even then it's not exactly fresh; little girl tells her parents about nightmares of "the bent neck lady" and expects you to be surprised when they give a reveal about the identity of this lady.Why is any of this even happening? Is it the house that's the issue? The spirits inside? I like there to be some mysteriousness but this goes on so long I was just scratching my head, more confused than creeped out.I hope this show does not discourage further attempts at a horror show but despite visible talent behind the camera, it just doesn't work.


                
From seeing the average rating and reading the initial reviews I expected so much more from this spin off from the original 'The Haunting' which is a must to see.Where was the 'horror' , the 'suspense' ??? Those people giving 10/10 must have had a limited movie experience, easily satisfied or have a low pleasure thresholdWhilst the acting is more than adequate, the scenes are painfully slow and stilted.I rarely give reviews but was compelled to balance the expectations of future viewers.


                
This is probably most overrated TV-show on IMDb. For 8.9 I was expecting something almost masterpiece, Godlike good TV-show, but it's not even close. First of all it's not scary, secondly it's slow boring drama about disfunctional family, thirdly non of the characters have something that I would feel sympathy or care for. Even more, they are annoying starting from junkie whiny brother ending with cynical one. Right now I'm on 7th episode of first season & I can't wait when we finish it. Plot is so boring I don't even care what happens in following episodes or even at the end.


                
If you signed up for happy endings, congratulations this "horror" is for you. There were some good scares early on and a few more mixed between the later episodes, but the horror quickly lost way to a melodramatic family story. By the final moments the show became a repeat of every other overblown family drama series.
Well this my first time writing a review for a Netflix TV series...and hopefully not my last. Anyways Netflix's new Haunting of Hill House is quite the bore and type of show to have you not care of what is going on in front of you.To be honest I am very disappointed with this series. The show really lacks its engagement and unlike other shows does not urge me to continue on to the next episode. Although the house itself is quite impressive and has a gothic style the show itself is not. Due to the bore ness and confusion I decided to stop after episode two. Hopefully Netflix can get their game on otherwise they will just be as useless as genitle dye.The verdict: The Haunting Of Hill House completely flops after watching the first few episodes and will have you thinking "what have I just watched these past 50 minutes. Even with its impressive look and if you watch it you will understand that it is just a bunch of click bait and offers barely anything.


                
I had stopped watching this show at episode 5 because it was so painfully boring. The show is very confusing. There were a lot of dream sequences and weird things happening which made it hard for me to follow the show. I mean, what's the point of the spiders in the mouths, Nell's suicide, and the dream sequences they were having? I liked the idea of how they gave backstories to the characters that shape who they are but the problem is how they executed those scenes.The dialogue is clunky, especially coming out of characters such as Shirley and Nell, who are the worst characters of the bunch.Nell, played by Violet McGraw (who I thought was Brooklynn Prince) and Victoria Pedretti is a crybaby who doesn't quite get enough development with her connection between her and the Bent-Neck Lady. All of a sudden, she makes a stupid decision to go back to the house where she commits suicide. Her younger self was a judgmental, stubborn kid.Shirley, played by Lulu Wilson and Elizabeth Reaser was okay as a child, I guess but she became a brash, skeptical woman as an adult who angsted too much over her dead sister. She has an annoying son named Jayden who acts like a selfish loudmouth, thus making him a forgettable character.Overall, this show is very overrated, it has a convoluted plot, forgettable, weak characters, and an excessive amount of crying and angst.
Really enjoyed the acting and visual effects but I feel like the finale was a dexter type let down. I read about the original ending and that would have been better. This was great until the last episode


                
A show that began with a very promising start immediately turned into a dull, mind numbing experience. With the exception of ep5, this show had my girlfriend and I laughing and talking throughout the character's drawn out monologues and constant disbelief in each other as a family. Even though they all saw weird and crazy things, when it happened to someone other than themselves they dismissed it. They all lived in denial from their childhood to adulthood and their sister, Nell, died because of it. I cannot understand the high reviews because this was incredibly boring and not in the slightest way horrifying. The best part was ep6, when Theo failed to sit down - had a good laugh. By all means, skip this.
Just my opinion, but I lost interest more and more with each episode. This would have been a better two-hour TV movie or maybe a shorter series. I don't think the plot warrants a longer show.


                
I just can't get invested in the characters in this. The jump-scares are just okay. The little actor playing young Luke is a good screamer but the "monster-in-the-basement" just looks like an actor in a cloth Halloween costume crawling across the floor.I don't care that Steve Crain has written a book about their lives in Hill House, which is absolutely to small and too modern to fit the original story.Now we have the psychiatrist treating a little girl who sees and imaginary creepy friend that she calls Mr. Smiley. That's straight out of Amityville Horror and very badly done. It's all very predictable and slow and boring.Good luck gang, I'm giving the rest of this series a pass.
This series started with such promise. The best episodes were so compelling and well-acted. (Although at least two were painfully dull.) But it DID seem to be moving toward a satisfyingly frightening conclusion. I was wrong. The finale was a disaster on many levels. I had to watch it in about 4 sittings because it was so incredibly boring. There were some fine performances throughout the series, especially by Timothy Hutton and the children. But Carla Gugino's Olivia was so overwrought and annoying that I didn't CARE if she died. In fact, I kind of wanted her to do so. The more screen she had, the more I wanted to switch the show off.What do all of the best horror films (The Exorcist, Rosemary's Baby, The Shining, The Babadook, etc.) have in common? They have endings that leave you feeling no closure. No sense of happily-ever-after nonsense, which is how it should be. The dread in those films stays with you long after the final frame. THOHH decided to go with schmaltz. It was as if Steven Spielberg took over and hijacked film. By around episode 6, I was hoping there'd be multiple seasons of this show. The finale so betrayed horror fans that I will never waste my time on TV horror. The best episodes of this series rated a 9 or 10. The finale ruined everything.
This TV series remind me of movies like (The Amityville Horror movies and Conjuring movies).. The TV series was presented with typical elements from such movies (the old creepy house, the unexplained haunting moments..).. what is the difference between a movie of such style and this TV series is... the series took the time to present the lives of the involved characters and build up the fear so there will be less reliance on jump scares (I really really do not appreciate jump scares!).What I found very attractive in this tv series are the sense of direction and style and the casting. The (horror-mystery) scripting of this TV series was good up to almost the fifth episode and then I lost interest in what was the mystery and focused on the characters which I wasn't disappointment with them. The ending wrapped so quickly for me (relative to the long show-case of characters lives) and some how the ending was expected!!What I was excited for in this particular TV series is involving the time dimension to explain the presence of the haunting moments in a character's live.
I only kept watching because of the reviews, dull characters and sentimental and don't expect suspense or horror.


                
