Monologues for days. Just so, so many "poignant" monologues. So, so many self-reflective, melodramatic monologues. 
Long speeches aside, the production value is great. The child actors are fantastic. The story is intriguing, though it tends to only creep along. Quite good, but not perfect, as it's high rating suggests.


                
Show is decent but I am writing this review because of headlines saying "they had to release the trailer in day because of how scary it was". Another one saying " show is so scary that it's making people vomit and pass out" really ?I am starting to think that Netflix is hyping the shows by buying out the reviews. Show had a decent storyline but it was not very scary. I just don't get the hype.


                
Loved the show until the final few episodes went completely over the top. The finale just put the final nail in the coffin. It was just a series ridiculously stupid monologues.


                
Such a great horror show, with good acting (except the oldest girl - shirley), interesting plotting and character developments and interacting, nice occasional scares etc etc. Very good, until the walt disney corney sentimental ending. That was the biggest horror...
With a more mature and gutsy ending i might have given a 9, or at least 8, now i can't...come on Flannegan, man up next time!


                
The first 4 episodes are fantastic, scary and suspenseful.I'm not sure what happens after that but the series seems to forget that it is a hottie series and turns into a family drama.The ending is also a complete let down, a happy ever after.I was really excited for this after the first 4, and watched the last 6 in one sitting, but what a total disappointment.


                
It drags on and on, had to finish it off as I've wasted far enough of my life to switch it off before the ending.
Why do people give it 10 ?


                
Seeing the amazing ratings (9.0/10 at time of watching, and 29th best tv show ever) I expected THOHH to be at least quite scary, but it's really not. It's more of the same shoddy shadows and jumps that seem to be de rigeur these days. It'll pass a few hours but I won't be hanging on for more.


                
It was like watching a poor adaptation of a Stephen King novel. A couple of good episodes bookended with some slow burners. Not as many jumps a scares as I was expecting.
So yeah, it could have been better


                
This show is cool in its aesthetic. But my gosh I could not care less about the characters. The flashbacks try to build things up. The CGI is poor. The plot is predictable. Acting is subpar. Try it out.


                
Since I saw the high ratings this show received I was pretty excited to watch this show. As a huge horror fan there are not much good series in this genre so I was curious about this one. I read from other reviewers this was the best horror series and so on but I have to disaggree with that. The Haunting Of Hill House is entertaining to watch, with some horror elements and with a good cast, but to say it's a perfect show is a bit far fetched to me. The first episodes are a bit too confusing, with the back and forth in the story, a technique that I'm not a great fan of. Once you get to know all the characters it becomes a bit easier to watch. The horror parts are creepy but it could also have been much better if they would have been more dominant in the show. All in all it was a good watch, but don't know if we need a second season of it.


                
You had me until the end. It was a great 9 episodes of cinematography, aniexty, suspense, horror and story but completely blew it with the closure. I really hope Netflix doesn't try rebooting this because it's only going to bury it even more. Worth the watch but prepare for disappointment.


                
The reviews are exaggerated. It's a good show but not particularly scary. It's LIKE hereditary, more psychological and emotional than scary. Nevertheless, it's not boring.


                
The first episode grabbed my attention to continue watching the following episodes. Unfortunately after the 4th episode I started to use the Fast Forward button as the plot is being dragged on way too long.The character building is good only because they use an episode to build each character of the siblings. In a normal movie of 2 hours, it is kinda impossible to realize that level of character building. So if you don't relate to one of the siblings story, good luck of getting through to 1 whole episode.What makes this plot different to other horror movies with a haunted house or anything that is haunted, is that it goes back and forth between what happened in the past and what is happening in the present. This gives the viewer a pretty good idea what happened to the family and its history of the misery the family has been going through throughout the years.Why I didn't rated it as high as others is purely because it is being dragged on way too long. It becomes perfectly clear throughout the first 4 episodes that the misery of the family is related to the house and that the dad is keeping a secret of what really happened that night when they left the house. Yet it takes 4 episodes (episode 8 at around 40 min. into the episode) where the dad finally starts to talk with the eldest son about what the house is really all about. So overall, good plot, good acting, good character building, superb story telling but dragged on way too long.
Enjoyable enough through the first 6 or 7 espisodes, but as others have said, it all falls apart a bit at the end. The denouement in the last episode pretty much undermines the horror & dread of the preceding story-line ... & again as others have commented, the monologues required to pull it all together into one tidy package are stilted & contrived. I think the producers of this series were trying too hard & ended up with a mish-mash of genres that don't really come together successfully.


                
I'm about 7 episodes in right now. This series has a high production value and good acting. However, the narrative advances at a very slow pace and you will be watching the same scene 2 or 3 times, from slightly different perspectives.


                
The final episode knocks off a point from this otherwise well acted family drama that happens to involve a haunted house.Sad to say the overly long and pointlessly expositional final episode dragged in a storm of soliloquy after soliliquy. The self indulgent monologues sounded like readings from the book, as if they were with one voice in a stage show.


                
16 October 2018 - 5 out of 9 users found this review helpful.
This show makes me so happy. This is not American Horror Story, Hannibal or Channel Zero. It is not a collection of 'scary moments' with random clowns or 'nasty food'. It's real gothic horror. And it's well filmed, it's scary, and the actors are actually all really good. Plus, it's even good drama.I do not except half as much from any single horror movie, this show does it for several episodes. Pleae someone, make more shows like this. And You, watch it, now!EDIT. I had to rewrite this review after watching the final 4 episodes.
They were, except for Ep. 8, quite a disappointment. Several good actors started overacting (why?), plot holes appeared. And the ending was plain bad. And don't get me started on the endless monologues.........Anyway. It's still the best horror tv-show. Episodes 1 - 6 are fantastic.Some reflections:
Was Abigail really supposed to be a living person right from the start? She sure looked like a ghost in Luke's paintings.The house is clearly demonic. Why should it be satisfied with only 3 family members? Are the rest of the family suddenly safe from hauntings now?The fate of the Dudleys was almost portrayed as something beautiful in the last episode. What...? Why?Sure this could all be explained in a darker manner somehow, but the way that the last episode was filmed, and the selection of music etc. makes it seems only like this ending was rushed. And it became a happily ever after/plz give us a season 2 Netflix-ending.Also in a rush, they tacked on some very brief mental analyzis of the family members. Basically the same that was developed very well earlier. but now. not so well. Wait; so.. they still don't belive that is was ghosts... or? ..what? Did they try to copy the ending of the Babadook badly? I don't know.+ The show almost completely failed to do scares in the final episodes.Well I have only seen a worse happily ever after-ending in one show before. And that was Netflix Casa de Papel. Are you responsible for this Netflix?
It's a horror movie, it's terrifying, it's scary, it's creepy, there's a deep morbid mystery there, and it should lead to something mind blowing realistically creepy and goose bump chilling. Alas, it's NOT.
I was expecting anything but Shakespearean monologues intwined with Tolstoy's and Dostoevsky's contemplations on life, family values, and the like, which eventually turned into a fairly tale happy ending. If I wanted a fairly tale I'd watch Snowwhite or Beauty and the Best.
I feel that everyone nowdays want a movie to look artistic and filled with a deep philosophical meaning and stuff, but often times this desire goes way too far.
Amazing camera work, astonishing acting, great set and decorations.
This show makes me so happy. This is not American Horror Story, Hannibal or Channel Zero. It is not a collection of 'scary moments' with random clowns or 'nasty food'. It's real gothic horror. And it's well filmed, it's scary, and the actors are actually all really good. Plus, it's even good drama. I do not except half as much from any single horror movie, this show does it for several episodes. Pleae someone, make more shows like this. And You, watch it, now!


                
I mean come on...really? No spoilers but I will say the ending was horrible. The first 9 episodes and maybe the first 15 minutes of episode 10 are amazing. Episode 6 sets the bar on so many levels for future horror shows; it will blow you away. And then it all led to episode 10, which almost killed everything they worked so hard to achieve prior to it.I gave the overall series a 7 because the ending was that bad. It would have been an easy 10 otherwise.In the end I'm glad I watched it because of all the great acting, writing, and directing prior to the last episode. Its just mind boggling that the show resolved itself the way it did.


                
Not the one i was expecting,slow and boring,not so horror.


                
This is worth watching but can drag ,hard to follow as it's set in the present ,past and Inbetween and you loose track of who's who , acting and story is solid , surprised if there's not a series two .


                
I heard from so many people that this show was so scary... far from it..
It was emotional. The last episode seemed like they had to quickly throw something together and left me needing more.


                
Many things in this was perfect. The casting and the scenography. But it was not really scary. And the ending gave no anwers at all what for example the red room was. It´s more a very good family drama than a horror show.
Do you not feel as though it tanked at the very end with some sort of familial Kum Ba Yah emotional wrap up where everyone that did actually want to live in that house could just go an die there in the last two seconds and get their babies and husbands back from wherever? Too convenient, they must have watched AHS and thought that they had some good ideas. It's almost like Netflix is making them a little too fast here lately. They had me at a 10 until episode 8, now I would give them a 7 out of 10! A 7! Ugh, I wanted everyone to shut up in the last episode... It is like they changed writers at the very end... Still awesome overall, but not interesting at the very end. Ended up more like a haunted episode of Friends lol.


                
