It's almost impossible for me to sit down and write a conscientious review of THREE COLORS: RED without letting people in on some of the ideas that Krysztoff Kieszlowski has explored in the previous two entries to this fascinating trilogy. The more I see them and think of them, and imagine myself in their world, the more I get its theme: that we are more linked to each other than we would want to think ourselves, and all it takes is a little hand of fate to set some events in motion. In BLUE, Juliette Binoche played a grieving widow whose plan to live her life without connections to the past had her meet someone unexpected. In WHITE, an act of cruelty spawns an unlikely friendship between two men who will, against the odds, conspire to bring the perpetrator to justice and full circle. And now, in RED, all the elements of fate and apparent coincidence apply themselves into the meeting of a young Genevese model and a retired judge who has a habit of prying into other people's lives.This young girl is appropriately named: Valentine (a luminous Irene Jacob), who has this radiance about her and even smiles openly while working the runway. Not that she is without some baggage: she has a boyfriend, unseen, who also demands to know what she is doing at all times, she has a brother who troubles her, and she rejects the advances of a photographer who is working on her image for a huge billboard. She strikes a dog while driving and nurses her back to health, but when she takes her to the owner, a retired judge (Jean Louis Trintingnant), he does not want her. "I want nothing," he coldly says, and elements of BLUE suddenly reveal themselves as this arrogant man, who also lives in anonymity and apparent, free-floating freedom, conducts surveillance on unsuspecting people. This male version of Juliette Binoche's character at first shocks Valentine -- she states she can only feel pity for him as she walks away in horror, but a chance event has her back at his place, and here is when he begins revealing who he is, and his great loss.At the same time Kieszlowski is unfolding a parallel story: the story of a young man, Auguste (Jean Pierre Lorit), about to become a judge and who lives right across the street from Valentine -- but they keep missing each other. Chance is the word. Like Valentine winning the jackpot at the grocery story she visits, elements of chance pepper her life and Auguste's. He has a girlfriend who also supplies people with telephoned reports about the weather. One of them happens to be the old judge. He knows more about her than Auguste does, and he's never met her. Like God, or Prospero, he is slowly creating a storm which will crack the walls of this present state of conformity and bring a new meaning to the expression "We meet again." It's this parallelism between the old and young judge that makes RED so beautiful and transcendent, because time is, in reality, a lot more fluid than we would like to deem it. There are people whom we meet in life that if only we had been born in similar time frames, so many things would be different.Such is the case with Valentine and the old judge. I believe that there is definitely a strong fraternity of souls tying them together in a tight bond: she is that woman whom he did not meet -- by chance or not -- and is, whether he knows it or not, trying to make amends, hence why he goes to the great risk of revealing his surveillance and becoming the social outcast. But it doesn't end there. One of the many links between the three movies is the character of an old woman walking to a large garbage container. Where Julie did not see her (and would not have helped her anyhow), and Karol fresh from his public humiliation sneers at her thinking, "Someone is worse off than I am," Valentine is the one who helps her. Frailty in need can happen anywhere, and Kieszlowski even applies it here in a minor character.Now, RED is so much more than a story. Valentine, the old judge, Auguste, even Rita the dog: these aren't characters confined by storytelling. An American version would ruin the idea and commercialize chance encounters and even bring forth a dumbed-down ending. RED is so devoid of a linear, defined plot that anything could happen to any of these people and the possibilities that this story could have veered off in so many directions had one crucial element not taken place at the exact moment and place.Adding to the concept of characters who mirror each other despite time frames or location is the theme of sexual betrayal. This is also an important and character defining element in all of the three films: in BLUE, Julie's husband had a mistress and she also betrays Olivier when it's become clear she's emotionally dead. In WHITE, Dominique has Karol listen to her moan over the phone (which becomes an important device in RED) as she has sex with a man while the billboard of Brigite Bardot's CONTEMPT looks on. In RED, the old judge's tale of love and betrayal gets re-enacted. And all this time, Valentine's billboard image looms over them like a presage of what is to come at the same time that Rita, the dog Valentine's car struck, bears seven pups, life renewed for the six major players in this complex trilogy obviously filmed with care and love. Why do I say six? You'll have to watch the movie and wonder.
See Three Colors: Blue and Three Colors: White.  They are both wonderful films and will give an added dimension to the finale Three Colors: Red. Red is a fantastic film.  It can be enjoyed in a single viewing, and indeed, the climax of the film is very powerful in that first viewing.  But, watch it again.  Once you understand the use of symbolism and character parallels in this movie, you will see new things with each viewing.  With the first viewing you understand that the film is the work of a brilliant mind.  With each additional viewing, you find yourself discovering that it is, in fact, a work of genius. Red is meant to symbolize fraternity in the French flag.  The story turns the theme of fraternity around to be viewed at angles one would never suspect.  The facets of fraternity shared by the different characters is as deep as you care to peer.  If you are used to the blatant "symbolism" in most mass films, you may find Red a bit slow.  You may find yourself looking at a screen filled with intensity that you do not fathom... and yawning, wonder what all the excitement is about.  This is not a mindless, vicarious experience.  Everything is not explained to you.  You must think as you watch.  You must see... not simply look.  Wonderful movie... one meant to be enjoyed by a wonderful moviegoer.


                
The final part of Kieslowski's trilogy based on the colors of the French flag finds the director at peace with the metaphysical and transcendent nature of the cinematic image. In Red, imagery is paramount, as well as the obvious but clever color coding. However, rather than adhering to empty aesthetic contrivances based on the 'cinema du look', Kieslowski's Red is a multi-layered, densely plotted meditation on the nature of fate and love. In Red, love and fate are intertwined but complex notions, dictated as much by the whims of human beings as the invisible parallel associations that seems to pass us by. You sense Red is really an allegory, a reenactment of Prospero's omnipresent gestures in The Tempest, yet it is more than its story appears. Red demands countless viewings, and in each viewing something new is discovered that weaves itself into the already immaculately plotted structure.Although Red stands alone as a masterwork from Kieslowski, it's best viewed as part of the trilogy. Elements of Blue and White are referenced in Red, which knowing viewers will enjoy.


                
I feel at a loss, so brilliant is this film.  Kieslowski is a writer, a philosopher; and while an excellent filmmaker, his greatness lies in his writing; and "Red" is his paradigm.  This film is a metafictional study of the artist's judgement in the creation of his fictional world; of how an artist can attempt to remake life -- even his own -- thru his art, even as he cannot escape the knowledge that, no matter how he involves himself in his story, it is still fiction and he is still outside of his remade world, still burdened with its unreality and the reality of the life he has tried to artistically remake.  And magically, all of this is not to the smallest degree at the expense of a wonderful story about the mysteries of love and fate and the characters who live out this story, this pre-judged destiny. If I had to choose, I might nominate this the greatest film ever made.


                
Trilogies are very interesting. Some go out with a bang (Lord of the Rings), some get progressively weaker (The Matrix), some get lost in obscurity (Blade, Back to the Future), but some maintain the genius, that seemingly ever-growing bright light that floats beyond the surface of its flawless exterior. Case and point: "Three Colors Trilogy". This chapter in the trilogy, being the last one, is the most philosophical and thought-provoking. In "Blue" we had a more visually stunning, more character-driven plot, in "White" it was more of a light hearted, narrative-driven story where we listen more to what the characters say than anything. "Red", however is focused on the "what ifs" and "how comes". It questions our own fate and focuses mainly on the past and the future than the present.This chapter is about a young model who runs over a dog and brings him back to his owner. She soon finds out that the owner of the dog is actually a cynical retired judge who spies on his neighbors' phone calls through advanced spying equipment. All three films in the trilogies have very basic plot lines, but bring a lot more to the story. Consider in "Blue", the story of a woman dealing with the loss of her loved ones. We are constantly shown ideas about the contemporary French society and how that reflects the character's behavior. "Red" is not only about a young woman who finds shelter in an older man's life, but it is also about chance, hope, and fate.Irene Jacob stars as Valentine Dussaut, who at first finds the old man (Jean-Louis Trintignant), whom we never find the name of, extremely self-centered and disgusting. Though through self reflective analysis, and her voyeuristic intentions, she learns that the judge would be the perfect man for her, if only he was 40 years younger. Irene lives across from another, younger judge, who highly resembles the old man. This is the "what if" that keeps circling in the movie. What if Irene were born 40 years ago? The old man would have been her perfect match. But what if the younger judge is actually her perfect match, since he so closely resembles the older one. Valentine doesn't know this, only we do, and Krzysztof Kieslowski subtly suggests this in almost every frame which Irene is in. We are constantly smacked in the face with his presence, as almost a suggestion of Irene's fate.I mention that the old man does not have a name for a reason. That reason is because it is very symbolic to the overall theme in the story. We are to compare the old judge to Auguste (Jean-Pierre Lorit), the younger judge, in more than one way. We learn that the old man once had someone he loved but she got away. In another scene, we see Auguste heartbroken as the love of his life gets away with another man. There are constant reminders of whether or not Valentine will ever meet this man. Even though they pass each other without noticing every single day. There is also the motif of the telephone, to Valentine it is a way of keeping sane and updating her life, to Auguste it is what leads to his heartbreak, and to the old man, it is the only thing he has left. These three elements serve to shadow the characters own psychology. It is a sort of statement about what they are and who they are.All three "Colors" films stand for a certain principle, most common in France. "Blue" stands for Liberty (the personal being), "White" stands for Equality (being accepted by more than one), and "Red" is Fraternity (to socialize, to learn). And although this final chapter is an obvious focus on the Fraternity principle, Kieslowski makes sure he brings in the other two as well, in order to connect all three stories. For example, we see the old man trying to reach out to Valentine and enlighten her with his spy equipment, which is a reflection of the Equality principle. We also see near the end that Valentine is doing some soul searching and that she's more concerned about herself than others (not picking up the phone when Michel calls), a clear example of Liberty. And with all three principles established, Kieslowski nicely connects all of the characters as well, in the final and most heartfelt scene."Red" is about where you could have been if you were older or younger. It is about whether or not there is someone completely perfect for everyone, and whether or not one person can change your life. The final chapter in the most awe-inspiring trilogy ever made, this film breaks barriers in both directing and storytelling. It is not only about our modern life, but about where life could and should be in our modern time. And although the movie is more subtle than both "Blue" and "White", it boldly exclaims a statement of love and compassion.It's hard to imagine that "Red" was Kieslowski's last film, and that he died at such a young age. Nevertheless, the trilogy will always be his masterpiece and we will always remember him for his work that ranks right up with Bergman, Fellini, and Wenders as a truly remarkable director who's never been awarded with an Oscar. Kieslowski, you have been missed!


                
In the "goofs" section for this film there's a comment to the effect that there is a mistake in continuity where Auguste's car is seen to be parked in a different place from that seen in a previous shot in the same scene. This is incorrect. One of the views is from Auguste's flat, the other is from Valentiné's flat across the street. The whole purpose of this segment is to show how Valentiné and Auguste - who may be made for each other - almost cross paths (as happens several other times) but never quite do so, until circumstances throw them together on the ferry at the end of the film. (And here there is the implication that Joseph has manipulated things so that Auguste is on that ferry, having inspected Valentiné's ticket to see which sailing she is booked on.)
Valentine, a model in France is separated from her lover who is abroad, they plan to meet up in England, but seem to be growing ever more distant as the film progresses. One night after declining a pass made by her coworker, she hits a dog named Rita. The dog survives and she returns it to her owner, a hostile retired judge who's is living as a hermit and eavesdropper, listening in on the conversations of all his neighbours. She becomes intrigued by the nature of this man and visits him often, often becoming part of his eavesdropping games. One conversation they listen in on is of extreme importance- the conversation between a young soon to be judge and his wife. We discover that the live of the young judge parallels the life of the man who is eavesdropping upon them. As we find out more about the couple, the more the mysterious man reveals about his own story. As he continues his tale, we find out if the two men will continue towards the same fate. Little does Valentine know how her life, this encounter and the fate of the young judge will soon become entangled together. Her hitting the dog that day seemed to be fate- a divine sacrifice by the dog for her owner- and an event which would allow Valentine to become the saviour of the young judge who seems to be traveling down the same path as her now dear friend. She is driven to prevent the young man from suffering a similarly grim future- one filled with loneliness and solitude. And with this it seems the old man's dream will come true after all, and he can sleep with a smile on his face for the rest of his days.An AMAZING finale to possibly the BEST trilogy of all time! Kieslowski never ceases to amaze me. He is one of my favourite directors, and one of the most talented directors in the history of cinema. His use of the colours of the French flag in the three films was nothing short of incredible, every shot, every scene was like a work of art. Three of the most visually appealing movies i've ever seen. And his subtle connections between the three films are awesome. Usually signified with a subtle pause, or late focus in a scene, see if you can spot some. I have to mention this and it is a huge SPOILER, i loved the ending, how all the characters of the three films were the remaining survivors of the ferry disaster, with Valentine and the young judge together, and the old man watching it on her TV, solidifying his happiness over the suffering which he dealt with for those many years. I couldn't think of a better way to end the film, but a smile on my face, great way to wrap up an amazing film and trilogy! I recommend this for EVERYONE who loves film, movies, anything...A Work of Art! 10 out of 10 for both the movie and trilogy.
Its my favourite film because there's so much going on that you don't see at first and so many things that make you wonder "Did Kieslowski mean that or is it in my head?" For instance - is the judge meant to be God or some supreme being ?Also Irene Jacob as in The Double Life Of Veronique is outstanding, there may be a few superficially prettier actresses but none who manage to convey beauty of spirit with physical beauty the way she does.Tritingnant also is magnificent without really saying much and the things he does say are excellent such as his answer to Valentine . . . "Be".


                
Master Kieslowsky came with an idea in 1993, the idea was to portrait how human relationship are in the world today, passing from Blue (a crafted visual masterpiece about a woman's life) from White (A visual comedy movie about marriage) and finally arriving to Red (A masterpiece dealing with human interaction).While I'm not going to spoil the move I can easily say Red is the best movie from the 90's decade because it has one of the strongest messages in a script I have ever ever seen.The movie begins a little slow but finds it's rhythm early enough to keep you hooked through the whole movie.The performances are perfect, sublime. since the characters are completely realistic and they're not clichéd in any way and one could expect no less from the actors and one doesn't get disappointed... seriously I believe Jean Louis Tringtignat deserved an Oscar nod at least.The music from Zbiegnew Preisner is amazing it's one of the best musical scores ever. Piotr Sobocinsk Cinematography is also outstanding he got an Oscar nod for it (and deserved to win).Overall the movie is a perfect 10 and will be loved by people that love foreign cinema and people who don't. Don't Miss it.How did the awful Pulp Fiction beat ed this masterpiece at Cannes is beyond my comprehension


                
"Three Colours: Red" is an out-of-body movie experience. It is the third on the masterful Krzystof Kieslowski's powerful and original Three Colours trilogy, and it is the best. I've never seen a film like it. It is a masterpiece. See this movie. Who says foreign cinema is boring? This film is riveting! There is too much in this movie to begin making comments. I reckon this is the best film of the 90s(although I heven't seen Goodfellas or Pulp Fiction). It is JUST underneath "Citizen Kane". I love it! I recommend it to anyone in the right age! Kieslowski was one of the most original directors of all time. Such a shame that this, his finest work, was his last.


                
The finest trilogy of movies ever made. This set fulfils the start made in the Double Life of Veronique. Brilliant acting is only outdone by the great stories and excellent direction and camerawork. Little gems are to be found with each viewing. I am left breathless with each new visit to this world of love, laughter and tragedy.


                
How often do we see a film that resides within us long after seeing it? When viewing this film, you will find yourself engrossed in the lives of the characters.  Poignant writing and excellent acting, make this work something other film-makers strive for.  Irene Jacob is an excellent actress.  She deserves so much credit for the films success.  This is an inspirational work of art and it is worthy of the highest praise.


                
In its own quiet way, "Red" is one of the most involving and emotionally effective movies I've ever seen.  The third movie of Kieslowski's "Three Colors" trilogy, it is also the best.  As is the case in the previous two films, the titular color plays a significant visual role, used to draw attention to significant objects and places.  There are a number of fascinating, beautiful shots that move from inside a room to a window to show the street below, or from the outside through windows of multiple rooms.  The two central characters, Valentine and the Judge, are carefully and delicately developed, as is their relationship.  Valentine is sympathetic from the beginning, while the Judge grows more so as we gain insights into his history and motivations.  Both of the actors portraying the leads are wonderful, with the dazzlingly beautiful and highly charismatic Irene Jacob turning in a performance that is at least the equal of her performance in Kieslowski's earlier film, "The Double Life of Veronique" (which seems, in retrospect, to be almost a prequel to the "Three Colors" movies).  The ending, which is perhaps my favorite moment in all of cinema, requires that the viewer has seen the previous two movies in the series to fully appreciate it, but to say anything more about it than that might spoil it for anyone who has not seen the film.Although I would not necessarily contend that "Red" is the "greatest" movie of all time (whatever that means), it is probably my favorite; I've seen it at least 5 times already, and I get more out of it each time I watch it.Overall Rating:  10 (out of 10), or 4+ stars (out of 4)


                
Are we allowed to interfere with our fellowmen's everyday's life? Is it possible to intrude upon their intimacy, to penetrate the inwardness of their thoughts violating the privacy of their own home without being blamed? The director raises some doubts about these apparently solvable questions, almost sympathetic towards judge Jean Luis' destabilizing decision of coming to terms with his own inducted self-seclusion by means of fragments of lives embezzled by him."Trois couleurs: Rouge" is based on the concept of "UNIVERSAL COMMUNICATION CONCEIVED AS THE HUMAN DESIRE OF AN OPEN WINDOW ON THE WORLD". The phone may be considered the main character of the story: after its performance in "Dekalog 9" it gives in the beginning the encore to Kieslowski's onlookers, followed step by step in its fast run across the world. The director looks deeply into the faculty of communication of human beings, without taking up a definite position about the ethical side of individual behavior. Once again he points out to us the unpredictability of future events, venting careful descriptions about strange courses and recourses of life separated from each other by a considerable number of years. Inexplicable combinations oddly converging in a series of continuous and upsetting situations. - Some books falling to the pavement. - One of them opening casually on a fatal page, predetermining the destiny of a future profession, as in a past similar occurrence. - Glimpses of daily life meeting fleetingly, ideally joined by their fondness for the fictitious musician Van den Budermayer. - Human fortunes marked by the most ill-fated coincidence.In this piece of work deserving to be seen with our heart's eyes instead of our mind's ones we can witness a dialectic game between judge Jean Luis' (Jean-Louis Trintignant) and Valentine Dussaut (Irene Jacob, maybe the sweetest actress of our times, together with the beautiful Winona Ryder), in a generational conflict between the experience of a world-weary old man and the self-conscious immaturity of a nice girl on the point of facing the steepest path of her ascending way. Kieslowski talks about "dialogue tests" between a disappointed human life and a youth unaware of her future, between a spiritless misanthropist and a spontaneous girl full of good sense of unselfishness.And the final parade when the damp odor of tragedy still lingers in the air, with all the main characters of the whole trilogy in full evidence, saved by an accidental stroke of luck thank to the providential script cleverly written, gives us the extreme greetings of this movie master fully used up by his great passion for cinema. Only a sense of bitter regret and emptiness is left to remind us the existence of a void impossible to fill. GOOD-BYE KRZYSZTOF. WE MISS YOU SO MUCH!
Spoilers herein.In addition - or perhaps in spite of - what you have heard, this trilogy is organized around the three main choices one can take in narrative stance. `Blue` was about the past, `White` about the `conditional' future(s) and this one about the present. Or rather about a couple instances of the present that overlap: is their really only one judge, one lost love, one dead battery, one hooked brother?The folding of the present uses the folding mechanism of watching: us as watchers, Much of the world watching Valentine through cameras, runways, TeeVee. The judge-with- qualms monitoring. And all of these folded against the others.And on top of it, Kieslowski has assembled a design team that produces one of the lushest visions on film, taking the folding metaphor into the framing, especially in the various rooms.If you know what he is attempting here: three essays on the role of the viewer in creating the `time' of the film world, it makes all three that much richer. But here we have his most sublime success, a perfect synthesis that people can enjoy even if they know not why. And that's the point, isn't it?Oh, and each of the trilogy focuses on a sense: here, it is sound.Ted's Evaluation -- 4 of 3: Every cineliterate person should experience this.
I find Blue, the first film in this loose, thematic trilogy, to be a little ponderous... brilliant, but ponderous. White is exceptional, though I'm aware that not many viewers would share that personal opinion. However, what is clear - having been noted by a number of professional critics and Internet fans all over the world - is that Three Colours Red is really the absolute creative pinnacle, not just of this series of films, but of Kieslowski's career as a whole.The film has many similarities with Kieslowski's earlier film, The Double Life of Veronique. Here, as in that film, we have Irene Jacob portraying a deeply sad young woman, searching for a sense of meaning within the confusion of everyday life. Now, this brief assessment is in no way an accurate retelling of the events of the film, with Kieslowski once again drawing on his favourites themes and motifs, including cultural and chronological dislocation - in which two seemingly disparate story lines come together alongside a different story which could very easily be seen as a retelling of the actual film - and the prevailing notion of chance, which was a major component in much of Kieslowski's work, not least, the Three Colours Trilogy as a whole. However, what really makes this film work, is the attention to narrative detail, story development and character depth... with Kieslowski and his co-writer Krzysztof Piesiewicz making sure that for every sublime image, or poetic moment of transcendence, the film still offers the viewer an emotionally engaging story, and characters we can believe in.Like much of the director's work, particularly films like Blind Chance, No End and certain moments of his classic TV series The Decalogue, the seeming simplicity of the story actually goes deeper than we first believe, with Kieslowski and Piesiewicz's script taking many labyrinthine twists and turns, suggesting actions through symbolism (the crumpled cigarette carton and the broken beer glass at the bowling alley), prefiguring actions through images (the poster of Jacob's character, Valentine, and how it relates to the final image of the film), and suggesting character history through conversation and subplots (the back story of the judge so central to the film, and the way that it mirrors the story of the young law-student who's life could very well be seen as a flashback to previous events).There's much more to the film that that, though, with Kieslowski also working with the theme of fraternity (or brotherhood) and the sense of sight and sound, as well as the continual use of the colour red (and the various connotations that this colour would suggest) in the production design, costuming and photographic composition. We also have the inter-weaving strands from the previous films all connecting in a gloriously metaphysical and entrancing final scene that should leave most viewers completely satisfied. These various layers always work alongside the story and the characters, so the film never seems pretentious (as some viewers have criticised) or distancing, but rather, interesting, intelligent and, for me, completely life-affirming. The real hook to the film, for me, was the relationship between Valentine and the mysterious old-judge (who some might argue plays an almost god-like role in the proceedings here... although you don't have to view it like that), which is layered with sadness and pathos but ultimately seems quite beautiful.Despite all the clever narrative framing devises, the use of chance and coincidence within the story and the always beautiful design, music and photography, the film was never better than in those few scenes between Valentine and the Judge (both perfectly performed by Irene Jacob and Jean-Louis Trintignant) in which their characters dither around their attraction for one another, and manage to find solace in their shared sense of heartache. The particular highlight of these scenes is the final meeting between the two characters after Valentine's triumphant fashion show, in which she finally, after an hour and a half of the film, is able to tease out the root of his twenty-year anguish... only to find that it refers to a situation, which, surprisingly, mirrors that of her own. Other strong performances in the film come from Frédérique Feder and Jean-Pierre Lorit (as the young law-student/judge-incarnation), whilst the aforementioned climax brings together Juliette Binoche, Benoît Régent, Julie Delpy and Zbigniew Zamachowski... the respective stars of Three Colours Blue and White.For me, each of the Three Colours Trilogy are absolutely essential viewing for anyone mildly interested in the art of film-making. Whilst both Blue and White are great films, this is my personal favourite... it remains a testament to the creative genius of Krzysztof Kieslowski and stands as a beautiful, tragic, though ultimately hopeful film, which could, quite easily in my opinion, be proclaimed the greatest film of the 1990's.
I believe I share the same psychological outlook on the world with Kieslowski. He is Polish, I am Dutch, yet we share a synthetic mind: the world is not void of the metaphysical amidst total coincidence. Hardly ruled by man or perhaps by a poet-prime minister, so that as a social and cultural 'low pressure area', Poland could play the role it did in WWII, being critical yet Christian towards the Jews but often not less critical toward oneself. There are innocence and guilt in Kieslowski's world view, as the symbols in Catholicism: the White versus the Black Madonna. In Rouge, the Black Madonna is she who the judge fell in love with when he was a young man. Flashbacks are magically-realistically intertwined with the present, although totally coincidental, such as the camera simply swinging to the other side of the street or the then young judge's red jeep passing by the now young woman's car after she accidentally hit his dog with it. That we leaped through time in those same camera moves, is what we grasp later. His love was unanswered, so that his life wasn't as he had planned it. He lost his ability to love other people and animals. Being a judge, he feels he is actually spying on other peoples' lives and when he retires, he simply continues to do so, spying on his neighbors this time. The innocence and sense of righteousness of the younger woman (literally) accidentally getting into his life, reinstalls his better judgment and it is because of her that he spontaneously confesses his spying behavior to his neighbors and the police, accepting and even holding on to the stones consequentially thrown through his windows. In the process, history repeats itself between this man and the woman he loves, although this time he is old and the woman not the same. Kieslowski may have wrestled with this bit for the old judge is his alter ego, and it is said he was infatuated by Irène Jacob. Both women play the same essential role in his psychology, of the one (!) who possesses his heart and soul and therefore can make him or break him, even as an old man! It is as if the 'powers in the air' are, or God is, bringing them together. Coincidences are *too* coincidental to just be chance or even good luck. There has to be some mystical, supernatural or theological source influencing these unfathomably deep life-decisions. The study book fell and opened at the page of the exam question is another example of this. Or the moment the old judge spoke his heart to the young woman, the wind outside the opera house suddenly slams the open doors and breaks the windows. The gigantic picture of the young woman happens to predict the one on TV, after the drowning accident on her Canal crossing trip. These moments are effectively accentuated through the human voice of liturgy or what sounds like it (Van den Budenmayer).


                
I use IMDB very much.  Mainly reading comments of other people about movies I´ve or not seen.  I´ve thought it was time to write a few words about this movie that changed my life, and the way I look a movie.  I think I have seen it at least a dozen times since autumn 94, when I saw it in the theatre for the first time.I feel Kieslowski is one of the best directors of all time.  And I think this is his best one.  It was his last one.  I was very sad the day I knew he has died, because sure we lost the chance to get something more from him.RED is just the best Kieslowski + incredibile performance by Trintignant & Jacob + cinematography by Sobocinski.  If you haven´t seen it LOOK FOR it!!! If you have, just come back to it!!Red: just a masterpiece. please, forgive my poor English!, reader


                
A wonder.  My favorite film.  The most important film about relationships ever made.  Brilliant writing.  Magnificent directing.  Image systems and symbolism that leave you thinking about it all days, weeks, years later. Wow.  A truly great work of art.


                
I saw "Red" years ago and I still have not found a movie that has matched it or one that has left as much of a lasting impression upon me.  Potential viewers are cautioned to be paitient and attentive with this film.  Since it is a foreign film it does not dramatically spell out everything for the viewer, like most American movies that often lack something called subtlety. Rather then give you a detailed character and plot synopsis that might spoil the pleasure of discovering the details of this unique film I will attempt to comment more from the perspective of the films themes and merits...The story very basically follows a young woman named Valentine whose life is shown with its intersection with other people and events that are to shape her life, particualry, leading her to two important strangers in her future. Now, granted, the interactions of one's daily life is nothing very extraordinary from a surface level but what makes this movie extraordinary is the way in which it takes the viewer from one seemingly random incident to the next and begins to connect them to reveal a larger puzzle of life, beyond any single person.  This is one of those movies that doesn't wear out upon repeated viewings, in fact it may reveal more of this well layered film.  On a visual level the film communicates story through carefully placed images (this might be obvious after watching the movie for a couple minutes, but there is a specific visual element that is sustained through every scene of the film).  On an auditory level the film has a great soundtrack that has music that is actually incorporated into the plot.  On a mental level the film challenges the viewer with ideas of life, directly through thoughtful dialogue and implicitly through events portrayed.  On a personal level the viewer is drawn into the film through very tangible characters whose inner lives are revealed, expanded, and connected to people around them.  The film "Red" was able to effectively and creatively weave together characters, lives, images, and ideas like a carefully designed masterpiece.


                
"Rouge" is part of a trilogy, but very much stands on its own. It isn't a sequel of any sort. The very end, which I won't divulge, ties the three films together, but not seeing the other two doesn't make it too confusing. This film amazes me because it is so spare, so subtle and simple, but is as effective, emotionally and intellectually, as any big-budget spectacle or all-star melodrama. Kieslowski here investigates the phenomena of chance and destiny. Both themes are loosely woven together in the story. The film is very much a puzzle, but the message is pretty straightforward: Everything happens for a reason. Love is in all of our destinies as long as we open ourselves to it. The title, "Red" refers to the French flag, where red represents "fraternity," or brotherhood. The color dominates the visuals of the movie. I tend to think of it as representing love or passion, or the blood of life. It's great when a film allows the freedom to do that ;)


                
Most of Kieslowski's films seem like puzzles to me, meant to expand mind and soul. The characters are not very believable, are idealized, are schematic. Nevertheless, the way Kieslowski presents their winding ways through life, their complicated interaction with others, with the universe, with chance or destiny, makes me understand faith, makes me (want to) believe in God. That at some point it all has a meaning, if not to me, then certainly to someone.Trois couleurs and especially "Rouge" comes closer to making me touch, feel, experience the "truth", the "meaning" than perhaps any other of his films. The only problem being the paths of the "puzzles" explored are a bit too similar to his other films and at some point they become somewhat predictable. There is still plenty of joy to be had here. It is like a familiar brand of wine - you know what to expect and it delivers, sometimes with a newly found bouquet which might come from aging - either the wine or yourself.


                
Irene Jacob is mesmerizing in this final installment of Krzysztof Kieslowski's trilogy and the story is infinitely satisfying as it succeeds in tying all three films together. I am simply in awe of the amount of talent it took to do one of these stories, let alone all three. Everything seems to fit together so precisely, all the elements of filmmaking so eloquently executed, and the end result so much greater than the sum of the individual parts. Trois Couleurs is epic in nature and belongs on any list of great cinematic achievements. Simply brilliant!


                
"They both believed that a hidden sentiment has unified them. This certitude is beautiful,but the incertitude is more beautiful. They believed that they had never been met.Nothing has happened between them.But those roads,those stairs,those corridors for all that time they could have been met." Although it did not mean to be,it was a swan song.Two young people,who are neighbors and have never been met,are found in the same places,the same times,doing most of the times the same things.They finally meet in the dramatic and very brilliant end that brings them together.Meanwhile the woman has met an old man.Their relation is brotherhood-like.He told her his life.It was like the young one's but with better prospectives.The young man can do whatever the old man has not lived.He can be happy with the woman.   The ending is exceptional.There is a ship wreck.The only survivors are the heros of the "Three colors".The man and the woman finally meet.The scene lasts a few seconds.The woman there looks like the photo she had taken for an ad in the beginning of the film;sad in a red fond."But every start is only the continue.The book of the life is opened in the middle."


                
When I saw this film for the first time, at the Chicago Film festival in 93' I was disappointed. I had to wait outside for 90 minutes and had to sit in like the second balcony at the Fine Arts. I wasn't happy. I thought it predictable and kind of boring.Boy was I wrong. I ended up seeing it a total of 7x in the theater. What made me go back? Friends who saw it when it opened(and I assume had a less congested hence, better experience) loved it. Loved it?It only took a second viewing to see that I was totally off. The other five were for pure enjoyment(oh, and to take friends)


                
