This is the last film of Krzysztof Kieslowski - one of the greatest directors in the history of cinema. He intended to retire after this film, so in a way it is his artistic testament. He died a couple of years after making the film, and though it is said that he intended to return to directing, Destiny decided that this was indeed his last. And what a film!'Rouge' the last film in the three colors French trilogy is actually a very Swiss film. Set in Geneva, one of the two main characters is a Swiss retired judge, and Durenmatt immediately comes to mind. But there is more Switzerland in the cool atmosphere, in the lack of communication of the characters, in the politeness that envelops cruelty of life. Several characters who start with little relationship will come together at the end in a moving and human final, which only a great artist could have staged.
Little else can be said that was not said and written hundred of times. Yes, the film starts slowly, and the fans of the American style of action movies or melodramas will get discouraged first and will get lost as viewers. They deserve it. The film gets quality as it advances, and one of the not so hidden messages is that real life and real humans are more interesting than the Hollywood cartoon and plastic action and characters. Cinema quality is very original, the image being a 'Study in Red', as the title shows. Acting is fabulous, with Irene Jacob and Jean-Louis Trintignant - the later in what will remain probable the best role of his old age. A great film. Seeing it again probably adds, and I am happy to have it recorded on tape. 9/10 on my personal scale.


                
It is not only difficult to comment separately on the three parts of Kieslowski's trilogy, it seems obvious that the filmmaker wants us to do just the opposite:  view them in order, Blue, White, and Red, and consider them together as one complete work.  It is true they are distinct stories with distinct themes: liberty, equality, fraternity, and each them is developed with unique applications of intrigue and artistry.  They are each well worth seeing independently, but I believe they are best seen as one work.  Collectively, I would rate the trilogy as a 9; separately, I place each in my top ten for the years 1993 and 1994.The color red is most memorable in the third movie as a backdrop in a billboard ad, the profiled model of which is the central of the movie's three main characters.  The other two characters do a double-take of a varying degree of recognition when they first come upon the ad, posted larger than life alongside a busy city intersection.  This ad is not a major part of the plot of this movie, yet its image becomes striking and is one of the reasons I have called Red a `mind-bending' film.  This is the third of Kieslowski's Three Colors trilogy, based on the Blue-White-Red of the French flag and the three parts of its motto, `Liberty, Equality, Fraternity.' The films stay primarily focused on these themes, keeping with the basic levels of one, two, or three main characters, yet with each film the complexity of plot escalates as the three principles move from fundamentally personal (Liberty, Blue) to relational (Equality, White) to social (Fraternity, Red). Red is my favorite of these films, and I give it a 9.  It stands by itself as a great film, but one should see Blue and White first for the fullest effect.


                
and there are not many in cinema history. "Rouge" seems to be a bit of a hope. Hope in mankind and in life. But to say only that may be naive. Kieslowski could find the right way to tell the story of that embittered judge and the twentish but wise model. Perhaps that old and disappointing love affair will not be repeated -there's the new couple with the young judge after the accident-. But what to say about this master of the camera? You can't miss a second of the movie because you have to watch every and each one of those faces. Kieslowski loved human beings and that is quite evident in the way the camera treats the actors. Ms. Jacob and Mr. Tringtignant are perfect It's not only this movie but the downbeat "Thou shall not kill" and "A story about love" that may you think about contemporary cinema as a way of expressing an artist's point of view. Pity American public -the average one- could not see these films. At least they are not in the Maltin's dictionary. And even the Baseline does not know what to say about this unique man. abel posadas


                
This is a classic continuation to Bleu, the likewise excellent film, with Juliet Binouche as a main star, moreover, she is a cameo appearance here, in Rouge, just for a second at the very end. But this film, truly red and very sweet although very sad, is a real winner. The main heroine, played by ever great Irene Jakob, is a successful photo / fashion model. She leads a full, active life, only darkened by her traumatic relations with her weird friend Mike, who is in England. By some lucky chance, she gets friendly with the old Judge, who spends time listening to the private telephone talks of his neighbors. The story starts to weave even further, and we see him in court, being almost universally condemned for his pastime. She is the only one who feels sympathy for him, for his cute doggy Rita and her pups, and for all the people who surround them. We also witness the break-up of a happy couple of a young lawyer and his lady, and their quarrel is also fueled by that telephone scandal... But the film is not about this, even. It is mostly about the loneliness and deep rifts between people, far and near. When she sails to England on a ferry, with that lawyer as a chance fellow-passenger, as well as that earlier mentioned Binoche who starred in Bleu, the ship sinks and we see the horrified look of The Judge when he watches the news trying to guess if she survived. She did, and still we feel very heavy at heart. Mr. Kislowski managed to draw a grand, subtle story about the solitude, misunderstanding, secrets and pain. Deep, dark personal pain of those who are lost and lonely. Brilliant film.


                
'Rouge' is the last part from the 'Trois Couleurs'-trilogy and it is also the best. The color red in the French flag stand for "fraternité", which of course means fraternity. Blue is freedom or actually liberty and white is equality.All three movies are build up from coincidences. This movie probably the most of all. It feels more real than most other movies we watch, most Hollywood-movies, because isn't it true that life itself is all based on coincidence. Early in the movie Valentine (Irene Jacob) hits a dog with her car. Because of this event she meets the owner of the dog, a retired judge (Jean-Louis Trintignant). Other persons could have hit the dog, other persons could have met the judge, or not at all because they didn't bring the dog back. It is all coincidence.The retired judge is tapping phones from his neighbors. Although Valentine therefor does not like the judge at first, she feels some connection with him. We also meet Auguste (Jean-Pierre Lorit). He is a law student and lives across Valentine. They have never met although they have probably seen each other more than once. May be they never will meet. Life is a coincidence.Slowly we learn the story of the judge and his life. We see parallels with stories around Valentine and her boyfriend, who she only speaks over the phone, and even more with the life of Auguste. If the judge was a lot younger he and Valentine could have fallen in love. But the judge is not younger.The movie and therefor the trilogy ends with the final coincidence. Do certain characters meet? It is not for me to reveal here, but we learn that people never have to meet. They can, but if they do it is all coincidence.Having watched the three movies I think this is the best one. May be that is because it is the last one, I am not sure. The cinematography here is a little different, it looks great. The music, as in the other two movies, is perfect. With fine performances and a great direction, Krzysztof Kieslowski's last movie, this is a real masterpiece.


                
Kieslowski gives us a tapestry of interwoven stories in this, his last turn. I welcome films of this kind that go on to show how, if no life exists in isolation, then our troubles don't either, they have roots that surge forward and back, and so there's a road that leads out of the thicket.Blue was about memory, how the past surfaces to color reality. White was about desire, how the imagined future surfaces to color reality. This is something else, even more penetrating in its coloration of reality, in my opinion the best of the three and Kieslowski's crowning jewel. He would retire after.It begins with an opening shot of phone wires running between interconnected lives, carrying voices and stories that circle the ether. We then begin with two lives on the same street and how they begin to interconnect. One of the ensuing threads is self- referential about Kieslowski.A chance confluence of stories brings a young woman to the house of an old man, Kieslowski himself. Retired "judge" and spends his time eavesdropping in the lives of people, inserting himself as observer of stories. In his days as judge he similarly inserted himself in the stories of people brought before him, deciding right from wrong. Now he no longer feels the need to arrive at verdicts, he simply observes the coming and going. One scene revolves around her discovering his habit and how it's a wretched thing to do. How dare he insinuate himself in the secrets of people? Also self-referential, Kieslowski critiquing the job of presuming to know peoples' innermost selves.Better than personal commentary, this is self-referential in a larger way about observing and living a life that has to make sense of how stories and images surround us. Kieslowski does some of his best work in ushering us along that path, all of the Dekalog pays off here.The old man not just as cynically indifferent observer but as someone who has given up on life, broken by something in his past. Now he has taken up the habit of vicariously inhabiting other peoples' stories as substitute for a lack of his own. What we have is a narrator at the center of narratives. Someone who is burdened with the memory of dashed dreams. Someone who lives in the mind, the mind as this house of fictions.The way Kieslowski decenters the reality of what happens next is magical. Something more mysterious is starting to take place, isn't it?Not all narratives are innocuous the old man shows us, or express a simple truth. There's a neglected old mother somewhere who lies to her daughter about having a heart- attack to get her to visit. In a court that punished lying she would be found guilty; but she only wants the company of her daughter. We see here how narratives (including dreams and memory) are extensions of self, ways of bringing close to us something we need.And then Kieslowski shifts again. Only now can he begin to show us how not everything that we see is actually taking place. He makes it a point for example to reveal that he never climbed on the top floor of her house like in the bizarre scene that we saw earlier (he saw her in a mirror). The book didn't fly open to a certain page in the middle of a street but in an auditorium. Some of it may be an old man's story that reinvents in order to reveal, some of it might be dreamlike fantasy. But precisely the point isn't to say what is true and what not. To decide what is true would be to show a great lack of humility, the judge says. The sailor in his story may have been guilty; but not convicting him allowed him to live a peaceful life. It culminates in a marvelous scene in an empty theater with doors flying open by the wind. But the way Kieslowski has decentered us from rigid truth, we can surge through a whole life to see many possible ones now. Is this his dream from 20 years later and he's going to wake up next to her? Is it a confrontation between her and him about an affair, taking on this dreamlike shape? Is it about finding her or losing her? Lynch was not forthcoming about whether or not Kieslowski was an influence when bluntly asked. But I believe that part of Inland Empire is set in Lodz (where Kieslowski went to film school) for a reason, a more eloquently playful acknowledgement. He would take us so very far.


                
"Red" is the best of the three of Kieslowski's "colour films".It is much more complex than the other two although there are links among all the three films.This film is an artistic piece of work-very few films nowadays can claim such a description.There is much psychology,philosophy and symbolism throughout the film and there is a great sensitivity in presenting the plot.The cinematography(the way the camera has presented the images to us) is simply brilliant.I should mention the long pauses in and between the dialogues-they are, I believe, deliberate.There are several lines in the plot which constantly intertwine and "mirror" each other.However the main idea around which everything revolves is compassion among people-the "fraternity " which ends the whole sequence-"Blue "(liberty),"White"(equality) and "Red"(fraternity).By the way, I give the following marks:Blue-5,White-4,Red-9. The backbone of the plot is the relationship between young and kind Valentine and her old and cynical neighbour -the judge to whose mysterious personality she is gradually attracted.Irene Jacob's beauty -delicate and somewhat fragile- fits her character ideally.Their relationship is totally devoid of any sexuality.In our time,crazy about sex, I find this very refreshing-to watch a film which concentrates on the soul rather than on the body.Gradually they start to "read" each other's thoughts and deepest emotions and to influence each other's behaviour.Parallel to this goes the story of Auguste who will probably repeat the judge's unhappy biography.Nearly every small detail is heavily loaded with meaning but often the meaning is revealed not immediately but later in the film.Yet the whole story is absolutely realistic.I have always believed that this is what art should be-realistic but at the same time symbolic and this film manages to achieve this uneasy balance.If the spectator does not watch this film carefully many important aspects of the story will be missed.I myself have watched it twice and I must say that the second time it was even more interesting for me.The end of the film is especially beautiful as it does not have a typical happy-end-rather this end is hinted rather than explicitly shown-this is what I mean when I talk of sensitivity and sophistication.Yet we do think and believe that Valentine and Auguste will achieve the love that has evaded the judge.That is why I perceive the film as rather optimistic: hope and fraternity seem to prevail in the end.This is a brilliant farewell from a great artist.


                
This is a sometimes clever, sometimes corny, but always beautiful story of predestined love. Jean-Louis Trintignant plays a retired judge, corrupted by an all-consuming cynicism, who meets a beautiful girl, but doesn't fall in love with her. Instead, his reincarnation does, and he mystically orchestrates their predestined meeting. The girl is played by Irene Jacob, who is earnest, warm, uncorrupted and beautiful. She's a French model unloved by her boyfriend (fool that he is) with a demeanor proud, but not vain, vulnerable, but not weak.The judge is so pathetic that he spies on his neighbors' phone conversations to spice up his lonely and pitiful existence. Their love affairs, their spats, their crimes are piped into him as he sits alone in his house. But she has the genius to appreciate him and to understand him, and so frees him from his bitterness.We see in this, the final third of director Krzysztof Kieslowski's trilogy, something reminiscent of his countryman, Roman Polanski, in his passion for young actresses and his ability to bring out the best in them. We see further in the character of the retired judge a projection of ideas about how an old man, past any pretense, might love a young woman: wisely, delicately, from a slight distance, without a hint of lechery.Irene Jacob makes us believe that innocence and instinctive goodness are wondrous qualities, regrettably not much touted these days. More often depicted are women who would rather sing proudly of being bitches while acting out violent, two-fisted, emulations of a bogus masculinity, e.g., see "Single White Female," etc.Red is for her lips, for the color of curtains and theater seats, for the color of her true love's utility vehicle (often in her sight, but not yet recognized), for doors and panels and for the warm beat of her heart. Her name is Valentine. She is the dream of the worldly man who has known many women, whose head is not easily turned. And red is for the ringing of the phone, heard in its urgency as red.I liked this better than Blue or White, both of which were very good; but the clash of innocence and cynicism here, with youth and age so aptly contrasted, along with a clever plot (Kieslowski loves to surprise us), highlighted by captivating performances from the leads, make this the best of the three.(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon!)


                
There's a spartan, unsentimental edge to this film that allows plenty of room for us to participate in the action without any stylistic encumbrance telling us HOW we're meant to be feeling; in 'Blue', everything was overtly sad (sure, powerful as hell, but still); in 'White', it was delightful whimsy. But there are no such emotional clues, or cues for that matter, in this one. It's as if he finally let the force of the tale work its own magic without razzle-dazzle embelishment. I think that's what makes it the most initially enigmatic of the three, but finally, the most transcendent and redemptive. Never has remorseless, unsparing honesty been quite so beautiful.


                
Moviegoers really have no right to expect that a film this good should exist. Kieslowsky has created a work of art here. Where do I start? On the surface, this is a rather strange idea for movie: a young woman hits a dog with her car and goes to see the dog's owner and, er..., that's more or less it! Irene Jacob (as the model), and Jean-Louis Trintignant (as the retired judge) both turn in superb acting performances, which are necessary to keep their unusual relationship believable.Beneath the surface (of the movie, not the plot), there is more dense layering than I've ever come across in any other movie. Every sentence in every conversation shimmers with alternative meaning:  meaning for the speaker, meaning for the listener, meaning in the context of the film's plot, meaning in the context of the film's intent and, not least of all, meaning for the viewer. All these meanings are also mirrored in all the things that go UN-said.Most of the important themes of human existence are touched upon: love, trust, loss, meaning (there's that word again!), fate, friendship and brotherhood (as in the interconnectedness and interdependence of ALL human beings). This is all done without any reference to religion, politics or even children, keeping the focus purely on human nature.Kieslowsky manages to achieve the rare feat of producing a movie which is light and simple on the surface, yet is thoroughly compelling, thought-provoking and so rich in content that I could happily re-watch it time and time again...


                
This is one of my favorite movies. It is very well crafted and has a very interesting story and general idea. Its also well played and executed. Its full of art elements which its impossible to not notice. And special effects like beautiful zoom-ins and zoom-outs. Even after 20 years it still stays interesting and one of the best for audience.Irene Jacob is playing a beautiful soul so that she keeps you on your chair for the entire movie. The story and the way it was told is very interesting and engaging.I love this movie cuz it's beautiful to look at and wonderful to listen as well.


                
The conclusion of Krzysztof Kieslowski's Three Colors trilogy - and what turned out to be his final movie - focuses on the relationship between a part-time model and a retired judge who likes to eavesdrop on people. The release of "Trois couleurs: Rouge" ("Three Colors: Red" in English) was the first time that I had ever heard of Kieslowski (I was only ten years old), and it then received some Academy Award nominations. I later learned that it was part of a trilogy named after the colors on France's flag and using motifs of France's national motto "liberty, equality, fraternity". It's fraternity here, and the movie is known as an anti-romance. More importantly, because it's the conclusion of the trilogy, you'll notice a change in the scene where the elderly person recycles bottles. And as with the previous two, there's something linking the protagonist to his past: the judge leaves his gates open, despite wanting to cut himself off from the rest of the world.It's really too bad that Kieslowski died. Of his movies I've only seen this final trilogy, but I'm now eager to see the rest of his work. Definitely see this movie.


                
The sun setting beyond a body of water is simultaneously satisfying on several levels. It's loveliness cannot be denied to the eyes or heart. RED beautifully captures this fleeting eternal flame which we all know visually and emotionally. It contrasts isolation, whether invited or unintended, with intimacy. Alienation comes with unity. It has purity without pedigree. It has common wisdom that's unusual. It demonstrates the dependent arising of ideas and emotions. It distinguishes between original and origination. RED is the color of the substance which flows through every loving heart. If you've never seen it, be careful. You just might have a higher expectation of what's possible in film. RED is the perfect sunset to this metaphysical masterpiece of a trilogy.


                
"Rouge", the conclusion of Kieslowski's and screenwriter Piesecwicz's "Three Colors Trilogy", is a peculiar take on fraternity and friendship. As always with Kieslowski's works this one is about getting to know and respect the motivations of characters, learn to see the humanity in them, the hopes and aspirations they have or had and made them to what they are. It's about moral decisions and how what is presented on screen reflects our own lives and makes us reconsider once we've left the cinema.The film portrays the unlikely relationship between a young Swiss model living in Geneva (Irene Jacob) and a grumpy, cynical retired judge (Jean-Louis Trintignant) who don't seem to have much in common. After all his only enjoyment seems to be eavesdropping on his neighbors' telephone conversations, while she's got her own problems with a boyfriend, who doesn't care as much about her as she does for him. Through a struck of fate the judge and the model are brought together and while keeping a certain distance they learn to understand each other in a unique sort of way. Alas, they've missed each other romantically by a generation, as the judge says himself, but then again there's a second story paralleling the main one, and fate is pulling the strings... - or is it? "Rouge" is definitely the most accessible of Kieslowski's trilogy, as it is a love story, even though of the very different kind, and thus appeals to a larger audience than the no less brilliant "Bleu" and "Blanc". Seeing the trilogy in order is not necessary, but rewarding once you get to "Rouge" as one will discover that all these characters actually live in the same universe. Which poses the question: And you?


                
Krzysztof Kieslowski closes his remarkable Three Colors trilogy with Red, which is the most thematically strong of the three and also happened to be the final film of his career. Whereas Blue was an anti-tragedy and White was an anti-comedy, Red presents itself almost as an anti-romance, as the loners Valentine (Irene Jacob) and "The Judge" (Jean-Louis Trintignant) cross paths and find a strange connection with one another. Both of these people have become isolated from most of the world. Valentine is a model and finds herself constantly on display through billboards and stage shows, but she is in a relationship with a possessive man that exists only via telephone and she has retreated away from her family which so desperately needs her support. The Judge is a former judge who has retired and now spends his days alone in his house spying on his neighbors and listening to their phone conversations.Kieslowski's trilogy has several times tapped into the dangers of modern technology and here that theme is most evident, as he explores the invasions of privacy that are currently possible (even more ominously so now, since the film was released twenty years ago). The two experience a meet cute that isn't "cute" at all, and what begins as a tense and awkward encounter soon develops into this strange relationship of two people finding something kindred in one another. As Valentine spends more time around The Judge, we discover more about who he is and what motivates him, and I found him to be quite the fascinating character.Kieslowski's exploration into voyeurism is intriguing, and it's long been one of my favorite cinematic themes, but this thematic study eventually becomes more of a character piece as The Judge opens up more to Valentine and reveals bits of his past. He's quite the tragic figure and Trintignant plays him with a closeted vulnerability that I found heartbreaking. Kieslowski introduces a lot of questions into the nature of romance, predestination and chance, all of which I found to be precise and very thought-provoking, but I think my favorite aspect of the film was the character of Valentine herself.Continuing along the journey of the trilogy, Valentine is a drastic opposition to the protagonists of the first two films. Blue's Julie Vignon had suffered unimaginable loss and was shut off from the world, retreating into herself and lashing against those who once surrounded her. White's Karol Karol was filled with bitterness and resentment, doing whatever he had to in order to meet his ultimate, devious goal. Valentine, however, was an open spirit who had deep concern for other souls and was constantly going out of her way to help others. She had a strong moral compass and a compassion that I found beautiful, as wonderfully portrayed by the open and expressive Jacob. Irene Jacob has such a warmth to her that you quickly feel for this woman and strive for everything to be alright in her world.As a model there is a photograph of her that is labeled "A Breath of Life", and this title is the perfect representation of her as a whole. She breathes life into the people she comes into contact with, even though her own life is far from perfect. The finest example of this is the recurring sequence Kieslowski uses in the trilogy of an elderly person trying to get a bottle into a recycling container. In Blue, Julie sees this woman struggling but is so shut off in her grief that she just stares, removed from the rest of the world. In White, Karol sees an old man struggling and laughs, happy in his resentment to see someone in the world worse off than he is. In Red though, Julie sees the woman struggling and helps her, pushing the bottle in for her. It's a beautiful display of what these themes, and these characters, represent.The film deals with plenty of things, but Kieslowski grounds it all in these two characters who are so refreshingly genuine, a constant aspect in the trilogy. Never does it feel like we're just watching fictional people travel along some predetermined narrative, but rather he (along with his tremendous actors) is able to make these feel like full, whole human beings and therefore anything could await them around the corner. It's a wonderful journey that all builds to a stunning finale, which once again touches on the "Breath of Life" theme in a more literal way. A strong end to an impressive trilogy.


                
With Red, the third film in his trilogy, Kieslowski turned his attention to fraternity, a theme he explored through the relationship formed between a retired judge and a runway model-two characters with seemingly nothing in common-and the parallels between the life of the old judge and a younger judge unknown to the other two characters, a man apparently doomed to repeat the mistakes that have transformed the once esteemed senior judge into a misanthropic loner who spends his time passing judgment on his neighbors through the alternately banal and melodramatic conversations he eavesdrops using radio equipment. The difficulty of making lasting connections is a major element here: the model is forced to spend most of her time alone as her boyfriend is away for work and can hardly find the time even to call her, she also would like to visit her ill mother but can only rely on her drug addicted brother to take care of the needy relative; the most developed relationship in the film, the one she forms with the judge, comes about because she happens to run over his dog.While the film-making devices used here are still top-notch, there's much less of the subjective camera work that made the characterizations so strong in Kieslowski's previous film White. Still, the plot here has enough inherent interest to work and the character development is solid if not remarkable. The camera work is a bit more restrained but the visuals are still strong, some of the lighting in the street scenes in particular stands out as being unusually atmospheric. All in all, Red manages to sum up some of the major themes from Kieslowski's earlier work-including parallel experiences and the effect chance has on human interactions-and it works quite well as a standalone work.
Three Colours Red is directed by Krzysztof Kieslowski and stars Irene Jacob and Jean Louis Trintigant. The film is a haunting and truly beautiful look at loneliness,relationships and the dullness of some peoples lives.It's also a fine end to the three colours trilogy.Young and successful Swiss model Valentine(Irene Jacob)is waiting for her boyfriend to come back to France. One night she accidentally runs over a dog called Rita.Very upset she takes Rita to the address on her collar.And is truly confused by the reaction of the owner,a retired judge(Jean Louis Trintigant) who is the most cynical and unreadable man she has ever met.He tells her she can keep Rita and seems distant.Meeting again when she returns Rita to him after surgery.Valentine gradually learns more about him and the two slowly begin a tender friendship which is beneficial to both.Valentine realises that they are both lonely and unfulfilled people who can help each other if they can't help themselves.She discovers that he listens in on his neighbours phone conversations and has learnt many dark and potentially damaging secrets about them.Through his relationship with Valentine he eventually comes to realise that what he is doing is wrong.Soon we realise that Valentine is all he has in life.And that she is such a good person. A tragic ending tells us what has happened to some of the other characters in the first parts of the film trilogy.Intensley moving and featuring two excellent lead performances, this is a film that is a must see.
I enjoyed all three of the movies in this series. I think the overall best one is this film but I also loved the irony and revenge in the second one (White). It's a lovely tale of a woman who befriends a very weird old guy who loves eavesdropping on others--not to watch them for sexual gratification but because he's a mean and lonely guy who takes pleasure in listening to and looking down on other peoples' lives. He's really quite pathetic but there's a spark of something decent within him that the heroine in the story finds after a little prodding. What I especially loved was the ending. I don't want to ruin it for you, but it really worked well to bring together all the elements of the three films. Give it a watch but ONLY after seeing the first two films.


                
My Rating : 9/10Three Colors: Red is a unique film and it's hard to categorise it into any particular genre. Perhaps, a philosophical movie. I've thoroughly enjoyed it on every viewing. I really hope more people get a chance to watch this film.A truly wonderful film experience.


                
The final film of Krzysztof Kieslowski's Three Colors (Trois Couleurs) trilogy, Red (Rouge), released in 1994, is almost universally acclaimed as the best of the films. For once, the common consensus is correct. Of course, if one is to believe some of the online reviews of this film, and the whole trilogy, there are plenty of people who seriously question whether or not Three Colors is a better trilogy than the two Star Wars trilogies, that of The Matrix, or even The Lord Of The Rings. Let me end that debate, once and for all. It is far better than those comic book level films, and real comparisons need to be made with some of the truly great cinematic trilogies, such as Ingmar Bergman's Spider trilogy, or Michelangelo Antonioni's L'Alienation trilogy (L'Avventura, La Notte, and L'Eclisse).As with the prior two films, Red was written by Kieslowski and his writing partner Krzysztof Piesiewicz. It is a brilliant film, with the depth of Blue, pathos of White, and character definitions better than either prior entry. The film follows the parallel lives of a small group of people in a town just outside of Geneva, Switzerland. The main character is a beautiful brunet model named Valentine Dussault (Irène Jacob), whose boyfriend Michel is never seen, but ever calling her. The film opens with him calling her, and getting a busy signal, shot in away that recalls the end of Stanley Kubrick's 2001: A Space Odyssey. He is clearly an unstable and jealous man, who harangues Valentine, whose insecurities keep her attached to him, despite knowing, somewhere inside of her, that they are wrong for each other. Jacob is in one of those roles that defines an actor- a career making choice; even more so than her dual role in The Double Life Of Veronique. Her character seems to embody decency and goodness, and radiates love and compassion throughout the film, both visually and personally. It is the sort of role that recalls that given by Setsuko Hara in Tokyo Story, or, more recently, Claire Danes in Shopgirl (although she reminds me of British actress Finola Hughes in looks). Hers is the sort of dream woman that a man never meets; not because she's a model, but because she is almost preternaturally good and filled with a love of life and others- even down to her name. She believes that people are not bad, merely weak<U+0085>. It is the sort of art that if you ask, 'What is it about?', it cannot be answered in a sentence or two. Dozens of small details suffuse it. Valentine lives near a café called Chez Joseph, then meets Joseph Kern; Auguste abandons then retrieves the dog given to him by Karin while Kern's dog is abandoned then embraced by him once Valentine saves it; Auguste has a photo of a dancer in his apartment, and Valentine dances; the veterinarian she takes Rita to is named Marc, like her brother, etc. This is a tale that is not so dumbed down, ala Hollywood films, that even a detailed syllabus could justice it. It is linear in spots, yet intuitive throughout. One could easily see it going off tangentially to follow any of a dozen minor characters, and the thrust of the film would have remained intact, even though it would have been a wholly different film. Still, it would have been a great film, for there is an undeniable immanence to greatness, and this fact is something that few critics can grasp. The greatness of Red, and to an extent, the whole Three Colors trilogy, is that such intellectual grasping is not necessary to feel greatness. Thus, art at its best.
Of the three films in this trilogy my favorite was white. The first to films, Blue and White have a some what darker feel to them, which may be what attracts or repels viewers to them. The theme of the series seems to be what connects us to each other, How ordinary people are complex and often more interesting then the Hollywood stereo type characters that fill most of it's movies.The movie is also a puzzle, while watching them in order is not necessary it is probably better to watch red last. Pay attention to background places and people through out the movies, they may show up again.I love a movie that is beautiful to look at, wonderful to listen too, and makes me think, this movie and this series did that, But Gladiator it was not.


                
One of the interesting things about the Three Colors trilogy is that each of them uses color in a different way: Bleu saturates the screen with a rich and vibrant tone of many different colors, Blanc keeps the use of color a bit more undertoned (I believe that's mostly because of the limits of the use of white), while Rouge covers the screen in many different shades and hues of the one color, red.It's almost dizzying at first but eventually very comforting. After a while the different shades of red take on a warm and life-giving comfort, almost like being held securely in the womb. This is kind of at odds with the drama, but shows interestingly the tendency the characters have to keep themselves mostly indoors rather than walk around the world at large. This has its own meaning when placed in context to the ending, and also the strange love that occurs between two characters that almost never meet on screen and the strange love of two characters that spend a lot of time together.I find this movie also very interesting in how it deals with law. Even though it seems arbitrary to connect it with the Dekalog episode that went on to become A Short Film about Killing, there's something similar in the two works' view of justice, mostly a sense that the pure and naive can be blind to the future they may decide.The ending of this film is, I consider, it's only weak point. The pointed connection with the other films and the expected meeting of the two future lovers feels not only contrived, but also obvious. However, it's at least satisfying enough to bring closure to the trilogy and to Kieslowski's career, though once again it feels unfortunate he couldn't have graced us with a few more works before being gone for good.--PolarisDiB
"Three Colours: Red" is an absolute masterpiece because have all to be considered like that. Have a good story, good actors, ..., and overall, have a genius behind the camera. Kieslowski gives a real class of cinema in this film, with incredible camera movements, an editing that obligates the viewer to an intellectual work, an amazing staging, marvelous depth work,... . I wouldn't really know to say if "Three Colours: Red" is best than the others. What I know to say is that Kieslowski's Trilogy of Colours is one of the best ever, with three masterpieces, something that no one trilogy ever in history of cinema can say in my opinion, !!!Three Masterpieces!!!. To ending, recommend everyone to see these films, because is not waste the time, and to appreciate the work of this polish genius. Also thanks France for inspire this trilogy. VIVE LA France


                
I've just been reading some of the comments posted here and I couldn't find a single pan which makes me very pleased because I can only add my voice to those others who have heaped praise on this remarkable and truly wonderful film. This is one of those films that works no matter which angle you approach it from; as multi-layered as an onion, as absorbing as a Mozart quartet, as fluid as quicksilver and as unforgettable as Citizen Kane. Kieslowski was clearly a genius at pegging the Human Condition and it is fitting that this turned out to be his final film because he'd have had a hell of a time topping perfection. For reasons best known to himself it's also the only one of the three to feature a genuine heavyweight male actor in Jean-Louis Trintignant and the males among us surely owe him a vote of thanks for showcasing three of the most beautiful as well as talented French film actresses - respectively Juliette Binoche, Julie Delpy and Irene Jacob - in his three colours trilogy. Much has been written here about the story, technique etc and it would be superfluous to repeat it, suffice it to say this is a masterpiece and leave it at that.
