I'm a fan of Peter Lorre's and I love black & white films.  I enjoy foreign films.  I even like trying to twist my brain around mind-boggling, symbol-filled, convoluted art flicks.  But I was incredibly disappointed in, *M*.It had a lot of potential, but it kept drowning in itself.  It took me a while to understand this.  The plot itself wasn't overly complex -- so why did I still have the feeling of unpleasant confusion.  What I finally realized is that *M*'s downfall is that it can't decide what it is.I went into it with a general understanding of what it was going to be about, and knowing Peter Lorre's work I had certain expectations.  The parts of the movie that were most satisfying to me were those which fit those expectations: a tense, shadowy atmosphere made all the more eerie and suspenseful by the skillful use of, "In the Hall of Mountain King."Other parts of the movie felt more like a police procedural.  There is certainly a place for the Ed McBain's of our world, but that place is not being mixed in with Robyn Cook.  These segments felt out of place, and they jarringly interrupted the mood created by the spookier, more emotionally taut scenes.The much-applauded ending had the same problem for me: it suddenly introduced yet another mood -- that of introspection and social consciousness.  This was too distinct from either of the other two moods to feel as if it were even part of the same picture.Each mood, each theme, each general strain could have been very good on its own -- but, as a package, the film felt ill-blended.  And, as much as I enjoy paradox and even confusion, they are not, in of themselves, sufficient criteria for a good film.


                
Perhaps this was influential at the time but as entertainment now it has little to offer.The plot is simple enough, a serial killer is loose and the police can't find, pretty normal. Where it becomes more interesting is that the police, to show the public they are trying, harass the criminal community to the point that the criminals start to look for the killer. This is a nice idea.Unfortunately the good parts of the plot stop there, the way the killer is identified makes no sense at all, it is hard not to shout "wtf?" at the TV, it is contrived and unbelievable and just plain stupid.There is also no suspense in the film, the chase scene has an obvious conclusion and although you are kept in doubt as to what the fate of the killer will be you don't care, he has no personality.There is also a lot of preaching in the final sequence about the death penalty and insanity that becomes very annoying.The acting is good, pretty much everyone delivers which is especially unusual in films of this vintage.Dated and lacking in real entertainment.I don't understand the high rating it has got, maybe people are going easy on it because it is old but new or old it has to entertain and it doesn't.


                
M is one of those movies that you can't wait for the end of.  no, not because you're so full of suspense and dying to know how it ends but because you can't sit through another minute of it.  The acting is good for the time (still typical 30's cheese and the sound tech. back then didn't help) but you never really feel for any of the characters.  Everything that happens could be predicted by anyone over the age of 6 which, of course, makes for a rather unsuspenseful film. while the social questions it raises are poignant, the movie fails to make us care about trying to answer them.  Basically, M WAS a great movie. however, compared to modern standards it is not chilling, well-acted, or particularly well-shot.  it is a star that burned out long ago.


                
Sometimes an ending can ruin a movie for me. Such is the case with this one. I have a very dim view of child murderers. In this movie, Peter Lorre, kills children. The gendarmes can't catch him, so criminals take it upon themselves to try, convict and kill him! Okay...it has atmosphere, it's interesting. Parts of it are scary and I was all set to recommend it to friends as a movie to see during this Halloween season. But I won't! I care about my friends! One thing I do like about this film (and one reason it didn't get a "1" is because you don't see Peter Lorre actually kill the children, but you know he did it. I won't completely give away the ending, except to say the criminals don't get their way. He has his trial and sentence is not only pronounced, but about to be carried out when Peter's defense attorney speaks up and gives a speech that any person who doesn't believe in the death penalty would champion. You'll notice I said they took it upon themselves to kill him, but I also said they don't get their way. You might see this film and you might love it! That's cool, but I sure didn't!
There is a child murderer about, and because the police can't catch him, and because it is hurting their business, organized criminals take it upon themselves to do so instead. The murderer is identified by a signature whistle, before being pursued into the attic of a large building. Once caught, the criminals then hold him to their own "trial" in the basement of an abandoned building, where he attempts to present a case that he himself shouldn't be killed.It is well shot, and for the first two-thirds, well acted. The editing is without excess, meaning it moves along efficiently. But although the plot has some intrigue, it is quite thin, very predictable, and never manages high tension. At first it is simply an expose of how the investigations are to be carried out, while the chase sequence to capture the criminal is all too simple. We also suffer from lack of identification with characters. In the first half we get scenes from the perspective of many different characters, but no single character or group emerges as the "lead", curtailing any emotional response we might have otherwise had - and noir lighting alone, quality as it may be, is not enough to establish a compelling mood.The thrill of suspense films usually lies in seeing how the good guys will escape the bad, but as this film gives little screen time to anyone likable, there is no attachment, and very little suspense. The film may attempt to leverage some social/political gravitas at the end by sympathising with the murderer and debating whether he deserves to be killed by the mob (aka capital punishment), or given a reprieve due to mental health issues, but instead of any intended depth, it simply descends into ham-fisted melodrama. At the end of the day, this film cannot be called entertainment - it amounts to no more than weak fearmongering.
