Since I loved "Metropolis" and was mesmerized by the great storyline of "M", I happily shelled out 25 euro's to get the deluxe DVD-set of Fritz Lang's first talkie, fully expecting I was going to view it over and over again.Well, that was 25 euro's I should have spent on a new haircut or something. This is a very boring film, one that is only somewhat redeemed by a great Peter Lorre and an interesting final scene. But the first hour was sooo slooow! Low point was a ten-minute scene in which four boring men were having a round-table about deciding what to do about the child killer. No camera movement whatsoever, just blabbering, and no oneliners either. He's a killer, for heaven's sake - ACTION! DO SOMETHING! STOP HIM! ...Looking back, maybe I was even more mesmerized by the brand "M". The film posters are great, and that single M just makes for a classic, even harrowing logo.Still, I honestly can't believe that a modern viewer would actually enjoy this.


                
Yikes. This is the second "classic" I'm reviewing in the same day where my opinion is almost the polar opposite of the consensus (the other was Things to Come, 1936). At least I do not feel that M is a complete disaster. The final third is actually quite good, and there are occasional moments of artistic merit prior to that. Further, you should watch M at least once for the same reason that you should head out to see the Emperor parade by in his new clothes at least once--namely, because everyone is talking about it, a lot of people are being influenced by it, and so on. But M is far from a masterpiece. Comparing M to classic Hitchcock is almost criminal. The hot air that's regularly emitted about this film could fill a million balloons for street vendors. The first two thirds of M are pretty bad--I almost couldn't make it to the ending, which would have been a shame, and I'm someone who is almost _never_ tempted to bail out on a film.The crux of the story is that there is a serial killer targeting young girls in a large German City. The time period is the film's present. The police are having difficulty catching the killer, who is regularly making the headlines of the local paper, especially as the killer keeps writing taunting notes to be published. After the latest murder, a large vigilante group of panicked citizens, including a fair number of criminals, decides to take action. They organize, dividing up the city into quadrants for different people to patrol, and they try to keep the police uninvolved.The problem with the majority of the film, in a nutshell, is that the storytelling is extremely sloppy. The script, co-written by director Fritz Lang, is all over the map. There are way too many characters. The audience doesn't get to know any of them, at least in the first hour. Instead, it is scene after scene of people we've never met before, mostly sitting or standing around and fretting about how they're going to catch the killer. Lang's direction is extremely flat, and the editing is even worse. The pacing is horrible. There are superfluous pregnant pauses around every corner. There are a lot of superfluous insert shots. There is a lot of poorly chosen camera placement. The absence of a score, except for the killer whistling a famous bit of Edvard Grieg's Peer Gynt, doesn't help. There are no characters to care about. There are no characters to follow into a story. The scenes have all the flow of waiting for two hours in a dentist's office. The dialogue is bland.And the plot unfolds very linearly--this is even true when the film improves in its final third. There are no surprises or twists to be had here. All of the information that the police and the vigilantes need basically falls right into their laps. They hardly run into a kink. There are a couple small problems, but they're easily resolved.For a thriller, M has very little tension. The first hour is more in the realm of "police procedural", but it's very slow at that, and the police aren't in it enough, or at least there's not enough procedure shown, to make it work. M is also considered a film noir, but residence in that genre is more superficial here. At any rate, it doesn't help create an engaging film.But, as I mentioned, there are a few moments of value in the first hour. These mostly come by way of cinematographic symbolism. For example, one shot shows a child's balloon being ensnared in power lines. That and a rolling ball are sufficient to convey that the child has fallen into the killer's trap and is now dead. Some of the interesting symbolism is a bit heavy-handed, but still attractive. For example, a potential child victim who ends up in front of a store's picture window, beneath a large arrow pointing down at her, and next to a hypnotically spinning spiral.The improvement arrives once the vigilante mob believes it has the killer cornered. This is more than an hour into the film. The sequence where they're "taking the place apart" is well directed and actually becomes suspenseful. We finally get to know a couple characters, later including two members of the police force. The crowning scene features Peter Lorre as Hans Beckert giving an impassioned speech before a huge vigilante mob--he's defending himself before a kangaroo court. Yes, Lorre is excellent here, but he's not in the film enough. 15 minutes of an excellent performance, with scattered moments elsewhere, are surely not enough to put M on "best films of all time" lists.Lang has interesting things to say about (vigilante) justice and criminal culpability. But the vigilante justice stuff was to be much better handled by Lang elsewhere, such as Fury (1936), which is very nearly a 10. Beckert's culpability speech covers some of the basic issues that one would in an ethics class, but it's not very complete--it doesn't delve into the ontology of choice enough, and of course, it doesn't answer any of the issues. The latter fact is probably for the better. There aren't really easy answers, although my personal view is that choice is not strictly necessary for responsibility or culpability. This scene also at least implies a lot of the ethical issues involved with the formal justice system, vis-à-vis insanity defenses, the possibility of parole, and so on.But why couldn't Lang have dived right into the material of the last half-hour after, say, a 5 or 10-minute prologue? The film ends abruptly. Extend the ending and cut out all of the fiddling-about garbage that consumes the majority of the screen time. This is just bad screen writing, and it doesn't deserve the praise it has received.


                
This movie was fairly entertaining but is overrated by film critics. It's also a horrible example of - I'm not kidding here - actually making a child killer into a sympathetic figure. How sick is that? No wonder the professional critics like this so much, being the disturbed lot tend to be.Peter Lorre, who plays the killer, can be a creepy guy but he isn't as creepy as the critics would have you believe, either. The film, however, gets points for being well-made for its time period. The movie is about 75 years old but really is not dated too much, which is amazing. The camera-work is excellent, too, with some interesting high and low angles and it's a story that generally keeps your interest.What really turned me off was the last part. Critics particularly liked this film because of the plea by the "lawyer" near the end to spare the man's life. That's okay, but they went overboard with that to the point of portraying this madman as a sympathetic figure. Liberals would have you more concerned about the killer than his victims. Sick.


                
It was great then, but is it so now? I really doubtSure it had one of the finest acting in the climax, but 80 years later and having seen many movies that had superb acting in climaxes like Few Good Men being one, this falls short. Also, it comes as a tad silly than what it truly was, like a Monster being searched extraneously and at the end is found out by a girl and is marked M on his shirt which he cannot rub and erase. Oh, this one thing bothered me a lot. Also, at the end when this man is supposed to be brutally punished for what he has done, he brings up a case of his own that he too deserves a chance. Fine then, what was the whole point of the film is what I had thought.Intriguing with suspense as to what is going to happen for the first half, it falls flat as per the expectations the film arose in me. Oh, he even hides in a place where he is very easily caught. Damn, was it for this man that the whole of police found, it's like making mockery of police searches which was an innovative thing as long as in 30's.Fritz Lang who was than considered a great director if had seen the film now, would not have liked it as it is too very obvious at many places. He did a good job just to throw it off at the end is what I firmly believe. Yet, this a good film for what it does is make us sit and watch with a hope that something great or something gruesome is going to happen. Nothing of that sort though happens but we are relived by superb acting and great production design and oh, yes good music that for a film in 1930's is a great sign.Its is by no means bad, yet it does not become a great film as per me. It is just average as it did not reach what I have really expected it to be. A 2/5 for a movie by Lang that is more or less social message oriented and is filled with suspense that rises to a peak just to fall flat later.


                
Filled with long silent shots of dour faces and dirty places, Fritz Lang's "M" paints the Pre-Nazi playground for his not so mysterious, near silent German murder mystery. The contempt the director felt for the setting is palpable in this movie; from the dark and dirty undergrounds to the hazy smoke filled police headquarters, the film oozed the grimy corrupt society Lang seemed to loathe. The characters are sour, angry and unrelatable and while containing a brief yet sweet taste of suspense it's just a dark and abstruse murder mystery that leaves you feeling an unsatisfying disconnected after a sad translucent attempt at mystery and silent shots of obscure things. We'll take the Murderer for example, one of the least mysterious character in the movie. Throughout the film you can obviously tell he is the insane killer that we are all so use to in today's movies. As he knocks down a couple cold ones to silence the voices in his head, bugs out his eyes as he stares down another little victim or makes frightening faces at himself in shop windows the director makes the point very clear; 'He kills because he's crazy'. No backstory or develop beyond this is given, and yet he's the character we know the most about! The lack of a real protagonist or any relatable or even understandable characters really causes a disconnect when you watch this movie.You'll find yourself wondering more about the odd silent shots of greasy sausages or how the inspector's mustache manages to stay attached to his incessantly flapping lips than you will about any of the characters. The height of this film is of course the scene when our baby faced serial killer is trapped like a treed coon by some of Germany's underground crime bosses, intent on killing the fool that had put the cops on high alert, thus messing with their unsavory business. In this scene you feel the thrill that perhaps someone will finally catch the weirdo and put him to some kind of justice. The suspense is more due to the fact that you've now waited for three fourths of the movie listening to the dimwitted, mustachioed inspectors arguing about how they can't catch the killer and yet a blind balloon salesman does. None the less it is definitely a high point, as the pursuers finally manage to corner the killer. Sadly though the moment is marred by a badly rushed ending and an unfortunately lengthy camera shot from under the police commissioner's desk aimed directly at his 'bratwurst'. So while this dreary German tale provided a small and enjoyable instance of suspense, this "mystery movie" lacked just that: mystery. Not only do you know who the murderer is right off the bat, but don't really care how it turns out because you don't know (and frankly don't want to know) any of the characters. Fritz Lang's "M" is a mustachioed misfortune of a mystery movie that rather than leaving me mystified like many during its time, left me with the urge to grow a mustache and never watch another Fritz Lang film.
