This movie is so overrated. I literally fell asleep watching this so-called 'breakthrough western' and wasted my hard-earned money on the special edition DVD. It's like this: Hollywood takes a bit of history out of books and colors it by using the annoying actor Newman and Redford to portray the two outlaws, and engages the two characters on a fictional romp through North and South America. It seems Hollywood is always trying to look for anything with a tad of historical interest to put on the big screen, and 'Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid'was all fluffed up to make an unremarkable event 'exciting'. But the truth is this film has so many drawn out, silent moments (that stretch tiredly throughout two and a half hours) it ends up being boring without being entertaining. The reason it was a 'breakthrough' movie in the late 60's is because it tried to win our hearts by portraying Butch and Sundance as two sympathetic,anti-hero characters. In reality, however, they were just ordinary crooks. The anti-conservative bent of the late 60's and early 70's raises its ugly head in this movie. I wonder what people were eating and drinking in those days, but it seems they were all fed with this kind of Hollywood trash. Too bad big Logan didn't do away with scrawny little Butch in the so-called 'famous' knife fight scene. That would have ended the slow pace of the movie and made my day.


                
This was a terribly boring movie that had me watching the clock waiting for it to end.  It failed to capture my interest from the opening scene to the dull end sequence.  The movie is about two outlaws, Newman and Redford, who are on the run from the law.  They decide to hide out in Bolivia.  But instead of laying low, the duo decide it would be better to continue to rob banks.  Their personalities are a little unbelievable.  They are portrayed as kindhearted people.  This didn't sit well with me, because of all the stealing they were doing (sometimes even from poor people).  I don't enjoy seeing real life bad guys presented as Hollywood good guys.  It may be considered a classic; but I consider it a CLASSIC example off an overall boring movie with stupid dialogue and goofy action sequences.  As you can probably tell, I don't recommend this movie.  This gunslinging duo shouldn't have been captured on film.  And if someone felt they had to be; that person should have waited for the 90's to do so.
I wanted to like this film. I'd seen clips, I knew the music, knew the screenwriter's works, I knew this had to be one of best films of all time. And then I sat down to watch it. I don't know what let it down. The script was brilliant. Acting? Hardly, well written, well acted, well filmed. I think it was the costuming that screamed "This is the 1960's...!" and the make up....same thing. After fifteen minutes of this I switched it off. I wish I'd never watched it, the film I thought it would be was so much better. If you aren't bothered by continuity errors (such as wardrobe and makeup not giving a fig about what people wore in a historical era) I'm sure you'll find it entertaining. I'm a historian and it bothers me, intensely. Yes, I'm sure if I drank a lot of alcoholic beverages and watched it again, I'd find it has lots allegory...but until then, no. I didn't like it.


                
Good gracious this film was so bad. It was just so bad I can't describe it. It was really, really bad. I was looking forward to this film but it was rubbish. I really did not like it at all.It's all about two cowboys who are criminals who rob a train. Then they get chased a lot by strange lights that we're not even sure are actually chasing them. For all we know they could just be regular cowboys out for a ride (for example to break in a new horse, which is what they did back in days of yore when the film was made) or townsfolk off to a church in a different town. They might do this because their church doesn't cater for their beliefs or maybe for other reasons. there are lots of explanations of what those lights could be. That's how rubbish this film is.All the two cowboys do is get chased and ride bicycles (like they have any spare time if they're getting chased). This film is so boring it's a bad thing to watch it. Watching this film is like getting bad news from your proctologist. Sometimes the two cowboys make trips to Argentina where the film ends with the worst ending I have ever seen. After all that chasing it really bugged me and I can't even tell you about the ending. That makes me mad sometimes.


                
I saw this when it came out, at the theater, as a high school kid. Even then it was boring. Nothing like The Sting. I was happy to be on a date and just glad to be out with my boyfriend, so I have good memories of that night, but the movie was the least of them.This movie did fit the zeitgeist of the time perfectly (anti-heroes = counterculture). After all, this was the year of Easy Rider, Midnight Cowboy, The Wild Bunch, and many others in this style, but BC&SK was by far the worst of them. It was the first Western which incorporated pop culture and music. It was the "thing" to see it on a date. It hit pop culture like a canon. I remember people dressing up like the characters of Redford, Newman, and Ross and getting photographs in sepia enlargements for proud display. Lines from the movie were oft repeated, esp perhaps the movie first, "Oh...sh....it!". Several TV shows were spawned (all cheesy, too). Fashion was influenced. Every teenage girl wanted to be Katerine Ross (I did and I don't see why, now). "Raindrops Keep Falling on My Head", was a huge pop hit, and stands up well today.And so this movie was all about the music. I don't think popular music had ever been used in a Western before, which explained much of its appeal. The music video, to the vocal pop song, "Raindrops Keep Falling on My Head", introduced the relationship between Cassidy, the Kid, and Elle, and was gorgeously filmed. But unlike Easy Rider, this soundtrack then moved from the good to total cheese, with a 60s "doobie doobie dooo..." vocal interlude, during a *chase* scene, of all things! While they were forgivable in commercials and Alfa Romeo gorgeous girl scarf trailing Italian movie scenes, they were not here. I feel a lot of nostalgia when I hear 60s "doobie doobie dooo..."s, but they are still just cheesy remnants of that time. The rest of the Bacharach/David score was good, but nothing memorable. I'll take majestic Western movie music over this Western soundtrack, anytime, which better describes the sweeping majesty of Western locations. The music rarely induced any kind of excitement or suspense, either. Doobie doobie doooooooo...The script was terrible, with Newman and Redford taking up the slack with their so-called chemistry and renowned sex appeal. I can't believe William Goldman, a notable novelist and screenwriter (The Princess Bride, Marathon Man, All the President's Men, and many more) penned this AND won an Oscar for it (over Midnight Cowboy, etc????). It was an innovative script only in that the outlaws escaped and had more adventures after, which gave the movie an excuse to last another hour. It lost my interest after the music video, however, and went seriously begging for plot through to the end. Bad direction and editing was to blame here. There was too much "filler", like still photos panned over too long, instead of the real scenes, which looked like they would have been far more interesting. Likewise, the extended chase scenes quickly lost their charm, as they were not designed well and had none of the elements that we expect from chase scenes. Of course, only so much you can do with a horse chase. Other than that, the well filmed (although too many strange telephoto shots) western country at least gave us something of value to watch and won an Oscar (they weren't THAT great, if you compare any John Ford Western, or the love song to NYC that Midnight Cowboy's cinematography was, or even Easy Rider's America).In the end, this is a movie which relies on music, the pairing of Redford and Newman, in their prime, cute banter, and MTV slickness, but lacks in any substance whatsoever. To call it "great cinema" is a real disservice to truly great cinema. After the music video bike scene, it is all downhill and if this movie was released today, it would be a complete flop. Virtually nothing happens in the last 3/4 and no one would now put up with that.I hate to offend so many people, but I think the high ratings are from those who accept pop culture's myths without thinking for themselves, or who haven't seen the movie since its release and since they grew up, now without the zillions of $$ of promotion, which made the myth before the myth was even seen. The ultimate in "group think". You just cannot watch this NOW and write a favorable review, unless you specify the first third. If you were alive when it came out, watch it again to see the truth. If you weren't, don't bother, you will never get the time back. Funny, I almost didn't watch it today, as I always thought of it as rather boring, and wondered what didn't I get that everyone else seemed to. I did and it was.


                
