This movie is one big disappointment. Although there are a few interesting cinematographic effects such as the metaphoric color change at the beginning from sepia to technicolor, the movie lacks everything I look for in a fine film. It has no discernible plot, the music is atrocious and doesn't fit in with what little emotional content the film has to offer, the actors don't fit into the roles at all, etc.I gave it a 4.


                
Comedic western based on actual people--Butch Cassidy (Paul Newman) and the Sundance Kid (Robert Redford). They were outlaws in 1880s and robbed banks. The plot of the movie (what little there is of it) has them robbing banks, joking with each other nonstop, riding from the police, robbing banks, joking with each other etc etc etc. It's basically the same thing over and over. Newman and Redford work well with each other. They toss off one-liners (some that are quite funny) with ease in a care-free, easy-going manner. The problem is that's all their characters are--walking talking joke machines. No complexity or depth is ever shown. Poor Katharine Ross (who can be very good) is also shamefully wasted as Redford's girlfriend. Even worse Redford is terrible as the Kid--blank-faced throughout. Slow-moving and too long also and it turns needlessly violent at the end. There's also a near-rape in the film that's treated as a joke! The movie has some good points--it starts out in sepia (a nice touch) and doesn't turn into color until about 10 minutes in; the bicycle sequence with Newman and Ross with the song "Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head" (an Oscar winner) playing; Newman is very good in his role and the lines are funny. But everything else is pretty bad. How this was a such a big hit is beyond me. A 4 all the way.


                
... but so far as I could see; the ONE great scene has been shown on Oscar telecasts too many times for it to rescue an enterprise that's otherwise so lazy. Yes; Newman and Redford are accomplished, but I wouldn't have expected anything less from them - What I would have expected from the film is a solid 'backstory' for our characters, and a sense of urgency from the narrative; instead of the constant feeling that we're supposed to nudge each other and laugh as our lackadaisical heroes amble their way through life. Burt Bacarach may have crafted a good tune; but that doesn't excuse what felt like an eternity wasted watching Newman ride a bicycle... He's a great actor; but even HE can't enliven a moment so mundane.The admittedly memorable ending wouldn't serve as 'too little, too late' had the movie earned it's 'veneration' of these two unexceptional vagabonds; but the movie failed to convince me over its running time that these chaps were in any way 'special'. You wonder if those who think it's a 'classic' just framed the last ten seconds of film in their minds, and somehow passed over the aimless episodes that served as buildup to the 'climax'? I'll tell you something: I wish I could have such selective perception; but no, I unfortunately remember ALL those other limp moments that went before the ending, as well... !


                
From the corny acting and one-liners (maybe 3 were funny?) to the incessant passing around of the girlfriend (I still can't assess who's girl it was) to the shrill music and long-ass pictures to substitute for acting, I thought it stunk. Heard so many good things about this, and I can handle a slow western (Outlaw Josey Wales). But this was something else. I only finished it on principle. Took me two days. Had to mute the Bolivian scenes, the music was so obnoxious, by God. Don't get the love for this weak, mediocre film. You could have accomplished the same thing, but in better fashion, with Young Guns II. Certainly has more heart, that's for sure.Give me True Grit or Josey Wales any day......this blows.


                
Overall I have to confess that in spite of its very high rating this movie didn't really strike a chord with me. It's partly the genre I suppose. I've just never been much into Westerns. Horses and gunfights and saloons have never been of much appeal. Beyond that, though, I simply didn't find the story here to be particularly interesting, nor did I find the movie to be as much fun as a lot of people think it is. I can't give a movie that I don't find interesting a particularly high rating or much of a positive endorsement. Having said all that, though, I do want to acknowledge that it's just my personal bias, and that there's a lot about this movie that I liked in spite of the fact that when it was all put together it didn't appeal to me that much. So, let me offer the positives.First I appreciated the honesty right off the top. There really was a "Hole in the Wall Gang" and Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid were real figures in the Old West as a part of it. The movie follows the basic outline of their life - early bank and train robberies, the escape to Bolivia and the relationship with Etta (Katharine Ross) are all based on reality. But the movie was honest. Instead of saying "Based on actual events," I loved that the opening caption was "Most of this is true" - thus acknowledging dramatic licence in a way that most "based on actual events" movies don't do. I liked the pairing of Paul Newman (Butch) and Robert Redford (Sundance). They worked very well together and offered pretty good performances in the title roles. The movie did a good job of creating some tension as Butch and Sundance were being pursued by a mysterious posse. The question that kept being asked by Butch ("Who are these guys anyway?") hung in the air quite well. There were a handful of amusing scenes - especially the train robberies involving Woodcock (George Furth) which I enjoyed. A sense of fun was also created by the use (only once, mind you) of the song "Raindrops Keep Fallin' On My Head." In one sense, that song seems totally out of sync with the movie, but the scene in which it was used, in which Butch takes Etta for a ride on a bicycle, was a silly, fun scene, and a silly, fun song fit that scene, if not the overall feel of the movie, quite well.But for as much as I liked all that, what I have to keep coming back to is that I just didn't really find the movie to be all that interesting. Just a personal opinion and reaction. Obviously most people disagree with me. (4/10)


                
I am watching this movie for my history through film class. This filmmaker is telling us bank and train robbers. They also talk about how they made it though some of the difficult times. I notices there ways of transportation and how they dressed. You could also tell by the colors they used in the movie and how the quality was. There was nothing in this movie that made me question when it was made. They way they dress are similar to some of the other movies we have seen. Their guns are also similar to ones I have seen on other movies. I liked how they how well they acted out the movie. You wouldn't tell they were acting it out. I also liked how they made it flow though out the movie. I didn't like when they were all shooting at on person. I think this was a good movie but it could have been better. I don't think this movie was very interesting. I don't think I would want to see any more movies directed by this actor but I would like to see more movies with the same actors.
This is another period piece from the late 1960's where the outlaws are the heroes, and is loosely based on real people and events. The chemistry between Redford and Newman keeps the movie afloat (though they also star together in the much better movie "The Sting"), and there are some funny scenes at the beginning. Examples: "I'm stealing your woman!" "You can have her!" and "Rules? What rules-uggh!"But the movie's initial light, fun tone vanishes once Butch and Sundance are set upon by the hired trackers, and they discover just how much they man they stole money from disliked being robbed. Unfortunately, this initially tense chase sequence becomes slow and boring as it drags on, and the movie never recovers, even in the end when the outlaws have finally realized that they have entrapped themselves with no chance of escape.The actual story of the outlaws would be a great basis for a future movie.
This film is one of my all time favorites. I am a true blue fan of the western. Teaming of Newman and Redford worked so well! However, I am so disappointed in the use of a running W on the white mule. Yes, they didn't break the mules neck when it fell...but they could have...all for the making of a scene??? Finding out what was done to the mule has made me see the film in a totally different light. It is no longer one of my favorites. Just because it wasn't illegal to use this horrible way to make the mule "fall on his face" doesn't make it right. That's why we have laws to protect animals when filming in the United States. Had I not know about the use of the running W I would have rated the film high, but will not now. Nor will I watch the film again. I am so disappointed that both Paul and Bob went along with the abuse of the white mule.


                
