The question is not whether this film is good, but why it was so phenomenally popular, and is remembered so fondly. Unless you were there, it is hard to understand the context. This is a Beatles movie in Bonnie and Clyde clothes. Check out the John and Paul caracatures, complete with Sgt Pepper moustache. The photography is ripped out of Warren Beatty's mind, and casually surrealistic. The musical scenes, especially the bike scene, are inspired by the Hard Days' Night school.A distance from reality is established in every detail: the overexposed photography often lapsing into sepia, the anachronistic dialog, the `look at me relax' approach to acting, and the abstract, supernatural posse composed of legends who are not supposed to come here. Someone was able to put his finger on how to package a revolution for consumption. This commercialization is of course why the greater promise of that revolution never appeared. This film made Robert Redford famous, a generous soul and minor talent, and it is easy to see why he would be proud. But Paul Newman knew better even then, and I suppose he regrets having participated. No matter, he has real legacies.When I reviewed it last week, the Beatle connection was immediately obvious. And I was struck by the Katherine Ross character. In 1969, how we wished Yoko had been like that.


                
Perhaps I'm too fond of the traditional Hollywood western and the great 'spaghetti' westerns of Sergio Leone, but "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" strikes me as a clumsy attempt to adapt them to the changing sensibilities of the late 1960s.Gone are some clichés that we actually liked, like the sweeping orchestral score that seemed as majestic as the landscapes on screen, but still present are some of the clichés I could do without, like the invincible "fastest draw in the west" outlaw and the hapless, submissive woman. The movie does, to its credit, replace the traditional one-dimensional gunslinger with characters with at least some emotional depth, and perhaps that is its most enduring update of the western style.The story is alright, amusing in parts, as the duo's exploits cause them to be pursued by the greatest trackers in the west, forcing them to flee to Bolivia. The movie relies almost entirely on the chemistry between Newman and Redford, as there is just a token effort to build drama and suspense through the traditional tools of the western. The overall effect seems clumsy, especially with its inexplicably anachronistic soundtrack, but I do respect that this movie was apparently exactly the sort of "western" that audiences wanted in 1969. As a movie in the great pantheon of westerns, I don't think it stacks up to the greats, but it is certainly worth watching for its novel, if goofy, take on the genre.


                
The picture is an enjoyable Western-comedy with interesting characterizing about the celebrated leaders of the ¨Wild Bunch gang¨ of train robbers , they were one of the last old-style bandits of the West . It's narrated by means of a relentless pursuit carried out by a posse which leads to the two protagonists (Paul Newman , Robert Redford) along with Etta Place (Katharine Ross) to Bolivia where continue their criminal activity . Born Robert Parker (Butch Cassidy as Paul Newman) and Harry Longbaugh (Sundance Kid as Robert Redford) . It seems they were eager to take up a life of crime . This notorious pair became rustlers in the mid-90 , gaining fame as leaders of the Wild Bunch ,a gang of train robbers . Butch adopted the name Cassidy in admiration of Mike Cassidy,a rustler who taught him to shot and steal livestock , he was dubbed Butch from his short time working in a butcher's shop . Still determined on a life of crime he formed a gang,and robbed a banks and he moved into trains robberies later . One of the main gang was Sundance , they were likable fellows described in a Pinkerton wanted poster as having a cheerful and affable manners . It is said that, though a crack shot,they never murdered anybody and disliked gratuitous violence . They had the quick wit and strength of character to dominate more desperate men . With the Pinkerton and railroad agents hot on their trail , the Wild Bunch broke up and both sailed to South America after the turn of century and disappeared there , possibly dying in a shoot-out in 1909 near La Paz.The film was a deservedly sensational box office hit-smash , so it deftly blends action , spoof Western with delightful performances . The motion picture won Oscars for Conrad Hall (Cinematography) , Original Score (Burt Bacharach), William Goldman (Screenplay) , and for the famous song titled : ¨Raindrops keep falling on my head¨ and nominations to director George Roy Hill and players . Followed by an inferior sequel in 1979 by Richard Lester : ¨The early days of Butch Cassidy (Tom Berenguer) and Sundance Kid (William Katt)¨.


                
Despite a few issues, the movie coasts along on the charms of it's iconic duo.We have seen these buddy movies before. Pairing up two characters with opposite temperaments together. In this movie Paul Newman is the easy going and talkative gang leader and Robert Redford is the laconic dead shot. This pairing works wonders. And their interactions easily form the best part of the movie.In the first half of the movie we see them both fleeing from a posse that attempts to pursue them. The movie successfully creates a feeling of dread while hardly showing anything but the outlines of the pursuers from afar. There is a note of impending doom in the air that the movie captures so successfully in this part.But don't worry it's not all serious. In fact it's hardly. There are jokes a plenty. This movie will have you smiling from ear to ear. This is a basically a road trip movie in guise of a western. There are some inspired choices by the director, like the sepia filtered opening, a montage of photos instead of exposition, and of course the iconic ending shot.I have a few issues with this movie. The third act seeps with aimlessness and the movie is not sure what to do with it's characters. Also the Katherine Ross character is really underdeveloped.


                
"Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" is known as one of the greatest western movies throughout all of history, and many can argue in support of that statement. I can see how this title was given such reverence, as there are many points in the movie that left me in awe due to the creativity within this film that has influenced many westerns to date. However, there are just some things about this film that left me in awe... and not with a positive intent.It should be known that the film follows two main characters: Butch Cassidy (played by Paul Newman) and The Sundance Kid (Robert Redford). These two are bank robbers that continue to be chased by police and law enforcement until the end of the film. While this does provide great sequences of action and entertainment, the whole chasing sequence that lasts around 20 minutes just seems so unnecessary. Finally, following the dive into the river by the two men, this sequence comes to an end. There is simply just ways to tell a story, especially a western, that doesn't leave me and my fellow classmates in my US History Through Film Class constantly looking at the clock, wondering why time is passing by so slowly.The music sequences in which the camera switches between multiple scenes (and even pictures) definitely intrigued me. Although some would argue that the Hill's implementation of a slide show is not the best move, I felt as if a story was told throughout that really didn't require a full, extended scene (Unfortunately, Hill didn't think this was needed for that damn chase scene).In conclusion, "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" is in no way a perfect film. However, when it comes to westerns, this definitely deserves a spot in the essentials, as it still provides an element of history that is subtly delivered throughout the plot. Despite scenes that left me snoring, this film did leave me on edge for the majority, and works well for both a great watching or napping experience based on your position.
I had to watch thid film for my amazing history class. The plot of the film shows the life of butch cassidy and the sundance kid. They go on a bank robbing spree and end up getting caught in the end after a life full of adventure and danger. Throughout the whole movie they are being chased. The movie wwas very good for its time period I was very impressed with how well the quality came out. The camera angles were good and the director did good. The only thing that made me question the movie was the ending ive heard other things to how they have died. No connections that i can recall. I liked the whole on the run type thing it made the moive fun to watch. I liked how much action was in this. I didnt like how boring the beginning was. The movie was good overall I thought it was very good. I would see it again after some time I have seen the acotrs in other movies.
I'm watching this movie for my history through film class. We are doing reviews on movies. The plot of the movie is about two robbers who robbed a train and it went wrong. They run all the way to Bolivia where they rob banks. They have multiple people trying to find them. What I noticed about the movie that is because of how long ago it was made was the sound quality. It didn't sound that good when it came to voices. I thought it was still good though. The acting was good as well. They did a good western impression. There is nothing I question about the historical accuracy. I know this is supposed to be a legend. There are no connections I made with other movies. This is the first Western style movie I've watched. Three things I liked were the actors. I liked the over plot and story. I liked the action it came with too. I thought the movie was good overall. I liked it, it had some good humor and action. It was an interesting movie. I wouldn't mind watching another movie with the same actors.


                
I'm writing this review for my U.S. History through Film class. The plot of the movie is there's these two robbers who rob this really rich bank and as a result they get chased down from place to place. Eventually, they go to Bolivia and rob a few banks and then someone notices them and gets the police to try to get them and the story ends on a cliffhanger. I like the action, plot, and adventure in the movie. However, sometimes the loud sounds in the movie kept me from hearing what the characters were saying so I didn't really like that. Overall, this movie was pretty good and it would be nice to see others like it.
Released is 1969 and directed by George Roy Hill, "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" stars Paul Newman and Robert Redford as the eponymous outlaws and key members of the Hole-in-the-Wall Gang headquartered near Dubois, Wyoming. After robbing one train too many, the head of Union Pacific hires a six-man team of skilled lawmen to apprehend the duo and so they flee to Bolivia with Sundance's lover & schoolteacher, Etta (Katharine Ross). Strother Martin, Ted Cassidy, Jeff Corey and Cloris Leachman are featured in peripheral roles.The gist of the story is historically accurate, with the movie starting in the late 1890s and ending with the outlaws' deaths in November, 1908, which means the picture encompasses about 9-10 years, although it seems more like a couple of years. In any case, this was a state-of-the-art Western when it was released and a huge success at the box office. The production quality, tone and theme are comparable to 1967's "Bonnie and Clyde." It's a very 'modern' Western, arguably the first (although a good case could be made for 1967's "Hombre"), and therefore holds up well today, hardly seeming dated; that is, disregarding "Rain Drops Keep Falling on My Head," which plays during an interlude at the end of the first act. In spirit, the movie inspired future great modern Westerns like "The Missouri Breaks" (1976), "The Long Riders" (1980) and "Unforgiven" (1992), all superlative Westerns that don't seem to age as the decades pass.While Redford was already appearing in significant movies, this is the one that shot him to stardom and he went on to star in notable Westerns like "Tell Them Willie Boy is Here" (1969), "Jeremiah Johnson" (1972) and the great "The Electric Horseman" (1979), the latter taking place in the modern day, of course. As for Newman, it's hard to believe he's the same actor that starred in the aforementioned "Hombre," as his character couldn't be any more different as Butch Cassidy, a fun-loving, witty train robber (in "Hombre" he's the opposite: a laconic, mirthless white man raised by Apaches).Although the tone is similar to "Bonnie and Clyde," I don't think it's on the level of that film. I also don't understand the gushing it often receives. Yes, it's good, but at the end of the day, it's about two thugs who were on a collision course with premature death due to their own folly. Newman and Redford are entertaining as the pair, but it's hard to sympathize with fools who stubbornly insist on carrying on their idiotic thuggery even though they have the awesome opportunity to start a new life.There are two sequels worth checking out: "Wanted: The Sundance Woman," a 1976 TV movie starring Katherine Ross, which shows what happens to Etta after leaving the duo for America; and, especially, "Blackthorn," a 2011 release starring Sam Shepherd as Butch Cassidy in his old age in Bolivia, which presupposes that he somehow survived the ending of this movie.The film runs 110 minutes and was shot in Utah, Colorado, New Mexico, Arizona and California. The script was written by William Goldman.GRADE: B


                
Much like most other people, I'm not the biggest fan of westerns due to the cliché "shoot out in the middle of a deserted town" feel that they tend to have. However, this one did a better job at making it not feel too western. Butch and Sundance have the vibe about them that really make viewers like me grow fond of them. You begin to find yourself hoping that they succeed in the end. However, I was sadly disappointed. Afterwards, I found myself wondering what was going to happen to Etta? How is she going to handle hearing about their deaths for real for the second time? The character really draw you in and keep your eyes glued to the screen while you catch yourself rooting for the bad guys. I really enjoyed the look of the movie, also. It was colorized but in a way that made it look antique, a look that I believe should go hand-in-hand with westerns. On top of that, there were a lot of loud and sudden noises that emphasize the feel for it as well. Not to mention, I thought it was very interesting that they chose overlay chase scenes with music instead of listening to horses, guns, and yelling for a few minutes. I thought it was a creative way to sort of switch up the style a bit. Long story short, this was a great film that gives Westerns a better reputation!
I didn't expect to be so enthralled with excitement in this film. The title of this film doesn't make it quite clear what you are supposed to be expecting out of it. I was very surprised to see that this film was a thriller and one that kept me guessing in fact. The cinematography in addition to the quick edits made in the editing process after shooting only helped to keep my interest throughout. The sound also helped to intensify the tense moments when you weren't too sure whether the main characters were going to make it. I would recommenced this film to anyone who is looking for a great movie that will keep you guessing and an ending that you will not expect!


                
I miss the late 1960s. Not that I lived during them, not that I look back at the Vietnam War as if it were a good time in American history, not that I'm one of those young buffoons who blames their friendlessness on their possession of an old soul — I miss the late 1960s because of their filmmaking. There was a feeling that anything was possible, that stars we got to know in the earlier years of the decade were suddenly drifting toward the game- changers rather than the drivel wholesome pieces, that Hollywood was suddenly a hip place instead of a soap scrubbed habitation. How movies finally had something to say, whether it be artistically or socially. It's exciting how we could have waltzed into the theater in 1960 to see a "Pillow Talk" 2.0, only to come back a few years later and find ourselves with "Blowup", "Easy Rider", or "They Shoot Horses, Don't They?". No decade has come close to the reinvention seen in the shape-shifting decade."Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" is one of the defining films of the time, among the series that entertained us with an easygoing, lo-fi atmosphere rather than a chintzy, big- budgeted one. It's a reverse Western: everything looks as though it could be a part of a later-in-life John Wayne adventure, but the tone is less rugged, more self-deprecating. It's a hybrid of different styles, some reminiscent of Robert Altman, others Robert Benton and Peter Bogdanovich. Only slightly serious, with more than enough comic relief to call itself a — gulp — comedy, it's difficult to put a finger on what "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" really is. Perhaps that was intentional, going out to be an undefinable western romp and coming back a champion. But I suppose its breeziness is part of its charm. Without a care in the world, the actions of the titular characters are unpredictable and wandering, as though it all were improvised. So thank God Paul Newman and Robert Redford have enough charisma to keep us from snoozing as if we were being faced with a laborious spaghetti western.Newman is Butch Cassidy, Redford is the Sundance Kid; as the Old West's most formidable train robbers, they are said to be legends — just don't expect them to wear the term like a five-year-old dons a Superman cape. They view their actions as time wasters, as a way to have some fun on a boring Sunday afternoon. They don't like to kill. They like the thrill that comes with running away from the law. The danger is appealing. But they've been doing the same thing for too long, and they're well aware they aren't going to live to be one-hundred, with so much flak behind their names. They're going to be the victims of a shootout, maybe in a week, a month, a year. So Butch Cassidy, or the Sundance Kid, I don't remember which, proposes they go down to Bolivia — there, they can refresh their thieving ways, and, eventually, live a normal life. In tow is the Sundance Kid's girl, Etta (Katharine Ross), and for the first few months, things are blissful, successful. But when an old enemy makes his way into the area, they realize that escaping from past wrongdoings may only be a temporary solution.When "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" isn't making us laugh, it moves by slowly; because it doesn't have the same mesmerizing quiet of other crime based dramas, like "Thieves Like Us" and "The Thomas Crown Affair", a moody setback does nothing besides pander by. But when the film is good, it's great. Newman and Redford have better chemistry than some of the most notable screen couples of the time, conversing with such witty ease that we can't help but want to be a part of their crime spree ourselves. One of the best scenes in the film, which finds the duo at the edge of a cliff as the law chases them, is ecstatically funny, an inexperienced Redford complaining that he doesn't know how to swim, worried that he and his crime partner might have to jump. Newman guffaws like an older brother, and, when they do go through with the deed, their rapport, especially as they go downstream, is delivered with effortless comedic energy. Newman and Redford are fantastic together: as the quintessential everymen who happen to be movie stars, they seem destined to headline together. How they only made one other film together ("The Sting") is mind-boggling — they put the B in bromance. You can forget about Starsky and Hutch, Crockett and Tubbs; Newman and Redford are the real deal.But "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" relies too much on the charisma of its stars. That isn't necessarily a bad thing, considering how excellent it is most of the time, but when it drags, it drags. It's better off as a comedy, and when it decides to go for a serious moment, we're hardly convinced. We want to have fun with our actors, not see them in crisis — the ending, all "Bonnie and Clyde" "tragic", doesn't fit. We want more adventures. If Clint Eastwood were starring, maybe we'd be okay seeing him go. It would be heroic. But Newman and Redford are much too likable to be too-serious-for-their-own-good anti- heroes, and we don't want to see their brotherly love come to an end.


                
Follows the exploits of two career outlaws, hurtling along toward their fate in an America that celebrates and destroys them all at once.  Newman and Redford have a wonderful chemistry.  The film doesn't mind having some laughs along the way.  Newman on the bicycle, the pair at the edge of the cliff, and the finale make for some of cinema's finest moments.  At once serious and light, and can be watched for and in either mood.  Ought to be seen in letterbox.  2 1/2 of 4 stars.


                
This movie is like cilantro: to some it is great, to others it is like eating soap. For fans of spaghetti westerns, this movie is amazing. To others the movie is too long and boring The story is that Butch Cassidy (Paul Newman) and the Sundance Kid (Robert Redford) are infamous bandits who rob banks, trains, and people and get away with it every time. Until a heist goes wrong and a posse chases them to South America. The movie shows that in the early 1900s, it was incredibly easy to rob anything. To me it seemed like if you were hurting for money, all you had to do was hold up a train and steal from it. This is one of the better westerns I have seen but I have only seen a few. Also I have never seen another movie with the stars of this movie so I cannot accurately judge their performance. I don´t like the scenes that are long with no dialogue such as the waterfall scene. Since I watched this for film class, I am not sure I would have watched this otherwise. Overall, this was a pretty darn good movie.
A movie starring Paul Newman and young Robert Redford, playing the eponymous outlaws, who operated in Wyoming during the final years of the Old West. They made a legend as the most successful train robbers of all time and as gentlemen who tried to avoid killing as much as possible. Of course the truth is a bit more jaded than this movie would have you believe, but even the real events were quite outlandish and almost like from a pulp novel.The movie is very much a western, no doubt about that, but for a western it's bit of an odd duck. That's because it actually has a sense of humour without being an outright comedy. Butch and Kid have very upbeat attitude when it comes to life and their chosen career and even during their toughest moments they have time to exchange banter and jokes about them being in trouble. Not that the movie cannot take itself seriously when it is called for, but overall the film has a lighthearted tone for a western. Which is nice, I have to admit.The score is also odd, to say the least. I'd even dare to call it ill-fitting, but it somehow manages to work. Just don't ask me how.The best thing about this movie is without a doubt the main duo. They're pure dynamite as actors, especially when sharing a screen. Because the film is based on real events, the actual plot is a bit episodic in nature, which is not an outright flaw, but I can only imagine what the film would have been like if they had taken these two characters and told a more coherent story with them. It would have been something unbelievable.Still, even as it is, the film is one of the better westerns I've seen in years and definitely worth a watch for all fans of the genre.


                
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid (1969): Dir: George Roy Hill / Cast: Paul Newman, Robert Redford, Katherine Ross, Strother Martin, Kenneth Mars: Overrated yet well produced western about the fame of two bank robbers whose luck is rabidly closing in on them. Starts out great but montage sequences are terrible giving off information that should be examined more. It concludes on a similar note as Bonnie and Clyde although it fails to sustain the power of that film. Directed by George Roy Hill who previously made such acclaim films as Toys in the Attic and Hawaii. Paul Newman plays Butch Cassidy as the leader and thinker. Robert Redford as the Sundance Kid is skilled with a gun. They both attempt to go straight but the unlawful lifestyle seems always crouched around the corner until they are met with no other choice than to face the consequences that they knew were bearing down upon them. Katherine Ross was wonderful in The Graduate but here her role as a school teacher is underwritten. She is also part of the famous but pointless bicycle sequence where the song "Raindrops Falling On My Head" is featured. Her flirtations with both men render her unfocused. Strother Martin is also featured but too briefly, as well as Kenneth Mars as a sheriff who cannot bring this duo down. Strong theme showcasing one's sins finding you out. Score: 7 / 10
"Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" is a western - crime movie in which we watch two professional robbers who robe banks and trains which deliver money. When the law comes really close to them, they go to Bolivia in order to get away but more problems come up. Also these two robbers are best friends who are trying to do their best for their "job" and earn as much money as they can.I liked this movie not so much about the plot but for the interpretations of the cast and especially for the interpretations of Paul Newman and Robert Redford who played as Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid respectively. I also have to mention that the direction of George Roy Hill was simply magnificent and he did a really great job on it. Something else that I also liked in this movie was that is based on the exploits of some historical characters and this is something that makes this movie special and unique.Lastly I believe that "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" is a good movie to watch and worth seeing because it has plenty of suspense and makes you be in tense in the whole duration of it. I also believe that this movie has to be considered as a must watch movie for the fans of western movies or just the fans of crime movies.


                
Butch Cassidy (real name Robert LeRoy Parker) and the Sundance Kid (real name Harry Longabaugh) were two real-life Wild West outlaws, and the film tells a fictionalised account of their careers, both in the West itself and in Bolivia, where they emigrated in 1901 with Sundance's mistress Etta Place (real name unknown) in search of richer pickings. According to the film they left America because they robbed one train too many belonging to the Union Pacific Railroad, following which the railroad company boss, E. H. Harriman, paid for a special posse to track them down and kill them.The plot has a number of similarities to that of another well-known Western from 1969, Sam Peckinpah's "The Wild Bunch". In that film too the protagonists are outlaws who are on the run from a posse of bounty hunters paid for by a railroad company and who take refuge in a Latin American country. (In that case the country in question is Mexico rather than Bolivia, although even in "Butch Cassidy" the supposed "Bolivian" scenes were actually shot in Mexico). In both cases the outlaws meet their demise in a shootout with the forces of law and order. And both films are what can be regarded as "late Westerns" in that the action takes place after 1890, by which time the Wild West was gradually becoming a tamer place and life was becoming more difficult for the bad guys. ("The Wild Bunch" is set as late as 1913).The film takes a fairly sympathetic view of Butch and Sundance, treating them as amiable folk heroes rather than as dangerous criminals, and fosters the legend that they never actually killed anyone during the American part of their career, relying upon threats and bluff rather than the actual use of force. (They do shoot people in Bolivia, although only in self-defence). In "The Wild Bunch" too Peckinpah is generally rooting for the Bunch rather than for their enemies, and it has been suggested that this attitude owes something to the spirit of anti- authoritarianism and rebellion which were in the air during the late sixties. I am not so sure. Glamorisation and sentimentalisation of real- life Western outlaws was nothing new; Hollywood had been doing it at least since the days of Tyrone Power and Henry Fonda as Jesse and Frank James, and probably long before that. If the Production Code forbade glamorising criminals, the scriptwriters simply denied that these men were criminals in the first place. The end of the Code in the sixties merely meant that film-makers could be more barefaced about something which had long been common practice.The film was a huge success at the box office and the top grossing film of 1969. Its reception from the critics was generally favourable and it won four Academy Awards. It helped to make a major star of Robert Redford and to cement the reputation of his older co-star Paul Newman; the two actors and the director George Roy Hill were later to team up again to make "The Sting". (Oddly enough, Redford was not the first choice for Sundance; that was Jack Lemmon, who turned it down). It has been selected for preservation in the United States National Registry of the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant." Despite these achievements, however, I have never quite been able to see it as a great milestone in the history of the cinema, which is how some have described it.Certainly, it has its good points, prominent among them being some attractive photography of the Western scenery and a good musical score; its hit song, "Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head", has become famous, even among those who have no idea that it was originally from a movie. Two of those Oscars were for "Best Cinematography" and "Best Song". Newman and Redford are easy to watch, if occasionally a bit too laid- back for my liking, and perhaps make their characters a bit too likable, which makes the violent ending seem jarring. (In "The Wild Bunch", by contrast, William Holden and his associates are just the sort of characters whom one might expect to die in a hail of bullets).What the film lacks is anything to set it apart from the standard average Western, of which many examples were still being made in the late sixties. By contrast "The Sting", to my mind a considerably better film, could never be mistaken for a standard average crime drama. That idyllic interlude where Butch and Sundance frolic with Etta (who in this version of the story appears to be involved in a ménage-a-trois with both outlaws) to the strains of "Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head" does not really count as a ground-breaking innovation, even though it was to be imitated in the "Marmalade, Molasses and Honey" sequence of another Newman Western, "The Life and Times of Judge Roy Bean". As for that bloody ending it was, as Roger Ebert pointed out at the time, a blatant attempt to copy "Bonnie and Clyde". "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" is a watchable and competently made Western with two charismatic stars in the leading roles. But no more than that. 7/10
No other film in the history of sweeping landscape of the western genre conjures up more vivid images of witty one liners, daring train robbery's, adventure and excitement than those elicited when you think about the epitome of the Wild West outlaws Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. Just as the film makes an effort to state at the beginning, the whole story behind the film was based loosely on fact, there were really two train robbing outlaws who migrated to Bolivia in search of a more successful criminal career and they were really called Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, although their real names were Robert LeRoy Parker aka Butch Cassidy (played by Paul Newman) and his partner Harry Longabaugh aka the "Sundance Kid" (played by Robert Redford). The film starts off with a slow sweeping sepia drenched shoot of a small American town, we soon settle on Butch looking longingly out a window to the sepia streets that lay beyond it. The colour grading almost make it feel that we have stepped into a nostalgic snap shot of time that we as well as Butch feel is coming to a slow agonising end. Later on through a poker match we introduced to Sundance, which the scene later seems ironic because it best represents who Sundance is, someone who likes to keep his card close to his chest, and even though on the surface he may hold a indecipherable poker face, just like Clint Eastwood in The Good, the Bad and the Ugly, there is so much more under the surface. While for the first 25 minutes of the film, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid may seem like polar opposites, Butch being a loud, obnoxious smooth talker and Sundance the brooding silent one. They actually make a great team, Butch is the brains and Sundance is the brawn or should I say guns of the team; together not a safe on a train anywhere in the world can keep them away from its money, even if it's not down to the most subtle of techniques, which means almost blowing up an entire train with far too much dynamite, they always still get it. But the owner of the train would then say; full me once shame on you, full me twice shame on me and full me three times and I'll hire an almighty relentless gang that will follow you from hell and back again, then twice around the moon and I'm pretty sure Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid could confirm that statement, as they spend days trying to lose the gang, with ever increasing difficulty. Eventually with a whole lot of courage or some would say stupidity, they are soon able to gain enough distance to allow them to unite with Katharine Ross as Etta Place and migrate to Bolivia, taking their thieving habits with them. But once again there old foes find them... Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid went on to win four academy awards, for best cinematography, Best Song for Burt Bacharach and Hal David for "Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head", best score and best screen play, however despite being nominated it lost both best picture and best actor for Paul Newman too Midnight Cowboy and Jon Voight (rightly so). But as good as the award winning score and cinematography was, I felt the best aspect of the film was the was the passion, enthusiasm and talent that both Paul and Robert brought to their respectful roles, and I truly believe that in any other year both of them would have walked home with the statue. I simply loved their camaraderie and sheer respect they had for each other; you could really tell that they respected each other's craft and presence, feeling at times as if they were really brothers in real life, making it such a delightful experience anytime they share the screen together. Katharine's inclusion was ultimately small but crucial, she brought all that tender, vulnerability from The Graduate, but this time she added a whole new layer of steal to the character which I felt showed that she had greatly developed as an actress. It's difficult to review some of the plot elements of the film, due to the fact that is based on a true story, so you don't know what parts are for audience entertainment and what other parts were historical fact. Let's just assume that it was purely fiction, I was annoyed at how the fact they built up the 6 pursues so much, yet you never actually get to see them or see first-hand what makes them so formidable which was highly fascinating. But that was just me being nit picky. The only thing that came close to the performance of the two leads was the screenplay, rightly ranked #11 on its list of 101 Greatest Screenplays ever written by The Writers Guild of America. Every scene had a laugh out loud witty patter between the two leads of the or from the minor characters that left your side in stitches. But I do feel that director George Roy Hill and writer William Goldman should have held some of the gags back and opt for a more serious tone to the film, because these were two guys who knew the end was coming, and all they could do was make jokes? But on the whole Butch Cassidy and the Sundance will always going down as probably top 10 greatest westerns films ever, a title I feel that it earned and greatly deserved.
Released on the hooves of Sam Peckinpah's blood drenched last gasper The Wild Bunch Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is a kinder gentler more sanitized for public consumption look at outlaws on the run with the Twentieth Century gaining on them fast. It even has a pop tune video and a jolly Burt Bacharach score to keep things light and mawkish which might spell disaster for a wild west shoot'em up were it not for the legendary first and best pairing of Newman and Redford as Butch and Sundance.The Hole in the Wall Gang has been making a living robbing trains for awhile when the Pinkerton's begin to intensify their pursuit. With their membership decimated Butch, Sundance and his girlfriend light out east to NY and eventually on to Bolivia in hopes of beginning anew.The naturalness between the laid back Butch and the wound tight Sundance has the perfect cadence of a friendship partnership developed over time as they play off of each other with the comfortable familiarity of a Tracy Hepburn duo.For a film featuring protagonists with a bounty on their head Cassidy has an upbeat mood most of the way as director Arthur Hiller keeps things light and polished but nearly sacrifices the picture in favor of entertainment with the intrusive BJ Thomas ditty video and an overlong montage of tintype imagery from Coney Island. It is left up to Conrad Hall's cinematography, especially in low light situations, to supply the film's power and suspense with one outstanding composition after another. With Hall's strong look informing the picture and Newman/Redford clicking like Rogers and Astaire Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is well worth a watch in spite of it's heavy saccharine aftertaste.


                
I was very impressed with this Redford & Newman Western. The dialogue is endlessly quotable and the film contains probably the best on screen chemistry (in Redford and Newman) between 2 lead actors that I think I've ever seen. To me, at times, they were more like a married couple than a double act. Who can forget the funny exchange between the 2 men before they jump from the top of a cliff into the river? Also, the critical moment where Butch mentions to Sundance that he's never shot anyone before. Of course, there is also the classic line 'Do you think you used enough dynamite Butch?' These were just a few funny moments that stood out for me, but there were several more throughout the film.The plot sees our 2 outlaws Butch Cassidy & The Sundance Kid (Newman and Redford respectively) robbing the Union Pacific Flyer Train - which is an idea that the original leader of Butch's gang Harvey Logan (Ted Cassidy) had come up with. When Butch defeats Logan in a knife fight, he takes his old gang and robs the train. The gang are successful the first time, but when they strike a second time they use too much dynamite on the safe and thus lose quite a lot of money. In addition the owner of the pacific flyer E.H Herriman sends in another train with a group of lawmen including an expert Indian Tracker Lord Baltimore and a tough lawmen Joe LeFors to track them down and kill them. When the heat gets too much in their home town of Wyoming, the 2 men decide to flee to Bolivia with Sundance's girlfriend Etta Place (Katherine Ross) and decide to switch from robbing trains to robbing banks.For me, this film was excellent when Butch & Sundance were robbing trains in Wyoming and I also thought it was excellent when they got to Bolivia. It was the middle third for me where the film lagged slightly (not very much happened), but thankfully the great chemistry and humour between Redford and Newman still made the middle section watchable. I was also a little bit disappointed that we didn't get to see any of the lawmen (the 2 most prolific lawmen were only mentioned in 'name only' - we never got to see things from their perspective, we didn't get to see how they tracked them etc). Whilst, Butch & Sundance were great and Redford and Newman's performances were great and they were both endlessly entertaining I still would have liked to have seen more of the lawmen. I was also a little disappointed with Katharine Ross performance as Sundance's girlfriend, she was a little bit flat in my opinion which was a shame particularly as Redford & Newman were so good in their respective roles.Despite these minor issues, this is still an excellent western which is largely carried by Redford & Newman. The minor problems with the film are more than outweighed by the captivating story and the humour and chemistry between Redford and Newman. I thoroughly enjoyed this film.
My first western, it turns out, was more of a buddy movie described by another as a "Beatles movie in Bonnie and Clyde clothes". Our thieves carry on as the cocky folk heroes they became, full of confidence until doggedly chased by an unrelenting posse. Their journey is full of clever, but honest, dialog and their running from the law through nature's open and awesome backdrop is quite an awe inspiring site. Butch and Sundance mostly share their knowledge to try to figure out, "who are those guys?", to no avail. The movie would have been fine without the BJ Thomas hit, may have a plot full of movie inevitability but still has a style full of campfire camaraderie.


                
I found this movie fairly entertaining for a western-type film. I appreciated the sarcastic humor that was spread throughout it. The montages were kinda upbeat and nice. The music wasn't typical for a western and I liked that. The "old" photos used to show passed time were neat. I found myself going back and forth between liking Butch and Cassidy and disliking them. Their friendship was adorable and how they bickered back and forth. But shooting people and being robbers, not so much. So I would go from laughing at their antics to then feeling sorry for the others involved. I thought the final scene was great, just those last few minutes... it was directed in a nice way to end the storyline.


                
*Spoiler/plot- Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, 1969. When two bungling bank and train robbers tire of running from the law, they set out for Boliva with Sundance's girlfriend. Though they can barely speak enough Spanish to communicate 'This is a stick-up" that's only a minor detail to the nicest 'bad guys' who ever rode the West.*Special Stars- Paul Newman, Robert Redford, Catherince Ross, Trevor Martin.*Theme- Eveen if you're nice to be around but an outlaw, the law will catch-up with your lawlessness.*Trivia/location/goofs- Oscar winner 1969: best story & screenplay and Cinematography. Lead roles try-outs: Jack Lemon, Steve Mcqueen, Marlon Brando, and Warren Beatty. The final decision changed after Redford wanted the Butch role and Newman the Sundance role.*Emotion- A thoroughly enjoyable buddy film (+girlfriend) with excellent writing, casting and production values. This fine script took two obscure and little known Western characters and made them a house-hold word. A fine example of Hollywood's best achievement and a real treat for anyone watching this film. BTW: Be sure to see the who uncut version, because those reduced and edited TV or Cable versions does not give you the director's story on these characters.
This movie wasn't bad. The best part were the robberies because that's what kept it interesting. The dynamic between characters wasn't bad either. This was my first Paul Newman movie and he was pretty good in it. It reminded be a lot of Bonnie and Clyde which was only two years earlier. Maybe it sparked a bunch of robbery movies just like it like this one. The ending was similar too in a way, even. But one thing that was different was the setting, which I liked just as much. I like the atmosphere of it in this movie and it kind of made it interesting to watch. This was my first Robert Redford movie too and I enjoyed his performance just as much.
