OK, for those of you who aren't sure whether "Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid" is a good, or even great movie, just do the following:Scroll up to "memorable quotes".  Go on, do it and then read what follows. I'll be right here when you get back.Finished?  Did you read those lines?  THAT, my friends, that and the fact they are spoken by some great actors is what makes this film so wonderful. They are perfectly balanced between being funny, endearing and also revealing about the characters.  There's genuine emotion and warmth in a lot of that.Conrad Hall, George Roy Hill, Burt Bacharach et al all contributed marvelously but I love the cast; such quality and for some of them, in small, but memorable roles:  George Furth, Ted Cassidy, Kenneth Mars, Strother Martin, Katherine Ross and the stars at the top; Newman and Redford who did perfect justice to Goldman's script.


                
Seeing this film again on DVD -- more than 30 years after the first time I saw it -- I'm struck by two things. First, it holds up well for a movie so redolent of a particular time (the 1960s, of course, not the 1890s). Second, whether the filmmakers fully intended it this way or not, it's really a very good film about a topic Westerns don't tackle often: arrested adolescence.Most great Westerns -- ``My Darling Clementine,'' ``Rio Bravo,'' ``The Wild Bunch,'' ``Unforgiven'' -- are about adults. ``Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid'' is about two guys who, physically, are pushing 40, but whose mental age is stuck somewhere around 16. They may be charming, but their whole lives revolve around their narcissistic pal-ship. For them, being outlaws doesn't seem to be about expressing anti-social impulses or even getting money they haven't earned, but merely about hanging out with each other. Their talk with each other is mainly brittle ritualized patter and stock jokes, mixed with Butch's pipe dreams. They can't talk about anything serious even at the end, when they must realize -- at some level -- that they're about to die. Screenwriter William Goldman emphasizes the oddly callow, adolescent tone of their relationship by repeatedly having them express surprise when they stumble over some bit of biography -- their real names, or the fact that Sundance is from New Jersey -- that you'd think real friends would have known about decades ago.The movie's whole point is that Butch and Sundance can't develop any type of dramatic arc. Harshly changing times demand they change with the times or die -- and they can't change and ultimately choose, by default, to die. They do get a huge lucky break when they get away from the Superposse _ but all they can think to do with it is change not what they're doing, but merely where they're doing it. They can't even change enough to keep Etta Place with them, even though both Butch and Sundance really do love her, in their way. (Etta, in contrast to Butch and Sundance, is harshly realistic about her life and her limits -- she knows she isn't strong enough to die with them or to see them die.) Butch and Sundance, as far as we can see, don't care about much outside themselves and Etta. This is why the movie's ending -- that famous freeze frame -- is so perfect. Butch and Sundance are secure, together, in their niche in history. They don't have to worry about changing times or the baffling world outside themselves any longer. They've won out over time and change -- the only way anybody ever can.
The Sting is one of my favorite films and so when the opportunity presented itself to see the first pairing of Hill, Newman, and Robert Redford on the big screen, I had to take advantage. Being the earliest success and having an image of one of the best westerns around, I must admit to being somewhat surprised at the humor tossed about at the start. Did I think this would be a serious film? Perhaps, but never did I anticipate it being a buddy comedy to the core with a witty, dynamic duo at the lead. While Newman and Redford definitely steal the show, Butch Cassidy is much more than just two outlaws having fun. Brilliant cinematography, directing, and a few impressive shootouts help prove why this film is held in such high regard.The film is dated, for sure, in many parts. A cheesy rendition of the Oscar winning song "Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head" showing Newman and actress Katherine Ross riding a bike through a farm is one instance, (especially since they weren't even romantically involved), as are the silent time-progressing montages set to similar musical stylings. Heck, the movie even drags a bit due to the flimsy plot at its core. The crux of the story involves the end of robbing banks and trains on horse, and how these two men experience this truth. It is a dead artform and the police and hired hands have gotten too sophisticated to just let criminals getaway. Therefore, one can only witness so many robberies, no matter what country they occur in, without hoping for a little bit more. However, that said, you won't be bored because our anti-heroes refuse to let you. Whether thieving, escaping, going straight, or just laying low, Newman and Redford work together as though they have their entire life. The comedic timing is perfect, the facial expressions genuine, and the audience reaction nothing short of laughter upon laughter.Butch and Sundance, (Newman and Redford respectively), know they are a dying breed, even going so far as saying they may be over the hill in the business. Their return to the Hole in the Wall Gang Cassidy formed proves this with an attempt at usurping power by another member in lieu of a "welcome back" party. The confidence, or perhaps insanity, in each keeps our leads from ever backing down or giving up. Butch always has a new great idea to make things better and Sundance always has his guns at the ready to make sure those plans can occur. It is a pairing of brains and brawn like any other, two friends living the high life by stealing and spending lavishly, looking for the next big score, the next slice of danger, or, if they're lucky, both. They've been at it for a long time at the point to which we are introduced, and they have a set system that has worked in the past. Sometimes people take things personally, however, and change the rules. You can only knock off the Union Pacific so often before its owner enlists a posse of hired hands to kill his enemies by paying more than they even steal from him. Now that is a grudge if I've ever heard one.You definitely can't discount the Oscar-winning cinematography from Conrad L. Hall either. His use of blocking and framing is pretty great and the ability to always have the leads in the foreground while still seeing the hunters on their trail in the distant desert is an impressive feat. Scenes like watching the torch lights split up in the nighttime distance, only to see them join up again in pursuit show the kind of planning that went into this production. And Hill also decided to be inventive in his process of editing and progression as well. The movie begins nicely with old silent film footage of the gang stealing from trains on a projection while the credits roll to its right, showing how the medium itself will be utilized to help tell the story. While there are more traditional montages, like the exploits of the Bandidos Yanquis with help from Ross's Etta Place in Bolivia, the most memorable sequence of time-lapse comes from a collage. Yes, the traveling from out west to New York to South America is told through sepia-toned photographs taken along the way. I can only guess that Roger Avary had this moment in mind when he chose to similarly show Victor's European vacation in Rules of Attraction.Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is by far more buddy comedy than weighty Once Upon a Time in the West fare, but that is not a bad thing. There are definite themes of time passing and men attempting to grow old, yet, sometimes, seeing that the job just can't be left behind. You don't become career criminals expecting to live a long life; you do it for the adventure and the fun a quick fortune can bring. The film does get a tad serious towards the end, especially when the world begins to fall around them and Ross starts to put into action her promise of following them anywhere as long as she doesn't have to be there when they are killed, but at the same time never loses its comedic edge. These two affable bad guys smile in the face of fear and as a result give us a very memorable conclusion to the adventure. With a brilliant freeze-frame, letting the end occur in the minds of the viewers, Hill caps one heck of a ride with the best action and banter yet. There is nothing like saving one's best for last to leave an impression.
Though it would later be cemented when they re-teamed with George Roy HIll in 1973's "The Sting," Paul Newman and Robert Redford create one of the greatest film duos in "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid." You'd be hard pressed to find two names that lit up a marquis together like these two back in their day and its exactly what makes a film like "Butch Cassidy" go from good to timeless.No, the film wouldn't be nothing without them, but it's their over-masculine insults trying to mask their deep care for one another that makes them both funny and endearing, as does their care-free attitude about theft. Hill reflects all of this in his film and it makes it that much better.The movie follows its titular outlaws in the twilight of their infamous careers. Their reputation precedes them and their age, particularly Butch's, catches up with them. Throughout the film is a sense that times are changing and that they won't be able to keep robbing banks and trains forever, an appropriate and meaningful foreshadow that affects the film. Things stay good for part of the film, but eventually someone is on their trail and they're just as crafty. Butch and Sundance go on the run, unable to shake them off the trail.Newman brings his usual swagger to the role of Butch. He's clearly aging, but his idealism and vision for finding the next big job never fades, even when it gets him into trouble. Newman carries the perfect sense of humor and is never afraid to make Butch seem vulnerable, as legendary as he is. Redford is the skilled, more easily angered of the two, always keeping his logic handy. He's always quick to insult Butch but always quick to defend him. The unspoken bond between these two is strong and excellent.The cinematography in this film is top notch, especially in the beginning. Conrad L. Hall gives these men the mystique, makes each scene feel like a tall tale or a legend. It's really quite beautiful and the changes from sepia to living color sell this mood even more. Even more than the images, the choice of scoring this film is the most interesting and daring choice of all. Burt Bacharach provides an old saloon theme, a more positive tune as his only scoring and then writes the classic tune "Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head" to accompany a care-free montage. The music echoes not the danger and peril as would a typical Western score, but the joy and timelessness of the story. It seems strange at first, but it's the right choice given the film's themes.No one forgets a great on-screen tandem and that is Newman and Redford. There's an undeniable chemistry between them though they are both strong enough to star on their own. It's this duel alpha male butting of heads that makes them play off each other so well and ultimately not be a contest of upstaging. ~Steven CVisit my site at http://moviemusereviews.blogspot.com


                
This is a fantastic western, starring two great actors Paul Newman and Robert Redford, complimented by a great performance by Katherine Ross. The highlight of the film for me was a fantastic chase sequence where Butch and Sundance are being hunted down by a relentess posse of men. The banter between the two leads is fantastic, the only minus point I would give this picture is the music, it was just odd, and didn't seem to fit the film, especially Raindrops keep falling on my head, ugh! Apart from that...an excellent film and one of my favourite westerns ***8/10***


                
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is a fantastic swansong to the good old days of the free and wild west. The titans Paul Newman and Robert Redford play superb the two (anti)heroes who cannot or don't want to adapt to the fast approaching new modern times, and in the end they find no place to hide anymore: in a town in Bolivia they fight their last stand.Great story, great acting, great production - and a fine mix of comedy/humor and melancholy make this one outstanding. The story of Butch and the Kid belong for sure to the greatest ones of the genre.


                
This movie was a pretty good movie, I don't know what it is about older movies but, I really enjoy older made movies. The characters were kind of the typical bank robbers you would see in old movies but the conversations they had were amusing to me. I liked the part before they jump of the cliff, he was trying to avoid jumping because he couldn't swim, His best friend laughed at him even though they were trapped in that spot and there was no way out. I would like to watch this movie again
One of the best movie I ever seen. Two main character's acting is wonderful. I'm not the biggest fan of gangsters movies but this movie make me force to say wow. Music is wonderful, acting Georges, directing best and scenario is excellent. I offer to watch this movie immediately and enjoy.


                
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is a western released in 1969 starring Paul Newman and Robert Redford. It covers the (mostly) true stories of the famous train robbers of the same names from the early 1900's. With smart dialogue and exciting action, reviewers constantly praise the film for its pure entertainment, ignoring its historical contexts and implications. Although Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid seems like a "turn your brain off" western action movie, it is possible to read into its political and social commentary of the sixties.As an anti-hero kind of film, director George Roy Hill does a good job for making the audience root for the lawbreakers. Not inaccurate to the real-life story, citizens would get excited when they were robbed by the two men as if they were celebrities. The men are not known to be killers and are actually quite honest people aside from stealing what isn't theirs. Their charm wins over everyone besides the Union Pacific Railroad. Before they know it, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid are being followed by trackers of incredible skill and marksmanship. They eventually decide to leave the country altogether and start a new life. This only works for a short time as they are eventually shot down by the Bolivian Army, or, at least that's how the story goes. There is some loose evidence that points to the men faking their deaths and going back to America with different names. George Roy Hill expresses this mystery through the iconic ending freeze frame of the two outlaws charging dozens of men with guns blazing. He never shows the actual deaths of the characters, implying an open-ended conclusion.What could be important about this film, however, is that it was filmed and released during the height of the Vietnam War, a very polarizing time for Americans. There were constant protests and urges for peace from the people. The war was not only accomplishing anything, but it was wasting the lives of the soldiers and the enemy.Butch Cassidy, although based on true events, parallels this turmoil fairly accurately with the timeline of the heroes. The two characters start out as rebels to society and unafraid to stand up to authority. They do question their actions, however, and contemplate going to war as soldiers in order to become more respectable. Before they are able to possibly follow through, their lives are threatened and they must flee to Bolivia. They eventually try to get real jobs and essentially become bodyguards for an American who needs to transport money from the bank to his workers. This is where the parallelisms start to come through.Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid have decided to conform to what's right in societal standards. They load their guns in a foreign country and swear to defend a fellow American. When this goes wrong and bandits get ahold of the money, the heroes are forced to gun them down. As the Sundance Kid watches the six corpses roll down the hill, he flatly says "well, we've gone straight." This demonstrates a huge conflict of morals regarding what's right in the characters' mind and what's right determined by authority. By following the law, they end up committing worse atrocities than when they were breaking it. Adding to that conflict, the Bolivian bandits, who spoke no English, were barely different than the bandits the two heroes were. This is basically what war is all about: killing the foreign version of your role in society. Soldiers kill other soldiers, both who think they are doing what is right. Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid in Bolivia could easily be two American soldiers in Vietnam ignoring their morals to "go straight". Butch Cassidy and The Sundance Kid is an entertaining film, but it is not done justice when neglecting the possible messages it has hidden under its sleeves. The sixties were a time for rebellion and speaking out against the brutality of war. George Roy Hill could have easily been taking part in that. The trigger-pulling western could have something to say behind the horse chases, explosions, and fast- paced banter.
I went into this movie without knowing much about it, and I was pleasantly surprised. It's definitely much more of a modern western than something like "The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly"; partially due to the fact that it was made several years later, yes, but it actually takes place in the early 20th century - I did a double take when the bicycle showed up. And, it's based on the lives of two very real bandits, which made it all that much more interesting - it was almost a sort of western "Bonnie & Clyde."The cinematography in this movie was beautiful - all the wide, sprawling outdoor shots were something to behold. There were some great indoor shots too - notably the first scene with Sundance and Etta. All the close-up, tight shots made the scene very tense. I won't write much about the acting in this movie, because everyone has said it already, but Newman and Redford were excellent - witty dialogue, great attitude. Marvelous stuff. If you like westerns at all, watch this movie.
This movie is in some ways pretty uninspired. It follows two clever and super talented bandits with hearts of gold through a period of their life. In that regard, it's a run of the mill western. Don't get me wrong, they are both very likable, and the chemistry between them is really good. But as far as plot goes, it is nothing new.What makes this movie stand out to me, is how unusually it is structured. I find this to me true with several of the movies written by Goldman, but it's not a typical 3-act ordeal, where you could summarize the excitement with a graph. It goes from here to there, and navigates expertly through moments of peril and moments of calm.


                
"Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid" tells the mostly true story of a pair of notorious outlaws on the lam. The film won four Oscars and is now regarded as a cinema classic. However, for me, it took a few viewings before I really warmed up to it.The movie is anything but a typical western. For one thing, part of the story takes place in Bolivia, of all locations. There's also more comedy than is usual for a western. Lastly, the Burt Bacharach score defies convention. Some of these quirks set the film apart in a good way while the effect of others is debatable. Personally, I feel that the script struggles a bit with tone and I also find that Bacharach's music is ill-suited for a western.However, it's tough to fault the actors. Newman and Redford have good chemistry together, making this a touchstone for countless buddy comedies to come. Katharine Ross has a more limited role but she performs well nonetheless. There are also some memorable performances in smaller roles, including Strother Martin as a 'colourful' mining company employee.I'm not a big fan of William Goldman's script, despite the fact that it won an Oscar. There are indeed some memorable scenes and dialogue but there's also some material that isn't particularly memorable. The script is also a bit too jokey to be taken very seriously when it tries to be serious. That being said, the climactic showdown does show a deft combination of action, humour & drama.As for the direction, George Roy Hill's Oscar-nominated work is indeed above average. However, I find Conrad Hall's cinematography to be hit or miss. At times, he & Hill went for (and achieved) a washed out look which I didn't care for at all. The Burt Bacharach score, which won an Oscar (plus another for the song "Raindrops Keep Fallin' On My Head"), doesn't particularly appeal to me either. Perhaps it's the juxtaposition of then-contemporary music with the western background that is unpalatable to me.Nevertheless, despite these complaints the film is still enjoyable. It's undeniably required viewing for movie buffs, though I would caution that the merits of its eccentricities are open to debate.


                
A great look at two talented, likable and shrewd outlaws; full of witty dialogs and exciting action/chase sequences. Pacing issues and minor flaws are taken care of by some good acting and powerful script. A quintessential buddy film, the way Butch & Sundance work together and that's what drives the movie.Watch it if you are a fan of westerns or just good movies. A funny, exciting and superbly made with a lot of silent scenes and a montage of photographs too! A few memorable scenes & remarkable music, specially the song: ~Raindrops keep falling on my head~! The movie's ending- the famous freeze frame- is so perfect too!


                
Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is a story about the characters themselves. There isn't much focus on the plot, but mostly the characters and the light-hearted mood. The whole story is about the unique relationship between Butch and Sundance. They always keep their sense of humor even when faced with death. They laugh when they know they're being chased and mocked. It doesn't seem they take anyone or anything serious. They even share girlfriends and this shows that they do not have any real affection for anyone. Their dynamic relationship allows them to know what one another is thinking. An example is during the end when Butch yells "Australia" before Sundance can ask him the question. The film is also a type of "growing awareness" film. They are slowly realizing that banks are what they used to be and their job is getting more difficult. Butch Cassidy: What happened to the old bank? It was beautiful. Guard: People kept robbing it. Butch Cassidy: Small price to pay for beauty. Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is one of the great buddy movies of all time. It's a great all around film filled with everlasting humor, drama and action. It's impossible not to like the two characters that lead this film from the very beginning. This film makes me want to have a friendship like they have. There is much to enjoy about this film; the story, the period, the cinematography, the score and especially the characters. The true driving force of this film is the dialogue which is owed to the leading actors and the screenwriter. The two leads are very much alike on the inside but on the outside they bare some differences that make them very dynamic. Sundance is a more traditional western character that uses his gun skills to solve problems while Butch is more optimistic and uses his ideas to get away. "You just keep thinking Butch, that's what you're good at." Their sense of humor is always on the same page, however. They always remain to laugh and give each other a hard time, even when faced with death. In the finale, as they both lay bloody and out of breath, they still manage to ridicule each other. "Is that what you call giving cover?" "Is that what you call running?"
Basically this is a great movie because it is being very unique and fresh with is approach. It's hard to describe this movie really. It's stuck somewhere between being a typical old fashioned western and a more modern one, while taking a very adventurous and entertaining approach to it all.Even though the western genre was still very popular at the time and also very much alive, this movie yet feels the need to look back at it and pay tribute, as if the genre had long been gone already. Really, I see this movie as an homage to the '60's westerns and it uses all of its very typical ingredients and even pokes some fun at it, without making the movie a parody of the genre. A real accomplishment, since you actually can really still take this movie as a comedy.But it however is more being a comedy because of how entertaining it is with its story and characters and not because it is filled with some slapstick or moments that will make you laugh out loud. It's more subtle than that, which helps to make the movie work out as a throughout entertaining one and a very pleasant watch.The movie mostly is being so fun and entertaining to watch, due to its two main characters, played by Paul Newman and Robert Redford. They are a great screen duo and portray some very memorable characters, with a great chemistry together. Besides, their acting is really great as well obviously. Especially Newman shines, like he basically always did, in every role he played in the '60's.It's also being a real adventure movie with its story, that takes you to a lot of places, while the two main characters are being on the run. During their journey they come across a bunch of different characters, while also still trying to make some money as well. Most western are of course more or less being like this but this one definitely all takes it a step further. It's actually being more of an adventure movie than a western, so even when you really aren't that big on westerns, you could still definitely enjoy this movie.It's a pleasantly directed movie, with a nice fresh and original approach to it. Visually there is also very little wrong with the movie. It has a great style all throughout, which really reminds you of the '60's western genre, while the movie at the same time still manages to feel like a much more modern movie as well, with a great and unique musical score by Burt Bacharach and a very young Sam Elliott in it too. It actually was his very first movie role and it perhaps isn't a coincidence that it is in a western.Simply one very entertaining movie!8/10 http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
Paul Newman is the amiable 'Butch Cassidy', and Robert Redford is the solitary 'Sundance Kid'. Following the true story of the west's most successful outlaws, this movie ranks with 'The Searchers' and 'The Good, the Bad and the Ugly' as one of the best of its genre. It is funny, entertaining, and although it does have brilliant action sequences, it is not overly packed, like many westerns. When the law begins to catch up with them using the new Pinkerton Agency, Butch and Sundance must travel to Bolivia with Sundance's girlfriend: Etta Place (Katherine Ross). This superbly lively and emotional western has gained a rightly deserved reputation for its comic and artistic effects. For those that find John Wayne too boring and Clint Eastwood too gritty, this is the perfect film. George Roy Hill's greatest success, this film will forever live as a classic.


                
Everybody know this is a clever, anachronistic piece of commercial of offal, written by a wise guy and directed by a man of no artistic pretensions whatever, but after more than forty years this remains a charming comedy of two roguish and uber-handsome outlaws in the Old West.Newman is Butch Cassidy as Peck's bad boy, always leading the taciturn gun-slinging Redford, as the Sundance Kid, astray. Together, they have the sensibilities of Harpo Marx. It's "based on a true story," meaning half of it is made up. Katherine Ross as the real-life beauty, Etta Place, is pleasant to look at but seems here chiefly to prove that Butch and Sundance aren't queer, since she has little to do but undress and make predictions of doom.Some of the gags are clunkers ("Man, I got vision --") while others are pretty good ("This may be the garden spot of Bolivia --"), but that's true of most comedies.It was filmed all over the place and the location shooting and photography by Conrad Hall are exceptional. I imagine the long-distance shots during the pursuit were filmed in Mexico because it's getting more difficult to find sweeping panoramas of hills and mountains in a country that is now approaching a perfect state of urbanization, or rather suburbanization. One shivers with agoraphobia when he can look for miles in any direction and not see a telephone pole or a pall of smog or a Gold's Gym.Let's see. This was released in 1969. The year before, "The Wild Bunch" had scored a big hit at the box office, so we have a thoroughly misplaced scene of slow-motion death here. (I blame Akira Kurosawa for starting the whole wretched business in "Seven Samurai.") Of course "The Wild Bunch" led to a host of imitations, but so did "Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid." How many semi-comic buddy action movies followed? I have counted them. There were four hundred and forty-two imitations, not counting those in Urdu. I mention "Lethal Weapon" only in passing.Here's another thing, propelled strictly by commercial considerations, that was imitated. Burt Bacharach's original score was contemporary, diverse, and colorful -- waltzes, polkas, rag time, a gallop, a successful pop tune. I always felt that Burt Bacharach's popular music during the late 1960s was inventive and surprising, a nice alternative to The Beatles, whom I enjoyed immensely. Of course Burt Bacharach's songs and movie scores were always middle-class but his talents seem to fit this film because nobody in it -- not Newman, Redford, or Ross -- sounds like anything other than middle class themselves.Anyway, it's a lot of fun.
Contained within the running time of George Roy Hill's Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is one of the greatest classic moments in the Western movie genre. The two titular characters (Paul Newman and Robert Redford) are trapped between a sheer drop into a river and a 'super-posse' of the best trackers, sharpshooters, and lawmen money can hire. One wants to take his chances jumping into the river, the other wants to shoot it out with the posse and they bicker with each other like an old married couple, partially forgetting about the bounty hunters coming up behind them.That's just one example of many classic moments in this memorable Western: a slightly fictionalized retelling of the true story of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, the two leaders of the Hole in the Wall outlaw gang that gained notable notoriety during the 19th century and into the early 20th century as they robbed trains and banks, fled from lawmen, tried to evade captured by fleeing to Bolivia, and just finding themselves wrapped up in the same mess again. Not very much is known about the personalities of the real Butch Cassidy and Sundance Kid, but Newman and Redford's performances bring to life two of the most memorable characters in film history.Basically, we Butch, who is the brains of the outfit. He plots, his scams, he comes up with the wildest ideas to get out of their seemingly never-ending predicaments. He's also quite pacifistic, having never shot anybody before. And then there's Sundance, who is just the opposite. Quick on the draw, bulls-eye with the aim, pessimistic, ready to fight any day. There is no moment of true friendship seen between the two of them and we can't imagine how there ever could have been since they are constantly being locked up in arguments about what methods of escape they should take next. They seem attached to each other simply by the fact that they were the two more infamous outlaws of the time and had scrambled their way out of countless scenarios.We have two really good actors under the command of a really good director and they are what really makes this movie work. The plot: it's nothing special. Just the basic, outlaws-on-the-run conventional tale but the talents of these three men make it work above others. There is also director Hill's effective blending between moments of silence and serenity and constant, ominous brooding omens of the worst kind. Such as the rumbling, storm-like sound effects used for the approach of the 'super-posse', which really heighten the efficacy of their presence since we seldom see them up close.It's also a very well blend of action, adventure, humor, drama, and comedy all into one motion picture. No, it's not perfect and there are a few elements and scenes in the film that I am not in favor of, such as this sequence where nothing is shown on screen except a slide-show of photographs that really overstays its welcome at least for me. But putting these minor complaints aside, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is a well-crafted Western and it continues to stand out as one of the most beloved classics of all time and it features one of the most exhilarating final gunfights I've ever seen.


                
This film directed by George Roy Hill and written by William Goldman in 1969 is a true classic western. Robert Redford as the Sundance Kid, and Paul Newman as Butch Cassidy are wonderful together. In their first film together, they play the roles of outlaws who make a living robbing trains. After a relentless posse is formed to track them down, Butch and Sundance are constantly on the run eventually flushed to Bolivia where they attempt to continue their wistful ways. The cinematography is breathtaking at times although i thought the scenes from Bolivia were somewhat poor. This box-office hit won two Oscars, one by David Goldman for his script writing and the other by Burt Bacarach and Hal David for the movies theme song "Raindrops Keep Falling On My Head". Katherine Ross also plays the part of Sundances beautiful girlfriend Etta Pace. If you are a Newman and Redford fan this is a must see! A bit of trivia: Newman first offered the part of Sundance to Jack Lemmon who declined.


                
Bountiful servings of fun, excitement, and two wondrous performances by Paul Newman and Robert Redford.A entrancing classic of old westerns, set across the vast expanse of the frontiers and into the Andean foothills. A truly memorable experience and adventure of two friends and their crime filled journey.I truly enjoyed this film, most strongly I felt that the screenplays characterisation of Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid was its greatest asset, encoupled with the strong chemistry between the two leads in addition to the Kid's love interest played endearingly by Katherine Ross.The highly stylistic methods of delivery within the film, with its somewhat unorthodox narrative for a western, bring a unique and unforgettable film. It is as tight as a drum and wonderfully directed, with many successful executions in shock, awe and beauty layered into the picture. The clever use of cinematography, to transition of hued black and white into vibrant colour adds to the tone and style of the picture, to a highly successful degree. Also, the famous song of "Raindrops Keep Fallin' on My Head", is very joyous, fun and a real hallmark of family friendly, wholesome cinema when in the context of the film.However, I feel that certain scenes were not of the same excitement. In particular, the chase scene across what felt like half of America, I felt dragged just a little over its welcome, but I understand it's great function in building how we perceive the characters, their friendship and trust.Overall, I highly enjoyed this film and give it a healthy 8/10, for it is a masterwork in acting, editing, though it may drag a tad in places and feel a little repetitive in some instances, but I do not feel that these hinder ones enjoyment of the film to any great extent.
This film has some elements that would resemble a parody of a western movie, similar to "Blazing Saddles," but it stays true to the formula of a western movie, such as bank robbery, revolvers, and horseback riding. The acting from Paul Newman and Robert Redford is very good, but the way their characters act is kinda cartoony.The story, at the "talkie points," moves kinda slow, but when the action happens, it stays interesting until the "talkie points" come up again. The ending mimics "Bonnie and Clyde" with the two protagonists getting gunned down for crimes they committed. Overall, a good film with some faults, but good! I would recommend it to people who love western movies or people who are fans of stories similar to "Bonnie and Clyde."
I really enjoyed watching this movie, it reminded me of the old cowboy shows that I used to watch with my grandpa. Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is about a pair of friends who rob trains and banks with their gang of criminals. However, once they start to be followed by an unknown group they have to run away. Butch and Sundance separate from the gang and run to South America with Etta Place (Sundance's girlfriend) where they team up with a few people and rob banks until eventually they get caught and supposedly killed. We see them go though all the trials of living a life of crime during that time, but also how easy it was to get away with it. This movie was a good source of history for Utah and the infamous criminals that roamed around. My favorite part about this movie was the friendship that you could see between Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid, they really were best friends, at least portrayed in this film. I didn't really like the part at the end where we aren't sure if they died or not, but that's how the actual history of it goes and it's kind of sad. I enjoy movies about history, and this is a story I've been interested in for awhile, so if this director makes more films like this, I wouldn't mind seeing them. The filming was just like any other movie I've seen, there wasn't anything too spectacular about it that made it stand out to other films but its pretty cool to know that some parts of it was filmed in Utah.
Amidst my recent western marathon, Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid is the only film I've watched based on true events. This film is carried by the tremendous chemistry between Paul Newman's Butch Cassidy and Robert Redford's Sundance Kid. It is by far one of the best on screen duos I've ever had the pleasure of watching. They play off one another brilliantly with a back and forth witty dialogue that reminded me of Ocean's Eleven. One of my favorite lines being:Sundance Kid: "I'll go."Butch Cassidy: "This is no time to be brave. You go."The film picks up with the two outlaws near the end of their career in robbery. After being chased off to Bolivia the two begin robbing banks there until the authorities finally catch up with them. Going out on some further witty dialogue about moving to Australia moments before stepping out of a barn and going out in a blaze of glory.Going into Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid I only knew two things about it; they both die and the famous bike scene highlighted with the soundtrack Rain Drops Keep Falling On My Head which plays a pivotal moment for the infamous duo. This moment is meant to depict the high point of their careers because after that moment everything starts to go downhill leading to their demise - a calm before the storm if you will.Another interesting scene for me was when they decide to go "straight" taking up a job as an older man's hired protection. Here Butch Cassidy admits to The Sundance Kid that he's never shot anyone before. The first time he kills anyone is when he's on the right side of the law blurring the line between bad and good. You forget that these two are the outlaws, but you can't help but find yourself rooting for them.One thing I noticed about this film was how much Brad Pitt looks and acts like a young Robert Redford. It is almost uncanny and now makes me want to go watch 2001's Spy Game starring the two. This is a great western, but at a much slower pace than most. The film focuses mostly on the relationships and dialogue than it does the action. However it is captivating with the beautiful scenery and makes you feel like you know these two men after two hours. This isn't your typical western, but it is all the better for it.
A word of warning for those who might expect a standard western. It is not. It is deliberatedly made to confuse you a bit, to do things differently. Some wont be pleased by that, because they long for a straight western story. It is not. It definitely has got a sixties feel to it, in which period a lot of experimenting was done. The 2 robbers arent fearless for instance. One of them hasnt even ever killed a man. That's unheard of in a standard western, where men are always butch. His name is butch cassidy, but he isnt really butch at all. These subtle tongue in cheek gests at the western genre, wont get picked up by the more casual viewer, who might easily think it is neither fish or flesh and even somewhat boring, because of the pace of the movie. I think this movie can best be judged as a mild parody of the standard western genre. The story is about 2 legendary bankrobbers who are being chased down to the south, after they became too greedy. Some good jokes, some nice action. Just a delight to watch.Special note for the cinephiles: The photography by Conrad L Hill needs to be especially praised, because it features some of the most stunning vistas of deserts ever recorded on the silver screen, a quality you would not expect to see in a comedy western. When you look at the resume of this photographer you will understand that this man is a grandmaster in his line of work. He has filmed impressive classics like "The Marathon Man", "Fat City", "Cool Hand Luke" and modern classics like "American Beauty" and "Road to Perdition". I dare say that this photographer stands among the greatest photographers of american movie history.


                
I wouldn't call this a must-see for any form of movie fan. It's great and doesn't give the illusion of perfection, but there are problems. However, if you want to get a career in production, especially as a screenwriter, director, or DP, you should watch it if only for instructional purposes. As a whole, it's memorable and therefore it isn't surprising that it's regarded as a classic film.The story follows two outlaws who start off robbing trains with their cronies, but later have to go on the run after their band is killed by law enforcement. We see nothing of our antagonists, who are loosely named but never have any development. We are meant to like Butch Cassidy because of his light-hearted optimism more than the sullen and irritable Sundance. Butch also seems to have more self-confidence and is okay with what he does, whereas Sundance tries to hide behind facades of toughness that betray his fears, making him seem almost cowardly instead of rationally afraid. What is interesting about their friendship is that they seem to know very little about one another and yet have complete faith in each other. It makes you wonder what it was like when they first met. They seem to have been friends for a decent amount of time and are familiar with the other's tendencies and personality. With the pair throughout some of their escapades is their shared lover Etta Place. She is pretty well written for her type of character, clearly transcending the social norms of women in her setting and perhaps even those of the 1960's. She is not objectified or portrayed as weak, but neither is she a man-eater that can combat law enforcement single-handedly like a female superhero. Basically, we can see that she is a strong woman without ever actually being shown it.The plot can cater to fans of pretty much any genre because it contains elements of several genres, but none is overly prominent. There is excitement and the illusion of action throughout, but the only true action set piece comes at the climax. There is a romantic plot with Butch and Sundance trading Etta, but it's not overly prominent. There is a bit of mystery in who is chasing the two/three outlaws. The western setting and bank robbing scenes also cater to fans of westerns and crime movies. And, as with any work of cinema, there is a feeling of dramatic conflict throughout. However, none of these plot lines are ever fully resolved, which might be disappointing. The ending, while picturesque, doesn't bring a satisfyingly final conclusion to any of the story's conflicts.In a production sense, the film is a masterpiece. The directing and camera-work is very artsy and distinct, particularly at the beginning. If the entire movie had been shot as well as the first thirty minutes was, I would have loved it, but instead I just liked it. The only place where the stylized photography didn't work for me was the four minute montage of black and white pictures that showed the three characters traversing the east coast. The script is very well done in a dialogue sense, though pacing is an issue at several points. Newman, Redford, and Ross give us three great performances as well and bring the characters to life before us.I would recommend this to most viewers, but do strongly advise that you have an open mind while watching it and try to appreciate it. I know that this isn't always possible, but it's still worth trying here. If you aren't enjoying it by the time the characters depart for Bolivia, it's probably in your best interests to stop. For those who see it through, you might think it's overrated, perhaps rightly, but it stands the test of time better than most films. Overall Rating: 8/10.
