I'm glad to see I wasn't the only one disappointed by the ending. If this movie had ended with L. B. Jefferies realizing that Lars Thorwald was innocent, it would have been great. But no, it turns out that Thorwald actually did kill his wife. If ever there was a movie that needed a twist ending, it was Rear Window. And I'll admit that I thought the camera never leaving the room seemed gimmicky. And didn't people use blinds in New York in the 1950s? And if Jefferies has no problem seeing his neighbors, why doesn't any one of them see him, especially with that huge camera lens he's holding. (Well, Thorwald sees him in the end, but why did it take him that long? Jefferies had his camera lens pointed at his room for more than half the movie.)And even after I accepted the fact that the twist ending I had hoped for wasn't going to happen, I couldn't get past how stupid the climax was. Really? The villain is stopped by camera flashbulbs? That's something I'd expect to work only in a cartoon.I've seen two other Hitchcock movies and I didn't like them either. Vertigo was just boring. The villain in that movie just came up with the most convoluted plan to get rid of his wife. And North by Northwest wasn't that great either. Dr. No, From Russia with Love, and Goldfinger (the first three James Bond movies) were all more exciting and all of them had a lower budget than North by Northwest. But Rear Window is definitely the worst of the three.
First of all, we don't know how Lisa fell in love with Jeff in the first place. They don't match. However we see that about 30 minutes, movie tries to develop some characters. It seems that Lisa and Stella exists in the script just to make it work.Doors are just open for public, even after Thorwald found out that Jeff is watching his apartment.Lots of unnecessary characters/windows that didn't add anything to the plot. It could be done in an hour.What was Thorwald's motivation? Even if he is a psycho and does this for fun, you must show that. No clue for this.Thorwald does almost all his works with windows open.Why would Thorwald bury something important in his flowerbed? And why would he take that thing to his apartment after killing the dog? Get rid of it already.They saw a ring and conclude that he killed his wife. He's a salesman. He could simply get the ring to sell.Thorwald walks toward Jeff's apartment like slow motion!!! And Jeff makes his speed even slower with those lights!!! What?At the end nobody sues Jeff for watching them through the window. Everyone is happy and windows are all open.Overall, Thorwald is an idiot. This movie is about an idiot murderer. I don't know why people made this movie or Hitchcock that big.
****MAJOR SPOILER ALERTS**** This movie could have been about a 9 but they built it all up to the most stupid and predictable ending ever!Where was the twist? What was the message? Just because you are paranoid doesn't mean your neighbors aren't trying to kill you...? Really disappointing. Hitchcock had it primed to deliver a powerful ending with Stewart's paranoia either destroying his own life (getting his girlfriend jailed, his best friend fired, and losing his own mind) and/or destroying his neighbor's life for no reason (getting him arrested for murder even though his wife was still alive, or killing him/suicide out of fear).The era this film was made demanded a much more wholesome ending. As a result we were forced to accept that despite all logic and evidence to the contrary, the paranoid crackpot murder theory of a shut-in depressed photographer was dead right from the beginning.This film should be remade with a much more intelligent and thought provoking ending.
I don't know what the people find so interesting about the movie.. First of all, everybody's lives are taking place with 'open windows'.. This is very unlikely in a neighborhood. Assuming this is the plot of the movie and watching it, you will not be surprised if you fall asleep. The movie progresses very slowly and I almost slept away once. Had to play the movie again and force myself to watch it during day time.There is no twist in the movie. No turns, no thrill or no suspense.. Everything moves as expected and the climax is also bad. Better not watch it and waste your time.. Go for Vertigo or Rebecca. They are better..


                
While the predictable plot, agonizingly slow pace, and excessive dialog weighed heavily against this so-called "classic", apparently Hitchcock was feeding the baseless flames of McCarthyism with this film. I bet a million housewives left the film thinking "I bet I'm right about my neighbor..." or "as a good citizen, I should keep an eye on mine". Blatantly, Hitchcock was glorifying voyeurism and exploiting contemporary fears.The only reason I can figure why this movie has such extremely high ratings is that people are (still) really afraid of what their neighbors might be up to (greatly renewed post-9/11), are proud voyeurs themselves, or are simply lobotomized.


                
Um, Where do I start?  There wasn't enough evidence to accuse the neighbor of murder...there was way too much dialogue....the plot line was a little shaky and very boring.  I would have to say that this movie is a huge disappointment for me.  Could there be any more talking, please? (note the sarcasm) A movie is supposed to depict story through imagery and finite dialogue, I seriously fell asleep after the droning on and on and on and....on.  After the first 30-45 minutes, I couldn't stay awake, I actually had to fast forward through a large portion in the middle.  And where does Jeffries get off suspecting his neighbor?  That was not believable in the least.  Uh, if I were to spy on any of my neighbors, which is a little, no a lot, weird in the first place, I wouldn't be so bold as to jump to the conclusion that he murdered his wife based on his going in and out of his apartment in the rain at odd hours and carrying a saw and knife around the house.  I got the impression that the neighbor's wife was so ill that she was taken to her family's home out of town via the train due to the husband's incapability of caring for her any longer.  In other words, he moved her home to mom and dad because he couldn't take on the responsibility anymore.  And if you are as ill as she seemed to be, why would you need your purse or jewelry of all things?  Not going anywhere anyway.  I didn't get that the neighbor was a killer or a threat.  I understand that Jeffries thought so, but when anyone is that bored and lonely with nothing else to do but sit near a window and neighbor watch, your imagination gets the best of you.  Needless to say when it was all said and done, I was very displeased, but had a good nap.


                
This Picture will remain a timeless masterpiece as it represents basic day to day activities with the thrill of a murder added, after all who hasn't looked out their back window and wondered what was going on behind the curtain of the facing house? With a superb cast who are totally convincing, this movie will captivate and thrill it's audience."Drama is life, with the dull bits cut out"Gareth


                
