I'm glad to see I'm not the only person who thought this movie was a stinker. How Hitchcock maintained his title of "master of suspense" after making this is beyond my comprehension. There is NO suspense in the movie. Jeffries suspects his neighbor is a killer, and, golly-gee-willikers, his neighbor IS a killer. Wow, what a twist. I haven't been so underwhelmed since I saw "The Burbs" (which is a far better movie and much more entertaining), and "Disturbia" at least delivers some true action."Rear Window" is so tepid you wonder if audiences of 1954 did not have a pulse. If they found this suspenseful, they must have been hypnotized.Aside from the boring, uneventful plot, there are other serious issues with this movie. Stewart's relationship with Grace Kelly is totally unbelievable. He is 20 years older than she is. He should be flirting with someone his own age <U+0096> namely Thelma Ritter who was about the same age as he. But Hollywood <U+0096> even today <U+0096> is always pairing old dudes with young women, as if that happens every day in real life. (Grace seems to have made a career of slobbering on old men <U+0096> Gary Cooper, Bing Crosby, etc. What did people see in her anyhow?)If Stewart really is a rough-and-tumble photojournalist, you'd think he'd have a better physique. His nude chest is embarrassing to look at <U+0096> the only thing more embarrassing is when he locks lips with Grace Kelly.One also wonders if Stewart's character was an idiot. He can't occupy himself any other way than spying on his neighbors? He doesn't know how to read? He doesn't have a TV? He can't listen to the radio? He IS in a wheelchair; I thought the reason for a wheelchair was so the person could be mobile; he is not bedridden.This movie might have had some success if it had been shot in black-and-white. Then there could have been a "noir" thing going. But there is so much talk, talk, and more talk that I doubt even that could save it.Critics have also made a big deal of the "voyeurism" theme of this film, as if that is truly shocking somehow. Again, maybe that was a big deal in 1954, but in our day and age it is just yet another tired example of motion picture psychobabble.I admire Jimmy Stewart in Westerns <U+0096> he was generally good in them. But every movie he made for Hitchock was embarrassing (yes, I include that turkey "Vertigo" in the group); while this one is not quite as bad as "The Man Who Knew Too Much" it comes close. I hope I never have to sit through this again as long as I live!
Though I've enjoyed a couple other Hitchcock movies, this one is incredibly boring for 95+ percent of the viewing time. There are whole chunks of time wasted as the main characters debate about marriage and relationships that I thought we're going to somehow pay off but never do. What some people think is genius--the confinement of the action to Jimmy Stewart's apartment--is actually a severe handicap, as no energy is generated by interesting new locations or discoveries of place. The stagnant setting just intensifies the story's infectious feeling of malaise. There also should have been more of a mystery to it, to keep you guessing and interested. Instead, you pretty much know Thorvald is guilty right from the beginning, so there's not twist or surprise to help make things exciting. Again--extremely boring, the kiss of death for a "thriller." Skip this and watch North by Northwest instead.
Perhaps I am just a modern movie junkie, but I was pretty excited about this movie, and it just can't deliver.  If you don't mind sitting through 2 hours of monotony just to get 10 good minutes of suspense then go right ahead. I've had more enjoyable times watching ants kill a spider than I had during the first two hours of this movie.  The couple minutes of suspense at the end of the movie were great, but you pay a heavy price to see it.  Is this really the best Hitchcock could do???


                
This was solid and I enjoyed it for the most part. One thing that took away from the film was Jimmy Stewart, he came off like a cry baby. I also had a hard time believing that a woman like Grace Kelly would waste her time with an old, out of shape, wimp. Stewart was good in Vertigo so I thought this would be similar, but his constant whining got to me. Stewart's physique was an embarrassment, can you say bird chest? And he is with Grace Kelly? I don't buy it. But if Jimmy Stewart's job in this role was to come across like a weak, egotistical, perverted twit, then he did good.
I know it sounds like I'm complaining, but overall this movie is worth watching. I don't think this is Hitchcock's best however, I would give that nod to North by Northwest. Hitchcock is ill, so watch this and enjoy, just don't let all the Stewartisms ruin it for you.


                
