In '54, I was seven years old and this is one of the first 'grown up' movies I remember seeing. I have seen it at least ten times since and realize seeing something different each time.James Stewart is a photographer in a wheelchair recovering from an accident. He passes the time by watching his neighbors out his apartment window. He thinks that he witnessed a murder and has trouble convincing his girlfriend, Grace Kelly, to help prove a crime was committed.Three scenes that always stuck with me:(1) Stewart fighting off his attacker with flashbulbs (2) the smoldering kiss (3) the glowing cigarette in the dark apartment.Every bit a classic. I think this is THE BEST Hitchcock movie. No offense intended toward PSYCHO, but this movie has the more human aspects of fear and terror. This super cast includes Raymond Burr, Thelma Ritter and Wendell Corey.


                
Alfred Hitchcock's Rear Window, wittily written by John Michael Hayes, is one of his many films I think of as much of a technical exercise as anything else. It is in this sense like his silent The Lodger, the static, confined Lifeboat, and the cut-less, one set Rope. Considered in this light it is a cold masterpiece, playing more with the audience's thoughts and fears than with its softer, more personal emotions. As such, it is a very cerebral and satisfying piece of work. The plot is deceptively simple: a photographer (James Stewart) is stuck indoors with his leg in a cast during a hot New York summer. His socialite girl-friend (Grace Kelly) is eager to marry him but Stewart has his doubts, since he lives a wandering life and is from a different social class. He spends most of his time idling about and playing with his camera. In time he becomes a voyeur (which he probably already is, to a degree) and begins to observe his neighbors' private lives, as he views them through his lens in the courtyard. He develops attitudes toward each of them, ranging from mild amusement to empathy to sexual interest, depending on who he's looking at. Without realizing it he is really looking at different aspects of either himself or his relationship with Kelly. The courtyard is a kind of mirror of his soul. These people and their predicaments represent different sides of his (and to a lesser extent Miss Kelly's) personality, offering glimpses of potential past, present and future selves; and it is not always a flattering picture. The newlyweds are continually having sex; Miss Torso is a beautiful young woman who entertains many suitors; there is a childless, somewhat pathetic-seeming middle-aged couple who dote over a pet dog; Miss Lonelyhearts is a depressed, aging spinster with no apparent friends; and the young, bachelor song-writer, when he isn't trying to compose songs, is either throwing parties or fits. Then there are the Thorwalds, a squabbling couple across the way. Stewart is at first only slightly interested in them until Mrs. Thorwald disappears and her husband starts going out at night carrying paper parcels that look like they came from a butcher shop. Soon Stewart is, understandably, suspicious. He convinces Kelly that something is amiss, but has trouble with his detective friend. His nurse Stella agrees that something is wrong across the courtyard, and the threesome become amateur detectives. Rear Window is great fun. It's a thriller, a romance, a mystery, and at times a comedy of manners. The actors all give superb, unflashy performances. Hitchcock had been making movies for three decades by the time he undertook this one, and he knew exactly what he was doing; everything happens as it should, on time, with no fuss or bother. The courtyard set is magnificently designed and photographed; it looks both artificial and realistic, and seems almost to change at times, as circumstances dictate. This is, after Dial M For Murder, Hitchcock's first truly 'fifties' film, which is to say it is a far cry from the genteel romances and spy stuff he'd been doing before. There's less use of atmosphere here, as a new, more independent director was emerging, decidedly post-Selznick, often using color. Hitchcock is playing a sort game of cinematic chess, moving people and things around here and there, changing camera angles slyly, never showing his hand. The film lacks only warmth. All sorts of learned books and articles have been written about this picture, some of them quite silly; all at least partly right. This is at times a profound film, but it also aims to entertain, it has a light touch, and it can be scary, it's romantic about couples and cynical about people. There's a little bit of everything in it,--it's a work of art.


                
Having watched it for the second time recently, I was struck by how razor-sharp the film's script actually was. Sure, it didn't have a big Agatha Christie-type mystery reveal; but the banter and repartee between the main characters was just so well-written. Of course, the film's framing and camerawork is legendary (for good reason) and Grace Kelly has a luminous screen presence. Suspenseful, intriguing, and a film that shows off a master at the peak of his craft.


                
This movie really is a thinker. It keeps you going the whole time, never a dull moment! Hitchcock's directing is phenomenal in this thriller starring Grace Kelly and James Stewart. The way Hitchcock uses shadows and scenery in this film is in like any other.


                
Alfred Hitchcock's Rear Window is a fantastic example of his ingenuity and vision when creating films. While of course this movie has a great story with meaningful dialogue, the way Hitchcock tells the story is what truly is impressive. The movie starts with a panning shot around the main character's apartment, which reveals that he is a photographer who has broken his leg and is now wheelchair bound. Because of this the entire movie is shot from the perspective of the apartment. The camera never leaves. As a result, many important film techniques were necessary to create a complex story with multiple characters only looking from one spot. 
 Hitchcock is restricted to using only a few camera angles because the entire movie is shot from in perspective, for example eye-level for shots in the apartment, and then long shots and a few close-ups for things outside the apartment. But even with so few types of camera angles, Hitchcock uses the camera angles to advance the story. For example, every shot from the apartment is a long shot in the beginning, the same way anyone in the apartment would see. These long shots show the basis of what is happening in the scene, but it is difficult to see the details from this angle. but when the main character grabs a pair of binoculars to investigate further, a close is used, showing the viewer exactly what the character would see, and giving them the same amount of detail.
 Another technical piece of film that Hitchcock incorporates into the story is the use of light and dark. Early in the film the main character is spying on his suspicious neighbor, and he realizes he can be seen through his window, so he backs into his unlit apartment to stay hidden. This action of hiding in the dark is repeated throughout the film, until the neighbor eventually notices him and make's it to the apartment. Since the main character is crippled, he obviously can't fight. So, he uses the light and dark to his advantage. He turns all the lights off and uses flash bulbs to blind his attacker. Hitchcock uses light and dark as a weapon for the main character, as it's the only way he can defend himself with his condition.
 While Hitchcock uses camera tricks to create suspense and intrigue in the film, he mostly uses mise en scene to carefully create every scene and put everything exactly where it should be to perfectly tell the story. Many of the "mysteries" created in the film are crated purely out of the perspective of the main characters. For example, the suspicious neighbor is yelling at his wife, but the shade is down in their window, so neither the characters or the viewers know what's really going on. Or when the neighbor moves his wife's purse form the bedroom to another room, a wall perfectly blocks the neighbor from the main characters point of view. Every object in each scene, and every wall or blockage of something is carefully planned out by Hitchcock to create a sense of suspense and mystery, while just sitting in one spot, away from all the action.
 Hitchcock's Rear Window is truly a test of his creativity when directing a film. To be able to tell an interesting and well written story from the perspective of one person who doesn't move the whole movie really shows how good of a director Alfred Hitchcock is. He perfectly incorporates many technical pieces of film such as specific camera angles, right, and placement of subjects within a scene for giving the viewer a similar perspective to the main character, and creating an interesting and well-developed world just from the view of one rear window
Alfred Hitchcock's 1954 film Rear Window tells the story of magazine photographer L.B. Jeffries (James Stewart) as he recovers from an accident that left him confined to a wheelchair with a broken leg. Jeffries finds himself with little to do except sit in his apartment and look out through his window into the courtyard. From here he begins to casually spy on the day to day activities of his neighbors through their open windows. The plot thickens when he begins to suspect on of his neighbors, Lars Thorwald (Raymond Burr) of killing his wife. Jeffries convinces his insurance company nurse Stella (Thelma Ritter), girlfriend Lisa Freemont (Grace Kelley), and detective friend Thomas Doyle (Wendell Corey) of his suspicions and together they work to find out what happened to Mrs. Thorwald. Hitchcock's genius shines in this film as he decides to leave the camera (and so the audience) trapped in the apartment alongside Jeffries. The plot is viewed through Jeffries point of view, nearly every shot of the view from his window is accompanied by a shot of him reacting to what he and the audience just saw. The movie is a study into the compulsive voyeurism and natural curiosity of humans. The audience shares in Jeffries's compulsive curiosity to find out where Mrs. Thorwald had disappeared too. And just like how Jeffries eagerly watches Thorwald searching for another piece to the mystery the audience watches too, awaiting the next development with the same zeal. The limited camera also helps to create a wonderful sense of suspense throughout the whole film. Until the final moments of the film here is enough conflicting evidence that Thorwald could be either a murderer or an innocent salesman, creating a tense climax with a superbly suspenseful build up. The entire set itself is so well built and tells such a story by itself that it almost feels like a character. Each other apartment Jeffries can see is visually distinct and looks like a real lived in place, and each of their inhabitants seem to have full lives despite only having small glimpses into them. There seems to be a whole other set of movies playing for Jeffries outside his window, Miss Lonelyhearts's hopeless quest for a companion, the newlyweds' transition from the honeymoon phase to the nagging relationship of a long married couple, or the songwriter's fight to get his music produced. Each of these small cursory stories is still told with such elegance and technique on the periphery of the main story that it feels as tho Jeffries could have found interest in watching any one of the windows, not just the one hiding a murder. It's quite an accomplishment that in its 2hr run time Hitchcock managed to build a completely believable little world to tell his story in. On top of all the masterful film making the acting within Rear Window is extraordinarily good. James Stewart's plays Jeffries with such subtlety and depth, especially all the wordless reaction shots in which he seems to say more with just a raised eyebrow or furrowed brow than lesser actors would with a monoloque. On top of this Grace Kelly bring a great performance to the table as well, playing Lisa with elegance that gives way to a childlike recklessness and eagerness once she becomes invested in the mystery. Thelma Ritter and Wendell Corey bring a lot to the stage with their supporting performances as well. Even the actors who pay the neighbors, rarely getting a word of dialogue or any real character development still give off the sense of being fully realized real people incredibly well. All in all Rear Window is a masterpiece of a movie that combined the immaculate filmmaking of Hitchcock with a truly captivating plot all centered around an incredibly well thought out and executed gimmick. Who ever thought that a rear apartment window could be all you needed for such a great film?


                
Actually, this is the second movie Alfred Hitchcock that I just watched and his status as king of the cameo is not to be denied again. If Psycho is a movie with a really cool plot twist, "Rear Window" is a movie that takes only the first person's perspective. "Rear Window" is the film that brought Alfred Hitchcock won the Oscar nomination for the fifth time in the category of "Best Director". The film also received a nomination for "Best Screenplay" composed by John Michael Hayes."Rear Window" is a film that has its own uniqueness that takes the first person's point of view as if the audience got carried away and involved in the film. "Rear Window," tells the story of a professional photographer named L.B. Jefferies (James Stewart) just had an accident during an auto race that broke his leg and forced Jefferey to stay in a wheelchair. A sense of boredom has become something every day is felt, let alone he can only meet with the nurse, Stella (Thelma Ritter) and Lisa (Grace Kelly), who is his lover. Not much Jeff could do except to watch the neighbors' activities from behind the window was an amusement for him. Initially, it was just for fun until finally, Jeff felt there was something suspicious from one of his neighbors. Finally, the activity went too far and started dangerously.As I said earlier, "Rear Window" is a movie that invites the audience as if to take part in this movie. Hitchcock uses the first person through binoculars as if the viewer directly sees the incident. Hitchcock is very observant in exploiting the narrow space and viewpoint of the first person to build the tension of the audience. It is the most exciting and terrifying thing is when we can only see without being able to do something. In Rear Window, Hitchcock is able to break the boundary that separates the audience from the movie being viewed. Many of the suspense films that made me stunned, but the new Rear Window that can make me feel so helpless and unconsciously want to be able to interfere in the story."Rear Window" has a slightly slower plot so that at the beginning of the 20th minute it has made people feel bored and tired. A complete character recognition as well as relationships with people in particular. Here we begin to be invited to think about the truth behind Jeff's suspicions. Is he right or wrong? But, all that is forgotten either wrong or true. The climax is so tense, and appear worried at the characters.Hitchcock always succeeded in creating iconic moments in every movie. One of them is when Mr. Thorwald was right at the camera until it looked as if he was looking directly at us as a spectator. "Rear Window" is an incredible stage of tension in which the initial phase becomes a very slow introduction to full tension.


                
My years-long quest to see everything Alfred Hitchcock has ever made finally lead me, albeit far too late, to Rear Window. Hitchcock's 1954 feature starring Jimmy Stewart and Grace Kelly has been revered and countlessly referenced in the 62 years since its release. The film in which a wheelchair bound photographer with nothing better to do than look out the window of his New York apartment at his various neighbors becomes convinced that one of them has committed a murder. Bringing together a brilliant display of the various lives that make up a neighborhood and how each human effects the other, Rear Window was a long overdue treat.After injuring himself on a photo shoot, L.B. "Jeff" Jeffries (Jimmy Stewart) is wheelchair-bound with a broken leg. Since Jeff is single, for the most part abhorring the idea of marriage, the only interaction he enjoys throughout his long days are the visits of his caretaker, an occasional guest, and his girlfriend Lisa Carol Fremont (Grace Kelly). In order to help the time pass as he recovers, Jeff has taken a liking to watching his neighbors from his large apartment window. Living varied lives, each with their own schedules and idiosyncrasies, Jeff becomes entranced learning more about their lives behind his binoculars. Among his watching, Jeff notices a traveling salesman with a bed-ridden wife at home. He watches him take care of his wife and begins to learn his schedule. One day, Jeff notices that salesman's wife has disappeared and his schedule has drastically changed. The collection of oddities has Jeff convinced that his neighbor has killed his wife. Jeff is so convinced that he shares this belief with his girlfriend and caretaker, who initially dismiss him, then go on to help him. With no proof, the threesome hatches a plan to implicate the neighbor with murder by entering his apartment, even if it costs them their lives.Now I understand why I like the film Disturbia so much. I saw the 2007 version of Rear Window first, and was stunned that I liked it so much, being as I am no fan of Shia LaBeouf's; after seeing Rear Window, however, I can appreciate my liking of Disturbia more as it is basically a remake of the Hitchcock classic. I was initially disappointed to see that Rear Window was a color film, for some reason I thought I remembered that it was in black and white, but I got over it quickly when I first saw Jimmy Stewart; really, is he in anything that's not completely splendid? I really enjoy watching films by British directors, as I love the emphasis on dialogue within the films. Rear Window, had a wonderful emphasis on dialogue and the three principles delivered the lines quite well. There was a great deal of fun effects throughout this film, including the fun way Hitch filmed through the lenses of Jeff's camera and binoculars. Rear Window is a fantastic example of a distinction Hitch himself was sure to make; he made suspense pictures, not mysteries. It really doesn't matter to the film whether or not the man actually killed his wife, what is paramount, however, is the quest endured by the actors to find out whether or not Jeff's neighbor is a murderer. Another gripping suspense from the ultimate master in the genre, it is easy to see why Rear Window is the classic it has become.


                
Throughout the film, the director gives excellent shots to portray the characters emotions through visual means rather than speaking it aloud. As well as this you get a glimpse into several people whose homes are arranged behind his. Actor James Stewart gives a compelling performance as well. Showing both emotion and feeling through his being stuck in a cast and missing out on his normal adventurous lifestyle.While some scenes lack in interest and absurdly long focus on the dancer whose main character choice is bending over, this does show how his inability to live how he enjoys puts him in a state of boredom and often lust for the outdoors, and of course companionship. That paired with a script that is fit perfectly to the theme I'd say this film is worth the watch for any movie lover. I give Rear Window a nine out of ten rating.


                
Hitchcock takes all the ingenuity of previous films like Rope and Lifeboat, and translates them to Rear Window, one of his true masterpieces. Taking place in one apartment where the viewer is forced to see what Jimmy Stewart's character sees, we are the voyeuristic witness to all the goings-ons of his neighbours. Frequently we look into their homes and become a passive viewer of their lives, wondering why they do what they do, what they will do next, and whether anyone can see us. Not only is it a technological treat, it is a pinnacle of tension and suspense, complemented by the twisting plot, excellent dialogue, and marvellous performances from all.Stewart plays LB Jefferies, or Jeff, a well travelled photographer who hates the idea of settling down, of being trapped in the same place for any length of time. Ironically he has broken his leg, and is forced to stay in a wheelchair, in his apartment for a few months. Through his boredom, and his window, he watches his neighbours and the daily actions, giving them nicknames because of their behaviour. There is Miss Torso, an amorous young dancer, the newly-weds who like to keep themselves to themselves, Miss Lonely Hearts who spends her days planning how to catch the attention of men, and spends her nights failing. There is a tormented pianist whose music fills the air, and couple and their annoying dog. Lastly there is Lars Thorwald and his wife who are often arguing. Lisa is Jeff's girlfriend, a socialite who wants the opposite of Jeff- marriage, new dresses, and a place in high society. Their nurse Stella also visits to add some humour and spark. Jeff becomes suspicious when Thorwald's wife disappears, and at night he sees Thorwald acting strangely; taking small packages wrapped in paper from his flat, going back and forwards. Jeff becomes convinced that Thorwald has murdered his wife, and with Stella and Lisa begins to try to prove what they believe to a detective friend. They search for a body, for evidence that Miss Thorwald is alive etc, and soon we too are captivated, wondering if she is dead, or if it is all just a mistake.The last 20 minutes of Rear Window must rank among the most suspenseful in movie history, and its influence can still be seen today even in modern horror movies such as Ringu. The voyeuristic qualities are impressive and effective, and we are truly brought into the room with Stewart. There is excitement, comedy, romance, mystery, all the trademarks of Hitchcock, all flawlessly shown. Kelly is beautiful and feisty, her entrance memorable, her character strong, and in the end we see that although she will succumb slightly to Jeff's needs, she will remain independent. Stewart is wonderful, giving yet another landmark performance conveying paranoia, annoyance and helplessness like few other actors can. Burr is frightening as Thorwald, and Ritter is extremely good as Thelma, adding much needed relief from the tension with tongue in cheek humour. Each of the neighbours is distinct and we come to understand them. Full of cynicism about people, love, romance and relationships, though not harsh, Rear Window is one of the great films of the 50's, and is still highly watchable and entertaining today.9 out of 10
Alfred Hitchcock's second film with James Stewart is the story of Stewart's enforced idleness due to a broken leg. He's an active man, a news photographer, who constantly pushes himself into dangerous situations to get a picture and got a broken leg incidentally. Idleness for him is sure torture.Fortunately or unfortunately as things turn out he has a Greenwich Village apartment with a Rear Window that allows him to look on the neighbors across the courtyard. It's like watching about 15 different soap operas at once. And with his photographic equipment including a zoom telephoto lens, Stewart gets himself involved with the various soap opera plots.Stewart also has a girl friend in Grace Kelly who is playing a part that is really no stretch for her, a Park Avenue chic and rich woman who's really had quite a life of comfort. Stewart doesn't think she's ready for his kind of life and they have a running quarrel.That is until Stewart puts some conclusions together from observing one of the apartments and he thinks that salesman Raymond Burr has killed his wife. Although he can't convince his detective friend Wendell Corey, he does slowly convince Grace Kelly and Thelma Ritter his nurse of the validity of his conclusions.Everyone here does a creditable job, but I think the best performance comes from Raymond Burr. Burr, who played a lot of villains on the screen, usually plays them tough and mean. Hitchcock did a superb job in getting a performance of a really frightened man. Seeing the story of Burr and his wife through Stewart's eyes, it's the story of two very ordinary people apparently mismatched. Up until the last 15 minutes of Rear Window, we see Burr at a distance like the rest of Stewart's soap operas. When we do see him up close we find a very ordinary, but frightened man. It's his very ordinariness that makes Burr so frightening. The audience sees themselves in him, could we commit murder if sufficiently pushed hard enough?I suppose if James Stewart had a broken leg in 2005 and was laid up that way, he'd be busy on his personal computer and wouldn't have time to be looking across the courtyard. Televisions were still a luxury item in 2005. My grandparents still didn't have one at that date. Today Stewart could get all the afternoon soap opera action he wanted.A remake of Rear Window was done in 1998 with Christopher Reeve. Of course the difference is that Reeve was a paraplegic and dealing with a real and permanent situation on film and in his life. It was a whole new kind of Rear Window.Rear Window has all the elements one expects from Hitchcock, thrilling plot, witty and sophisticated dialog and a wry conclusion to it all. A very enjoyable film.


                
There can be absolutely no doubt that Alfred Hitchcock was one of the most gifted film directors ever to work in Hollywood, and 'Rear Window' is one film that demonstrates most exhaustively his enormous talents. I must admit that, on my first viewing of the film, I was quite new to his work, and, whilst I thought it was a solid achievement, it didn't strike me as being anything particularly special. How wrong I was! With subsequent viewings of 'Rear Window,' include one in a cinema, I was able to better appreciate its intricacies: the flawless performances, the 100 minutes of subtle, wonderfully-executed suspense, the shades of delightfully-dark humour, the manner in which Hitchcock places the viewer inside Jeff's tiny apartment. Released in 1954, 'Rear Window' was the second of four Hitchcock films to star James Stewart (the others being 'Rope,' 'Vertigo' and 'The Man Who Knew Too Much'), and the second of three to feature one of Hollywood's greatest beauties, Grace Kelly ('Dial M for Murder,' 'To Catch a Thief').On the surface, the plot to 'Rear Window' is deceptively straightforward. The screenplay was written by four-time Hitchcock collaborator John Michael Hayes, and based loosely on the short story 'It Had to be Murder,' by Cornell Woolrich. Confined to his apartment with a broken leg, successful adventure photographer L. B. "Jeff" Jefferies (Stewart) passes the tedious days and weeks by peering through the window at his neighbours, watching and learning their daily activities and rituals. When he is not being a voyeur, Jeff is distracted by visits from an embittered insurance company nurse, Stella (Thelma Ritter), and his beautiful, glamorous socialite girlfriend, Lisa (Kelly). Jeff's "peeping tom" activities become considerably more serious than simply a means of passing the time, and he is soon immersed in the triumphs and failures of his neighbours. On one particular night, Jeff notices a man in the apartment across the courtyard (Raymond Burr) acting in a suspicious manner, and, despite the doubt of his friends, he begins to suspect that this man has committed an absolutely heinous crime.The sheer genius of 'Rear Window' is not just how well-executed this storyline is, but how Hitchcock ties it together with numerous other narratives, making all of the strings equally-interesting to watch. Each of the apartments visible from Jeff's window acts like a different world <U+0096> a separate movie <U+0096> and the combination of all of these creates a rich tapestry of lifestyles, and a range of human relationships that mirror that of Jeff and Lisa. For example, there is hard-working salesmen Lars Thorwald, who arrives home each day to the incessant nagging of his invalid wife (Irene Winston); the woman in the floor below, dubbed "Miss Lonelyheart" (Judith Evelyn), is a hopeless romantic who, in her depression, is addicted to alcohol and sleeping pills; a young music writer (Ross Bagdasarian) struggles to make an income; a sexy young dancer, "Miss Torso" (Georgine Darcy), practises her dance moves and battles various suitors; two newly-weds frequently culminate their marriage with the blinds drawn, though, by the end of the film, the wife has begun the nagging that is arguably characteristic of the gender!Despite obviously being in love with Lisa, Jeff is apprehensive of approaching marriage, fearing that his gritty, adventurous, globe-trotting lifestyle will not be compatible with Lisa's love of socialising and high-fashion (she is never caught wearing the same expensive dress twice). At first, we notice Jeff using the lives of those in the other apartments to distract from the troubles in his own, and he often uses the examples before him to support the decisions that he must make in his own life. As the film progresses, Lisa reveals a daring, audacious streak in trying to solve the mystery, and Jeff realises that, when love is concerned, small compromises can and should be made in order to make a fateful relationship work. As the film closes, we notice Lisa lying on a bed in common, unglamorous clothing, reading the book, "Beyond the High Himalayas," no doubt in preparation for the couple's next adventure. However, though some compromises have been made, Lisa still remains her own women, suddenly casting aside Jeff's reading material and raising her own "Harper's Bazaar" magazine to her face.Of course, despite the multitude of little narratives that comprise the film, the most significant <U+0096> and, indeed, the one we remember best <U+0096> is that of Lars Thorwald and his missing wife, Anna. After witnessing the former acting suspiciously during a stormy night, Jeff suspects that the over-worked and under-appreciated Thorwald has brutally murdered his wife, decapitated her body into several pieces and carried out the remains in a suitcase. Though Jeff's police detective ex-War buddy, Thomas J, Doyle (Wendell Corey), believes Jeff's story to be fantastic, Stella and Lisa soon come to accept the theory as fact, helping an immobile Jeff to solve the mystery. That we never fully understand the motivations of the murderer, having to be content with brief glimpses from afar, is crucial to Hitchcock's storytelling, and, by making the audience complicit in his characters' voyeurism, we feel as though our safety is being placed in jeopardy. The entire film possesses a very subtle air of unrelenting suspense, but the final ten minutes or so are among the most thrilling in cinema history.
In New York, the daring photographer L. B. Jefferies (James Stewart) has been confined to his small apartment for five weeks in a wheelchair with one broken leg. He snoops his neighbors from his rear window to kill time and he is aware of the personal dramas of some of them. His fancy girlfriend Lisa Carol Fremont (Grace Kelly) is pressing him to marry her but he believes she will not fit and feel comfortable with his brash lifestyle. When the invalid wife of the salesman Lars Thorwald (Raymond Burr) vanishes, Jeff believes the man might have killed his wife. He tells his concerns to Lisa and to his nurse Stella (Thelma Ritter) and the women agree with his observations, but his friend Detective Thomas J. Doyle (Wendell Corey) finds reasonable explanation for each remark. However, Lisa decides to go further in her investigation, getting closer to the suspect."Rear Window" is one of my favorite classics ever and I do not know precisely how many times I have watched this film. There are many rip-offs of this simple story but none of them gets closer to this wonderful film. The first difference is in the direction of Alfred Hitchcock, a refined director with the subtle and witty British humor, capable to give meaning to a scene with one word or expression of his characters. The awesome James Stewart and the gorgeous and classy Grace Kelly show a perfect chemistry and it is impressive the beauty and elegance of the future princess of Monaco. Thelma Ritter is excellent in the role of the caustic nurse Stella. This time, the cameo of Alfred Hitchcock is in the apartment of the composer twiddling his clock. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): "Janela Indiscreta" ("Indiscreet Window")


                
There can't have been many filmmakers who would have been excited by the prospect of making a movie about an immobile man who spends 99% of his story inside a single room where he's unable to see any further than the boundaries of his own small apartment complex. In the hands of Alfred Hitchcock however, the character's confinement is skilfully used to rationalise his unhealthy preoccupation with spying on his neighbours and to generate the kind of tension that's such an important component of this gripping murder mystery. Suspicion, voyeurism and obsession feature strongly and the presence of a cool blonde, a romantic subplot and some offbeat humour all add to the entertainment value of this fine movie which eventually became recognised as an all-time classic.L.B. "Jeff" Jeffries (James Stewart) is a top-class photojournalist who's been used to travelling extensively to get the great photographs that adorn the pages of his employer's magazine. When he suffers a broken leg as a result of an accident at a motor-racing track and becomes confined to a wheelchair in his modest Greenwich Village apartment, he soon becomes frustrated and very irritable. To relieve his boredom, he starts to gaze out of his window and watch what's going on in the other apartments that face his. Because New York is in the middle of a heatwave, his neighbours have their blinds up to keep cool and so there's plenty to watch. An attractive ballerina who he calls Miss Torso (Georgine Darcy) rehearses regularly and enjoys the attention of a collection of male admirers, whilst in another apartment close-by; a single lady, who Jeff calls Miss Lonely Hearts (Judith Evelyn) prepares a meal and entertains an imaginary boyfriend.Stella (Thelma Ritter), the insurance company nurse who calls by to attend to him everyday doesn't approve of Jeff's pastime and advises that he should pay more attention to his girlfriend Lisa (Grace Kelly) instead. Lisa's a fashion model and dress designer who's rich, beautiful and as Jeff readily admits, perfect in every way, but he's rather cool with her because he has doubts about their compatibility as they have such different lifestyles.Jeff starts to take a particular interest in what's going on in the apartment of a jewellery salesman and when he notices that the man's invalid wife has disappeared, becomes convinced that she must've been murdered. Lisa and Stella are sceptical about his suspicions and even his old Army buddy Tom Doyle (Wendell Corey) who's now a NYPD detective, admits to sharing their scepticism after making his own unofficial investigations. As time passes, Lisa and Stella start to take his suspicions more seriously and eventually team up with him to try to find the evidence they need to prove that the missing woman has indeed been murdered.In common with most Hitchcock movies, "Rear Window" boasts some great visual moments. Grace Kelly's introduction in a scene where she's initially seen leaning over Jeff is sensational and a short sequence in which the roaming camera focuses on a number of objects and photos in Jeff's apartment is exquisite in the way that it silently imparts so much information about him in such a short time. Hitchcock's skill in making, even the most mundane things seem sinister, is wonderfully displayed in a scene where the suspected murderer sits in his apartment in the dark with only the periodic glow of his cigarette providing a clue to his presence and again in a scene where the same man realises who's watching him. The gaze he directs back at Jeff is absolutely chilling because it suddenly turns the tables on the voyeur and carries the implicit threat that he could be the next invalid to be murdered.The theme of confinement is also reinforced visually by the ways in which the lives of the neighbours seem to be framed by their windows, just as Jeff's outlook is framed by his own window and the apartment complex is itself, a closed-in entity.The quality of the acting is consistently good with James Stewart, Grace Kelly and Thelma Ritter all standing out and the dialogue is exceptional because, although it's far from punchy, there doesn't seem to be a superfluous word in it. Thelma Ritter is the beneficiary of more good lines than anyone else because her marvellous character, whose nose for trouble is so well-developed that she predicted the Wall Street Crash, is full of no-nonsense advice that she dispenses very generously.
Alfred Hitchcock's "Rear Window" is one of his best known films, along with the likes of "Psycho", "Vertigo" & "North by Northwest". It is perhaps his most purely cinematic film while also showcasing his mastery of the art of suspense.The story concerns a photographer (James Stewart) who is stuck in his apartment nursing a broken leg. He occupies his time by watching the actions of his neighbours. When he begins to suspect one of them of murder he enlists the aid of his socialite girlfriend (Grace Kelly) and his nurse (Thelma Ritter).While the film's cast members didn't land any Oscar nominations there were nevertheless several fine performances. You could say that James Stewart's performance almost single-handedly carried the picture but that would seem dismissive of the quality support given by Thelma Ritter, Wendell Corey & Raymond Burr. Meanwhile, Grace Kelly looks exquisite in the female lead and she gives an excellent performance to boot.The direction of Alfred Hitchcock and the screenplay of John Michael Hayes (both Oscar-nominated) are best considered in tandem. The separate threads of the intricate storyline are masterfully manipulated by Hitchcock with a visual approach that puts us squarely in Stewart's position. Also, I'm not usually one who notices sound design in films but the sound in this film is superb. Little wonder that it was nominated for an Oscar, as was the attractive cinematography. The Edith Head costumes also deserve special mention.Ultimately, "Rear Window" is practically flawless. It's highly satisfying both as a piece of entertainment and as a piece of cinematic art. Anyone looking to experience Hitchcock at his best would be well advised to start here.


                
With the acting talent of two of Alfred Hitchcock's favourite actors, Jimmy Stewart and Grace Kelly, and a strong supporting cast of Thelma Ritter, Wendell Corey, and Raymond Burr, we have the ingredients of a great movie. However, this movie is much more than the sum of its stars since the directing genius of Hitchcock is more than evident in this film, which is in the top tier of his work. The movie takes place on a small set; in fact, the action takes place in a bachelor apartment with cutaways to other apartments on the opposite side of a courtyard. The location is in a downtown neighbourhood of Manhattan. The viewer sees much of the action through the telephoto lens of Jimmy Stewart (known as Jeff to his friends), who is a photographer sidelined by an accident. He takes to watching the antics of his neighbours in his spare time. The comic and the sad come together as the camera pans from one apartment to another. The neighbour he is mainly interested in is the apartment of one Lars Thorwald, played by Raymond Burr, who Jeff believes has killed his wife. Thorwald thinks he is acting without the knowledge of anyone but in fact, there is an intruder looking on from the other side of the courtyard, through his rear window. Raymond Burr gives a convincing portrayal of the sinister Mr. Thorwald – a far cry from the suave, courtly lawyer known on T.V. as Perry Mason. Grace Kelly, as Lisa Carol Freemont, enhances the look of this movie every time she walks on the set. In every scene, she appears like a model from the 1950's. I didn't count the number of costume changes she made but they must have been numerous and she made the most of each one. She is a class act every time she appears and plays the role of the uptown Manhattan girl to a tee. The close-ups of her are eye candy of the first order. In fact, Jimmy Stewart hesitates to marry her because as he says, "she's too perfect". Thelma Ritter (Stella) as the housebound photographer's nurse/masseuse/housekeeper is an absolute marvel with her quick repartee and New York twang to give it that extra zing. During her career, she was nominated for several Academy Awards and is a rich talent. Stella is almost a surrogate mother to Jimmy Stewart, playing the devil's advocate and giving her own two cents'worth on the love match between Lisa and Jeff, particularly Jeff's reluctance to wed. The plot moves toward the climax when Thorwald realizes he is being stalked and after Jeff finally enlists the support of his buddy Det. Doyle (Wendell Corey). The voyeur's interest in his neighbours leads to some skilled speculation by Jeff that could at any point have been blown away by a logical explanation, as Doyle was suggesting. But the evidence kept mounting and became more and more difficult to ignore. Some hands-on detective work by Lisa and Stella moves the story towards its climax. This classic movie will hold your interest from its amusing start to goose-bump finish. Along the way, there is a fine script and lots of wit. The vignettes involving the neighbours highlight the degree to which Jeff has taken to voyeurism, honing his observation of human behaviour. When he realizes what he has observed, there is a long silence, very effective. Photography forms a major role in this film, especially the use of the telephoto lens. Views through the viewfinder form part of the key visuals. Hitchcock makes good use of the growing appreciation for professional photography as the skills of one photographer become the basis for a case of murder.


                
Hitchock's smart review on voyeurism and human composed need for entertainment is fantastically stamped within "Rear Window". Those who see just a suspense story will overlook the most important backbone of the movie itself: the arrangement of a fauna of great, interesting human beings, each with their problems, happiness and something to scoop on.The story quickly digests important views where a man with his broken leg gets no other option than to spend time watching and examining his neighbors' life. Before Television arrived, this endearing inspection like Big Brother brings the fantastic nexus that ties up the story. But there will be a transformation where the watching will transform into an obsession, and the most inner feelings of connection with the other will be arisen by what we call voyeurism, or morbidness. We will unite sober James Stewart in his progressive burial over the neighborhood's secrets.There is in the movie one crucial analogy: the eyes watching the window. The eyes are subjective, and see what the mind wants to see. Curiously, eyes are the so called windows of the souls. Whereas the window exposes the reality, the fact to be interpreted (in many ways): here ambiguity strikes and in Jeffries situation it will present itself in the mood of paranoia. All of this scrutinizing over the others life is presented as unethical, but irresistible. Hitchcock uses Franz Waxman's moody music to alter the spectator's disposition to each scene, that lightens throughout the chilling sessions and paralyzes within the climax moments. There is a sense of fear, of being also observed and panicking of being discovered while enjoying the watch. The story seems possible and everyday, presented in a superb way, it will be more effective than what you expect it so. The photography is immense, roaming delicately over the used setting profiting on the smooth editing. We also can expect the most sophisticated and somewhat naive sense of humor to lighten the sordid tension of the movie."Rear Window" lives clearly up to the reputation. It is a movie to be examined closely and enjoyed with a good glass of freezing cold water to set the mood right. I believe the movie is somewhat of a time capsule, a very good one indeed, because it has gone over more than fifty years since released, and its a beautiful way of being entertained as it paints a wonderful picture of the era: the way they talked, they dressed, they spent their time. Time cannot falter pieces of art as this one. It renders past oblivion.


                
Alfred Hitchcock finds a way to take a person who is doing the wrong thing and make him a hero, another example of the genius that was the director. Jimmy Stewart plays Jeff Jeffries, a world famous photographer who broke his leg and is wheel-chair bound. In an age before video games, computers, cable TV, for that matter widespread TV viewing, boredom was adverted by leaving the apartment and doing something. Well, Jeffries and his wheel chair couldn't leave the apartment, so he has to fill his hours by eavesdropping on the neighbors across the courtyard from his bedroom. The entire apartment complex may be one of the greatest set designs of all time, an entire building as a set, looking fantastic, like an actual apartment that could be found anywhere, and the source for the success of the film. An unconvincing set, something that looks fake would take away from the real tension that ensues. Jeffries is wrong in watching all of his neighbors going through their lives each night, as we are told by his physical therapist, Stella (Thelma Ritter), tells him at the beginning of the movie. One night, while Jeffries is looking out the window while going in and out of sleep, he thinks he sees a neighbor kill someone (Raymond Burr). Not sure, he discusses it with his girlfriend, the radiant and beautiful Grace Kelly as Lisa Fremont, and convinces her to go over to the man's apartment to look for clues. That is the setup and Hitchcock pumps up the tension by allowing the audience to see everything the same way Jeffries does, through the rear window of his apartment. There are very few shots that do not originate from somewhere in Jeffries' apartment, a simplistic approach that makes it all seem so real. Hitchcock also fills all of the other apartments with characters that interest Jeffries and ourselves, plus adds a song writer to a studio apartment who supplies the soundtrack to the movie. Every detail shown early in the movie comes into play later in the movie. Hitchcock never cheats, and we are left wondering what will happen next. Rear Window may be the simplest movie ever made, proving you don't have to blow up 700 cars to create a truly tense and spine-tingling movie.
Who is the hero in this film? Or Is the a hero in this film?Jimmy Stewart plays a helpless baby in this film. Stuck in a chair and unable to scream "WATCH OUT" to Grace Kelly, Rear Window has no hero character. Well what about Grace Kelly? She's adventurous enough to go jumping into windows, maybe she's the hero? Maybe not. A hero saves the day which Grace Kelly does not. She is unsuccessful in this case. So is this a thriller without a hero.....you tell me.


                
I saw this movie because of a Hitchcock exposition I attended this year, it was as delightful as Rear Window.
When I heard how this movie was placed, I was instantly noting it in my watchlist.
Rear Window is something you don't see often in the cinema, Hitchcock had the freedom to take a "crazy" and tough idea into the work, and the fact that it's from 1954 it's mind blowing. With this film,Hitchcock was a child playing with a doll house, and he did it properly.
Nonetheless, the end seemed like they had some trouble deciding in the editing room, some of those choices seemed out of the style.
Anyways i would reccomend it to anyone that enjoys real cinema.


                
My Rating : 9/10'Rear Window' is captivating and spellbinding. One of the best works of Hitchcock. It will never let you down.A supremely entertaining thriller. Must watch!


                
The Rear Windows showed the best type of lighting skills at that period of time when movie tools and techniques were not at the best. The whole movie kept audiences' attentions and tensions in them before the climax of the film. Alfred Hitchcock knew how to keep the movie so concentrated throughout the movie and the keylightings mixing lowkey light and highkey lights gave the highlight effects that helped mainly to make the mood or the atmosphere of the movie suspenseful. By putting really bright light on the face of the main character, it's triggering the audiences to look at his emotions and what he's thinking of the whole situation in the film. It was interesting that when, the main character, got into the shadow of his room, it made it seem like that he's no longer being seen by the neighbors outside through his window. The way the highkey lightings worked with the neighbor's building showed precisely what the neighbors do and how their lives are like. The angles of the camera also was interesting in a way when it shows the aspects of the neighbors lives, it uses the perspective shots as if the scene is seen with the character's eyes. This film shows really good side of the use of lights in the movies and demonstrate that only with the light, you could make the movie out of it.


                
When watching 'Rear Window,' it was very prominent from the beginning that Alfred Hitchcock was a very talented director. He did a very good job at captivating the viewer and making them feel as if they were in the apartment instead of Jeffries. The way the film was shot made it seem like you were right there looking across at the other apartments instead of watching Jeffries do it. It was impressive that Hitchcock was able to build such a complex storyline with the main character stuck in his apartment the whole time. A good portion of the beginning of the movie is spent setting up all the different characters so that the viewer has a complete understanding of what is happening in the film. He portrays the smaller storylines in the film just as successfully as he does for the main one. They don't have a massive impact on the film but they force the viewers to become very observant and focus on more than one aspect of the film. We see the ups and down of the musician, the daily routine of the dancer and the artist on the bottom level as well as the main storyline with the salesman.
Hitchcock also did a very good job at incorporating many different genres into this film. This keeps it from being one sided and keeps the viewers entertained. There's the obvious mystery aspect of the film to start, which was the most prominent genre to viewers. The whole premise of the movie is Jeffries trying to solve the mystery of what is happening in the apartment across from him. Secondly, there is the thriller feel to the film. This is what keeps the viewers on their seats and guessing throughout the movie. We are finding out information at the same time Jeffries is, so the viewers are surprised by the same things he is. Thirdly, there is the romantic part of the film with Jeffries and Lisa. This is one of the genres that makes the movie so complex. Along with the various other storylines in the movie there is relationship between Lisa and Jeffries that we see develop throughout the movie. Lastly, there is a somewhat light comedic feel to the movie at some parts. The majority is not even somewhat related to comedy but there are few scenes that have a lighter and more relaxed feel that makes the movie even better-rounded.
Lastly, Hitchcock did a very good job using mise-en-scene in this film. The detail that is in each scene of this movie is one of the main things that makes it so good. If you look in the background of each scene everything is perfect in comparison to the character that it is with. For example, in Jeffries' apartment if you look in the background it isn't just any normal apartment. You can see various items that correspond with his career as a photographer that make you view his apartment as a whole along with Jeffries, not as two separate parts of the film. Hitchcock also did a very good job with mise-en-scene when it came to the apartments across from Jeffries. Each separate apartment is like a completely different lifestyle. You see the people all around the salesman's apartment living their everyday lives as if nothing's wrong throughout the movie. He doesn't just dial in on that one apartment for the rest of the movie once we find out something isn't right, the apartment becomes the main focus, but not the only focus. We still throughout the movie see the other characters going about their business.
This movie was something I would have never expected. As a freshman in college I have always been into the more modern things in life. New movies, new cars, new everything. I have never really been known for watching old movies.
However, this movie was a lot different to me. When I think of a movie from 1954, I was thinking of black and white or silent or just something that doesn't seem as much of an interest to me. This movie passed my expectations by a mile.
I have heard of Alfred Hitchcock and I have heard of the credibility of the man but I have never really watched any of his work. Rear Window was a story that I will probably remember for a long time. A man is in a wheel chair and all he does is watch the city go about around him from day to night. He experiences everything from happiness to sadness and even a murder. The whole movie was eye pleasing and just well thought out. The use of the city to display emotion in the movie was wonderful.
The main part of the movie that really stuck with me was the suspense within it. Every time the main character, L.B. Jefferies, would just look through people's windows and he thought they were looking at them just made me feel fear knowing that they could see him watching them. His caretaker, Stella, made it worse by talking about how he could go to jail for looking through people's windows and I thought that was foreshadowing to him actually going to jail which made me nervous each time it was a close call. Especially when Lars Thorwald was looking out the window and he had to hide in the shadows. This movie also had me asking "What happens next?" as it took our hand and brought us through this great story.
What makes a movie great is what ever emotions are going on, you feel them as well. This movie did that very well, any sort of fear, I felt fear. Any sort of happiness, I felt. Any sadness, I felt that too. Being able to bestow emotions onto the viewer is what means a movie is really well thought out and put together to try and help us be in the shoes of L.B. Jeffries. I could feel myself in that little apartment in that wheelchair and just watching everything going on.
Another thing done really well was character development. I could really tell the personality and how each character would react in these situations. You could really tell the social classes within each person based on how they dressed and how they act which really shows the problem with the love interest throughout the movie. Each character out the window had their own personalities and you could really see who the people in their apartment were and how they acted. It really shows how a city is back in that time, there is such different events happening in each room and the amount of people really creates the chaos that is in the bustling cities we had back then and what we have today.
Do I recommend this movie? Absolutely, this movie was very well made and put together and just looks beautiful. From the characters to the story, it was practically flawless in my opinion. Would I watch this movie again? Yes, I would, it is just so interesting and I feel like it is a kind of movie that the more times you watch it, the more times you realize something new. Do I recommend this movie? Yes, I do.


                
Alfred Hitchcock's Rear Window is an excellent film and undoubtedly a cinematic classic that will stand the test of time. In the film the main character has broken his leg working as a photographer covering a racing event and getting hit by one of the cars. Trapped in his apartment his only source of entertainment is staring into the lives of his neighbors through his rear window, much to the chagrin of his doting nurse(Thelma Ritter). After spending so much time watching he begins to notice something is going on in the other apartment and begins to suspect his neighbor of murder.
Most of the film the characters and thus the audience is always doubting weather or not something sinister is actually occurring. Facts are scarce to go on and a peeping tom's gut feeling certainly won't hold up in court. At several points the other characters insist that nothing is unusual about it. The audience is made aware of the improbability constantly by the nurse and the girlfriend and even a detective that had an investigation put into effect. And yet there is just enough to go on to maintain that uncertainty. Just enough is off to keep the audience wondering, "Well yea,I'm sure that's not the case, but maybe..."
This potential murder is not the only thing for you to worry about though. Each and every one of the neighbors seems to have something going on that seems to raise concern. Hitchcock keeps the audience guessing by quickly reeling to other neighbors in distress all to further muddle the mystery of it all. Is it a murder mystery or is it a social commentary on the horrors of marriage? Or how about a love-lost emotional tragedy? Maybe the film is about depression overtaking what might have been an incredible music career. Even the struggles of Jeffries(James Stewart) and his girlfriend(Grace Kelly) are compelling and leave the audience wondering if that is the true crux of the film. 
The film demonstrates just how incredible Hitchcock is at creating suspense. As the story unfolds little clues become to grow bigger and bigger until it is all but certain there is an incredibly dangerous man among their town. This is made all the more unsettling for the audience because so much of the film is shot in point of view. Jeffries frequently observes his neighbors using binoculars and his long lense camera. Each time he does so the shot cuts to what Jeffries is seeing. When he sees something disturbing, we see something disturbing. When he sees alarming signs we see alarming signs. When he sees a murder staring him down, realising he has been made out, we see the murderer staring us down.
However the film is not without its faults. And unfortunately the biggest fault is an unusual one to have. The movie is too good. Hitchcock is a master of his craft and manages to make such a compelling narrative with so an absurd amount of suspense leading up to the climax. It is a truly enthralling film to be sure. So captivatingly suspenseful in fact that it fails to produce a satisfying conclusion. After an hour and a half of such incredible build up it is almost inevitable that the ending would be less than what you would hope for. It is by no means a bad ending, and actually on paper it does indeed seem perfectly fitting. However lack of music cues, distracting changes in framerate and strange dialog that lets the air out at the time when it should be most gripping undercut what could have been a masterpiece. 
Do not misconstrue this to mean that it is a bad film. Rear Window is indeed something to behold. While it is unfortunate that the end does not in my opinion manage to support the weight of the rest of the film, it does not detract the gravatias the rest of the movie produces. This is undoubtedly some of the best work film has to offer, faults and all.
