House of cards could have been a memorable television series. A concentrate of tension and narrative power, but it was completely ruined with the fifth season, with the expulsion of Kevin Spacey and with the production of the sixth season. You can not create such a product, based so strongly on a character and then start replacing it and sending it away as if nothing had happened. Imagine if, in the fifth season of "Breaking bad" Skyler White had started to have more importance than Walter White and then, in a sixth season, they decided to kill Walt in a completely random way and make her protagonist. Never again.
Terrible, I'm speechless. This show without Kevin Spacey is just dull


                
Sorry Netflix. This show just ain't the same without Frank. Listening to Claire scream at everybody is so predictable.
Seasons 1-5 is 10/10Season 6 made me give it 1/10. I understand the reason why, but the show just should've been canceled. Nice attempt, but horribly boring season. You remove the main character, and this is what you get. Bad.


                
House of Cards Seasons 1-5 was one of the best series ever produced however season 6 was utterly ridiculous, the decent writers either walked out due to the network punitive action towards Spacey or they wrote nonsense in protest.One has to question on what basis does any employer or other employees believe that they have the right to decide guilt and administer punishment of another employee regarding any issue outside of the actual field of employment?Keven Spacey is one of the greatest actors of our age and for his own industry to treat him like a leper is a serious form of abuse in itself, utterly appalling example of political correctness gone way to far. We have institutions in place for investigating allegations, courts to decide guilt and dispense justice these are NOT functions that should be performed by self appointed kangaroo courts in the workplace or social media.As the saying goes, let he who is without sin cast the first stone.Robin Wright is a great actress and the chemistry between her and Kevin Spacey was incredible viewing but sadly the show deteriorated into a farce once that chemistry was lost and the show turned into some kind of perverse feminist activism vehicle. Such a shame.


                
I am a huge fan of the show, but how disapointing is season 6. You can say of Kevin Spacey what you want, but the final season of House of Cards has proven that 1 man makes the show, season 6 was a wast of time. Lukely was I able to rip the bandaid of in one day, so I didn't need to spent weeks hoping that it would pick up again!
Season 6 was absolute nonsense with typical Hollywood pandering to the left. Thank god this nitghmare of a season is over and there's no more. Kevin spacey made the 1st 5 seasons amazing.


                
How do you go from 10 to zero in sixty seconds? Kevin Spacey WAS the show. You should have just cancelled if you wouldn't bring him back! So I guess he really wasn't acting after all?


                
House of cards just collapsed coz of its season 6.i really hate how Netflix try to push through with a female centered White House in there.


                
I cannot recall ever watching a series ending in such a horrible manner. The plot was confusing and the entire storyline was ridiculous. How they drew this nonsense on for eight shows was amazing. The annoying background music throughout the entire series may the watching of this disaster even worse. My advice, watch Seasons 1-5 and then walk away.


                
Hoc season 1-5 is one of the best series .cleverly crafted and a strong screenplay, s6 just looses the lustre and is just putting an end together to make some money and get decent ratings. Just pass over sixth season , make sure to watch the season 1-5 for a dramatic supershow .


                
First season was brilliant, the ending was very good... The other seasons was good too. But... Kevin Spacey WAS the show, he alone carried this. So stupid to make a new season without him. Who cares if someone blames him for something that has happened long time ago, at least wait until it is settled in court! He is (as far as I know) not convicted of anything.


                
The epic House of Cards closed with a disappointing season 6. The plot seemed disconnected from previous seasons. The whole Shephards influence was just buzzare and out of context. The repetitive attempts to discredit the character of Francis Underwood was laughable. Nothing made sense really. Disappointing.


                
Highly pretentious, ridiculous and unbelievable plot, confusing and badly written dialogue, made viewing season six, a tortuous experience.
Furthermore, rather than escape the shadow of Frank Underwood, his spectre ended up becoming the central character in this mess, with every character seemingly unable to tear themselves away from his ghost.
It's not the exit of Kevin Spacey that's ruined this once fine series, but the team that came up with the appalling film script, which should have been binned.


                
They should have dropped the idea of season 6. Bad thing happened, you can ride with the tide, didnt need to go against it and prove the point that house of card is not about Kevin.


                
Forgot a rating -I demand my 8 hours back! I want Netflix to formally apologize for torchering me through this. I would have happily preferred to be water boarded than to watch this complete cluster duck. And I don't mean duck.


                
Season 6 was the absent Spacey's revenge on those that decided that political correctness reigns - even on this show!


                
This show deserves a 10 and that's because what Kevin Spacey brings, such a portrayal of character , no one and that is no one, could have done justice to Frank Underwood, and he is the reason this show is so amazing, otherwise it would have been an average show with a rating of 7. Kevin is what this show is today. Brilliant acting, some bullseye dialogue delivery and that hunger for power that he shows is just unbelievable that someone can be such brilliant actor.
And I'm rating it 1 just to show my disappointment upon Kevin's removal, and the show went to dogs. I hated it so much that I wouldn't even watch the final season.


                
How is this even possible? After successful seasons 1-5 comes the 6th season, a total disaster.


                
Better to stop watch at Season 5. 1 to 4 outstanding, 5th hard to watch, 6 - a true punishment.
A bad experience in movie producing continuing the series without the lead character. I wander what they expected from this.
One star out of 10 is with an additional credit of 11 stars from my side.
DO NOT WATCH THE 6TH SEASON, STAY WITH NICE MEMORIES FROM THE PREVIOUS ONES.


                
Season 6 abruptly ends with seemingly absolutely no reason whatsoever. There is almost zero resolution to many of the story arcs and many of the main characters.A very poor and amateurish finale and extremely disappointing! Potential viewers please be advised!


                
Save your precious time. Avoid season 6. Full of plots that doesn't go anywhere. The first 4 episodes were good and then it lost its momentum. Plus, without Spacey, the show is just nothing but a boring pieces of scenes.


                
Sorry, folks, but you cannot make it work without Spacey.Despite Robin Wright's incredible performance for 5 seasons, she cannot handle it alone. Netflix just relentlessly dropped the main character and still hoping it works somehow. No, it doesn't. I'm not going to watch this blatantly twisted final season.


                
You can only suspend belief for so long. I want 8 hours of my life back. Just horrible.


                
If the first five seasons r a feast in a three-star restaurant from Netflixthe sixth season is a delivery order from McDonald


                
