After committing so much time to what was once a great show, I can only say avoid season six. It's ponderous, dull, full of plot lines that go no where and has one of the worst series finales ever made. They should have cancelled it when Spacey was sacked.
The first five seasons were quite excellent. Season 6 was an awful train wreck. The show completely lost it's way. Nothing works.


                
I've reviewed all the episodes for Season 6 but feel the need to respond to the entire season. There were moments where I felt engaged because of the clashes of evil that took place here. With the exception of the press people, I can't think of a single person I could admire. I know politics is often corrupt, but without Frank's leading us through his various enterprises. Claire is a psychopath, not much different from Doug, and the two of them basically cancel each other out. The sad thing is that I don't care what happens to them. Finally, I wonder how much fun this season would have been if Spacey hadn't screwed up. Claire's posturing throughout is really tiresome. She's sort of Lady Macbeth. She's sort of Cersei from "Game of Thrones." But what is missing is a developed plot. I still don't know what she wanted. Was it power or a godhead or what. Or was it just to punish men. This whole thing was a mess.


                
It's good up until season 6 where they kill francis offscreen and then make the series about his wife. It's jarring, I don't like her character at all, no charisma, and the writing is worse than designated survivor somehow. The whole season is damage control and I do not approve of netflix ruining a good show to virtue signal.


                
I've been watching House of Cards on Netflix since S1-E1. Initially, I thought it was a fantastic show. The first 3 seasons became the go-to watch as soon as they were released. Unfortunately, the photographic techniques and music in the opening credits are about all I truly enjoy anymore. Having watched half way into S5 and reviewed the IMDb synopses, it's obvious nothing is ever resolved in the HoC universe.At the end of S4, I vowed that if something significant didn't happen by the end of S5, HoC was going to the bottom of viewing priorities. Thus far, they have not failed to disappoint. IMO, the current IMDb rating of 9.6 is ridiculously inflated; the Netflix rating of 2 out of 5 stars is more in line with what this show has turned into -- a constant tease of people in low places slithering out of the justice they so richly deserve. It's gotten insufferably old. Take note, HoC powers that be: Your desire to milk it for all it's worth has killed the cow. Have a little respect for viewers and show us something that is at least remotely believable.
What happened to series three? Even though the personnel on the masthead were the same, it looks like they turned the writing over to the interns without any kind of editorial or thematic direction. The principal characters have fallen apart. This Frank Underwood appears to be more virtuous and caring than recent presidents Clinton, Bush, or Jarrett. In fact almost any period from their White House tenures would be more eventful, devious, and exciting than the crap we saw in this series. This was a massive disappointment. I get the sense that the actors were as impressed by the writing as I was because it looked like they were phoning in their performances. I'd be amazed if they go for a serious four after this fiasco.


                
What was once a great bit of TV entertainment with some seriously great moments is now a tepid and lost attempt to get one more series out there for profit. Carrie Underwood character is falling and failing. The direction of this last series is pathetic an the script writers all went to sleep. What are you people thinking? This is so lacking in density and quality compared to the series that came before and the final thing is --- WE ARE DEFINITIVELY MISSING FRANCIS.
Spacey made the show and they wrote him out over whatever reasons. Pathetic.


                
I'm astounded by how poor the writing and directing has become. Hard to imagine how good this once was.


                
It was Wow for 5 seasons...
Season 6 was boring...
not very bealivable situations...sorry
lost the touch of the previous seasons...


                
Netflix has managed to ruin two great shows that I used to love, House of Cards and Orange is the New black. It seems as Netflix shows have gotten very popular lately they have gone into "safe" mode and started watering down their content.Season 5 of House of cards is the perfect example (as well as Orange is the new Black). I could not believe how utterly bored I was watching this, I felt like I was watching a drama on USA network. The new mantra at Netflix must be "lets tame our content down a notch to please our sponsors and the masses".No longer is this show edgy or gritty or even remotely interesting, no longer does it dare push the envelope. Let me sum up season 5 for you. NOTHING HAPPENS! Too bad as this was my favorite show. Time to move on folks.


                
A shame they took the show this direction with season 6. It was a great show that could've had a great finale. I'm happy Kevin Spacey was gone, but the show seems to wander episode after episode around things like feminism and dumb covering of secrets. Nothing really happens other than the boring destruction of what was built in all the previous seasons.


                
The show degenerated into a soap opera, and one with characters who are so consistently icky and so consistently...uh...consistent that I found myself not only uninterested in them, but unable to care what they were doing or what happened to them.The whole thing just made me sad that in a few months I have to watch this whole scenario play itself out in real life, with characters just as icky. The American political scene is so corrupt and so beyond redemption that making a soap opera like this one out of it reveals only how boring it's all become. Save your money and watch the original British series. The characters aren't any less icky, but ant least they're more interesting.


                
We started watching Season 1 and by Episode 6 were disgusted with the main characters. Everyone is just plain stupid except for the two main characters played by Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright. You can see every setup a mile away. Yet as noted those who are caught in the cross hairs are portrayed as being complete imbeciles who never see it. And best of all there is NEVER any investigation into anything, apparently the media, law enforcement, and related characters just assume everything is real. In one particular scene, a Secret Service agent, who BTW was also a former trained police officer, was so stupid that he fired his weapon in a residential neighborhood during what was a non-life threatening situation. I thought I only saw stupid thing like this network TV but apparently the same writers are here too. What BS they expect you to believe. It's bad enough to see Kevin Spacey's character, Frank Underwood, as a self-centered ego maniac, but then to add Robin Wright as his power hungry slutty wife who will do anything she needs to for her benefit or Kevin's, it's way too much for those looking for some form of reality. BOTTOM LINE: If you like seeing stupid people up against bad guys who while not overly clever always win, only through the sheer stupidity of those they interact with this show is for one. For those with an IQ over 85 who prefer seeing a plot that is not so obvious, this show is one to avoid.


                
I remember watching Season 1 of House of Cards and being blown away. Each successive season lost something, however. I recall telling myself around Season 4 that, if the next season didn't improve, that was it between me and H.O.C. After all the Kevin Spacey controversy, I struggled through Season 6 hoping to see how the entire series resolves, but reviews told me not to expect much. It turned out to be worse than I could have imagined.Season 6 seems to combine all the elements that, individually, would be adequate to tank a story -- a choppy plot line, time gaps, characters tripping over themselves with no purpose other than filling in screen time, multiple murders (non of which are ever investigated), another nuclear crisis, excessive use of "4th Wall" by multiple actors,...need I go on? The season ends with more loose threads than when it began, and actually resolves nothing. Instead, Season 6 is an open door to more H.O.C. seasons, a movie, a return from the grave of Kevin Space. Whatever. The H.O.C. powers-that-be have pretty clearly betrayed their die-hard fans with a load of garbage and called it art. Shame. A score of 8.9 for the series is a joke.
I don't know about anyone else, but I think this season of House of Cards was really lame. The stories were so fragmented and there were so may loose-ends I could not follow anything. Everything was choppy bouncing from character to character. Conversations with no meaning to the overall story. The ending was especially anticlimactic and just plain dumb.
I waited over a year to see some new stuff with Claire as president. It was just painful to see what this show ended up with.
Very disappointed. If there is another season ..... count me out!


                
I only made it through 1 1/2 episodes as well as I saw someone else post...After just recently starting Breaking Bad and working my way though I really was looking forward to starting HOC...Spacey was the only tolerable part as he tried to keep my interest but ultimately just could not...The relationship he was developing with the reporter started to peak my interest but the rest of the characters and their story arc seemed to be forced on me and I did not really care about them...I found myself looking at how much time was remaining in chapter 1 as it really moved at a snail's pace...After half of episode 2 that was enough...Just not my cup of tea I guess...Maybe will watch again if I am really, really bored....


                
Compared to the British version, this is a bad joke. The British are far and away better writers and actors. I supposed it was 'dumbed down' for American audiences, which in itself says volumes about what corporations have done to despoil any chance of quality programming. If it were not for PBS, American TV would simply be a vapid wasteland. Is it no wonder that our children are lagging behind the rest of the world intellectually? Kevin Spacey is a fine actor, but even he cannot carry this dog.Ian Richardson, the brilliant actor who plays Spacey's British counterpart, evokes suspense and the evolution of evil from what is a likable fellow in the early days. And Diane Fletcher, playing Richardson's English wife, is superb as a 'Lady MacBeth' as she evolves from the soft-spoken, subservient wife into a ruthless accomplice in the lust for ambition, ruthlessness, and the single-minded pursuit of power. It is an amazing piece of acting. Poor Robin Wright, after several fits and starts of character development possibilities, is eventually reduced to what amounts to a second-class role in this weird 'marriage'. She changes her hair color more frequently than her expression.Dragging in the demeaning of Alcoholics Anonymous, the most effective worldwide deterrent to alcoholism, is a tawdry attempt at character building for poor Michael Kelly who plays Doug Stamper, chief of staff to Spacey's character, Francis Underwood. Kelly is one of the acting highlights in this vacuous soap opera of a TV series.


                
The US version of House of Cards is a classic example of how to totally ruin what was an excellent 4 part British series from the 90s. I actually lasted to episode 9 after admittedly falling asleep a couple of times, but the tedium just got too much for me and I totally gave up.First of all the good points (or should I say "point"), which was the acting primarily from Kevin Spacey. The biggest failure was trying to convert what was a thrilling, engrossing, tight and well paced 4 episode series into an unbelievable 13 episodes. I understand that revenue and profit is a driver for US networks, but this was absolutely ridiculous and typical of US made for TV series which just go on and on. I assume that the "second series" based on To Play the King is in the wings and I fully expect this to be as mind numbingly boring.


                
God I was so hoping for a tremendous ending to this series - . as others have commented. We enjoyed watching Frank's world implode. The bad guy should not win, but neither should his wife, especially in the way it happened. But when he was forced to leave this show Robin was not helped with poor writers. Did the good ones jump ship? Who thought this would be entertaining? It was stupid! Claire Underwood (now Hale) was pathetic. Her acting was as good as it could have been given the writing. So implausible a season. Invoke the 25th Amendment, but let her in on that? Then kill off three critical characters? Who believes any of this cramp? So many plot holes I was lost and confused then pissed at the producers. I would have preferred to see the Washington Post reporters take down the whole mess. Doug was impotent yet to focus on him still? Why his obsession with Frank? What did he and Claire concoct? The final shot was pathetic... really a letter opener? What a sad end to an amazing series.
Season 6 was awful! Why did Netflix even bother? It was written like a soap opera, had no plot and was full of complete nonsense.


                
Dialogue and acting in season 6 reminds me of the worst show ever, The Bold and the Beautyful. Claustrofobic! Phony. Going nowhere.


                
This show is a total mess without Spaicy. For me this show is over with the end of the last season S5.


                
House of Cards went from political drama to 2-bit soap opera.Firstly, the writers could not stop themselves from injecting their own political beliefs into the show. The most obvious example is how gay rights are handled. Now, one of the reasons I watch movies and TV shows is for insight into the way groups of people different from myself think or live. A mark of a quality production is its ability to make you sympathize, or at least understand, ideas or values different from your own.You'll get none of that here. Instead you get Pussy Riot cameos, and the Russian President himself, leader of a country where 85% of people oppose gay marriage, saying he's OK with gay, but opposes it to win over the primitive, cave-dwelling Russians who oppose it. Thanks for that Netflix, that was far more interesting than a portrayal of the actual Russian perspective.There's some attempt at tackling politics in the Middle East, but this is just a chance for Clair to demonstrate her ability to solve political crises by approaching diplomats at dinner parties and sternly demanding they do what she says. It's also used as a set up for a ridiculous "show-down" where the Russian President tries to scare Frank by showing some scars and boasting about decapitating mujaheddin during the Soviet-Afghanistan War. Neat. I guess this is how negotiations happen.If you want politics, forget it. You'll get some in the first half when Frank is trying to pass a jobs bill (who cares), but by the second half, when Frank is running for re-election, his role as President consists of some intrigue with a book author (who cares) and running in a campaign where there are literally three people seeking the Democrat nomination. The White House is reduced to a status-symbol setting for Clair and Frank to lounge around in. There is no politics in the last five or six episodes, save for the joke of a re-election.If you want to see Clair be the center of attention, watch season three. You will get shovels full of it every episode. State dinner at the White House? Expect people coming up to Clair to say how pretty she is, expect multiple toasts devoted to her, expect the Russian President to hit on her to make Frank jealous. Throughout the season you can expect Frank to praise her in every speech and expect crowds to go crazy at the sight of her. What has she does she do to deserve this praise? Cure malaria? Cure cancer? No, none of that, I don't know what it is, I guess she's just too darn pretty and sophisticated.And Clair's actions are selfish to the point of narcissism. She impulsively gives a speech that ruins weeks of work by Frank, and does she apologize? No, she just rationalizes what she did. No concern for Frank's feelings, just me me me. There's a point near the end of the series where she launches a tirade about how she hates being dependent on Frank in any way for her success. This is the mark of a total narcissist, unable to admit they are lacking anything and unable to show that they are imperfect or in need of someone else for support. She was a deep character in season 2, where we learn how she uses a past trauma as a source of strength and forward momentum, and where we see her grapple with the emptiness of living without internal constraints in a world of Machiavellian two-facedness. And then all that depth is flushed down the toilet.Frank is now toothless. He makes a few silly death threats during the season but besides that, he does no real scheming. He just whines about how much he loves his wife and laments when things don't go his way. In seasons 1 and 2 he was a psychopath who looked at all social interactions as a chance to lie and manipulate, yet was captivating because he was honest with the audience via his fourth wall violations. He kills more than once for his political career. And now? He's soft and reactive. He is no longer compelling. If the writers are setting him up for a fall, they're doing it with the subtlety of a mudslide.The only reason I finished watching was because of the subplot involving Doug and the computer hacker tracking down Rachel. That plot was good, and was proof the writers can still writing compelling drama when they need to. Doug is the man.Season 3 sucked.


                
The show's writing is shallow for the first seven episodes. All trivial, common themes of poor sexual choices, misused political power and a slow dive into destruction come from coffee shop conversations. Seriously, if the congressman has been in office for 22 years, why hasn't his patterns of thinking and resulting choices ended in this nose dive previously? The thread of conquest and grand plan that runs through Beau Willimon's writing falls off the intellectual cliff when Clare decides $200,000 worth of water treatment equipment is worth her husband's career and a $200,000,000 water shed bill. If Clare can dress with that much intention, she's smart enough to figure out exactly what Francis is doing. Beau has taken a fairly well crafted character and turned her into Shallow Hal.


                
What a mess. Discombobulated sewage and childish dribble just right for the brainwashed American public and I guess that is exactly what the midterms will be like as well. Liberalism is a cancer and it goes very deep. If you found this last series GOOD then you need to get a seriously large mirror and have a long hard look at yourself.
The female component of this series ie the Clair Hayle character is a total joke but then the entire series is so full of badly developed characters that it goes without saying that the script writers and the producers who made this tripe either are a group of very low IQ morons or they are the group that wears the crown of CYNICAL and nasty control freaks. Either way this is so childish and pathetic that I am really glad it is the END........or is it? God forbid.


                
