No way around it, Season 6 was awful ...in every respect that the first few seasons excelled this fseason 6 failed.. Preposterous and confusing storylines, awful script, poor directing, the episodes had a soap opera like energy, as the saga provided empty thrills, and culminated in the most bizarre and ridiculous finale I've ever witnessed on television.... The first few seasons were great and deserved the highest of ratings; unfortunately Season 6 was a complete waste of time.


                
The first 3 seasons were excellent, season 4 was very good but season 5 was way below the previous level. The producers finally 'jumped the shark' in season 5 when Frank pushed the secretary of state Catherine Durant down the stairs in the White House to stop her from testifying against him. Come on ! Serious 5 is very hard going and extremely slow. You end up watching not because of the intense drama but only to see what happens next. Kevin Spacey breaks the fourth wall so often in season 5 he should be in the demolition business. Too much. It is disappointing when a series you think was one of the best descends into a bit of a farce just to milk a few more million dollars.
The 5th House of Cards season didn't convince me like the others. Of course, there was the usual suspense and Claire becoming the new president and Frank being at the mercy of her was an unexpected turning but what I didn't like was the lack of logic.In the past, all crimes were committed by the inner circle, Frank, Claire and Doug. But in season 5, there are so many witnesses that it's hard to believe all of them will keep their mouth shut. The FBI director and his agents for example who know that Josh Masterson was in the FBI's custody and eventually murdered. Also, someone must have damaged the gas line at the Tennessee polling station. Next, how could Frank know for sure that Catherine Durant wouldn't survive when he pushed her down the stairs (it remains to be seen if she recovers, but if she does, she has for sure a lot to tell about)?Last but not least, there is Claire. She poisoned her lover Tom Yates in Mark Usher's house. Even if we assume that the crime had been agreed between the two of them in advance (his surprised reaction suggests the contrary), is it wise to let a person like Mark Usher know that you've killed someone? A person, known to changing sides whenever it suits him? Same with Jane Davis who knows everything about the murder of LeAnn Harvey. Both of them can't be trusted, and they definitely pose a risk to both, Frank and Claire.Looking forward to season 6, all the same.
All seasons with Kevin Spacey; was tense, real, clever. Every part was overly well thought, very detailed and nicely orchestrated. (8) The last season was totally a waste, not only because Kevin Spacey wasn't there, but pointless scenario and script, lost balance, and overly unnecessary theatrical scenes (4)


                
Seasons 1-5 are great. Season six was written by monkeys! The closer for the series was terrible. Boo Netflix! You could've closed this series properly. Instead, it was half assed. Rating of 9 for seasons 1-5


                
I have to say Im not really into this show anymore, simply for the reason that the 3rd season was absolutely terrible. I absolutely loved the first 2 seasonsof this show. The writing was great. Excellent twists and turns, great character development and complexities. Just a great, great series. However, the third season was so over done..parts were so heavily unrealistic, i might as well of been watching a cartoon. It was very difficult to get through season 3, and i put off watching season 4 because of that for a long time. I am almost done season 4 right now, and i have to say, its decent. Nothing special though. It really makes me wonder if their was a different writing team put in for season 3 and four. This show was a sold 9/10 for me..but now..I would have to say 7/10. If you are not a fan of American politics... you will hate this show.


                
I am too disappointed to write a long winded review. House of Cards was one of the best shows ever made, but Netflix made sure it went out with a whimper...Season 6 was admittedly not as bad as I expected to be, but it was far from good and lightyears from what the show has delivered in the past. Robin is a solid actress for sure and she does her best to take on the burden on her own shoulders, but lets be honest, the heart of the show is and always has been Frank Underwood. No matter how much it pains the keyboard warriors out there, it was mostly because of Kevin's performance that HoC became so successful and his absence leaves a gap the size of crater...If you've followed the show so far, by all means watch the last season so you can see how it ends. Personally, I was filled with a constant sadness at what an amazing last season this could have been, compared to the mediocrity we received...On a last note, I want to say how disgusted I am with the ridiculous political correctness. It has reached the point where mob mentality is placed on a higher level than the courts of law... What happened to "innocent until proven guilty"....? So some guy made an accusation and without any trial, a man's career is scrapped and a great show goes down the drain as a result... Well done people, well done society...


                
'House of Cards' much of the time was one of the most compelling shows. Sadly, it has also become one of the most frustrating. Not since 'Once Upon a Time' and 'The Walking Dead', and before that 'Lost' has such a brilliant show of great promise declined so rapidly.Lets start with the many great things first. For the first four seasons, 'House of Cards' was seriously addictive, must-watch television and very quickly became one of my favourite shows. Throughout its run, it's one of the most stylish and most atmospheric shows personally seen, with cinematic-quality photography and production design. The direction was smart and intelligent, especially the first two episodes with David Fincher's, to me one of the better directors of the last twenty five or so years, involvement (the first episode earning Fincher a Primetime Emmy) and the music knew when to have presence and when to tone things down to let the dialogue and characters properly speak.Also smart is the writing. Biting, thought-provoking and tightly structured, the writing in Seasons 1 to 4 was an example to all television. The political elements were intriguing and not heavy-handed, a problem so common in film but avoided in 'House of Cards'. The stories didn't go at a "fast" pace but it never dragged in the show's prime days, and they were also very layered, had variety and were suitably complex without being convoluted.The characters engaged and intrigued, Frank being another example of one of contemporary television's most fascinating lead characters. 'House of Cards' throughout has been so strongly acted, with Kevin Spacey on tour-De-force form and Robin Wright giving career-best work.So it just feels incredibly frustrating that a show of such brilliance in its prime declined so rapidly in Season 5, to the extent that it feels like a completely different show altogether. The production values and acting have remained top notch, but even they can't save the show being the complete anti-thesis of what it used to be.Pace became incredibly draggy, thanks to flabby writing, simplistic characterisation that is suggestive of the writers not knowing what to do to progress the characters and stories that have become repetitive, both devoid of complexity and confused, ridiculous and like the writers have run out of ideas.It to me was no surprise when it was announced that Season 6 would be 'House of Cards' last season, but it is somewhat saddening that production has now been suspended/cancelled following the Kevin Spacey sexual assault allegations that have now cost Spacey his future on the show (and done serious damage to his career). Season 5 cried out for another season, so that the show has ended on an incomplete note because of the controversy is a real pity, despite Season 5 being such a disappointment 'House of Cards' as an overall show deserves better than that.Overall, brilliant for the first four seasons but Season 5 was so disappointing, enough to bring down the rating considerably. 7/10 Bethany Cox


                
OK (with spoilers).. so S5 is now over.. and what do we know. He's a closet-gay president, willing to do absolutely anything, up to and including murdering people to retain power. And she's a power hungry, coldly calculating, psychopathic first lady... that was shacked up in the first-family residence with her speech-writer lover.. (who she too ultimately kills to keep it all going).It obviously suits the plot-line, but how would it be realistically possible for any first lady to have a live-in lover sharing her bed full-time without being on everyone's radar and lips every day in the White House. And for the two of them not to comprehend this boy-toy of hers ultimately becoming a huge liability in their future is a complete absurdity (his poisoning death at her hand just more utter nonsense).Ah..the two-edged sword of attempting an overly ambitious, sensational plot-line.. (with powerful leads in creative and production control).. making it shocking, yet keeping it believable... near impossible to do. Now it seems the only main questions to be answered in S6, are who's the bigger monster.. and how they meet their ultimate demise. Overall though, with limited exception, it's still one of the more accomplished and entertaining productions out there today.


                
First of all I think this is overall still a great show compared to many others that are out there in the drama genre.Generally I was disappointed with S5, because I had hoped they would take the show in another direction, namely showing how Francis Underwood would undermine the system of checks and balances to achieve almost absolute power (and maybe, or not, his downfall in doing so).Instead the election and aftermath against his opponent was, though politically interesting, dragged out way to long. But it was what happened after that, which was really sloppy and uninspired writing.Towards the end there where two moments where the show massively "jumped the shark". Firstly Francis pushing Durant down the stairs, I mean wtf. How was he supposed to know she would end up unconscious? Plus she was going to testify against him and then "falls down the stairs" after meeting with him, not suspicious at all! Secondly Claire killing Thomas, I mean he was living with her in the White House, everybody there knew that, and suddenly he is missing or will be found dead somewhere then, please!I mean one could argue the killings of Zoe and Peter were unrealistic too, but as for the character Francis Underwood it made sense to take the risk at the time, a suicide by Peter was realistic for the public, and nobody knew Zoe and Francis where involved, so dramatically it made sense. But not this time, these to moments where just nut and bad writing.I hope they conclude the series in S6, it would be a shame if it went further downhill from here.
Season 3 review:This season felt like a long, must-do set up of a sensational Season 4. That's where all the plot lines point to and in retrospect, how they feel after finishing this season. The Russian angle didn't get as tense as I was hoping it to be, mostly because Victor Petrov is played as a really charismatic guy and the strings he pulls aren't as interesting as those pulled by the politicians in season 1 and 2. Sure, the cast is great . The show looks great (except for the final showdown between Frank and Victor, which looks like a soda-commercial) and I really like all those fancy dresses, but in the end I feel a bit hollow. This season reminded me of how much I loved season 1, and that's not really a good sign. I really hope they live up to the promise and expectations they laid down here because the show might just fall flat when they don't deliver an explosive Season 4.
This show is good, do not get me wrong, but I do not think it is as good as the hype it gets. The best TV shows (Breaking Bad, Sopranos, GoT) get better with time. This show follows the traditional formula and has been getting worse with time. The best thing this show has got going for it is the acting, everyone is fantastic (the best being Kevin Spacey of course), but everyone is really good. The show seems often drawn out, and there are spans of episodes where nothing really that exciting happens. It's easy to lose focus. I am not saying this is a bad show, it is not. But I was told by so many people to watch, because it is "incredible", it's above average, but nothing special. I think with better, more exciting writing combined with the acting, this could be one of the greatest shows. Unfortunately, this show started off pretty good, but has had a negative progression. It seems as though season 6 might be interesting with Claire and Frank battling for supremacy. I really think they need to save this show in Season 6, and think about wrapping it up, or like many shows it will fall into forgettable mediocrity.


                
For the first ten episodes, this series is tops. Kudos to the producer for not taking the popular Hollywood POV by making the bad people Republicans. If I had rated this show after ep.10, I'd have given it 10. The story is totally believable until ep. 11. I think I can understand the idea that Frank is so full of himself that he will behave unethically over and over. However, Frank committing murder changes the show's genre from political intrigue to a new "Columbo" murder mystery. I can picture Peter Falk in Frank's office with his endless detail questions. "Excuse me, Congressman. We did not find your fingerprints on the steering wheel or door handle, but the funny thing is, we found no fingerprints at all. Why would a man about to kill himself stop to wipe off the steering wheel and door handle? And we have the car on several traffic cameras with two people inside. The driver in one of them looks a lot like you. Have you ever heard of DNA? Our lab found some on the top of the whiskey bottle that we can't identify."Season two has to be the end, because Frank cannot get away with murder, and when he's gone, the series is over.
If you start to watch 1st episode of Ist season you will get addicted to it. Great pace, great acting by spacey.. Season 1-4 great, Season 5 was ok.. Please dont try to watch Season 6, Y'all gonna waste your time...


                
All seasons sharp and keeping the tension, and, before sll: a clear thread. Last season - a disaster. Nothing keeps together, no story; fuzzy mess, random actions and murders, and the pregnancy??? A holy conception, I guess. Completely unnecessary a weird turn serving for nothing. I tried to understand the concept of the final season; but I gave up. A total waste of time, and money, to turn it.
The first season is a nine, maybe even a shade better. It went downhill rapidly after that. A freaking jobs program? And the way the writers make government work is also increasingly ridiculous. Spacey was the best thing about the show, and without him it is just plain bad.


                
This show is good for the first many episodes, where we slowly get into the twisted mind of Frank Underwood (Kevin Spacey). Basically Frank is obsessed with power and will stop at nothing to get it. This means lots of backstabbing, manipulation, lies etc. I can accept that and even find it plausible, but later on in the show where Frank is the favorite to win Vice Presedency he goes and commit a murder(!)I do not know whether to laugh or cry, it is so insanely stupid that words cannot begin to describe it. Have the creators no sense of political thinking? A coming Vice President would never commit a murder no matter how pressed he was, that is just not the political or just sensible way. He would know how to plant stories fabricate lies, buy people off, basically anything but murder. We are talking the US here not some underdeveloped country where you might actually get a way with such a thing.This show had a lot of potential but in the end they blew it for a cheap dramatic effect, one that is utterly unbelievable.7/10 for good entertainment in most episodes, alas the terrible turn of events that a murder is, is a deal-breaker for me. Therefore I am not gonna watch the second season, what a shame really.
I guess these days the term "original" is used freely, even though one presents work already done by others in the same medium. Such is the case of House of Cards. There's nothing original, other than the change in venue from London to Washington in House of Cards. Spacey's performance is excellent. But the script worked better in the original series, because of the different political system. Also Ian Richardson created the character for the screen, with a masterful performance. You'll be entertained by this series, is well done, and expertly directed by Fincher. But the true "original" is still the best. Why is it that American Cable networks and film studios have to base their stories on remakes of successful European productions? Whatever happened to American writers? I guess that it all has to do with making a "sure bet" with a proved script. Also a large number of the audience never watched the original series from BBC 23 years ago. If you are in this group, fetch the original, you won't be disappointed if you like a good story with great acting.


                
With deference to everyone else that seems to love this show, I hated it. I watched 6 episodes before I couldn't take it anymore. Sure, it's realistic and well written/acted but I have to deal with the bad guys always winning in the real world. I don't want to have to deal with this same crap in my entertainment. I can read the news every day and get the same awful feelings I get when watching this series. I really don't see what the attraction is. I found no entertainment value at all in this show other than the brilliant performance by Kevin. He's always a joy to watch. But I hated his character and by extension the show itself.


                
I am one of those people who like to watch good TV series a season in one go with beer and munchies. I mean who doesn't rent DVD's or stream series from Netflix now rather than waiting every week. House of Cards is pretty good - not as good as Breaking Bad or the Sopranos but about the level of Dexter - solid but not brilliant.Strengths are Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright. Spacey reprises his characterization from Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil which is one of my favorites of his. He does the Southern backstabber so well. As for Wright, her characterization of his wife is a treat to watch every show. It is nice to finally have an older, attractive, intelligent and complex female character.Downsides are the predictability of the plot and the other characters who are 2 dimensional. Spacey has to deal with some ridiculous plot ideas and people are too stupid by far as his schemes implausibly succeed... However, no worse than Dexter and a lot of fun to watch Spacey and Wright connive - Spacey flamboyantly and outwardly Machiavellian while Wright does so quietly, subtly but equally effectively.Good way to pass a weekend...


                
Robin Wright's acting. She develops such an monstrous, versatile and spiritually elevated creature, with such hunger for freedom and power but the plot and the writers of the show don't do justice to her or the Show.
What shame!


                
Season 1 = 10 Season 2 = 10 Season 3 = Zero. Please do not waste your time with season 3, I can only hope that in some parallel universe they will re-write and re-shoot the entire thing. The storytelling is horrible - the characters do not match the past two seasons at all. It's as if they switched writers, directors and producers between Season 2 and Season 3. It's absolutely awful. Characters are inconsistent, as I have already mentioned, but also it's just such a letdown in execution. I don't understand how they fell on their face so utterly completely since they were doing so well as a series. Perhaps they hired someone who hasn't a clue what they're doing - but let me be clear, I don't care if there is a sad or happy ending. The ugliness of the characters doesn't bother me one bit. What I've seen in the transition from Seasons 1-2 and Season 3 that bothers me can only be described as the equivalent of having an author such as J.R.R. Tolkien write a new trilogy, then firing him after the second book only to hire Justin Bieber to write the third book in his stead. I'm sure I'm under-stating it.


                
Don't get me wrong, it's a great series that keeps the viewer in suspense. The acting is magnificent and the character development is superb. The only downfall is the patters. Each episode, Frank and his wife manipulate, almost get caught, then talk their way out of it. It makes it seem that everyone else in Washington is gullible, especially the president and his wife. Each episode builds up with suspense, and the suspense ends when Frank and his wife talk their way out of a situation and everyone believes them and life goes on. The sad truth of the series is that I believe most politicians are bought and sold. Some are after the money and some are after the power.I reminds of selling your soul to the devil at the crossroads. I am secretly looking forward to Franks downfall, which seems only a matter of time. Enjoy, but don't take too seriously.


                
I would give this show a 10 except for a couple of absurd plot devices that nearly ruined the entire thing for me. I say nearly ruined because I am a stalwart Kevin Spacey fan and I have enjoyed watching him in this about as much as anything he has ever done. Francis Underwood is the character Spacey was born to play and Robin Wright was biding her time in a crappy marriage to Sean Penn and being a somewhat crappy actress too until she could play his wife in this. They are perfection - far better than the pulpy and ludicrous story line.I am so disappointed that the writing can be so smart then dip to such depths of head-smacking lunacy. Two murders? Oh come on. That was nuts enough but I went with it mostly because I was thrilled to see Kate Mara's annoying hoodie wearing valley girl twinklet of a character get thrown in front of a subway train (which incidentally was what I wanted to do to her since she started her affair with Frank Underwood in the first season).But they lost me after Claire's sex scandal from her affair the first season with the British photographer. It was simply not possible that she could come out of that but the larger point being that there is NO WAY IN TEN FREAKING HELLS that following on the heals of this she (and Frank) would engage in a bisexual threesome with their secret service guy Meechum. I don't mind if Frank likes his bread buttered on both sides. But I do mind that his wife takes part in it. Because there are simply some things you cannot un-see and that is your husband rogering or being rogered. And I'm sorry but how dumb is Meechum? He actually thinks he will be allowed to live after Frank and Claire become POTUS and FLOTUS? WTF - Meechum you are not long for this world.I could not buy this plot device or direction or circumstance. No way, no how. Not after the crafty way Frank and Claire have connived themselves right into the presidency. Poor story construction. I know this isn't realistic obviously since Frank has already murdered two people. But the bisexual threesome was too cheesy. They already had the hooker turn into a lesbian as it was. What is everyone now gay? Or was it just a push the envelope bit - let's show hot girls making out and see their boobies and let's watch Kevin Spacey make out with a guy. Yeah we can do that instead or good writing.Also I thought Franks's letter to President Walker was too little too late. Walker had already figured out EVERYTHING about Frank (except the two murders) but he had it all and I don't think some insincere letter from Frank would be enough for Walker to change his mind and unlearn everything that he already knew and have him hand off the presidency.Spacey & Wright deserve better than this. They deserve for the show to be exciting, brutal, intense but not pandering and plain ol' nuts.If you could edit out the entire Meechum threesome and give President Walker a little dignity in the end then the show might have really had my love.But Kevin Spacey does and the only woman who should ever play his wife, Robin Wright. They are worth ten thousand times the mediocre writing.
This TV-series primary focus is on dramatizing political life, but some of the ideas can be extrapolated to other fields and professions. Words and time are easy transferable assets in the world of politics. This awesome adaptation of Michael Dobb's novel, along with a brilliant cast and superb cinematography, introduces a mass audience to how plausible deniability works at the government level. As for professionals, their loyalty is imperative and important their skills. In House of Cards politicians sell out words as promises and political adds, or fictional threats. Their debates and campaigns perfectly demonstrate the tacit bargain between politicians and voters. So, the last two seasons illustrate the devaluation of the Underwoods' words leading to loss of power and political support.


                
