Just watched the first episode. It is outstanding in every sense of the word. Fist of all I'd like to say, Kevin Spacey is amazing. He's not the dull politician we're used to seeing, he's a deeply written character with nuances to his actions and speaking. You can definitely see Fincher's style in the first episode, at least. It contains some of the similar themes he has tackled before in his film and adds to those. He crafts the story very tightly woven and complex. Kate Mara is also great, she adds to the list of modern Fincher characters. I love the points of satire in Spacey's character and some of the symbolism used. The show is outstanding in every aspect, unlike a lot of other political dramas on TV, can't wait to watch the next episodes.Definitely a must watch for any fan of TV or Fincher or anyone interested in this.


                
From the start, Kevin Spacey captivates & impresses with his his portrayal as the Machiavellian chief whip. The dialogue is superb, the editing tight, & the plot moves at just the right pace.I'm 7 episodes in at the moment & so far it hasn't missed a beat. I remember the original house of cards on the BBC in the early 90's, & at first hearing there would be a US remake, had some concerns, how would they ever match up to the quality & acting, would they still do the Jacobean theatre style breaking of the 4th wall speaking directly to the audience? I needn't have worried, Kevin Spacey handles the role with aplomb, although Ian Richardson originally had a hint of a twinkle in his eye when about to pull peoples strings, Kevin Spacey is far more emotionless, cold blooded & menacing. Both work equally for the part.Launching on Netflix was a brave move & I really appreciate being able to binge on episode after episode, of this exciting intelligent new drama.


                
First of all, whoever decided to release the entire season at once is a genius. With most people wanting more and more instant gratification, viewers are "binge" watching entire series in one weekend anyway. Netflix must be paying attention to their user statistics and following suit. Now, on to the show. I love the complexity of the characters and how everything is interwoven. Spacey is absolutely stellar. I love his dialogue with both the characters and directly to the audience. House of Cards is definitely not your typical political show, I see most others as being stiff or boring, but HOC is exciting and engaging. The music composed for scenes is also very well done. Overall, this is a great series, and I can't wait to watch more!
When I heard Netflix was doing a show directed by David Fincher, my personal favorite director, I was excited. The story sounded a little broad, but still I was pumped. I'm here to say it's as good as I could've imagined. This is a great show. Watched the whole season in one day, which is how I believe TV should be viewed. I've noticed TV has been getting better and has surpassed movies for sheer entertainment. The best TV shows, Game Of Thrones, Breaking Bad, BoardWalk Empire, have Movie qualities and tell amazing stories. Welp, we have another winner. The acting is on point, especially Kevin Spacey. He's almost type cast and there's no real stretching he's played this character like 5 times, there's even a Horrible Bosses reference if you can believe it, but he's great. The supporting actors are also good. A lot of times what can ruin a good show is too many sub plots, but it's all very focused and deliberate. Also, this is an adaption of a BBC Series and it has some hints of it, with Spacey breaking the fourth wall and text messages appearing in real time. Gives it a specific vibe very smart.This is clearly Fincher's answer to Boardwalk Empire. Scorsese is the guy for Period Piece Gangster films and Fincher's direction feels so comfortable here. Even the aesthetic is clearly Fincher's work recalling Zodiac, Girl with the Dragon Tattoo, and Social Network. Beautifully shot and great pacing. For the average viewer who likes sophisticated TV Shows this is for them. For any Fincher Fanboys this is a must see and it's only 7.99 on Netflix.***** SPOILERS & UPDATE**** After sitting on it and thinking about the show it still holds up, my only warning is that the start and end of the season are great and in the middle there's is a two episode transitional period which changes the pacing, but it quickly picks up and delivers and seeing as you could just watch them all in one day, it's hardly worth mentioning.
The moment I heard they are gonna drop Kevin Spacey, I knew season 6 is going to lose its soul & suck hard... But they re-defined sucking in season 6...
Although it started even before that announcement when Claire Underwood broke the 4th wall and stole the intimacy between the audience and Frank Underwood... Yeah that was when all the charm and anticipation went out of the window for the next season...
This sets a new precedence where a stark contrast between season 1 & season 6 shows the greatness and ridiculousness of a good show exhibiting itself...
The ones who made the the decisions to completely ruin the legacy should be ashamed & retire...
I would love to give this show 1/10 because of season 6 but I am keeping my original rating intact for all the goodness of previous seasons...
PATHETIC...


                
This is a splendid production, top notch casting, Spacey is back on his game after a recent career of missteps, boondoggles and occasional brilliance.Robin Wright as Claire Underwood, wife to Spacey's character, is stunning -- even Underwood's office manager Evelyn (not credited) brings credence to the cast.Kate Mara (older sister of Rooney Mara) is fantastic as a go-getter of a reporter who manages to push through what Spacey's character knows will benefit both of them. She knows her assets, but just barely.There are numerous directors involved, it will be interesting to see how they handle their segments, and if the series can persist in making reprehensible characters intriguing, and earnest characters look clueless.


                
This is probably the best TV series I've ever seen in recent years. So incredible. I'm addicted and I wish they could get more of them out sooner. The first season to the second season was a painful wait. Then you watch them all and they're over way, way too fast. If you haven't seen this unbelievable show, you must watch it immediately. The complexity of dialogue and government situations is phenomenal. So much research must have went into this. But if you are really addicted like myself, you can also watch the BBC version, which is where this entire season originated. I like the American version more because of Spacey and Wright, but the English version is really amazing as well. Don't miss this. Seriously.


                
In spite of Michael Kelly's valiant effort to keep Doug Stamper and with him, Francis Underwood, in focus, this last season is but a damp squib after the promising beginnings of the series. Clare Underwood-Hall has become one-dimensional villain, far from the complex character she one was, and the whole thing makes us yearn for the brilliant centre that was Kevin Spacey. I'm sorry I invested so much time and hope on the last season - utter disappointment.
Acting is too notch, story is the same...I mean the only real complaint I have is that it seemed to oversaturate the hour long episodes as the last season started. For me a change of pace would have made it perfect. Just a few episodes that weren't manic to breath life back into it. Overall you'll be hard pressed to find a "better" show anywhere


                
There are some bizarre reviews in here. "One-dimensional characters", "lacking in originality", "disgusting", etc. It strikes me that these comments are coming from people too precious and blinded by patriotism to assess the show appropriately, and those unable to take in and understand the show in its entirety.It's because of the latter bunch that Arrested Development was originally cancelled - ignore them.Anyway, this show is packed full of excellent acting performances - the best of whom, in my opinion, is Robin Wright's character. It's laughable that anyone would make the criticism of one-dimensional characters with her on the cast - how much depth and uniqueness do people need in a character? She is loving, ruthless, loyal, manipulative, deceptive and caring all at once. Her performance is up there with Edie Falco's as Carmela Soprano, and is in general one of the best female TV acting performances there has been to date. Spacey also is obviously excellent, and a great introduction to the cast as the plot developed was Gerald McRaney, who somehow manages to heighten the shows general level of filthiness as soon as he is introduced.As for the plot, the show is wonderfully paced (with the exception of one misstep midway through the first season). There are no explosions or bloodbaths, but it is utterly compelling watching Underwood slither through government, poisoning every corner of it with his influence, gradually moving everything into place for him and his wife. On top of that, as with any great show, the show casts off key characters in shocking circumstances and does not suffer a drop in quality. I was left open mouthed at one point for example in a way I haven't been since watching The Wire, and I would recommend the show for that moment alone.So yeah, ignore the hysteria and exaggerated criticism. I'm not trying to come off as some sort of arrogant, superior 'TV-watcher', but these views are coming from people who either have no idea what they're on about, or are not watching the show with a clear perspective. This is a show about ambitious politicians in the US government fighting for power - what do people expect? Do people really think politicians are like how they are in The West Wing? Spacey's character in this is unprecedented in terms of corruption and deceit, but I'd be concerned if people thought the rest of the cast were far off being representative of the real thing. Politicians can be ruthless, fake and disingenuous, and House of Cards does a fine job of illustrating that.


                
I deeply enjoyed the first five seasons of House of Cards. Excellent acting and storytelling.Without Kevin Spacey, however, the series is dead to me. He was the heart of the show, and I am not interested in watching a headless chicken stumble around before it finally dies.


                
Nice story and it is very close to reality. I like Franks character a lot. He gets planned setbacks and manages to achieve positive from very negative situation. Each and every action of Frank and his wife turns into a big move.We come to know later how it turns as a great advantage for Frank. Presidents character has played very accurately. Pace of the serial is very fast. Keeps happening something at every moment. Negative points : But Frank is shown as murderer but still gets away with this. It show if you have power you can get away with anything. On the other hand innocent journalist gets killed and other one ends into prison. In upcoming season, I am expecting Frank pays for his crimes.


                
I could not have been more excited for February 14th to come this year and it had nothing to do with the exchange of flowers, cards, chocolates, or bodily fluids, but rather the return of Netflixs' House of Cards. House of Cards proved to be one of the fastest growing shows, in terms of popularity, across the country due to its easy access on Netflix. This show has begun a potential revolution to how television will be watched in the future because it puts the control of the show in the hands of the viewer. Like a novel, you have the choice of when to pick it up or put it down and advance into the next phase of the show. Perhaps that is why each episode calls itself a "chapter".As I mentioned before I thoroughly enjoy following the dark and deceptive tactics of Frank and Claire Underwood as the both lie, cheat, and kill their way to the Oval Office. The show is another example of how we in America have fallen in love with the villain as proved by the popularity of other shows like Breaking Bad, The Sopranos, Boardwalk Empire, and Homeland. However, what makes this show even more interesting is not the big "holy crap!" moments that everyone loves, but everything in between the stuff that I don't understand. Some may be turned away from House of Cards due to the heavy, almost in-your-face, political jargon and wheeling and dealing that breezes over the heads of not only the laymen like myself but perhaps anyone who doesn't hold a high power position in Washington.So why do I keep coming back to this show? Why did I find myself on the couch for nearly 5 days (thanks to the insistence of winter to dominate the east coast) to watch episode after episode? It's because even when the show seems to put itself on a higher intellectual level then me, and this happens more then I care to admit, it is everything in between that keeps me engaged. Every detail of this show is so carefully calculated from the lighting, music, set pieces, and dialogue it's as if Frank and Claire did it themselves. I enjoy listening and watching these people "be" smarter than me on my television screen. I enjoy watching all of the new alliances form and seeing them deteriorate within an episode of each other over the slightest detail. It is that unpredictability that hooks the audience and brings us back for more. I always find myself asking questions like "how can anyone have any sense of trust with someone else in this show?" or, more troubling, "Do our elected officials behave even SLIGHTLY like they do in the show?" There have been interviews with elected officials in Washington regarding the show and some have said it is fantasy while others have said it is surprisingly accurate which makes my latter question even scarier.I want to refrain from speaking about the actual events that occurred in season 2 because I want you to experience them for yourselves. I want you to watch Frank Underwood continue his mission for the presidency and his ability to manipulate those around him as if they were chess pieces to forward his movement. I want you to watch the mysterious Claire Underwood who even at the end of season 2 I still see as an enigma. Even at the points where she seems the most exposed, she never seems to fully reveal everything she is thinking and feeling which makes her character that much more compelling. The only question I can pose for the future of the show is when do we reach the point where the Underwoods come at odds with each other? Both are so gifted in the ability to deceive others and both share what seems like an insatiable lust for power. However, both also share the innate sense to protect themselves at all costs and often times they use each other to protect one another. When do we get to the point where one of them has act against the other in order to preserve their own individual well-being?So "Welcome Back" as Frank, ever so graciously, says to us in the season premiere. Enjoy the Underwoods spin their web and ensnare anyone who is unfortunate enough to be caught up in it in front of our eyes. For if there is one thing that is certain about this show, it's that no matter what happens, Frank wants us front and center to watch it all unfold.


                
There are some bizarre reviews in here. "One-dimensional characters", "lacking in originality", "disgusting", etc. It strikes me that these comments are coming from people too precious and blinded by patriotism to assess the show without bias, and those unable to appreciate and understand the show.It's because of the latter bunch that Arrested Development was originally cancelled, so ignore them.Anyway, this show is packed full of excellent acting performances - the best of whom, in my opinion, is Robin Wright's character. It's laughable that anyone would make the criticism of one-dimensional characters with her on the cast - how much depth and uniqueness do people need in a character? She is loving, ruthless, loyal, manipulative, deceptive and caring all at once. Her performance is up there with Edie Falco's as Carmela Soprano, and is in general one of the best female TV acting performances there has been to date. Spacey also is obviously excellent, and a great introduction to the cast as the plot developed was Gerald McRaney, who somehow manages to heighten the shows general level of filthiness as soon as he is introduced.As for the plot, the show is wonderfully paced (with the exception of one misstep midway through the first season). There are no explosions or bloodbaths, but it is utterly compelling watching Underwood slither through government, poisoning every corner of it with his influence, gradually moving everything into place for him and his wife. On top of that, as with any great show, the show casts off key characters in shocking circumstances and does not suffer a drop in quality. I was left open mouthed at one point for example in a way I haven't been since watching The Wire, and I would recommend the show for that moment alone.So yeah, ignore the hysteria and exaggerated criticism. I'm not trying to come off as some sort of arrogant, superior 'TV-watcher', but these views are coming from people who either have no idea what they're on about, or are not watching the show with a clear perspective. This is a show about ambitious politicians in the US government fighting for power - what do people expect? Do people really think politicians are like how they are in The West Wing? Spacey's character in this is unprecedented in terms of corruption and deceit, but I'd be concerned if people thought the rest of the cast were far off being representative of the real thing. Politicians can be ruthless, fake and disingenuous, and House of Cards does a fine job of illustrating that.


                
Kevin Spacey is phenomenal. Robin Wright is smart. Kate Mara is petite. Supporting cast is extraordinary. With a story about relationships in a political backdrop, House of Cards is a marvelously written, directed & conceived TV show that is contemporary yet bold.The episodes will stab you in the heart. But it teaches you, over everything. I am myself not a man into politics, but this just kept me wanting for more and I can assure you it was not the addiction of binge- watching a crime drama, but the happenings. With equal quantities of investigative journalism, sex, betrayal, empathy & apathy, HoC breaks all notions and sets the plate right, full with elements to chew on. It teaches you the solemnity that flies in such legislative corners of a capitalist nation.And towards the technicalities, HoC has brilliant music and wonderful sound mixing. Kevin Spacey's character talks to the viewers and that is perhaps the best thing about the show. He plays his Congressman role on- screen and then shifts his gaze on us to explain his idea/tactic or next move. As it is anticipatory, it is equally humorous.The boldness is flawless and although one or two episodes were slightly off the pitch, I am gonna continue the show along with the few others that I follow. It has taught me how to use my words when I am conversing with allies, enemies & expendables. Amazing characters should be one more factor for you to consider this.BOTTOM LINE: Highly recommended!Can be watched with a typical Indian family? NONudity: Mediocre | Sex: Mediocre | Alcohol/Smoking/Drugs: Critical | Gore: Very Mild | Violence: Strong


                
From the writing to the acting, it's brilliant all around. Kevin Spacey is outstanding. You love to hate him & hate to love him. I usually do not care much for political shows but this is so much more. It's scandalous, conniving & fun all at the same time. The cast is impeccable. It started out a little slow for me, but then it became addicting. Season 2 is even better. The 1st episode in season 2 was phenomenal. It has twists & turns that keep you guessing what will they do next. Robin Wright plays her part perfectly. All around the show is superb. If you don't have Netflix, this is the biggest reason to get it.


                
This was an incredible show. The underbelly of democracy, the corrupt pursuit of power innate to human nature. It was dark it was brutal. The breaking of the 4th wall worked exceptionally well, Frank Underwood only clued us the viewer in to what is really going on. Those poor saps had no clue just how diabolical this pair together could be. You didn't know the strings were being pulled until it was too late. Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright together ultimately made this show, but the entire cast was superb. And then Netflix goes and ruins everything with Spacey's removal. This was not a plot twist with the sudden departure of a lead character aka GoT style. No this was politics in the real world, something Netflix has no business in. They single-handedly destroyed the best show they have ever released. This series ended at S5. A crisis without a resolution.


                
There is no longer a Frank Underwood and Claire just isn't that interesting. I wish I hadn't looked forward to Season six. What a disappointment.


                
Found out about HOC the day it was released. Saw small ads for it at a distance weeks before, but it never really intrigued me. Not a sucker for political dramas. But once found out Fincher and Spacey were in on this together, I knew it wasn't going to be like any other political drama. I couldn't resist. Watched episode 1-4 in one sitting (60 min each) on the 1st of February (day of release). Watched another 4 episodes the next day (Feb 2nd), and finished the season, 5 more episodes on February 3rd. Such great writing, you simply cannot turn away from watching. The only reason I watched only 4 or 5 episodes at a time is because I would fall asleep soon thereafter. Up till 4AM each night, watching Spacey manipulate the United States government was just too exciting.No understatement here, I felt like I was watching a 13 hour long movie. The character development was incredible.LOVED what Fincher brought to the table. Fincher has quite a particular style when it comes to dialog and his directing is in a world of its own. The best director out there right now in my opinion. One of my favorites. And lets just put it out there.... Kevin Spacey can play one heck of a villain... A wolf in sheep's clothing. It's this coequal experience, where you both love him and hate him throughout the entire season, rooting for him the entire time even though you hate what he stands for. Kate Mara also did a spectacular job. Fincher loves those Mara girls! Extremely thrilled to see they signed on for a second season. Counting down the days.
Network TV on Friday nights has nothing that interests us, so my wife and I decided to give this new series a try, available through our Netflix streaming account. We couldn't stop after the first episode, we had to go on further and watch the second also.My first impression ... excellent TV series and good timing too. We just had an election and inauguration, and we the public see Congress fighting over the budget, education, lobbyists, and wonder about the backroom deals that must be going on. This series, with Kevin Spcey as both a producer and star, touches on all that in a fictional, but plausible way.Kevin Spacey is Francis Underwood, long-time Congressman and Majority Whip. He has been promised the nomination as Secretary of State in return for helping the newly-elected President win, but now that the election is over, the promise isn't being honored. This sets up the theme for the series, and although this phrase is never uttered, it seems to be a good example of "Don't get mad, get even."Robin Wright is super as his hard-nose wife, Claire Underwood, who is head of a charity that needs to cut staff and renew its direction. Kate Mara is super as the young reporter who wants to get into the dirt for breaking news, and her willingness comes at the perfect time or Francis.If the first two episodes are a good indicator, this series is a winner all around. It is, however, patterned very closely after the early 1990s British series of the same name.
I've seen four series of House of Cards now (fifty-two episodes) and I'm not beginning to tire of it. That's unusual.I do like a good political intrigue. What's special about House of Cards is that it gets you rooting for the bad guy. Frank Underwood, played by a superlatively versatile Kevin Spacey, is plain evil. He destroys everything in his path for political gain, and then unashamedly oozes with charm for the public.Together with his wife, Claire Underwood, played by the cool as a cucumber Robin Wright, Frank faces a constant onslaught of political challenges. But he always comes out on top. And always at the expense of someone else.There's no doubt that Spacey and Wright's performances are what makes this series so great. But there is also a very capable supporting case. Kate Mara from series 1 deserves a special mention as the novice reporter who gains Underwood's confidence.I'd also say that the pace and complexity of the plot is spot on. It's a fast pace, but allows room for plenty of character development and set-piece scenes. And it's got enough twists and turns to keep you interested while maintaining a sense of realism.House of Cards has got all its ingredients right. It's fast become one of my all time favourites.
I watched the entire of series of "House of Cards" in a few sittings. The entire three seasons, 39 episodes, I mean. When I finished all of them, I put back the very first DVD and started all over again, in another set of few sittings. Yes, it is that good. For this particular series, I can't speak for everybody because I have been intensely political all my life. I belong to a political party. I ran and got elected as a member of parliament. I was once in a cabinet. And I have been very active in politics at every breath. How can a true political person not find "House of Cards" most intriguing and satisfying? The story of a rags-to-riches, power-hungry couple, whose marriage hinges on intense political struggles and successes, never once fails the audience. I can't believe that they can erase the stardom of Kevin Spacey and Robin Wright so completely and leave us convinced that only Frank and Claire Underwood are left for us to see. It is a huge suspension of disbelief. Even watching it cheatingly, through my set of DVDs, I can see the natural development of the couple and their hostile surrounding. A very steady and balanced almost 40-hour-long film. Indeed. Other characters are in abundance. Zoe, Douglas, Remy, Jackie, Bob, Edward, Seth, Adam, Tom, Rachel, Freddy, Heather, etc. But we always remember the theme and the core story like we wrote it ourselves. "House of Cards" is not a thriller, but indeed a horror story of American politics. I personally believe that scriptwriters borrow quite a bit from the incredible lives of Richard Nixon, as well as Bill and Hillary Clinton, and somehow have them colorized. As a student of US political system, I can't find a false note in the 39 episodes of this series, which is rather hard to believe. The couple's rise to power in every step of the way has been supported by convincing stories. Even murders themselves are believable. For me, another gem from "House of Cards" is the depiction of system against human beings. It is done better than any films I ever watched. Till the most fragile moment, when Claire quietly declared, "I'm leaving you". It is so neat of a climax and most suitable in the story of sinners. I salute "House of Cards" and challenge any naysayers to try out.


                
This TV Drama Series is full of quality from top to bottom. I strongly recommend this movie to anybody not only politic drama fans. I am sure there are many positive reviews about this drama. And obviously it deserves all of them. So I will not point them out here again except how brilliant Kevin Spacy is. However there is a weak point in this drama series. And it is scenario. It is both genius and at the same time lacking the reality. I watched 2 episodes with full attention. It was a big surprise to see USA President has nobody around him to look after him. He is naive. So it is easy to manipulate him. He is so alone. Whereas Underwood has best guys, they are dedicated and loyal etc. If you can accept this, this is one of best TV series ever; maybe the best. Enjoy..
Yes, yes. I do recommend House of Cards. Now, please stop reading about the show and start, not just watching it, but paying attention to it.Many things can be said about the show, and I am sure many will be said, and with good reason.I now entertain motions on the show's writing (Shakespeare-ian, of course), directing (Preminger-ian, Hitchcock-ian, even), and acting (at it's worst, Thespian.)All those in awe say aye.Aye!All those in fear that Washington might not be *that* far off, say nay.Nay?I now open the floor for debate.The Devil IS in the details. I'm sorry, let me rephrase that: Francis Underwood IS in the details. The writer's master stroke is with that ring, his ring: his mallet.Candidate, Governor, Senator, Majority Whip, etc. All those are just name tags. What Frank's really after is power, the kind of power one can amass, bordering on haphazardly accumulate, to be wielded, with malice and intent, as jury and executioner. But be warned. Behind this Devil there is a darker force: Claire. It is clear Frank is the head in the Underwood marriage but, as in any successful marriage, the neck does tell the head which direction to turn.The show producers have only one goal in mind and have been lobbying, back-channeling and conspiring to achieve it: to put a big, bold, shiny sign right ON our faces that reads:F*C*UAs in Francis and Claire Underwood.
Oh, Kevin Spacey. You have found a proper home for your villainous side.House of Cards is about a manipulative, extremely ambitious couple, living in a world of political corruption. They will stop at nothing to get what they want.After watching the first couple of episodes, you start to wonder just how far Frank Underwood (Kevin Spacey) will go. As the show progresses, the "problems" that Frank has to solve get more and more complicated, and as a result, his solutions become more elaborate and sometimes, very dark. The way in which this escalates makes his actions stick to your gut in different ways. It's like a full course meal. That being said, Frank isn't the only one who will do what it takes to achieve goals. His wife, Claire (Robin Wright), may not do as much "field work", but she has proved to be just as conniving and manipulative. She is more than anything else, Frank's safe place. Whenever he becomes unsure of something, she is always there to ground him. They're like two evil peas in a corrupted pod.You may be wondering "How can I root for such evil characters?". Well, you don't have to love them to enjoy them. Pretty much every other character in the show is a cutthroat narcissist. These people's actions and personalities are used as stepping stones for the Underwoods. Frank takes a ruthless, sleazy politician who has a need to succeed, and uses that behavior to his advantage. Nobody is innocent in this show, even though the Underwoods are the cream of the crop.This is a show about details. Every moment, every move, leads to a solution or problem. If you're one of those folks who finds long dialog scenes boring, this one may not be for you. Like Breaking Bad and other progressive dramas, it's an investment of your time. If you pay attention, and allow yourself to get sucked in to this world, you'll be rewarded for it. Nothing happens quick. This is a formula that allows you to get attached to the characters, which in turn, effects you deeply when something happens to them.I recommend this one for sure. With an actor like Kevin Spacey as the main, who is well known for playing some of the best villains to date, you honestly can't go wrong.


                
