I'm glad to see there are reviews here that don't just eat this story up with a spoon. It has the potential to be an amazing, inspiring film, but it falls way short on all fronts. As one blogger said, "it tries to impart an Asian sensibility of 'animal as individual' that doesn't work in a contemporary American setting."If the filmmaker/screenwriter is going to take the fact-based story (and who really knows how much of that is true) as the bones of a contemporary film set in a completely different country, then he needs to elevate all aspects of the story to match. There are plenty of reviews here that illustrate the major flaws in screen writing, characterization, and the like. But how could the movie have reached the level of that inspirational, life-changing synopsis it claims to be? First of all, there is no rule that the wife can't attach to the dog and love it, and still have the animal's primary loyalty be toward the husband. Many animals bond much more with one family member. Creating a character who comes across as not caring for the animal her husband so loves, leaves the viewer wondering what he saw in her in the first place. It's contradictory to love.If the animal really "inspires a whole town" as the synopsis claims, why doesn't a whole town come together and take care of him instead of patting him on the head, saying a brief hello, and throwing a scrap of food? When the dog refuses to stay at the daughter's house and travels miles back to the train station, it's reprehensible that she opens the gate and lets him again find his way back over dangerous (and being an animal on the streets is always dangerous) territory. Why not have her take him back and work out something with the people there (train master, vendors, local store owners) that allows him to live at the station as he so desperately needs to do. She never checks on him again, which leaves the viewer cold and wondering how she sleeps at night.Her son (who starts and ends the story about Hachi his hero) is growing up the whole time the dog is waiting at the station, yet she never takes the child to meet the dog. What a lesson and inspiration it would have been to visit him and bring food and bedding on a regular basis in order to ensure the dog's comfort and safety. Teaching the child that sacrificing for those we love, including our four-legged family members, is part of the experience of life would have enriched this film in so many ways. Instead, the boy, at the end of the movie, says this all happened "a long time ago," as if it were decades before his birth. No one in the family ever seems to check in or make sure Hachi is okay, and the wife only stumbles across the dog, and is surprised to see him, when visiting her husband's grave on the ten year anniversary of his death. The dog sleeps under an old train in freezing conditions, and no one seems to care. The scene where the family is looking at old pictures of Parker with Hachi is heart wrenching and dumbfounding. What did they tell the child: "Oh, yeah, the dog wanted to wait for Grandpa so we let him run free and fend for himself on the streets. Not sure if he's still alive or not."Had the town come together to watch over this loved animal and offer him solace and physical and emotional comfort in his grief as a tribute to the man they all have so much respect for, it would have made this the inspirational, uplifting film it has the potential (and right) to be. It never does that.This is not a film any child should see and one most adults (and animal lovers) should avoid. It breaks the viewer's heart--for all the wrong reasons.
I'm sorry, but this is just manipulative and serves no other purpose than to tug the heart strings. How does it do that? By exploiting just about every human's love and affection for animals and personal experiences with their own pets. Yes, this movies is well filmed, well acted, and effective in tightening the audiences throat. But let's not forget that this is a film, and there is no plot or dialogue here - nothing happens. What does happen is a perfect idea for a 1 minute heart-warming TV adver. Instead it is stretched to movie length. Also, if you're going to steal a real-life event from Japan, steal it properly and drop the forced links with Japan - the professor hangs out with a Japanese guy and happens to get a Japanese dog....aha, OK.


                
You may be a dog lover (I am), you may love the real story of a real Tokyo Hachiko, but that doesn't excuse 8.0 average vote for a crappy film, a tearjerker that doesn't even succeed in that, a formulaic and just blah movie. Despite all the heartbreak of the story itself and the beautiful dogs that "played" all the right parts well, this bubble gum of a movie failed on so many levels, it lost even the ability to tear-jerk. Richard Gere mentioning "the heart" right before the...moment? All the "see you tonight"'s before he leaves? Please! (just one example)Maybe the Japanese original film, Hachiko Monogatari (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hachik%C5%8D_Monogatari) is better, if it can be found anywhere.


                
So many people think that this is such an amazing movie. I, however, do not. What I see is horrible cruelty for the dog. I know that many are using the fact that the dog keeps going back to the train station for years as a sign of loyalty (an it is a sign of loyalty), but him going back for all those years is also the cruel part.I have had dogs, cats, a rabbit and ferrets. All of them have been extremely attached to me and several did not even like it even if I was just outside the house and they could see me from the window. For years I have had a part in my will that states that if I die, my "babies" are to be shown my body so that they know that I will not be coming back. I do not want them to be waiting forever for my return that will never happen.I was crying throughout the last part of the movie, not that Parker Wilson (Richard Gere) had died, but that the poor dog did not know that and was now forever waiting for him to return. I had heard of a similar situation when a guy that had a dog with him in a hospital and had to have surgery, died in surgery and he too, waited for the rest of his life for his friend to return. I even make sure that any of my "babies" that are still alive see any of my "babies" that die, so that they are not waiting for them to return.I had seen a few reviews that had stated that you needed tissues, but I did not realize why. Had I known, I may not have watched this movie.I implore any of you that have an animal (or as I call mine, "baby"), that is very attached to you as this dog was to Parker Wilson, that you make sure that the members of your family know that the animal, or your "baby" is shown that you are dead so that they do not wait for the rest of their lives for your return. It is a very cruel thing to not allow them to see that you are not coming back. Believe me, when they see that you are dead, they will understand that you will not be coming back.
Before I watched this movie all I knew was that it had an IMDb rating of 8.0, and I'd seen a one-line comment that called the movie "heartwarming". I was therefore expecting a family-friendly movie that would be warm and uplifting. It is exactly the opposite.Be prepared for an insipid production that, despite Richard Gere, has no noteworthy acting. The characters are not engaging and even the dog is detached and aloof. There is little of visual interest since virtually the entire movie is filmed at the protagonist's home, or at the small railway station in a dismal town.Although the message the movie tries to portray is one of commitment and devotion, it is a slow-moving and depressing story filled with disillusionment and death.Unless you enjoy movies that offer little other than tragedy, stay away!
I didn't like it. I don't think Mr. Gere knows anything about dogs and it showed in the way he acted with the dog. I've watched 1500 movies in the last 10 years -- I'm not an expert but I know good from bad. A good movie is one I would watch again -- this isn't one of them. Why do they require ten lines? I said what I wanted on 4 lines. You would think they would be happy with brevity. Instead they want me to go on and on when I have nothing else to say. I've never commented here before and I wouldn't have now if I hadn't received this mention of the movie as part of my news feed . The answer is obvious, I'll block IMDb. I didn't like it. I don't think Mr. Gere knows anything about dogs and it showed in the way he acted with the dog. I've watched 1500 movies in the last 10 years -- I'm not an expert but I know good from bad. A good movie is one I would watch again -- this isn't one of them. Why do they require ten lines? I said what I wanted on 4 lines. You would think they would be happy with brevity. Instead they want me to go on and on when I have nothing else to say. I've never commented here before and I wouldn't have now if I hadn't received this mention of the movie as part of my news feed . The answer is obvious, I'll block IMDb.


                
Had to write this review to balance out the flood of positive reviews that I scrolled through.This must be the most overrated movie I've come across on IMDb. Rarely do I watch a movie with this high rating and find myself wanting to turn it off before getting halfway into it.Finally when something happens in the story, the characters are so underdeveloped that you end up not caring. One of the things that annoyed me the most about this movie was when the director kept filming the dogs face for emotional effect. It's crazy to me to imagine people crying from something as dumb as that.In summary, just an incredibly boring mush film owing its high rating to people getting emotional just because a dog is in it.


                
