In Bedridge, Professor Parker Wilson (Richard Gere) finds an abandoned dog in the train station and brings the dog home with the intention of returning the animal to its owner. He finds that the dog is an Akita and names it Hachiko; however, nobody claims the dog and his family decides to keep Hachi. Along the years, the popular Hachi waits for Wilson in the square in front of the station. When Wilson dies at school, Hachi keeps waiting for his owner along the years until the day the meet each other. I was quite anxious waiting for the release of "Hachiko: A Dog's Story" on DVD. I had read in the newspaper the story of the Japanese dog that had waited for nine years for his deceased owner in the 20's in Japan and I expected a good adaptation of this story of loyalty and love by Lasse Hallström. This melodramatic movie has a great cast, with Richard Gere, Joan Allen and the dogs that should be nominated to the Oscar with their expressions and acting, better than many actors and actresses that we frequently see on the screen. Be ready for tears and bring handkerchiefs and tissues together with the popcorn to the sofa, and watch a really beautiful movie with your family. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "Sempre ao Seu Lado" ("Always at Your Side")


                
This is a true story of faith , devotion , fidelity and undying love between a handsome master and his trustworthy dog ; both of them will forge a special kind of loyalty . A college professor's (Richard Gere) bond with the abandoned dog he takes into his home along with his wife (Joan Allen) and daughter (Sarah Roemer) . At the beginning the spouse isn't happy about it , but after failing to find the owner , she lets the reliable dog stay . Later on , a Japanese friend (Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa) reads the dog's tag - "Hachiko" (from the mountainous northern regions of Japan) or "Eight," a lucky number. Parker attempts to teach the dog to fetch , but the loving animal doesn't want to learn . This very beloved friend would accompany his master to the train station every day and return each afternoon to greet him after work . It is based on Hachiko, the Japanese dog that waited for his dead master to return for nine years , this "Hachiko: A Dog's Story" results to be a charming take off of ¨Hachiko¨ film (1987) by Kaneto Shindô starred by the great actor Tatsuya Nakadai. Enjoyable and provoking film that captures qualities that make this Japanese picture a classic dealing with the true story about a dog's loyalty to its master , as tragedy tests that loyalty even after his death and no animals were harmed . This is a new classic for a new generation , a thrilling saga of courage and loyalty . The animals in this film were in no way harmed or mistreated , being portrayed by three dogs : Chico , Layla , and Forrest and all scenes in which they appeared were under strict supervision with utmost concern for their handling . Narrated quite energetically , as the story is efficiently told and through its profound and wizened eyes . The evocative scenery , photography and music enhance the story of ¨Hachiko¨ and its adventures , sufferings and adversities . The tale is treated in good sense and high sensibility , environment , animals , landscapes combine to enhance the glories of faithfulness . The breed of Hachi the dog is called Akita , and it's a rare breed . At the times of Hachi, there were only 30 living Akita dogs in all of Japan . On May 19 , 2012, a bronze statue of the Japanese dog Hachiko was unveiled at the train depot at Woonsocket Depot Square where the film was shot ; it is an exact replica of the bronze statue of Hachiko which resides in front of Shibuya Station in Japan. Good cast full of fine American actors such as : Richard Gere , Joan Allen , Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa , Sarah Roemer , Erick Avari and Jason Alexander . Glowing and glamorous cinematography by Ron Fortunato . Sensitive as well as emotive musical score by piano composed and played by Jan A.P. Kaczmarek . The music all plays with the soul , it is so delicately composed , performed, and chosen for the movie that it is worth seeing just to enjoy the soundtrack . The motion picture was marvelously directed by Lasse Hallström . Lasse is a prestigious director and writer, especially known for What's eating Gilbert Grape? (1993), The cider house rule (1999) , Chocolat (2000) , Casanova (2005) , Salmon fishing in the Yemen (2011) and this Hachiko (2009) ; and he has been married to Lena Olin .


                
This movie, set in New England, is a modern version of the true story of a Japanese man and his dog back in the 1920s and 1930s.It begins and ends with an 11-year-old boy in front of his school class telling about his "hero", and the movie that unfolds is about his grandfather's loyal dog, Hachi. His name comes from the Japanese characters on his tag, but no other information about where he came from.The small puppy is being transported by train, in a small bamboo cage, which falls off the gurney. No one notices in the crowd, and the puppy gets out. He then is discovered by traveler Richard Gere as Parker Wilson, who is a professor of music. He commutes daily by train.Parker doesn't want the puppy, we soon find out that they apparently recently had one die, and had agreed not to get another. But with no place else to put the puppy overnight, Hachi was brought home.Always good Joan Allen is Parker's wife, Cate Wilson. Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa is his good friend and fellow professor, Ken. And Jason Alexander is the train station supervisor, Carl.This is a fine story about the relationship between a man and his dog. Richard Gere is superb as he usually is in this sort of role.SPOILERS: Parker and Hachi develop a very close relationship, which turns into Hachi following Parker to the train station every morning as he left, then returning at 5PM in the evening as the train arrived, to greet his master, for several years. But one day Parker has a massive heart attack during one of his classes, dies, and is buried. Hachi is taken by Parker's daughter and son-in-law, but soon Hachi escapes and treks down the tracks to the train station. He makes himself a make-shift place to sleep under a rail car that apparently didn't move much. Every day he went to the train station, for 10 years, to wait for his master. He only quit when he died. The story is about loyalty.
Hachiko: A Dog's Story tells the tale of Hachiko, a faithful dog who would walk his owner to and from the train station every day. But when the man unexpectedly dies, Hachiko continues his daily routine of waiting for his master at the train station for the next nine years, becoming a fixture in the community. The story is based on real life events and the film is a remake of the 1987 Japanese film Hachiko Monogata. Hachiko is a simple story of animal attachment and loyalty. But as simple as it is, it's also a very powerful story. The film doesn't waste much time showing Hachiko as a puppy, instead it fast-forwards to a grown up Hachiko, showing the relationship between the dog and its owner Parker (played by Richard Gere), and how they spent their time together and the bond that they had. There's even a weird camera angle suppose to emulate dog's vision to shows us the animal perception. This only makes the film sweeter. And then, the "twist" happens. Parker dies and Hachiko, unable to move on, keeps following his daily routine waiting for Parker after work, every single day. This goes on for years and goes to show you what an amazing animal dogs are, and how loyal they can be. The third act is the most powerful act of the film but at the same time, it's where the film looses sense and direction because there's not much more story to be told. It's a sad and tragic on-going event(the dog waiting for its owner) that lasts for years. As I said, Hachiko is not a great film but the story is beautiful. However, it's so tragic and heart-wrenching that it almost hurts to watch. Hachiko is not a feel-good movie. In fact, viewers will probably feel quite lousy after watching it but I guess the film is a good homage to this dog and a good reminder of how marvelous animals are.7.5/10


                
Having now seen and reviewed) the original 1987 Hachiko Monogatari I have come back to this remake with fresh eyes and an upwardly revised opinion. While I still believe this movie in no way reaches the true potential of the "story" I think it at least matches and may even exceed the quality of the original.Perhaps of greatest surprise to me are the choices the director made in what he took from and what he rejected from the original story. He has moved the story from 1920's Tokyo to 2000's small town America, and this is not an unreasonable choice. However once the link with the original Japanese story has been so fundamentally severed the world is your oyster as far as story details go so having made that choice it does seem a little perverse to make the dog not just Japanese but an Akita, as in the original. The essence of Hachiko is essentially a love story between a dog and his master, and it matters not one whit if they are in Japan or America, if the master is a Professor of agricultural engineering or of music, or a street cleaner for that matter. It does not matter if the dog is an Akita, a Pekinese or a Great Dane. What is pivotal is the portrayal of a credible relationship between the dog and his master, and to achieve this the casting of both man and dog is absolutely paramount. The Akita is a magnificent animal but if these two movies are any indication it has a stoic personality that presents a challenge to a filmmaker who has only 90 minutes to bring the character to emotional life. Presumably the Japanese market for whom the original was intended knows this personality and compensated for it. In this American version the director cunningly introduces a Japanese character who is able to inform the viewer of the Akita's character, which somewhat mitigates and explains the dog's relatively passive behaviour, but nevertheless it still would have been nice to see a greater level of visible connection between the dog and his master.As I indicated in my other review the conundrum of this story is how to present it without inferring at least some hint of abandonment on the part of the master's family. I think this version does a better job of this than the original, and certainly the character of the Master's daughter and her partner are far more sympathetic than the original, although there is still some lingering unease as to how a dog can remain essentially a stray within the community for a decade or so. In both movies the subplot of neither wife not really wanting the dog is totally unnecessary and simply wastes precious time that should have been devoted to developing the personalities and relationships of the dog his master.Richard Gere is not called upon to do much before he pops off but never the less does a great job. He presents a far more consistently sympathetic character than his counterpart in the original, although to be fair his Japanese counterpart is saddled with having to exist in the less relaxed context and culture of 1920's Japan. It has to be said the director's conception of a music professor as someone who plays music with all the sophistication of three blind mice for beginner piano, and who supervises very strange dances is more than a little naive. We also have to suspend credibility in the first 10 minutes in which Hachiko makes his way from Japan to a small American town – like people always send puppies randomly half way across the world in a rickety kennel with no documentation, no quarantine, no nothing, right? And they are routinely dumped on top of carts of luggage and accidentally dropped by people who seem to be deaf and blind...why did they even bother with this part of the story? This a waste of time that could have been better used to develop the man/dog relationship. In summary a solid if not magnificent re-telling of the Hachiko story and probably as good as can be achieved while sticking to the Japanese framework.


                
A drama based on the true story of a college professor (Richard Gere)'s bond with the abandoned dog he takes into his home.Exactly how this film got into the IMDb Top 250 is something of a mystery. My guess is that there are a lot of dog lovers out there. Not that it is a bad film, but it starts off very much like an ABC Family film, and the production value never really increases.Luckily, the plot tends to improve as it goes along, and it is clearly an emotional film. Those who are more prone to crying during movies may do a bit of crying here, because it is a great encapsulation of how loyal a dog can be to his master. As summed up by Kim Newman, "Not a dry eye in the house - but not irritating schmaltz either."


                
I'm pretty aware that movies involving relationships between men and animals tend to be sad and depressing. Even thought, I decided it was a good idea watching this movie. And it was. First minutes are reasonably predictable, since we all know that, in the end, the family would adopt the little dog anyways. It is nice the way Gere's character became friends with the little animal, and it was beautiful to see their activities together-- specially when Mr. Wilson tries to teach him how to catch a ball or any object. In a moment I couldn't imagine how the movie could become sad if the dog didn't die, but some scenes after I found it could be worse than that-- I'm not spoiling on that. Photography direction is beautiful, and so are acting and story. I won't deny I almost cried in the last minutes, given that the ending is completely hopeless, but makes it become a strong movie involving emotions and feelings. Worth watching, of course.
If you want to cry for the sake of crying, then watch this movie. You know it's going to be sad, and sad it is.There were moments towards the end where small plot details made no sense, but I'm not going to spoil the movie for you. It seems like the plot was made that way it is in order to make the movie as sad as possible, and it seems most of the crying audience don't realize the flaws, perhaps because their eyes are too wet.Apart from that, it is a well-made movie, and it has a really nice doggo, so it still warrants a 7/10.


                
I am struck deeply by the tale of Hachiko. Yes... My ID here on IMDb is based upon the story of Hachiko -- But let me be clear -- it is NOT based upon this film. I have reviewed many films prior to reviewing this one, here on IMDb, using my "Hachi Ko" ID. I feel that I can review this film objectively.First of all, after reading all of the accounts of the Real story of Hachiko, I can confidently say that this film is a decent story in its own right, but it is a Very Loose interpretation of the tale of the real Hachiko. It is, for all practical purposes, a Work of Fiction."Hachi", the film, barely works as a 1.5-hour film. I did enjoy watching it, but it's not worth a second look. The film is essentially a 1.5-hour melodrama that appears to have the sole purpose of making dog-lovers cry. There is very little in the way of a real plot in this film. The same instrumental music playing over and over and over again throughout the entire film doesn't help.With that said, I'm not going to pretend that I know how the film could have been better. Most likely, it probably just wasn't a good film story to begin with, and should have just been left alone.Basically, an empty-nest guy stumbles upon a dog, and falls in love with the dog, which also falls in love with him. The guy's wife gets jealous of the dog, but before that jealousy can become a serious plot issue, the guy suddenly dies of a freak aneurysm. Then, the dog waits for him at the train station for several years, until the dog finally dies. I'm not trying to make fun of the story. My point is that there is only so much that you can do with that information. Just getting this film to 90 minutes was a stretch. This story was better left on paper.A few points that were brought up regarding flaws in the plot, by some of those who commented earlier:1) 'The dog only went back to the station for the food that the station vendors were giving him.' Actually, in the true story, in Japan, the vendors initially hated the dog and shooed him away for awhile. Eventually, however, they began to respect the dog's loyalty, and began feeding him.2) 'In the film, no one in the family seemed to realize that when the dog disappeared, he was waiting at the train station.' Well, the guy's wife was the only one in the family who would have known that, and she supposedly hated the dog. She certainly didn't want to go retrieve the dog, and she didn't talk about the dog with her daughter.3) As for the dog... Is it loyalty or obedience? Akita Inu are known for their "loyalty" and strict "pack mentality." If the guy was the "Alpha", then the dog would have waited out of Fealty as much as out of Loyalty. Since none of us is a dog, we can't know for sure exactly which emotion drives a dog to be loyal. I have my opinions, but they are just that... Opinions.
A difficult movie to review , because it IS emotionally wrenching, but then having said that, I found myself very angered by the actions of the daughter and the wife of Richard Gere's character.The daughter takes the dog home and then bids it "Goodbye Hachi" and opens the gate and lets the dog wander of to it's lonely last 9 years of life. The wife finds the dog at the end of the film, aged and still mourning his owner, she hugs him and weeps and then she too leaves(abandons ) him. Does any dog lover think that these are appropriate actions? To see this poor animal, every winter sleeping under a train in the cold/ frost and ice is very upsetting. Yes, for the emotional tug of the story it works, but totally inappropriate to treat an animal like this. If a spouse was so upset at the loss of their partner, and they wanted to haunt the railway station for the rest of their life to be linked to their lost spouse would you let them do it? To put it in human terms the animal was traumatized and needed love, care and attention. They should have taken him to the train station at the time of the professor's daily arrival and then taken him home, loved him, and made him comfortable. But these people just abandoned him. I admit at the end I was sobbing, but I also was very angered, by this story. Poor Hachi...


                
"Hachi: A Dog's Tale" is a remake of a Japanese film, "Hachi-Ko" (1987). Oddly, however, this American version keeps SOME of the original Japanese story (such as the breed of dog, the dog's name and SOME of the events in the dog's life) and completely changes so much--especially since "Hachi-Ko" is based on a real life Japanese occurrence, not in America. Back in the 1920s and 30s, the real Hachi was a dog owned by a Japanese professor. One thing that set him apart from most dogs was that Hachi would meet the professor at the train station after work each day! But, even more unusual is that after the professor's death, Hachi CONTINUED this routine--waiting patiently for his master every day! In many ways, the story is like that of the very famous Scottish dog, Greyfriars Bobby--who is memorialized in Edinburgh outside the pub and church where the do would do its daily ritual (lying at his master's grave and then visiting the pub). In fact, I did some reading and found several other similar accounts throughout the world. This leads me to wonder WHY the film did a semi-remake. Why not just make a fictionalized story? Why keep a few details and change others--especially when this Japanese dog inexplicably shows up in Rhode Island!So does this lack of attention to detail mean I hate the film? Even as a retired history teacher, I cannot, as I must confess that I've owned dogs for years and currently have two massive hairy beasts who adore me (in addition to my two cats who alternate between adoration and ambivalence). I am a sucker for a film about a cute dog--and the Hachi in the movie is one of the cutest Akita's ever (much cuter, by the way, than the original Hachi). You cannot help but like the dog and enjoy seeing him interact with his owner (Richard Gere). But, there needs to be more than a cute dog to make a really good film--and currently this fame has an astonishingly high score of 8.2! Is this number, at least in part, less about the quality of the production and more a vote to signify that most everyone loves cute dogs? Well, yes. Objectively speaking, the film is a remake--and that's one strike against it at the onset. And, I just cannot imagine a pleasant doggy film making it to the IMDb's Top 250 List--but it did and it's currently #190--giving it a slightly higher rating than films like "The Best Years of Our Lives" (one of the greatest films of the 1940s), "Rocky" (the first one was very nice), "A Fistful of Dollars" and "The Celebration"--as well as the original Japanese film!! Overall, it's a nice doggy film that is VERY family-friendly at that and with a lovely and evocative piano soundtrack. By all means watch it-- but don't be surprised if you like it but don't love it.A few final notes: First, I noticed that AFTER the master died in this American adaptation, it ALWAYS seemed to be snowing in this town--for years and years after the death! Second, what's with the professor's wife?! Her husband dies and she finds Hachi at the end years later at the train station and is surprised to see him?! Where was she at the time...off-world or taking a very long nap?! Didn't someone bother to tell her about HER dog or didn't she ask about how old Hachi was doing?! This seems to be a missing plot thread. Third, if you are curious, Hachi's actual remains were stuffed after his death and he is on display at National Science Museum of Japan in Ueno, Tokyo. And, there is a statue to him as well as annual celebrations in this country. How these people view an American film company 'appropriating' their story is something I would love to know.
I am almost certain this will be a fantastic film but surely a rip off of the tale of Greyfriar's Bobby (1961) set in 1874's Edinburgh, Scotland.Bobby belonged to John Gray, who worked for the Edinburgh City Police as a night watchman, and the two were inseparable for approximately two years. On 15 February 1858, Gray died of tuberculosis. He was buried in Greyfriars Kirkyard, the graveyard surrounding Greyfriars Kirk in the Old Town of Edinburgh. Bobby, who survived Gray by fourteen years, is said to have spent the rest of his life sitting on his master's grave. A more realistic account has it that he spent a great deal of time at Gray's grave, but that he left regularly for meals at a restaurant beside the graveyard, and may have spent colder winters in nearby houses.In 1867, when it was argued that a dog without an owner should be destroyed, the Lord Provost of Edinburgh, Sir William Chambers—who was also a director of the Scottish Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals—paid for a renewal of Bobby's licence, making him the responsibility of the city council.Bobby died in 1872 and could not be buried within the cemetery itself, since it was regarded as "consecrated" ground. He was buried instead just inside the gate of Greyfriars Kirkyard, not far from John Gray's grave.


                
I reckon that Hachi: A Dog's Tale has been shown on one of the Sky Movies channels graveyard slot almost every day, for months now. Hmmm. Another shaggy dog story, no thanks.Radio Times online has a photo of a young boy with a puppy to go with it. Doubly no thankyou! So, I resisted even longer. Then I noticed the director was none other than Lasse Hallstrom, who not everybody knows, made as one of his earliest films in his native Sweden, 'My Life as a Dog', back in 1985.That being quite a favourite of mine, I then recorded Hachi. But, My Life is a Dog it isn't and is very different and much more 'normal' and grown up and sober. For much of it though I still found myself sceptical; instead of my worst fears of having a small boy playing with his puppy, we have a fifty-odd year old man playing with his dog. All very cute and life-assuring but hardly high drama.Of course, this is a family drama and one that is obviously loved and so I adjusted my perceptions and then, enjoyed it. It benefits from a good cast - Richard Gere and Joan Allen as his wife and being filmed in the old school tradition - simply, slowly, beautifully. The simple piano-led music is evocative, emotive and fitting - and universal.Hachi is a touching tale that certainly brought a lump to my Tarantino- hardened throat and certainly made me think and ponder. Recommended.


                
Hachi: A Dog's Tale, had extraordinary potential to be a great film. The film starts of with Parker Wilson taking in a young Akita puppy. At this point in the movie, the gentle playful music, coupled with Gere's performance was well done, and I though that the movie would go on from there. Realistically however, there wasn't much plot to go on from this point.Hachi: A Dog's Tale is definitely worth a watch, I'm sure that many people would enjoy this movie, however I found the pace a little slow. The plot is good - however as a film, its quite limited. This movie does however have a very good ending (magnificently done) and it does have its moments in which the audience was captured.I would actually like to see a Japanese, Asian produced movie of this, as in the original, it worked well. The background, Tokyo, would also add a nice touch to this film. The highlights of this film include the interaction between Hachi and his owner, Parker. Overall, this film wasn't bad, but it wasn't excellent either, 7/10.
I had better state first of all that I'm not particularly a dog lover, I'm more of a cat person, but I appreciate the bond that can exist between an owner and his pet. I should also say that if it wasn't for the fact the Richard Gere appears in this film I very much doubt I would have watched it. Having said that, what I saw was a very heart-warming story that will most definitely not be for everyone, but for those that can appreciate it, it's well worth a viewing. Here's a very brief summary first before I tell you what I really think (summary haters please wait outside the railway station while I write the next paragraph).Parker Wilson is a music professor at a university and he commutes by train every day. One day he finds a puppy wandering about on the platform. Unable to find anyone to claim the dog he takes it home. His wife, Cate, is not best pleased and tells him he must find the real owner soon. He puts up flyers and asks around but nobody claims the dog. He even asks Ken, a Japanese colleague about the dog. Ken tells him that he has a symbol on his collar that says 'Hachiko', which means 'eight' in Japanese. As you can guess, Hachi (for short) becomes the dog's name. As the days pass the bond grows stronger between Parker and Hachi and Cate eventually relents and allows the dog to stay. Once fully grown, every day Hachi would follow Parker to the station and then go home until the evening when he would return to wait for his master. This goes on for quite a while and Hachi becomes a bit of a celebrity amongst those that work in and around the station. But something is about to go badly wrong and this will test Hachi's devotion to his master. Of course I'm not going to tell you what that is as I really don't want to give away too much.You may be surprised to know that this film is based on a 1987 Japanese film called "Hachiko monogatari" by Kaneto Shindô, which is, in turn, based on a true story. There is a very nice musical score that complements the visuals perfectly and I love the occasional shots we get from the dog's point of view. Nobody does a long stare quite like Richard Gere, and he was excellent in his part as Parker Wilson here. Also worth a mention are; Joan Allen as Cate Wilson, Cary-Hiroyuki Tagawa as Ken, Sarah Roemer as Andy (their daughter), Jason Alexander, as Carl and Erick Avari as Jasjeet.Although this has the feel of a TV movie of the week, it is a very well done TV movie of the week. If anything the ninety minutes running time is a little long for the story and you begin to feel there is a little too much padding in there. But having said that I still found it a decent watch. Over all, although it is not for everyone, it did bring out some emotions in me that I rarely show and so I deem it<U+0085> Recommended.My score: 7.3/10


                
A simple, heartwarming story of a loyal dog that waits for his master after his master's untimely death. The dog: an Akita. The story is real and took place in Japan in the early 20th Century.


                
Based on a real dog, Parker Wilson (Richard Gere) is a music professor. One night, he finds a stray puppy at the train station. Despite his wife (Joan Allen)'s objections, they take him in and name him Hachi. The dog loyally waits for Parker every day at the train station even when Parker passes away and the family has to move away. He becomes a staple at the station.It's the thinnest of premise. Based on a Japanese film based on a real dog in Japan, it takes that premise to its simple tear jerker conclusion. Dog lovers will love this movie. The story is very simple done with a very light touch. Nevertheless the movie is very effective.


                
The true story of Hachiko might be very touching, but how can you translate it to the screen? It's a dog waiting for his dead owner to come back while sitting in the same spot for years, how do you make that visually interesting? Director Lasse Halstrom partially solves this problem by having Richard Gere die very late into this movie, a bit too late perhaps. The whole family is just so bland, what do we get to know about these people throughout the movie? They're happy. That's pretty much the character development. There are only so many scenes about Richard Gere playing with a dog you can stomach without wondering when something's going to happen. The last half hour of this movie manages to save a lot though. Seeing Hachi interact with all of his owner's old friends who can't convince him he will never be back, watching him badly age while everyone around him knows he's wasting his time, it's all very strong because the build-up does work to some extent. It's kinda boring, but we do feel like we get to know Hachi well and that makes it all the more sad when we see him suffer. Everything that concerned Hachi I loved, the rest I can sorta do without.


                
Yes, this film shall definitely bring tears to your eyes as you see it.This is certainly a tale of friendship, devotion and love enduring.While this is a true story, what's wrong here? We are taught that prolonged grieving is not good. That doesn't mean that we stop thinking, loving or caring about the departed person; it just can't be forever. Remember, we are told that life must go on.I've never seen Joan Allen go from being an anti-dog person to one who came to realize what Hachi meant to Richard Gere.Gere's sudden death in the film at such a young age is shocking to say the least. Imagine the emotional outburst of the class he was lecturing to when this happened.It is quite predictable how this film will end. To me, that was no surprise at all.
This moving tale is based on the real-life story of Hachiko (aka Hachi), one of the Akita Inu breed. It really shows how much dogs are our friends... they are loyal even well after our death! Loyal forever and ever. This loyalty captures your attention and melts your heart.To find a good movie nowadays is not an easy duty, including animal movies. Well, this is a good doggy movie and one which brings back some of the formula that stopped being used long ago but was once so common, even though it's not in the same league as the greats from the past.Richard Gere leaves his leading gentleman roles and image behind and goes ahead with a far more serious and dramatic role as a professor who finds an abandoned dog and, after finding no one who wants to keep it, keeps it for himself. The two become best friends in no time. One day the professor unexpectedly passes away and that's when the pivotal part of the dog's loyalty comes up. It touches those who appreciate dogs and this genre of film.


                
