The year is 2071. Earth is now but a wasteland and civilization has expanded to the further reaches of the galaxy. Unfortunately, that means there are also some of the galaxy's most feared criminals. Here's where our heroes come in. Who are our heroes, you ask? A cool as ice bounty hunter, his stoic, but paternal ex-cop partner, a sexy, sensitive con-woman and an odd little hacker named...Edward Wong Hau Peppilu Trilovsky III (A name she--yes, she--has given herself)...oh, and not to forget a little welsh corgi named Ein. This ragtag group of intergalactic misfits are off on an adventure to collect the reward of infamous criminals, with both hilarity and tragedy strewn along the way.This is the premise of one of the best anime ever created, in a nutshell. Though it doesn't have the serious, dark overtones that typically fill the anime/manga universe, it is certainly is worth a watch. The dialogue is wonderfully witty, the dark overtones are reduced to undertones, and it has one of the best dubs ever recorded. Mary McGlynn, director and voice actress for various anime (Wolf's Rain and Naruto, to name other titles) has selected fantastic anime dubs a good name. The acting really emotes, especially Steve Blum's 'cool cat' performance of Spike. *...sigh...* Oh and the music...oh GOD, the symphony that is the music!!! CB's music is composed by the legendary Yoko Kanno, who also composed several other big titles. Her emotional pieces are a treat for the ears (check out Wolf's Rain to prove my point) and CB is no exception. The music is as diverse as the multicultural characters that appear in CB. From whizz-bang jazz of the 'Bond' fare to whistling western flutes to acoustic guitar strains to even mid-70's 'blaxploitation' funk, it's all in here...and makes every moment believable.Overall, the series is not the brooding anime/manga fare, as I have stated before, but a 007-esque romp that could be made into a smashing movie...which, coincidentally is due out 2011...and I PRAY it holds up to the fantastic masterpiece that is Cowboy Bebop.


                
What more can be said about this show? It's a great choice for people getting into anime for the first time, and it was the first anime show many people in the West were ever exposed to thanks to its broadcast on Cartoon Network's late-night programming block "Adult Swim" in America and on the UK network "CNX" in the early '00s.It's at times sexy, slick, funny and weird -- always with an undercurrent of smoky, neo-noir grit, wrapped in sci-fi-Western trappings. Across its 26 episodes, it takes viewers from action-comedy ("Jamming With Edward") to madcap chases with tinges of Blaxploitation ("Mushroom Samba") to outright horror ("Pierrot le Fou", "Brain Scratch") to tough-as-nails, near-nihilistic fatalism (the two-part finale, "The Real Folk Blues"). It's quite a ride, and viewers lucky enough to see this series for the first time should really watch the episodes in order, not because of plot spoilers, but so they can appreciate the very deliberate darkening of the show's mood as the episodes progress. Later episodes see the crew of the spaceship Bebop progressively disintegrating, as the characters realize the dark pull of their personal demons are stronger than their bonds and friendships with each other. It's depressing, and it's always stayed with me.Sound-wise, there's a widely celebrated English voice dub that's one of the best I've ever heard, and there's Yoko Kanno's triumphant original music that takes inspiration from funk, jazz, and more. Half the fun of watching the show is listening to the music on offer -- truly some of the most iconic and complementary tunes of any TV series, animated or otherwise.Overall this is a brilliant show, with great writing, animation, pacing and huge entertainment value. It's an anime classic because there isn't really anything else like it -- it's one of the purest distillations of an East-meets-West aesthetic that I've ever seen, and it has a surprisingly poignant sadness that courses through its veins. It's one of the few television shows, animated or otherwise, that can truly be called an original.


                
Rated TV-MA for Violence and Some Sexual Content.Cowboy Bebop is a 26 episode animated series from Japan.Now to tell you the truth, I am not a really big fan of anime, I like the fairly violent anime films and the original dragon ball series but I am not a big fan of any others...except this one of course.If you are a fan of anime, you must watch this show now! It is amazing! Excellent story,characters,humor,drama etc.The show is basically about three(later four) bounty hunters and them doing their job.There was also a film adaptation of this, which I saw before watching the series.The movie is excellent as well.If you are an anime fan, check this one out.


                
Cowboy bebop is perhaps one of the best anime series that I have seen and below I will explain why.The Series is about a group of bounty hunters traveling in space through a sci-fi world getting into trouble and for the most part having fun most of the way.The first plus about this series is in the title which is the music. It has a blues style that is a mix of cultural work with a sound that most can enjoy. If you enjoy good music then you will like this series.The second is the animation. I really feel that this is a point that should be expressed not necessarily the beauty of the art involved but the fluid nature of the animation that brings your eyes to the screen.The Third is the story. The characters all have a decent amount of depth and even the dog has personality. The overall story is gripping and works to be truly enjoyable in the end.Overall this series is truly a masterpiece and I would recommend it to anyone in the end.


                
Wow, what a fantastic series this turned out to be in the end, after being recommended by a friend I indulged in it personally and despite the slowish start fell in love with what can and should be considered as one of the greatest anime's and general TV series of all time. It might sound like high praise and that's because it probably is but it's earned, setting the rules and depth of the world we are about to explore it sticks to this greatly, selling an alive 'system'. Characters are fantastic too, each is fleshed our over time and truly have a connection with the audience which leads to moments of hilarity, tension, anxiousness and even heartbreak when the series reaches its climax and certain events unfold. Regardless there's something for everyone and it's worth noting that even the over arcing story elements are too fantastic even if they only read their head on the odd occasion to push forward the narrative in some capacity. Enjoyable, funny, short (sadly!) and fantasrically crafted I can't speak highly enough of what I consider to be an absolute classic of TV, give it a watch


                
Wow. I've been watching anime now for a while, but I come to Cowboy Bebop late. This was worth waiting for. I will continually judge both live action film/TV by the standards I judge Cowboy Bebop. It is truly that good.Many before me have given reviews that I'm sure I'll duplicate, but this is truly the best anime I have EVER seen. It is a genre all its own. The music complements the show in such a way that is so rare today. The animation is wonderful. As a fan of HK action flicks, this show delivers in spades (especially the movie). It manages to transcend so many genres at once with its characters and its soundtrack.This is true television bliss!


                
Like the name suggest, music is central to this show. Instead of an opening theme you are hit with "Tank!" and right away you know it's about cool. The scores supplied by Kanno are phenomenal. The man is to jazz and anime what John Williams is to classical movie scores.The series has a hint of a 70's, retro, kung-fu movie / "Shaft" feel, particularly early on, driving home the cool feeling. This is just an undertone to the Western feel in which Clint Eastwood would be at home.From all of this, the aspect that truly makes this series wonderful is the quiet desperation. The three principal character are utterly flawed though superlatives. They are all desperately searching for pieces missing from their lives with a pain and loneliness that drives them together and makes them sympathetic to the end. Broke bounty hunters, barely able to find enough money to eat yet unable to be anything but compassionate stoke this sympathy even farther. The two minor leads, Ed and Ein, are geniuses at what they do, but a child without a care in the world and a dog that cannot speak are wonderful comic relief and consequently very endearing.This series is a tour of histories coming back to torment the characters, and the interplay of relationships is magic almost never seen - there is no need for expositions and out of place statements. The science fiction is neither overbearing nor unbelievable. Space is a fringe wilderness, and the Western feel is totally appropriate. In fact, it is a mix rarely seen so well - only the "Firefly" series comes to mind.This is definitely a series for a more adult audience - subtle character interactions, and no fear of blood, vice, or lack of action. At the same time, young teens to adults will enjoy it if for no other reason than the cool factor.


                
^_^ this is one of the best animes out there. thanks for reading my review ^_^


                
COWBOY BEBOP is definitely a must watch for anime fans who like STAR WARS the series is about spike spiegel and his partner jet bounty hunters who travel through space and earth to hunt down the world's deadliest criminals either alive or dead they meet up with different interesting characters throughout the show which 2 of them are members of the ship they're faye and edward and a welsh corgi named ein *possibly short for einstein*the action sequences are awesome which have die hard vibes to it they seem to only use modern day weapons like HK USPS , ak47s , UZIS , jericho 941 which is spike's weapon of interest there is alot of violence in it too so if you like kill bill styled violence set in space this anime is definitely recommended it has a tone of space dog fights which is really awesome but also the gun blazing on earth as well most of the episodes at the beginning and the end could have been filler but still watched it all the way through really made me sad though seeing edward and ein departing the bebop ship thought they would stay forever till the end i might guess at the end of the series where spike just says bang and lies on the floor made me think he is still alive but knocked out even the author of the manga never confirmed if he really killed him who knows
Each episode viewed on its own is a masterpiece; with amazing quirky stories, well crafted characters, and excellent music and visuals. However, the ending was anti climactic, over dramatic and didn't fit with the pace of the rest of the show. I really wish we would have learned more about Spikes past, then the epic ending which him facing it would have been justified. I really felt as if Spike himself, and his lover, died for nothing. Leaving his friends behind and ignored. As corny as it would have been, the characters were so perfect, I really was expecting them too all come together in one last hurrah each using their specific skills to help Spike. Then they all would have learned the meaning of family, and realized the home they were searching for was not in their past, but in a feature together. But instead of that we got some odd new half baked idea that the world is a dream and you have to die to live. But even that seemed to not play out. Really seemed like they threw away the great characters, world, and intrigue of Spikes past, for a moody, angsty, dramatic ending.


                
This is a pretty good anime. It's all set in a distant future wherein Earth has become uninhabitable and they colonize other planets and it becomes a mish-mash of cultures. We follow bounty hunters Spike and Jet and later on Fae, Edward and their dog Ein as they fly across space, get into adventures and get bounties as well as having their pasts catch up with them. The English Dubbing is really good especially for it's time. I also love the animation. The characters are well developed and by the end I really find it hard to not get attached to them. It's also pretty common knowledge that anime does have a primarily Eastern influence because of Japanese culture (much like our shows have a Western influence) there is a guaranteed no cultural barrier to watch this if you're just starting out. I really recommend watching this. I already have the movie and I will be reviewing that soon.


                
Synopsis: The year, 2071. With the rapid expansion in space colonization, it became necessary to create instant travel between planets. The result was a number of subspace gateways; however, inadvertently, an accident during construction caused great damage to the Earth. In this time, criminals thrive across the solar system, and someone needs to clean up what the authorities cannot: bounty hunters. Among these are former mobster Spike Spiegel and former police officer Jet Black. Along with gambler Faye Valentine and hacker Edward, they put the law in their hands, for the safety of others, to reconcile their pasts, and most importantly, to put food on the table.I know, a great soundtrack, awesome fight scenes, and downright good characters, there's gotta be a catch. Not this time. At the twilight of the 20th century, anime was at its peak giving rise to Cowboy Bebop, a series that went above and beyond all expectations. Aside from one minute, yet potentially critical flaw, the viewer is left satisfied on all levels. Perhaps I'm just being nostalgic because this was the first anime I watched which wasn't some Saturday morning bastardization. But there's more to this than that.The first thing I would have to say about Bebop is that it's got class. I don't think there is any musical genre Kanno Yoko can't do. The blues create a perfect atmosphere, and even on its own it's a treat to listen to. Much like Escaflowne's(1,2) epic chorus and Turn A Gundam's folksy bluegrass, one is entranced by the score to the point that you might as well be at the symphony. In all honesty, the first time I heard Bebop's music, I had no idea that it was from an anime soundtrack, and boy was I surprised hearing it in the series.Visually, the series is stunning, with a style that seems unique to anime. Despite being science fiction, many parts give off an early 20th century jazzy vibe, which complements the story and music well. However, when the animation needs to show its sci-fi face the moment is captured so perfectly. And it doesn't just look good, it moves well too. Many anime boast about their amazing fight scenes but few deliver. The action here is fast paced, engaging, and totally void of stock footage.However, this is all icing on the cake. Where Cowboy Bebop delivers more than just about anything else is in its characters. Spike Spiegel is the ultimate stud, rivaled by very few. The rest of the main cast is just as good including the well developed Faye, Radical Edward, and Jet who emits rays of awesomeness. Beyond being likable and interesting, the characters also succeed relationship wise. Chemistry between the Bebop crew is pure, lacking even a single forced moment. The only characterization I've seen that rivals this is probably Planetes.Bebop also has one of the most fun and addicting plots in anime. The idea itself is simple; however, it is compelling as well. The compelling characters at the helm make you interested in their dreams and situations. The series is full of good examples of episodic stories. One, for example, involves Ed's misadventures while chasing a narcotics dealer in a setting closely resembling the Wild West, while another involves a sympathetic story set on Venus involving Spike's interactions with a man who wants to learn martial arts from him<U+0085> for very personal reasons that Spike discovers later. These are just a few of the great stories and great characters that result in some of the most memorable moments ever to be shown on the small screen.Cowboy Bebop was so well done that I just didn't want it to end. There was so much to it, but at lot more could have been possible. It didn't help that Spike's story felt a little incomplete. Not bagging on the ending, it was excellent, but I can only imagine how much richer the series would have been given another five to ten episodes. What I personally experienced was similar to when I watched Fafner, being so entranced, so connected that I wished it could go on much longer. Alas, that is a sign of good storytelling which I can forgive, especially with a standalone movie that came later. I could go on forever, the epic moments, the fun battles, the dub that was as good (maybe better) than the original. But I digress, this review is starting to go overboard. I bid you ado, until next time, space cowboy.


                
For reasons more fully explained in my posting for Ghost In The Shell: Stand Alone Complex. So I can be brief here<U+0097>First, Cowboy Bebop is an anime series that actually made me care for the characters and want to learn more about them. Be assured that is one extraordinarily rare occurrence on TV, at least for me.Next, several story arcs were at first hinted at, then truly converged and were resolved by series' end. (You might not like the resolution, but a resolution it well and truly is.) In fact the series became more interesting as it progressed. (The movie is a careful thematic side step, neither adds nor detracts.) Excellent voice acting and characterization in both Japanese and the dubbed English. Exceptional music that introduced me to the works of one Kanno Yoko and The Seatbelts.And as with GITS:SAC, action, obligatory gore (albeit animated), some expletives and "cheesecake" (ditto), but all tempered with a captivating and truly surprising allotment of characterization, dialogue, insight, wit, and "breathing time."Time well spent, and the best introduction I can think of to the genre.


                
It interesting to think about what the future will be like long after we're gone, will the same problems today, global warming, crime, economic failures, still persist? Will mankind need to move from our earth out into the solar system, the galaxy, maybe the universe? In the show Cowboy Bebop this concept is portrayed in an interesting way, describing the idea of how the future might turnout. Though Cowboy Bebop ended up being a short series, the plot line formed a complex story line, with complex and creative character structure, along with futuristic depictions of giant cities, orbital space ports, which can only be done through an anime setting, and is created by a setting that, for the moment, can only be told in a well written a show. The beginning of the show Cowboy Bebop, starts in the middle of the story line. But, this is different from most shows, which normally gives most of all the important information about the characters in the beginning. The opening seems to be the beginning of the story, when it first starts out. It begins with a space craft floating through space. Cruising from one galaxy to the next galaxy, and planet that planet, which are unknown today. Each episode is a small piece of the puzzle slowly put together. With subtle hints, which elude the past (similar to that of "Rescue Me" did) which don't truly make sense till the very end where the tale concludes in a mournful yet satisfying end. As bounty hunters they are always on the hunt for the next payday, leading you a cross the galaxy. But, they always seem to lose out or let the people go for various reasons. From beginning to end each episode has a captivating story line. That differs form the next but are all important to the whole story line.Every destination that the characters end up at very so immensely. From the space ports that a restaurants or "truck" stops/hubs of the future. To each planet holds its own unique purpose. Some of them are nothing but deserts or all water. Others consist of giant cities, or are used for war. But, the depiction of earth in the future is one of the best. It is portrayed as over used and now vacated. After an accident with the warp gate next to earth. Earth is now not safe for habitation, due to constant metro's reshaping its surface. There are still a few people on earth but mostly scientists mapping each new crater, often moving through abandoned cities which leaves a void or emptiness to earth. From space the satellites are so numerous that it seems to make a shell around earth making it almost impossible to see the land features. All this changes the perception of how the earth is used to day.The use of scenery to create large and magnificent city landscapes, over whelming expanse of space scenes, only brings the scenes to life. Unlike most anime and cartoon styled shows; the depth of the scenery truly uses detail farther out into the background which bring the cities to life. Along with the fluid motion of each scene that enhances the actions of flying through an asteroid field trying to shoot down some bounty, or the slick actions of a fist fight and fire fight, enhances each scene.Each character it slowly introduces through their own episode and they are brought in slowly into the show. Each has a very different story from a former cop (Jet) the initial financier of the crew who pilots the main space ship, to an ex gangster (Spike) who is proficient in martial arts, firearms and an expert pilot in dog fighting, An orphan (Ed) who is well versed in computer and system hacking which come in handy for the crew quite often. And (Faye) who was cryogenically frozen till medical technology has advanced to a point where she could be brought back to health, due to an accident. Faye can't remember who she is and is just trying to figure out who she is, until than her main vice is gambling. A very unlikely bunch that turns out to be the best group of bounty hunters, to the point that they become well known throughout the galaxy.Unlike most tales, this has more than one underlying theme, it has action, comedy, mystery, love and loss. All these come together to form a very compelling story, for any captive audience. Even though Cowboy Bebop was written for one season during 1998, a movie was produced in 2001. It seemed not to reach the full potential of its ability's, and there is seems to be more to say. Tough as of right now the creator has no plans to write any new shows or movies. There is still hope because the director hasn't totally written it off completely. But, as the series sits right now, the tale is complete.


                
If you like shows that blend all kinds of genres almost seamlessly, you will love Cowboy Bebop. It blends almost every genre you could think of into its story. I wouldn't have been surprised if there was a musical episode somewhere along the way (unfortunately there wasn't :P) If you like shows with lovable, fascinating characters, you will love Cowboy Bebop. The secretive badass Spike, the blunt but kind-hearted Jet, beautiful and insecure Faye, the strange and oddly flexible Ed and adorable 'data-dog' Ein all team up to scour the universe for bounties to collect. They all have such subtle development over their mostly episodic adventures that your barely even realise how much you're connecting with them on an emotional level until the final episode.If you like shows that have amazing music to enhance basically everything, you will love Cowboy Bebop. Much like the storyline itself, the music branches across all kinds of genres, but manages to fit their respective scenes perfectly. The final scene and the song that goes with it will stick with me for a very long time.If you like shows in general, you will love Cowboy Bebop.It doesn't even matter if you're an anime fan, or you've never watched anime in your life- Cowboy Bebop should be made required viewing for everyone.Watch it! (I also posted this review at www.anime-planet.com)


                
In the comments before this one you haven't read a single bad review, you've been told this is the coolest thing ever, the best anime show ever made, you've been told it redefines style and class, you've been told the music is awesome, and many more.All I can say is that they're right. Cowboy Bebop is 11 out of 10, three thumbs up, and even that's just not enough.Go see it.


                
