Made-for-the-Oscars cinema at it's finest. This movie is total rubbish. Other than the Oscar(s) it won, it is sure to be forgotten in the annals of film history. Just like Gladiator. And thank goodness for that! In classic Hollywood tradition, the film focuses on a chic subject and a chic controversy -- women's boxing and 'mercy' killing of the disabled. Unfortunately, the film has nothing to say about either.Since I am a former boxer and boxing connoisseur, and tend to be overly picky about such things, I won't go into the details of how they got the boxing aspects of the movie wrong. Suffice it to say that Rocky(I) was much more realistic.The actors in the film turn in commendable performances, but Swank is horribly miscast and Freeman somewhat less horribly so.Swank is far too beautiful, young, and fresh looking to play the part of a deeply scarred untouchable trailer park girl who no men are even interested in romantically. Total Hollywood bol1ocks. Only beautiful actresses need apply. Only the spoon fed masses can accept such nonsense. Freeman is always Driving Miss Daisy, and he is great playing that part, but he's far too benign a face for the pragmatically backstabbing ex-fighter in Million Dollar Baby. But he has a name...The plot of the film is horribly contrived. It was difficult not to laugh when the supposed 'heart breaking' ending of the movie revealed itself, unfolding like the nightmare scenario of a 15 year old pen trying desperately to shock his teachers and impress his peers. *yawn*For the most part, Million Dollar Baby was one big collection of clichés, and they weren't even combined in an interesting way. "Girly, tough ain't enough." Are we really expected to take lines like this seriously? Tack on the bit at the end about how life as a quadriplegic is not worth living, and you have yourself a real film's film. At least somebody thought so.If any proof was needed that Hollywood film-making is purely commodified and has completely lost it's moorings, Million Dollar Baby should suffice.Hollywood's 'Best Picture'? I'm not surprised.
I can't understand all the praise this movie has been getting. I think it's a case of jumping on the bandwagon for many of the critics. It seems like nobody wants to say anything bad about it just because Clint Eastwood is the director and star.Where does this "great relationship" people talk about between the boxer and the trainer come from? I sure didn't see it developing during the movie. And what did Clint Eastwood do that merits a nomination for best actor? All he does is walk around, bear his teeth and growl. The only satisfying scene in the movie is when she refuses to sign the papers that would give her low-life family control of her finances and tells them to get lost. And then even that is negated by the ending which leaves her family getting all her money anyway. And what about the legal mess he leaves behind? After he kills her and disappears isn't there an investigation? And what happens with his gym?People keep saying this isn't a boxing movie and they're sure right about that. I don't think there's more than ten minutes of boxing in it. There are few training sequences of more than two minutes. She just goes from someone that doesn't know how to hit a speed bag to someone ready for a shot at the title. All we here is that "it's almost like someone has been helping her". I would like to have learned something about the women's boxing circuit but they don't tell us anything about that either. What was the purpose the whole sub-plot with the mentally challenged guy that keeps coming to the gym and getting laughed at by the other boxers? Was it just there to provide Morgan Freeman with his big scene of decking the bully?The critics all talk about how great Hilary Swank's performance is but there must be a dozen actresses in Hollywood that could have done it just as well or better. Also they don't mention that for the last third of the movie she is flat oh her back with a tube sticking out of her throat.Needless to say I will be hoping that by some miracle one of the other nominated movies will take the Oscar for best picture. I'm not holding my breath though, this is the same academy that picked Shakespeare In Love over Saving Private Ryan a few years ago.
I thought I was going to see THE movie of the year. Must have been a bad year.Aside from the factual inaccuracies of the portrayal of a quadriplegic woman, the stereotypical "white trash" family, the cartoonish boxing, and the ridiculous "Danger" character, it was OK.In the end, the movie proves to be a cheap political statement, and sends a terrible message in the process. I was paralyzed from the shoulders down at age 18. I'm not on a ventilator as Swank's character is, but I am totally dependent on others for feeding, dressing, etc.This movie just perpetuates the myth that sustaining such an injury leads to a meaningless life. Swank can choose between school and death, and she chooses death. Thank you for setting the disabled community back a few more years.What have I done differently? I've gone to college, lived on my own, and work as a respected journalist in the community. Where is the story about someone like me? Why does every disabled person in a movie have to be a punchline in a joke or depressed and angry? For the record, my feelings about the message don't have any bearing on my feelings about the quality of the film. It just wasn't that great.My opinion is the only reason it received such acclaim is a) Clint Eastwood, and b) it deals with a controversial subject. We know Hollywood loves to wax on political issues. If you watch this movie, please realize that the depiction of Swank as a quadriplegic is poorly researched. Hit me up if you want to know what it is really like.


                
*Spoilers Inside* (Please, don't read this review unless you've seen the film.) I saw Clint Eastwood's "Million Dollar Baby" after hearing glowing reviews from critics and friends. I heard that it spun a story you thought you knew into new and unexpected territories. I heard it was magnificent. I was ready to love it.I left the theater feeling cheated, not only because of the jarring twist that renders all before it null and void, but also because of the genuinely shoddy direction, screen writing, and cinematography. Maggie Fitzgerald (Hilary Swank) is a white-trash waitress with the dream of making it as a boxer... Frankie Dunn (Clint Eastwood) is the grizzled, crusty trainer who refuses to take her on as a client. Morgan Freeman is... Morgan Freeman, the noble, dignified black man that he plays in every film in which he's ever appeared. No surprises yet. After what feels like the longest first act in film history, Frankie finally agrees to come out of retirement and train Maggie. We are introduced to a harmless, semi-retarded boxer named 'Danger,' which was such heavy foreshadowing that I literally could not stop thinking about him for the rest of the film, positive he would prove to be the red herring that would kill, maim, or seriously injure one of our leads. The joke was on me- the character serves NO purpose in spite of his significant screen time. The idea that Maggie becomes an international superstar and contender for the championship and still does not know the meaning of the Gaelic nickname Clint has embroidered on her robe is absurd. And painful. When Maggie finally gets her title fight, an illegal punch by her monster-like opponent sends her to the mat, landing head-first on her corner stool- an event which in real life would disqualify her opponent and possibly concuss Maggie instead wins her opponent the fight and renders Maggie paralyzed, bedridden and ventilator-dependent for the rest of her miserable life. Are we having fun yet? This third act is where the movie falls entirely apart. Morgan Freeman's character is revealed as nothing more than a narrator, a prop, as he serves no point in character or story.Maggie's monstrously cruel family (ever notice how the antagonists in this "brilliant character study" seem to be pure evil?) abandon her and only Frankie will stay by her side, taking care of the once-strong girl who can now barely speak. When she does speak, she predictably begs Frankie to kill her, to end her life and put her out of her pain and misery. Frankie finally decides to oblige after the mandatory wrestling with his conscience... he slips in one night as quietly as the angel of death and wishes Maggie goodbye, finally telling her the true meaning of the nickname he gave her. First, there is no chance in hell she would not already know, and secondly, by this point in the film it's so obvious that Frankie loves the girl like a daughter that the point is moot. The scene could have been saved by Maggie warmly saying, "I know," after Frankie tells her the meaning, but no... she's wide-eyed and surprised and moved beyond words. So Frankie offs the girl and slips away, never to be seen or heard from again. Wouldn't the nurses in the intensive care unit be alerted when a patient's vitals flat-line? Wouldn't there be a criminal investigation as to who killed this girl? A funeral, even? Not in Million Dollar Baby, baby. All we get is the god-like Freeman narrating the epilogue, pondering where Frankie is and what he might be doing. Problem is, I genuinely didn't care. What I did care about was the fact that the movie was filmed in GlaucomaVision... poorly-lit, out-of-focus, and often underexposed. (There's an art to shadows, Mr. Eastwood, and this isn't it) If you don't believe me about the visuals take a look at the scene in which Freeman and Eastwood watch Swank's first bout from the back of the arena... Morgan stands there with his arms crossed over his chest and there seems to be a key light on his little belly, drawing attention to his little bulge and making him look more heavy than he really is. There are a number of Steadicam shots in which the subject of the shot is lost, and boxing matches shot so shaky that people in the theater couldn't tell who was fighting. (At least it wasn't just me.) Million Dollar Baby is not only mis-titled, it's mis-made. The film exploits the boxing genre and a sack of sports-movie clichés in order to justify the idea of mercy killing. It is unsatisfying, incomplete, and poorly-produced. It manipulates the audience by using an absurd fictional story in order to prepare us for the "shocking" ending... a better movie would have been less black and white and allowed us to decide for ourselves. The movie is nothing more than a calculated stunt, and Clint should have retired after "Mystic River." It's better to go out on top... just ask Maggie Fitzgerald.GRADE: F
Don't get me wrong, this movie is o.k. But it is completely overrated by professional and amateur movie reviewers alike. It is NOT the best film of the year, but it probably is in the top 10.No sense in giving away any spoilers or much of the plot. However, the prevalence of spoiler warnings should let you know that there is a surprise gimmick at the end of the movie. Nice try Clint, but I ain't buying.The acting is above-average, but by no means transcendent. Swank does well enough, and I'm not sure whether her unbelievable "golly-gee Boss" portrayal of the character comes from her or from the writer, but whomever is responsible should be cursed with bad gas (because that is what happened to me after consuming 1 1/2 hours of that sickly sweet garbage dialogue). Let's see Swank's poor white trash character travels 1500 miles to LA with no support, no money, no apparent skills, and was raised in a family of criminals, scoundrels, and welfare cheats. HOWEVER, we are supposed to believe she is some sort of saint, with a heart of gold, good morals and manners, hardworking and thrifty, and who talks like a house slave. Yeah, sure. If you had told me she was hooking or in the porn industry because she was down on her luck, fine. Bottom line, Swank's character has depth that is a mile wide and an inch deep. She says pithy fortune cookie type things, but we are never let in on how she reaches such sage realizations. Nice....but hooey.Clint's character is o.k., and he plays him with his regular steadiness. He plays a grouchy old man, but everyone knows that deep down he has a heart of gold and is grouchy because he cares TOO MUCH rather than too little. Clint's buddy relationship with the Morgan Freeman character is a bit false. They did the same buddy thing in Unforgiven, but this time they didn't spend enough time developing the relationship (at least from Clint's perspective).Morgan Freeman is great per usual, but really gets the shaft with this character. For anyone who's seen The Big Picture, you can just imagine how this movie was developed. They wanted Freeman in it, but didn't bother to give him a character worth playing. Cobble together all his popular roles as the wise and good natured black man (e.g. Shawshank, Seven, Driving Miss Daisy, Kiss the Girls, and Glory) and you get the same thing here. No surprises. The use of his voice as a narrator is pulled straight out of Shawshank, and despite the fact that his voice has a depth, quality, and familiarity second only, perhaps, to James Earl Jones, the narration doesn't work that well and primarily serves to let the director off the hook for actually showing us something (instead of merely telling us). It's too bad really.There are some minor characters, but they aren't relevant and do not advance the movie but rather serve merely as a pleasant distraction.Bottom line: a likable movie, but not a great one. If it gets any Oscars, it will be because of the hype and not the movie or the performances.
900 years ago, the Britons invaded Ireland with the intent on eliminating the Irish race. Those who weren't enslaved were killed. Irish women were forcibly mated with Scottish men so that they would bear Scottish children; their descendants are the Protestants in Northern Ireland. I mention this to give an idea of how utterly insulting it is for a person named Maggie Fitzgerald to be ushered into an arena with bagpipes! But, hey, why do you expect her Gaelic-reading trainer to be up on Irish history when he doesn't even notice that her robe should read "mo chuisle," not "mo cuishle"?Why doesn't Frankie just visit his daughter, and ask her what the hell her problem is? Maggie gets a title shot, but no reporters show up at the gym, nor does she get a single piece of fan mail! Even before she gets to that point, Maggie should have gotten representation, and Frankie should have been dealing with promoters, but I guess Don King and Bob Arum don't do girl fights! Even those who don't follow boxing know that the stool is put out after the fighter reaches his corner! Frankie doesn't raise hell with the boxing commission after the fight! Maggie tells her family to shove it then dies without a Will, automatically leaving them her estate!But it was her "If I'm too old for (boxing) then I got nothing" that's the real hit below the belt! Go to college? Join the military? Find a rich old geezer? Forget Billie (and Frankie's "sage advice" to "hit her in the tits"), that no options are presented to Maggie is proof that Eastwood has a serious problem with women! Why critics kiss Dirty Harry's ass, but refuse to call him on his misogyny is beyond me!The narration, chocked with stupid metaphors, is useless! And how is it that Scrap can dissect every characters' problem like he's Freud? Would he possess such startling insights if he were white? Doubt it. One more example of the shameless pandering toward minorities Hollywood passes off as progress. Million Dollar Baby is one big sucker punch!
What in the world was the Academy thinking?!! Eastwood's movies get slower and slower, more and more tedious as he ages. At least in Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil the tedious pace worked with the storyline. If possible, this was even a worse movie than the over-hyped Mystic River that took a great book and turned it into a chore of a movie to watch.And Hilary Swank? All you have to do to win an Oscar is put some mashed taters in yer mouth and try to speak and you're a great actress? Shoulda been any of the other nominees but her.Moving on to Morgan Freeman... Another walk on in a long string of walk ons. For a man with such obvious talent, where's the beef? Moving on to Eastwood himself... You've already heard my opinion on his directing style and now the acting (and I use the term loosely). Clint adds this to a long and still growing list of broken heroes,has beens and other sad sack "strong and silent" types. I personally think he needs to retire from both sides of the camera. At least he didn't embarrass himself with a nude scene with someone young enough to be his granddaughter again. Uggghhh!! If you have an opportunity to view this movie run, don't walk, back to the video store and rent a superior film, you know, like Gigli maybe. OK I'm just kidding about the Gigli part.


                
"Million Year Old Man with Babe" is the most dreadful remake of every "you really can make it" movie ever made. And if that isn't enough, think "disease of the week TV movie" to get an idea of how this turns out. Add one bitter old man who's guff exterior is broken down by the young (and, of course, beautiful) girl who so reminds him of the relationship he wishes he had with his missing daughter. Then throw in unfeeling trailer trash relatives.Sentimentality drips through every pore; no cliché is left unused.Unfortunately, one could only wait in vain for Hervé Villechaise's immortal line, "Boss, Boss, de plane, de plane", that never came. Now that would have been worth an Oscar.
Thanks so much to all who commented NEGATIVELY on this clichéd slice of sodden lemon pie! All the glowing reviews were so wrong! "You can't tell where this movie is headed." Yeah, right. Like the second they show Big Bertha the Boom Boom Bear and mention she's a dirty fighter who doesn't care if her cheating "could kill someone" you're not gonna roll your eyes and think--"That will NEVER come up again will it??!!?? Give me a break. This movie has the worst script I've seen in a major film in years--utter sentimental garbage. Totally stereotyped characters. And speaking of stereotypes--how come all the good fighters are white and all the bad ones are black? If they hadn't cast Morgan Freeman they'd be open to some well founded racism allegations. What a complete piece of junk!
Until the Maggie's injury, the movie was a good-acting version of Rocky. From then on, it's nothing but drama, and trying-to-be one of those pessimistic disturbing dramas. Oh yes, the bad and sad ending is naturally inevitable, although sad doesn't necessarily mean bad every time.Every other frame of the first and the second part is just guessable and expected anyway.The first part is nothing but boxing, and everything seems to be a gift from heavens, until one disgraceful punch, where nobody in the movie could see it coming, even the referee, who warned the dirty boxer before. And this is where the second part begins: Nothing but trying-to-make-you-cry drama. Actually especially with the family acting so badly, and the family plot so bad, it actually *is* some funny drama, more like soap opera. (Yeah, you can come across the events in soap operas in real life as well)Be prepared to be disappointed while watching, or just love Eastwood, you'll love this movie. I wasn't well prepared, nor am I a big admirer of Eastwood (But I do admire him), so one of the most "I was expecting much much better" movies I have ever watched.
I went to see Million Dollar Baby (MDB) with high expectations and a fondness for Eastwood's more compassionate works. I came out feeling mildly disappointed, but with an underlying uneasiness that gradually grew into distaste and even disgust.MDB is two movies, back-to-back. The first is an almost typical sports story, like "Karate Kid" or a thousand others. The "almost" qualifier is only because of the intensity of the Swank character's extraordinary humility and dedication, and the intensity of the resistance against her from Eastwood's character -- this was so extreme that its inevitable reversal seemed equally unmotivated. Realizing that this more-or-less standard inspirational success story was insufficient for Oscar material, Eastwood tacked on the second plot as a shameless tear-jerker. Both halves seem fundamentally trite, except for their exaggeration of the well-worn themes they exploit.It has been set so that dealing with any specifics of this second plot is considered a "spoiler", although I'm confident that by now anyone following the news knows full well what it is about. But it should be considered fair warning to prospective viewers to say that the protests from the community of persons with disabilities (against MDB's "better dead than disabled" message) were not only well-founded but given special poignancy by the recent death of one of Hollywood's real heroes (Christopher Reeves).The one-word summary of MDB's greatest sin is STEREOTYPING. Morgan Freeman's character escapes this and gives the movie the bulk of what substance it has (much of rest comes from a "born-to-lose" minor character boxer who manages to overcome the extraneousness of his part), but Eastwood and Swank's strong performances can not redeem the stereotypical characters they are condemned to play.But the very worst (again, because so exaggerated) and perhaps most important stereotyping was of the heroine's family. Actually, they were insufficiently drawn as a family to be a stereotype, but each of its members was a stereotype in the extreme: the pretty but spineless and dissolute (and obviously unwed) young mother, her hostile boyfriend who would have been considered a security risk by the Hell's Angels, and the fat-and-ugly welfare queen mother herself. The unifying factors of these three characters were (1) their lack of affection or sympathy for anyone in general and for Swank's character in particular, (2) their dedication to exploiting the welfare system for all they can get (which is implied to be supporting them forever despite the Clinton-era's "welfare reform" limits), and (3) their lust for Swank's money. Stereotypes all, but not just any stereotypes -- these are the wet-dream stereotypes of a right-wing ideologue whose goal in reforming the safety net is to destroy it.I am content with the Best Supporting Actor award, and I'm not going to argue with MDB's Best Actor or Best Director awards despite my suspicions. But why the Best Picture award? It is all too easy to suspect that it may reflect the Academy's wish to prove their political correctness and placate their right-wing critics, despite irritating the religious right with its more-or-less positive presentation of "right to die". In any event, it seems a travesty to present MDB as the Best Picture of the year.
What a waste of talent, This movie did not only make me sick to the gut with its pathetic story line, it also bored me to endless tears to see two talented actors in such a dreary and unfufilling movie. My advice is for anyone that hasn't seen this movie and is thinking of watching it Don't BOTHER. This movie is not worth the film that is printed on. I would recommend If you decide to watch it that you have either a shotgun, so ounce the movie is finished, you can blow your brains out because after seeing a movie like this you will realise that Hollywood has finally come to a dreary end and they are making movies worse and worse every day.


                
What explains the enormous interest in a sports hero? Why do sports fans set such a strong personal stake in the victories of their heroes? After all, little of any practical significance depends on such victories; a winner won't get his fans a raise or help send their children to college. Why do sports have such an enormous, enduring appeal in human life? The answer lies in a rarely recognized aspect of sports: their moral significance. What athletic victories provide is a rare and crucial moral value: the sight of human achievement.To witness the cheating and decay ruined any possible hope of seeing Million Dollar Baby's achievements. Although I was surprised Eastwood made a morally correct decision, the movie was beyond repair.
When I first heard of this movie, I thought it would be another Rocky, which would have been just fine with me. But instead, I was treated with a film that was nothing but cliché after cliché. When Clint Eastwood says, "Girlie,tough ain't enough", I just groaned to myself. He then says, " I don't train girls", you then just know he was going to train her. Also, any time that Clint's at church, you know why he's there. He pretends to be a pain in the ass, but really wants salvation from his isolation from his daughter. All of these build up to the title fight, where Hilary Swank is tragically injured. Also, not to be too big a nitpicker, but her opponent would have disqualified for punching her while she was down, no ref would allow that. Once the fight is over, the film absolutely goes into the ground for me. Hilary Swank is injured, her spine broken, along with her spirit. She goes through the motions, leaning to use a wheelchair, getting out of bed, etc. She then has a "visit" from her family, who just wants her money(cliché alert!). The movie then just barely whirs along, until finally, just as Clint's character offers to get Hilary Swank a wheelchair, so she can continue on in life, maybe even go to college. Instead of accepting this kind offer, the writers of this film, decide it would be better for her to die just because she is disabled. The reasoning being, that of course, she can't do what she wants to do, so she should just give up. This attitude towards people with disabilities is a shallow one, that displays a lack of knowledge about people with disabilities. Even if she can't box, that does not give her the right to die. I have a disability that, in a way, i acquired during my life. This prevented me from baseball, my first love. But I took my new life, embraced it, and I now play wheelchair basketball for a nationally ranked team. This movie shows that people with disabilities are helpless, with nothing to add to society. If any would like to discuss this movie with me, I welcome any emails. Thank you for taking the time to read my review. email: gamecubergoogle@yahoo.com
and i am firmly on the latter. i walked out of this movie thinking it was average, but in the three days since, I've realized i was way too easy on this steaming sentimental, emotionally manipulative pile of clichés. Clint has retained the same mood and overall atmosphere of mystic river (which is a lot better than MDB), obviously hoping to gain the same success with a few more Oscars, which he will probably win (much to my chagrin): the sadness and tragic ending felt so so similar to MR.Clint cant act. there i said it. seriously, i think his directorial skills (which are far from amazing) more than outdoes his acting skills. i mean he delivers his lines the same as when he was playing the man with no name. but hey, if it keeps getting him lots of money and awards, well more power to ya old timer. this is one of my major problems with MDB: not one of the three leads (freeman, Eastwood, and swank) are pushing themselves or their acting skills to a level deserving of the accolades and overwhelming praise being heaped upon them. swank has played this role before, freeman has played this role before, Clint has done this role before.the 'humor' in this movie was lame as hell. really lame. super-duper lame. so forced and artificial it felt like a bad sitcom. Clint and Morgan arguing over brands of bleach. Clint and Morgan talking about holes in his socks. half a chuckle was all this movie could elicit from me. and the biggest lamest attempt at humor in the movie was the character "Danger", a scrawny young redneck with dreams of being a great fighter when its obvious he would get whipped by my grandma. the joke about how he is bewildered about how ice could get in a bottle was not funny at all. I'm sorry Clint but not even southern rednecks are that stupid to not know that water freezes into ice, or maybe you mean to tell us they don't have fridges in that part of the country yet??? incidentally, the whole subplot about danger was totally irrelevant and out of place with the rest of the plot, it felt like filler big time. the characterizations and broad stereotypes Clint labels the 'trailer trash' family and danger the 'stupid redneck' with were pretty offensive.the first two acts play out like a cross between Rocky and Girlfight. Clint doesn't want to train Maggie because she's a girl. eventually he agrees and trains her up until she gets a title shot against a dirty German fighter during which the movie enters the third act with a major twist in the plot. sounds a bit uneventful huh? well it is. apart from the training some other minor events happen (like Maggie buying her mom a house) but nothing happens really; just training and fighting until the third act. during the title fight i was absolutely incredulous that the fight wasn't called on a disqualification. the German girl pulls some dirty moves that, despite me not being a boxing aficionado, I'm pretty sure would get her disqualified immediately. i mean come on, if pulling moves like these didn't get you disqualified every pro fighter would be doing them. also, the fight scenes were fake as hell, no thought or effort was put into the fight choreography. its very obvious that swank spent all her time working out to get a buff body rather than actually look like she could throw a decent punch, she didn't look like she was a competent boxer let alone the unbeatable champion she is portrayed as. not one of her fights are won on points, every one is a knockout usually in the first round. how freaking realistic.in conclusion, I'm amazed at the positive response this movie has gotten. i guess people really do equate a sad and tragic ending with greatness. Mystic River moved me, i cried several times during the film. this movie left me unmoved, its emotional manipulativeness and hollow sentimentality was something even Spielberg would gag on. i really hate to simplify movies but in this case i think it stands true: MDB is just a Rocky ripoff with a tragic sad twist at the end.
I thought this movie was absolutely horrible. There was no point of the retarded kid at the gym who kept on saying that he was the heavy weight champion of the world. That ruined most of the movie. It also didn't follow any real boxing rules. If that girl that she was fighting at the end would've really done that to her, there wouldn't have been just a little warning. She wouldn't have been allowed to hit that other girl in the sciatic nerve too. It would've also been the under card of a major mens' boxing match like a De La Hoya fight. Also, when her parents went to visit her in the hospital and one of her relatives said,"She has to sign it with her mouth", it was just so stupid. The is movie was completely unrealistic and more like an assisted suicide movie then a great drama. I definitely think this movie shouldn't have won the best picture of year either.
Summary: If life is letting you down, end it.First off, I have a good friend that can't walk, can't talk, yet got his college degree and is close to getting married, so please don't bait me with a sad story to blindly accept an agenda. At least Johnny Got His Gun makes a much better attempt.I feel for those that suffer disabilities of this magnitude, I really do. It's not a situation to simply dismiss. What disgusts me in this movie is the lack of fight in it. Is this girl really a boxer? Does she really understand a boxers mentality and what it means to really go a round in not only in the ring but in life? No, the punch line is 'I can't answer the bell, I'm staying on the mat, count me out'. I'm a quitter and there is no hope.No only does she give up but of all people ... her trainer???? Clint Eastwood is portrayed as her corner man and coach, but can not so much as offer anything of substance to encourage her to fight. He even is the one to give her the final shot... Hey how so true blood, sweat, and tears in the ring and outside of the ring with her? Does he have nothing to offer her outside of a gym or a ring? No he doesn't he simply concedes and says goodbye.I guess when people truly believe an agenda, it doesn't matter how weak the characters are, or how weak the characters CHARACTER is, it's all good and it's all truth, so much as it supports one agenda.Life is far more precious that this movies makes it out to be. It is worth the fight to get in the trenches with the downcast and depressed to instill in them hope. That is why the Shawshank Redemption is a classic and this is not. This movie only breeds nihilism and death, the LAST thing that those in a wheelchair or on their deathbed need. That I speak in defense of those that do suffer and are looking for hope, not a needle.
First of all I want to say that I'd never rated a movie with ZERO before that one, and it's important that you know that I didn't give it that low mark just to lower its average. most of the movie, more or less the first half, was pretty nice.Though we've seen this done more than a couple of times I told myself that it might be nice to see the 2005 version of Rocky. long story short - this movie is awful! SPOILERS... I couldn't see the entire movie. I did just so I would be able to write this review in peace and not think that I might have missed the overwhelming end of it. How can a movie which is nominated to whole kinds of awards can be so plain, predictable and stupid... The German B'atch takes a cheap shot and our hero breaks her upper back. On a personal note - It would've been better if she had died and the movie would've ended right there. I can't say how much I HATE those petty Oscar movies. a retardate boxer, a female trailer-trash super boxer who basically never loses, a black fighter who could have taken the belt and had lost his eye due to his pride, a gloomy coach and once again - the German boxer. When I saw that so many people gave it a 8 or 9 or even 10 in the rating chart I almost cried. how stupid can one get to be fooled by this so called movie. just because you see an eye sobbing movie you shouldn't rate it 10! Even if you do like this kind of pictures it still shouldn't get more than 4 or 5. I can feel it in my bones how the writer is thinking to himself how to make this movie more and more heartbreaking. I wan't to say to those filmmakers that killing the hero in a heartbreaking scene doesn't guaranty Oscar nomination, but I afraid I'd just be lying. on a final note - Stuppid Oscar season.
I must admit that I never finished it. I stopped after the scene with Maggie paralized and telling Frankie she wanted to die. It just didn't make sense. And I'm not going to give this flick another chance - no matter how highly it is praised.Firstly, boxing is not my thing. Secondly, when the going gets rough, the girl gives up? That's stupid. Thirdly, the story is so uninspiring and predictable. Even I could have come up with it. And last but not least, I had developed absolutely no sympathy with any of the characters.I would have given it a 3-4 out of 10, but for all the hype and the Oscar nominations it has received, I just can't give this movie any credit.
I just saw this movie and am utterly flabbergasted at the number and intensity of positive reviews for this nihilistic garbage. From a technical standpoint, the movie is rarely better than mediocre. Yes, Hilary Swank's acting is fine as far as it goes, but very little is demanded of the role. Her character is basically a cliché. Clint Eastwood is, as usual, Clint Eastwood (imagine a geriatric sad-sack version of Dirty Harry or nearly any other Eastwood character, and there you have him in this film), and Morgan Freeman adds little other than an unnecessary voice-over. The first act is both unrelentingly dull and unimaginative. It strives to come off as some sort of gritty, realistic slice of life, but with nothing but stock characters and dialog, it is doomed from the start. Underlying the film from virtually the first frame is a pervasive mood of despair, emphasizing Clint's estrangement from his daughter and concomitant pangs of guilt, as well as his repeated missed opportunities at making it big.The second act, where Swank's character rises in the ranks as a boxer, is mostly entertaining, but is marred by the introduction to the audience of her family -- the most cartoonish gaggle of white trash put to celluloid in recent memory. Mind you, stereotypes don't necessarily offend me because they are unfair, but because they show absolutely zero imagination. And when their sole purpose is, as here, to manipulate, I resent the filmmakers' assumption that the audience is too stupid to get their point without being smacked over the head with such a blunt dramatic instrument.The third act is a ramping-up of, and a capitulation to, the despair that already underlay the film from the first. In case you haven't seen it or heard about it, I won't give away the details (although I don't know why I shouldn't, since I don't recommend the movie anyway), but it is an incredible downer. The film first teases the audience that there may be some redemption in the offing: Clint basically finds a new daughter in Hilary to replace the real daughter he has irretrievably lost, and Hilary finds a new father in Clint to replace her deceased father -- the only member of her family who was worth a da*n, apparently. But the hint of a happy ending to come is just another manipulation, and comes off like Lucy pulling a football away from Charlie Brown -- a cheap trick. I have no problem with a tragic story as such, but there should be either some element of heroism or a moral lesson to wash it down. This has neither. All it offers is a surrender to helplessness and a descent into wretchedness. To the extent that the filmmakers were aiming at bittersweet, all they hit was the bitter. They might want to take a gander at the immeasurably superior Finding Neverland to see how to do it right.
I'm going to try to make this as short as possible, because you people deserve it after sitting through Million Dollar Baby (or not). If you liked Rocky, don't see MDB. If you liked Gladiator (the boxing one, not Russel Crowe), don't see MDB. If you liked any boxing movie, DON'T SEE MDB.Plain and simple, this is not a boxing movie. This is not a movie about hope, or dreams. This movie is about giving up. This movie is against every thing a movie should be about, entertainment and thought provoking material (if that's your bag). MDB works in two halves, the good half, and the bad half.The good half consists of the main character (Maggie) struggling to realize her dream of becoming a boxer. Eventually she does, after bugging Frankie Dunn (Eastwood) into submission. We see her in her prime, you get this feeling that she realized her dream because she never gave up. The second half happens after Maggie takes a fall after a dirty hit causes her to sustain a spinal injury.The last 30 minutes of the movie are spent watching Maggie die in a hospital. She does nothing, she barely says any thing. She simply lays there and Frankie stands by her bed as she does. Eventually Maggie says "Put me out of my misery" and without much question, sure enough Frankie injects her with an unknown substance, after which Maggie shortly dies. So what are we left with? An ending that tells us it makes no sense to go on once we can't move our limbs.That it's better to give up than to die trying. I'd have been happy with this being another Rocky, at least that was entertaining. And admittedly so was this until the last 30 minutes. The only thing I can give this ending is that it's probably the most realistic, given the circumstances of her injury.That still doesn't make up for the fact that when I watch a movie, I want to be moved. I want to be entertained. I do not want to feel depressed and like I should just give up all hope of ever achieving any thing. I am not a picky man when it comes to movies (see my comment history) so you know it's something else when a movie gets a very low rating from me.If you want to see a movie that will do what a movie is supposed to do rent Rocky's 1,2, and 4.
One of the biggest disappointments this year. After all the buzz and 5 Oscars I expected some really huge impact on me & a very strong story. Well, right from the beginning I was asking myself "Oh my, this is REALLY the best movie of the year???"... Maybe I'm dull, but I cannot see anything new in the film, on the contrary. God, we've seen so many scenes so similar to this, that I couldn't believe that "such a director" as Clint Eastwood directed it! Why did Hilary win the prize? She did nothing, again, but some boxing, speaking with Southern-American accent and lying in bed!!! Is this worth an Oscar? You know, I'm quite convinced that if it hadn't been for Eastwood sitting on the director's chair, all the critics would have been very negative and no-one would have appreciated this film. For me it's nothing but cliché plot and dialogs seen thousand times before, with no profound meaning or message. Sorry guys.


                
This film leaves out many important facts about disability: 1. It is a the law that a person on a ventilator can ask the staff to give them sedatives and pull the vent. The courts have upheld this. There was no reason Clint had to sneak in himself and give her a stimulant.2. She should have not received such poor care. Her deterioration is not standard and only due to incredibly bad service of the fictional facility in this film.3. Clint Eastwood went in front of congress trying to weaken the Americans with Disabilities Act in 2000. He did so in revenge for being sued under CA law (not ADA law) for failures of accessibility of one of his resorts. Regardless of his being in the right or wrong in that case he decided to take his suffering to congress. Congress told him to go home and this film only proves his continued hatred of the disabled.4. I am disabled myself: I understand suicidal thoughts and pain but I stay alive because people love me and want me to do so. Everyday it gets easier to live. But everyday 90% of the places I go are not handicap accessible. Maybe if Clint Eastwood had a handicap himself or knew physical pain for real he would have rethought this movie.
If you are like me who wants a good ending, then don't watch it. You will be forever disappointed. I mean you will be waking up nightmares after watching it. If you want a bad ending then the movie is for you. There are two camps and it is the movie of the great divide. Most boxing ends with a fairly satisfying ending regardless of the story, whether we speak about Cinderella Man, Raging Bull, Rocky, etc. They are all good. This movie is an exception. I am one of those people with a conscience and this movie totally goes against my conscience. I will not spoil the movie for you and it is a fictional film about an aspiring woman boxer who knocks out opponents in the first round. And if you are like me. I would rather turn off the video, or at least stopped after the second half of the movie and burn the movie. I made a mistake, and this is a warning. This movie should not deserve even to a favorite, if only you know medicine, suffering, and torturing. There is a better ending, and it is definitely not this movie. I made the right decision by not watching in the theaters here. In fact in my locale everyone her hated it and was in a theater for about a week. I wonder why Hollywood love this movie so much. Perhaps they are part of the New World Order, in that case it is perfectly socially acceptable. Sorry for being blunt.
Previous movie of Clint Eastwood "The Mystic River", was cruel enough too, but I like it much: it has different colors, bright personalities, intrigue.MDB made me deeply disappointed. It&#8217;s full of aimless savageness and sadism.This movie contains no plot itself. It's organized very simple: you see a woman, very nice, kind and cute, and all the rest of the movie you see how this woman crashed physically. This is not interesting and VERY unpleasant. Everything is created to make everything more sorrowful: sounds of crashed nose, blood, diseases, and personalities. Of course, main character must be a woman.There are also some miserable personages. On closer examination, all of the movie personages are miserable: movie full of sadness.Bad characters are simple and flat, like in children's movie, too bright and improbable bad.The movie is very simple and one-dimensional. It contains a little bit of simple philosophy (just as porno movie contains a little bit of meaning and plot line), but the rest is conditions created to make you cry and compassionate.By the way, actor play level of Eastwood and Hilary Swank is high.Conclusion. I have understood the nature of Clint Eastwood and will not go to any other his movies. This is not interesting and not wise anyway.
