I think this film is a hot candidate for most over-rated ever. It's a run-of-the-mill boxing film, which suddenly turns into a sobbing story of euthanasia, which reminded me most of an afternoon TV drama designed solely to make the viewer cry. Danielle Steele would have been embarrassed. The exaggerated caricature of the girl's white trash family would have ruined a good film, but in this one, I was past caring when they showed up and tried to trick her out of her earnings. They could have had it, for all I cared, if it had ended the film right there. Still, the second part was more interesting than the prolonged and predictable boxing part.It's a mystery to me how a film with so little finesse, innovation and realism can win so much praise and an Oscar. I almost fell a sleep in my seat.
Critics and audiences alike should be ashamed for heaping praise on the makers of this movie. Not only is it overrated, it is flat-out bad. Clint and his screenwriter, Paul Haggis, botch both halves of this manipulative story. The first half shows no respect or even knowledge of the sport of boxing. The gym scenes and training scenes are cursory at best and make Rocky look like the pinnacle of realism. Also, no amount of natural boxing talent allows a 130 pound fighter to pull of early round knockouts every time out. IT DOES NOT HAPPEN in men or women's boxing. But let's just say we can write off the boxing elements as Hollywood shorthand, the characterizations and dramatic thrust of the film are equally stilted and unbalanced. This film should be more complex emotionally than it is. The main characters are made to look way too righteous and everyone else is unfeeling scum, even the priest. How ridiculous is the white trash family caricature? Why does Swank have to fall at the hands of a sucker-punch by a monstrous cheater of an opponent? Do we really need to see Morgan Freeman knock out Danger's taunter? Of course we do because that's the kind of filmmaker Clint Eastwood is. He believes in stacked decks and simplistic portrayals of good vs. evil. Go out and rent The Gauntlet, Pale Rider, Blood Work, Sudden Impact, and other Eastwood films for more examples of his boneheaded approach to humanity. (Mystic River manages to escape ridiculous simplicity thanks in large part to the very talented screenwriter Brian Helgeland.) That kind of attitude can be fun, like in the Dirty Harry films, but in MDB it adds up to cheap, unearned pathos that is practically begging to be recognized by the academy as something important. It's not important or even moving-it's laughable. It's like a hard sell for tears-anyone with any sense ain't buying it.
This movie had all the qualities of a made-for-TV movie starring Meridith Baxter-Birney. The clichés, the saccharin, and recycled tricks (Morgan Freeman voice-over, etc) all made for a "I've seen this movie before" feeling.I believe the only thing that kept me watching this movie was the supposed twist or controversy that I heard exists at the end of the movie. ****SPOILERS TO FOLLOW*************** Boring. Boring, and not at all challenging. Why didn't they just place Meridith Baxter-Birney in the hospital bed? Why not display text on the screen prior to the credits reading, "based on a true story", and then proceed to provide some summary of what the people went on to do?The experience of watching this movie was insulting.
Where to start. Difficult to relate how much I detested this movie. I think my biggest objection was the flop ending wherein the picture descends into bathos. About 40 minutes from the end the film throws out its anchor as the heroine dies a heroic death, and the film also drops dead. Hard to believe a veteran like Clint Eastwood would allow it to come to a grinding halt, but why not - the picture was handicapped by its inane plot and uninteresting storyline from the beginning. I was misled by all the hype and the big names involved, as I like Morgan Freeman as well as Eastwood. I should have been forewarned by Eastwood's last preposterous Oscar picture, "Unforgiven" (1990). He is starting to show an unattractive tendency to pander to unsophisticated moviegoers, although it could be he's just aging ungracefully as a director.One of the headlines under the title page here on the website says that Eastwood is going to have another whack at Dirty Harry. We can only hope.
One million dollar baby.. A movie I'll never understand, or better to say, I'll never understand why is it so good. In my opinion, it is an average Hollywood movie, from the first moment you can totally predict what's going to happen. Eastwood is,of course,old-school couch, rough and narrow minded. Freeman, of course, the story teller with so many important advices, like always. Swank.. Fighter, doesn't want to be treated like a girl, she has to help her family, she wants to show her couch that she can make it...The words that describe this movie the best -it' s all seen before, so I'll have to agree with this few other people who said the same. And it wasn't easy to find someone with that opinion, I have been fighting with my best friend and boyfriend for the past 2 years because they, like everyone else claim that this is some kind of master-piece. The director maybe did a good job, but the screenplay is awful. Oscar for the movie of the year? Oscar for the best actress? Speaking of Hilary Swank, compare this role with the one in 'Boys don't cry'.. So Oscar for this? Absolutely not.
I paid ten bucks to see this stunningly mediocre movie on the big screen, and what a laugh. The dialog is corny as can be, the character's emotional reactions are staggeringly unrealistic, the casting is a farce, every character in this film cannot rise above a two-dimensional cookie-cutout. Cliché after cliché after cliché, with some glycerin tears and a scary-looking black psychopathic female boxer thrown in to thrill and impress the Midwestern mentality. bored to the brink of tears, i want my money back. i give it a two only because it's not the worst film i've ever seen, but it's not worthy of any awards. And what is the deal with being forced to write more than i care to? this film doesn't deserve ten lines of comment and i want it to be known that i went out of my way to write the last two sentences only because this Nazi site won't let me post otherwise.


                
I must admit, I did not pay to watch this film, so I cannot ask for my money back. However, I have still wasted two hours of my life and for that I am upset. Why did I hate it so much? Because it's full of clichés, yes, but that's not all. The film is just a vehicle to spread Eastwoods' ultra right wing political ideas. For him (and the soulless screenwriter), we are better off dead than dependent on others. The segment in which Hillary Swank's family makes a big fuss because she wants to buy them a home which would cause them to lose their welfare says it all. This is propaganda and it makes me really sick. Other than that, the film has no artistic value, is full of clichés, has a predictable storyline and banal dialogue.
This was the greatest of the many overrated films of 2004. A incredible visual bore supplemented by formula for tragedy. Completely unoriginal, horribly played by Swank especially but also Eastwood (Freeman's delicate acting superseded the other twos jokes of performances). Added all up, I would simply call the film "stupid." Listen people: it's always going to be sad if someone breaks their neck in the prime of their game and subsequently dies, but just because that's always sad doesn't mean it's always a good film. In other words: it's a formula to drama, therefore "Million Dollar Baby" is nothing exceptional. (And that's what makes its Oscar wins an absolute travesty to the good films of 2004).
The tenth female boxing movie of the same theme! And in all honesty, it was Rocky 47.. only Mickey was back from the dead as Clint. The only distinguishing quality about this movie was the ending! An ending in and of itself is not enough reason to say something is original. I can't just redo the Godfather and take out Pacino killing Cazale.. (which would be a larger distinguishing factor than what we see in "Millionth Done Baby").. and call it Million Dollar Godfather. Then the ending tied to the theme of "Women being strong too" not only in a physical sense, but in an emotional sense. Wow.I thought it relied too heavily on the idea of injust persecution. the million dollar baby herself is like a Christ entity who is motivated solely by good and finds persecution at the hands of everyone, and then has to die at the end.. and emotional spectacle.


                
It is so sad that movies like this one win so much attention. Why? Is it because Clint Eastwood did the job or is it because of the more common phenomena of the Americans' humble minds? The plot is so simple and everything in this movie is cliché and overkill - exaggerated extremities in all the simple characters. Everything seems so made up and so so so sad and dramatic that it just isn't what it should be: a story about a female boxer and her trainer. Watching the movie I was drown in all the "strong" emotions that, in the end, it just didn't feel right. It is not right because you will never encounter these bittersweet black and white feelings in real life but just in a Hollywood movie like this one. It was so extremely serious and dramatic that it even seemed to be a masochistic parody. The closer it came to its end the more often I thought "Come on, ANOTHER BAD THING?" until the absolute climax was reached. For me, that was the suicidal part of the story. The first half was quite nice but then it just decrease until an absolute surreal and spoiling overkill end came. What is the value of this movie? It didn't "move my mind"; and moving a mind is, in my opinion, the crucial emergent element of a good movie. Sorry, but this one is just selling primitive American-style cliché. Exactly 2 points for the two things that this movie could convey: strong emotions and nice fights.


                
I have watched the movie, because I use to like movies which are directed by Clint Eastwood. However, according to me this movie is a bummer. It is a movie which is only about boxing, which is a sport that I don't like at all. But the story is not that great either. The fact that Hillary Swaink won the Oscar is weird. It cannot be because of her acting, because this is just an average Row. Nothing special. In my opinion, the Oscar should have gone to Imelda Staunton for Vera Drake. Now that was really acting. No, Clint has failed here and also the story was no good.


                
Am flabbergasted that this garnered so many awards & excellent reviews. It was painful to sit through. I can only see it as a Mad Magazine satire. First the conventional "Rocky" plot ("You're too old to be a boxer." See her run on the beach & hit the bag all night.) Then a prolonged death scene. The film was packed w/ stereotypes: trailer trash, dimwitted country boy from Texas, kindly Morgan Freeman (will he ever play a scumbag?). The scene of Morgan Freeman knocking out the young buck was right out of "Cocoon".Why would the Oakie trailer trash family need Maggie to sign away her assets? Unless she'd made a will stating otherwise all would revert to them anyway. Why wasn't Frankie arrested for murder? Why don't we see the emotional effect that killing her had on him? Is running off & eating in a diner in the Ozarks supposed to be an answer?
An overly sappy drama that tries too hard to be a political statement, which is something it isn't at all. Mediocre work from Hilary Swank - Maggie was a mix between Brandon Teena & her character in the Karate Kid, I'm sad to say.I don't see all the big fuss about the movie. And, the title is not appropriate whatsoever; the film was not even worth the $7 I paid for the ticket.Did not deserve the Oscars it won, excluding Freeman.They mine as well give me an Oscar, since they seem to be shoveling them over to Ms. Swank...who, as she reminded us, was "raised in a trailer."Well Hilary, we sure can tell.


                
Crap. Plain and simple, and it doesn't matter how many morons think this is the finest film ever. I will give Eastwood a little credit - just a little - for knowing how to shoot a scene. He really ought to, given his career. But I do not at all understand how he's been elevated to the status of 'brilliant director', especially since his films are plagued by dreadful clichés and just plain idiot story points. You know what this is about. No need to dredge that up again. However, nothing screams more about how inept Eastwood is than the fact that it feels like half this movie is devoted to Swank's bedridden misery. It is so, so overdone that it undercuts the power that might have been there, settling instead to force tears from a sheer and relentless pounding in of the nightmare scenario. On the plus side, Swank is OK. Eastwood does what he always did, which is play nothing. And I believe this movie comes midpoint in Morgan Freeman's career as the weary, wise Black man. Would somebody give this guy a job in a comedy? Please?
Call me insensitive. But the only things I took away from this film is that it is better to be dead than to have a handicap. The poor are fat, lazy, ungracious, and stupid. And somehow it was better to die, than to use the same tenacity that got her to the top of boxing, to do something with her mind? People who think they will be a drain on society should kill themselves? Just because she was handicapped doesn't mean she is useless! Sick conservative Hollywood garbage! All this film does is foster the belief that people who are not physically whole are better off dead, a hatred of the poor, and that an education shouldn't be an option for the handicapped or the poor. The closing of the American Mind has rarely been so prevalent as in the popularity of this film.
It is a greater disappointment to believe in the ones you love whenever they clearly strive to fail you on purpose.Eastwood and Freeman have so often revealed magic that I had come to trust them for artistic integrity. Million Dollar Baby destroyed that belief. This film is little more than a wobbly-wheeled vehicle for a man intent on portraying a disconsolate, washed-up, never-quite-made-it human being, (Heartbreak Ridge, The Unforgiven, Space Cowboys) intent on having us feel sorry for him despite the fact he never took the risk to claim his own slice of life, and it fails both as story and as art.I am disappointed by the clear failure to work the parallel between the ring and the altar. The story's narrator openly defines the relationship between a boxer and her trainer, and we have numerous examples of that relationship at work. We are presented with Frankie's own journey toward spiritual discipline (a journey we all share) and we anticipate the priest's role as an opportunity to develop the parallel. But the writer (?) producer (?) director (?) let it fall flat upon the screen as an empty suit and I for one was disappointed. This was not a story element overlooked, but clearly inserted into the story and then abandoned (because it might add a glimmer of light into the gloom?).Then, we are given Maggie's unyielding trust in Frankie though never where it originated nor what of anything between them nourishes it; and through to the end, we wait for the reveal that never comes. Instead, we are asked to watch Frankie trash her gift as an ode to his own tragic life. The film offers us not so much the art of story telling as of despair.That crumbling sound you hear is another bit of Eastwood's audience falling away.


                
Hmmm. Well, I was hoping for a bit more uplifting show than what I got, maybe not a full blown Rocky movie, but surely not this. However that's not why I wound up voting a '2'. It wasn't "awful", but very disappointing.Yeah, I thought the acting was very good, especially Hilary. But, I was disappointed in Clint's character, he just never became a character I was invested in. I didn't wind up caring where he wound up. I was even more disappointed in the missed opportunity for Morgan's character. After developing his character, the plot just left him dangle, and didn't take any advantage of both Morgan, and the character's opportunity to be key to the plot. He was left to be more of an afterthought. Morgan himself was great as always, but he just wasn't fully exploited.Worse was the boxing. I read comments, here, comparing this movie to the best boxing movies. How? The action was Rocky-like (fake and exaggerated). That in itself might have been overlooked, however to allow the fouls (late shots, and after the bell shots) to pass, was criminal. The shot Hilary took WAS criminal. Think ESPN and today's media would allow that to pass, and the current champ to just rock on ? No way.


                
Everything what I had to say about this piece of propaganda is already in my summary. I must add: I have never expected Clint Eastwood to direct and act in in a flick like this. I was in state of shock when the movie ended - and not for its plot, I assure you. I just couldn't believe it was made by this Clint Eastwood, not some other Clint Eastwood :-O Perhaps its highest time to retire, Mr. Eastwood, don't you think so? Let us remember you as fine, talented actor, that you still are, rather than a director of thick propaganda-laced politically correct flicks!And what was so outstanding about Hillary Swank's acting to deserve an Oscar? I could've understand this choice had she been from a Jewish family, but since she is not... excuse me, but her acting wasn't any better than the acting of Spiderman's girlfriend (whatever her name was); hell, even Anette Bening was better than Swank in "Being Julia" (and she always stink)! Catalina Sandino Moreno was real Actress in a Leading Role for 2005 Oscars. Unfortunately her film and character weren't oh-so-politically-correct piece of {insert your favorite bad word here}... Oh well. We all know for quite some time that Academy Awards are what they are - free publicity stunts for the insiders, televised to (less and less every year) other countries...2/10 (including 2 points for Clint Eastwood's role and acting)


                
I really wanted to love this movie. After a very lackluster year I was hoping for a movie which would redeem the whole year for me. And after having read the overwhelmingly positive reviews and seen the Oscar landslide I really hoped this movies was <U+0084>it". I love all the talent involved, so I was logically expecting a great movie with amazing performances of all the leads. What a disappointment! Now after having seen it I wonder why on Earth were movies like <U+0084>Finding Neverland" or <U+0084>Kinsey" so <U+0084>drastically" overlooked last year. The story of <U+0084>Million Dollar Baby" is totally uninteresting and I did not care for any of the characters (with perhaps the exception of Freeman's character: it might have been a much better movie if it had concentrated on his character). There was nothing either in the performances or the direction which would make me really emotionally invested in the movie. Clint Eastwood is utterly unconvincing in his part, Hilary Swank has nothing to play (though she is very convincing as a boxer), but any actress willing to play without a make-up could be equally good in the part, I guess. Only Morgan Freeman sparks up some interest with his performance, but he has very little screen time. As for Clint Eastwood's direction: it seems his only specific approach to direction was to make the characters move in the dark for the most part of the movie. Not enough, Clint! So, if you want to see a good movie for 2004, watch <U+0084>Finding Neverland" or <U+0084>Kinsey" instead.


                
