For whatever reason, I did had reservations about going to see Million Dollar Baby. I am extremely happy that I decided to go because this movie was totally entertaining from start to finish. It simply grabs you and does not let up. Million Dollar Baby will be a keeper for my video collection! Eastwood, Freeman, and Swank all give superb performances and I sincerely hope they are given their due at the Oscars in March. The character's developed throughout the film and the actor's portrayal of them made the characters believable. Granted a few of the fight scene's were a bit over the top but then it is still Hollywood. What I like the most is the lack of special effects and the total concentration on the development of the story. Borrowing from Roger Ebert: Thumbs Way UP!


                
I wanted to like this movie, especially since I am a fan of Clint Eastwood as a director and Hilary Swank as an actress. The previews didn't interest me at all - but the almost universal praise heaped on this film did make me want to see it.I agree with the reviewer who said the film felt "scripted" - not only that, but watching scenes (near the beginning) with Clint and Morgan were like watching people "act" and "play the scene". Hilary Swank saves the day with her performance, believable and truthful. Clint's work later in the film is exemplary. Morgan Freeman is, well, Morgan Freeman, and here he plays simply a variation on his "Driving Miss Daisy" character, mumbling through some scenes making his words incomprehensible.I didn't feel an emotional connection to this film at all - I don't see it as "Clint's masterpiece" at all - "Mystic River" is a far superior film, which had me extremely emotionally involved. The Morgan Freeman voice-over really got on my nerves very early on. I am not a fan of voice-over - I believe it's an easy way out of explaining things rather than SHOWING them.I can't understand all the hype about MDB - I really can't. I give it (a very generous) 7 out of 10.


                
This movie is a piece of work. Acting, direction, cinematography, pace, subject matter. Everything is just perfect. But I still hated it. Why? It's one of the most depressing movies ever made. If slitting your wrists ever crossed your mind, do not see this.Watching the final half is painful to the point of masochism. More so when Eastwood, Swank and Freeman deliver some of the best performances of their career. Clint Eastwood will be remembered for two things: As an actor, the ultimate tough guy. As a director, a man who learned the craft of storytelling with a mature, sophisticated style. " Million Dollar Baby" and "Mystic River" are his first one-two punch of great movies since "Unforgiven" and "A Perfect World".


                
Eastwood's scenes with Morgan Freeman are funny and touching, and Hilary Swank does a fine job of acting. But there are several major flaws. First, Clint Eastwood simply is not an accomplished visual artist, as he would have to be to hold our interest through an entire film the color of celery. Second, there are several problems with pacing. In the first half, the training process is slow, which is fine, then the one-round fights are abrupt, which is disconcerting. The second half is also quite slow for the first several sequences, which is also fine, but the transition to the climax (never fear, no spoiler) comes abruptly, which nearly ruins the picture. Third, Director Eastwood gives a preposterously large number of closeups to Actor Eastwood. Still, much of the movie is good, even if it was clearly the wrong choice for Best Picture.
Million Dollar Baby" is Clint's 27th film at progress in directing. His turnover from that legendary course of bravery in "Unforgiven", is now set up in the flat; not charming arena of boxing. But did Clint Eastwood make a movie about boxing? Yes, no. Boxing is the element of desire; uniquely secondary for the movie but primordial to the character of Maggie, to improve on conditions. The lesson moves in a dimmed world, where characters are incomplete and they found in another the way to complete themselves. Eastwood shows his capacity to create credible characters; no dimensional yet dorky and cartoonish heroes. The heroes in "Million Dollar Baby" are those we seem to know; but not entirely. The lesson is "Nothing is beyond you", yet I find amazing how a very fine script can adjust a story of Frankie's redemption and anger by a lack of communication with his daughter. The film is a calm spectacle of everyday heroes, of great performances (Morgan Freeman with age absorbs perfection) yet a very sour taste. The ending is emotional, but can unbalance the fictional precision that was carried away. Indeed for that, another Academy Award and public award winner.


                
I can't honestly say if there are true spoilers in here, but I thought it would make sense to flag it since I relate some of my comments to the plot which could give it away.This movie is not a sports movie. This movie is not the greatest boxing movie ever. This is a story about broken people reaching for the stars that just happens to involve boxing.I recall when the movie came out all I heard about was the "big twist" and the way the movie changed halfway through to something bizarre and . I think that was because many people felt this was supposed to be a female version of Rocky, which it isn't. This isn't a feel good movie about a boxer who go lucky.This is a story about a bunch of people, who did go after all of their dreams and put their entire lives on the line for it and, in my opinion, despite their best efforts seemed to fall short either due to no lack of trying, but just rotten luck.Except for Maggie (Swank), In the beginning of this movie each character is flawed and broken, a mere shell of their former selves. This movie could have been done without the using of boxing at all, but I think it was an excellent choice of medium because boxing has been the source of many true bizarre tragic stories.The portrayal of each of these characters is tremendous and for that alone the movie deserves many kudos. The story is fairly complete. I didn't think there were any real loose ends except for the ones that were deliberately created for cinematic and story telling purposes, not for sequel generation (doesn't everything seem like a trilogy these days?). I believe the filming of the movie was done with in an appealing, yet simplistic fashion, through the clever use of lighting and angles to bring solid atmospheres and emotions to different scenes - in some ways, I feel, similar to what Clint Eastwood did in Unforgiven.While I feel this was an excellent movie, I don't think this is one I could watch over and over. I like movies like this except for that taste of dissatisfaction at the end, when you feel like nothing was every truly resolved despite the best efforts of the characters or the movie. Maybe I missed, something and there was more resolution that I though, but I don't feel like I did.And for the parents who might read this, I think high school and up is the age range for this movie. I think younger kids might find some of the material very uncomfortable and disturbing.
...or it might as well be, based upon the majority of comments I've read so far. It's a good movie "fer sure" and very much like "Unforgiven". The characters are well-developed, if not necessarily likable. The dialog is crisp, sometimes even sparse, yet tells the story. The production values are similarly lean, lending a nice edge to the look and feel of the production (less than 40 days!).Yet people are reviewing this as if it were THE GREATEST MOVIE OF ALL TIME (did so many "ten counts" in the movie lead to all the "10s" in the voting?) and others label it the work of the Anti-Christ because of the depiction of euthanasia. And to the majority of the movie critics: the "surprise twist" is a great surprise if you only watch family movies from Hollywood. Give me a break, it's a drama about boxing! The only surprise is in who doesn't end up in "critical" condition.How about going to a movie, suspending disbelief (a little) and letting the director take you someplace else? How about not rating or judging a movie based upon how well it meets your fondest dreams? How about fewer rhetorical questions? I can't wait for the sequel about "Danger" Barch.
Beautifully acted, Million Dollar Baby nonetheless suffers from some technical deficiencies that render it among the "might have been" films of history. First, the champion 'Blue Bear' in the climax championship fight would have been disqualified, and very likely charged with criminal assault. Second, in the Nursing home, if a monitor is turned off, an alarm goes off at the Nurses' station--that in fact would be how they knew that Maggie Fitzerald had bitten her tongue. Third, this Nursing home was allegedly providing good care; yet the gangrene-caused amputation would not have been needed if the patient was provided with appropriate exercise (e.g. Christopher Reeve). Finally, Frankie Dunn's fingerprints would have been on the breathing tube; the surge in adrenalin would have been discovered at autopsy, and he would then be a fugitive in a murder case.Hollywood finds liberal issues attractive, such as the euthanasia applied to Maggie, and this film will no doubt receive a number of academy awards--perhaps even best picture--but is over-rated. Clint Eastwood, Morgan Freeman and Hilary Swank turned in superb performances, and any awards they receive are deserving. The film itself disappoints, and it is a shame. None of the technical issues noted above needed to be there.
I don't understand all the praise. Sure, it's a pretty good movie, but it's flat, obvious, and not at all memorable. Eastwood's last film, Mystic River, was ten times better. Hilary Swank plays a boxer who persists in trying to get trainer Clint Eastwood to make her his student. He finally does accept her, especially after his friend, Morgan Freeman, who works as a janitor in his gym, convinces him of her talent. Most of the movie is a pretty straightforward boxing drama. Swank and Eastwood become each other's surrogate father and daughter, both making up for lost loved ones (Swank's father is dead, and Eastwood's daughter refuses to talk to him). The final act adds a tearjerker. There is also a poorly developed subplot about a few of the regulars at Eastwood's gym. It's slow, but mostly entertaining. Swank is good, but nowhere near the level that she hit with Boys Don't Cry. It's impossible to believe that Eastwood got nominated, especially over Paul Giamatti for Sideways. His direction is fine, but he can barely speak. Plus, he's so old it looks like his skeleton is trying to escape from his body. Morgan Freeman isn't especially great in his supporting role. He can't speak clearly, either. He narrates the film, and it can often be very hard to understand him. Million Dollar Baby is worth seeing, but it certainly isn't award-worthy. 7/10.


                
It's never boring. Eastwood is good when he is bad and good when he is good, so no point in dwelling on him. It's worth watching this movie just to see him. Here he has chosen to make a heart-felt, character-driven film. All of the characters struggle against a system that has perpetuated falsehoods. It's not the thing to see if you're in the mood for something uplifting, or something with tons of action. But it is a true gem in which the only thing that keeps it afloat is the sensitivity of the desperately needy relationship between the characters. The cinematography is stark and bare, with only the soundtrack adding some effect. A gritty, hard movie about gritty, hard people.


                
Million Dollar Baby is a very inconstant film in quality terms. The start, I mean, the first twenty minutes of film are full of over the top situations (such as the conversation with the priest scene), silly inane dialogs, and a weird voice over by Morgan Freeman narrating everything that happened in the film, even when wasn't needed at all. Yes, horrible way to start a film. I felt that the actors were very uncomfortable saying certain lines because it was truly awful. Paul Haggis, no wonder. The guy who wrote and directed the arguably most moronic and inane(and undeserved) Oscar Winner Picture ever(Crash). Clint's direction was really really good, because the film was brilliant since the 30 minutes and this 'briliantism' lasted until the final 30 minutes. Was really good. The main problem with this film is the quantity of unrealistic situations. A hospital would never allow a patient's leg gangrene, for example. The priest was also completely put of the reality in the film. These among numerous other problems. I could enjoy a lot this film, which is technically very good too, I think Clint and Swank gave their best performances in their careers, but there is way too many awful parts that can't be forgiven. 7/ 10


                
Clint Eastwood has earned the satisfaction he seems to get out of making leisurely, moody pieces like this, instead of the drive-in kinds of mindless commercial properties he once had to produce to satisfy his bankers. He has enough ambition and talent to do without the orang-utans.You can tell this is one of his more arty enterprises by the darkness, the shadows, the chiaroscuro. People work out in his gym with all the lights but one turned off so they cast dramatic shadows on the peeling cinder-block walls. We can tell that it's Morgan Freeman lurking in the gloom because a single strip of light falls across his eyes. Even hospital rooms are lighted as if they were the interiors of cathedrals.The score, by Eastwood, is a simple one. A melancholy falling arpeggio on a guitar or piano, perfectly predictable except for the final note, which hovers in the air for a long moment before resolving the progression. The theme is not triumph over aimlessness, as in "Rocky," but guilt. Eastwood is Frankie, a fight manager who feels responsible for his pal Morgan Freeman's losing his eye in a bout. The movie begins with Frankie twitting a priest after mass, provoking him into saying the f word. Frankie's been attending mass every Sunday for more than 20 years but the priest can't figure out why because Frankie lies and blasphemes all the time. It isn't until the end of the movie that we realize exactly how guilt-prone Franky is. He's afraid to push his fighters ahead too fast for fear they'll be hurt, the way Freeman was hurt, and so when his best fighters are fully trained they leave him for more aggressive managers. Frankie's final act of mercy involves such a monumental breach of ordinary ethics that the weight of his responsibility now makes it impossible for him to carry on with his previous life. He disappears overnight, without a trace, with leaving a puff of smoke. A minute-long coda tacked on leaves an unnecessary, unrealistic taste of optimism in the mouth, along with some homemade lemon-meringue that's gone slightly off.It's curious, but as Eastwood has aged he's come to resemble the aging Henry Fonda more than ever -- tall, gangling stiff, slightly kyphotic, his voice changed into a hoary whisper.His performance is okay, and so is Hilary Swank's. Morgan Freeman narrates and plays an avuncular observer, doing the interpreting for us, filling in the gaps in the narrative, a fine actor. The prize ought to go to Margo Martindale (?) as Swank's redneck selfish unfeeling Mom. What a picture of pure e-vil.If there's a weakness in the film, that Fitzgerald family is probably the most prominent. The other characters are mostly multidimensional, but not Swank's family members. They're mainly there to illustrate the point that if Swank doesn't box, she has absolutely nothing to live for. It would be a better movie if Swank's family had been more nearly human -- maybe polite and grateful, but not unhappy at her estrangement. As it is, the family is drive-in baggage, though well acted.The boxing part is a little different from that of "Rocky." Rocky already knows how to box. He just doesn't care. Swank cares a great deal but knows nothing, so the few lessons we see her getting are instructive. (In "Champion", Kirk Douglas didn't know how to box and he didn't care either.) Watching those brutal boxing scenes would have prompted me to wonder what it was like to be beaten to a pulp by a woman, if I didn't already know. They don't show much in the way of either realism or artistry. No blank spots in the bouts. It's either, Pow, right in the snot-locker, or, Whiz, a great big miss. And every fight ends in a knockout. Ah, well. It's not really a movie about boxing anyway.Another thing might be mentioned. Eastwood has always tried to build a part for an African-American or other minority in his films, starting early with Albert Popwell. But these characters are never condescended to. They're not sentimentalized, ennobled, or otherwise politically corrected. They're treated like anybody else. And Eastwood hasn't been afraid to challenge himself on screen with fine performers either. Here (and elsewhere) he's used Morgan Freeman, than whom there is no finer actor on the screen today. Watch Freeman play the hilarious scene about his day socks and his night socks, while staring distractedly out the window. Eastwood gets extra points for taking risks like that.This is a tragedy, but a pretty good one.
Hilary Swank plays Maggie Fitzgerald, a gutsy bundle of spit and verve who wants more than anything in the entire known universe to be a boxing champeen. So she takes her novice skill level to Frankie Dunn (Clint Eastwood), notable trainer of he-man boxers. Noting that Maggie's not really male, Frankie treats her with a lot of disdain and disrespect, but grudgingly - with the help of his canny janitor/man-at-arms, Scrap (Morgan Freeman) agrees to train Maggie. At least until she can find a manager. Which she never does.Swank again gets the Oscar nod (she also won for Boys Don't Cry), but this isn't her show at all - it's that of the two old codgers, Eastwood and Freeman. Freeman's excellence finally gets the level of recognition it deserves, as he won an Oscar, too, and Eastwood won for Best Director.The first three-quarters of the movie is pretty standard little-punk-against-all-the-odds fare, kind of a step or two above The Karate Kid, but along the same lines. Scrap and Frankie impart wisdom both practical and metaphysical to Maggie, who nods and flashes the largest set of teeth this side of a sabre-toothed tiger. Seriously, Hilary should look into getting those things capped or chiseled down, or something. Swank's job is to look innocent and deserving, but still appear skillful and eager to learn more. Eastwood and Freeman just need to look smart and worldly, not to mention world-weary. All succeed in these broad characterizations.The final quarter of the movie, though, takes us on a sharp left turn away from the norm. I won't give away the plot turn - it's not a twist, just a turn - but it quickly moves the tone of the movie from inspirational to sappy, from Rocky to Lifetime cable movies. As the audience, we're supposed to feel for Maggie, no matter what happens, and that almost works against things here; Maggie Fitzgerald is shown as a saint, quite frankly. Everything she does seems to be right, or at least Well Intentioned, and most people on the planet aren't quite that ethereal.Still, it's tough not to root for the little dickens. Maggie's feisty and is determined to succeed; no small feat, considering she's scrawny even after a couple years of self-training. She's motivated by having been told how much of a loser she is throughout her life (she's 31 when the movie begins); if she's unsuccessful as a fighter, she has nothing else to do, nowhere else to go. Presumably, anyway. She's waitressing, after all, and does have a job when she begins training with Frankie, so she's really not as bad off as she wants to appear.The chemistry between the toothy Swank and the toothless Eastwood should have been fantastic - Oscar winners both, of course - but for me their verbal interplay fell flat. I felt like I was watching two people do a cold reading. On the other hand, old pros Eastwood and Freeman played off each other perfectly, for dramatic and comedic effects. Their scenes together - and one gets the impression that Freeman's Scrap Iron wasn't as huge a character in the original version of the script - were flawless and highly enjoyable to watch, sort of like seeing a married couple interact.As with most athletics-related movies, Million Dollar Baby will try to manipulate you, and it's fairly successful in that arena. However, the final reel of the movie just didn't completely work for me, seeming more like a disease-of-the-week teleplay than an Academy Award-winning movie.


                
This movie is great..
but i just cant rewatch it..becouse it was so sad.


                
I really like this Clint Eastwood film. Besides directing, producing, and performing in "Million Dollar Baby," Eastwood also did the music which was simply well-integrated and perfectly composed to match and quietly enhance the plot progression, the mood, and the reaction of the characters. This is a gutsy film, gritty in emotions. It can be a tear-jerker yet not at all sentimental. It tells it like it is - the down to earth hard living of boxing (the theme being a 'crutch'), while the crux of the story concentrates on three main characters (each with haunting past): Eastwood as Frank the weathered boxing trainer, Hilary Swank as Maggie the enthusiastic spark in this whirl of boxing energy, and Morgan Freeman as "Scrap" - besides being the voice-over narrator, provided the bridging catalyst as the cool and caring mainstay to both Frank and Maggie. There are sprinkles of wit and humor here and there - that's how life is: making up of laughter and smiles occasionally in the midst of challenges and struggles, joys and disappointments, hesitation and reinforcement of faith, plucking up courage to take that risk, and mishaps nevertheless happen. There is "whose life is it anyway" dilemma - the confrontation of death, to be or not to be.


                
Million Dollar Baby tells a story that hits the viewer hard upon first viewing, and while that initial feeling hurts, it's one that I believe everybody should experience because this is a story that's so refreshing to see unfold before your eyes. The writing is superb and masterfully tells the story of these characters, especially Maggie, because you feel like you're legitimately living with her and watching her go along this journey filled with defeat and disappointments before she finally starts achieving everything she's ever wanted. The score also works perfectly in tandem with the writing, and the acting is fantastic from everyone involved with the film, such as actors with smaller roles like Mike Colter, to the star, Hilary Swank. Everybody does a perfect job with their respective roles and really help to build out this world of the underground boxing scene and where these characters come from.However, this movie does have pacing issues, particularly towards the 3rd act of the film. The reason why pacing issues begin to develop towards the end is because the film is really attempting to draw out and elongate these interactions between two certain characters, which ultimately I feel like did more to hurt the emotional impact of the ending rather than help it.With that being said, this film is absolutely worth watching for anybody who enjoys a story about triumph, perseverance, boxing, or simply just quality storytelling. Just be wary of the last 25 minutes that end up feeling like 50, but the finale of this movie will leave you in a state of disbelief. I strongly recommend this film.


                
Clint Eastwood has a no frills approach to directing. There are no fancy shots or creative techniques which tell this true story. However, if you like concise story telling with no padding and great acting then this film might be for you. Hilary Swank plays an Oscar worthy role as "Maggie"a determined young woman from a poor family who wants to become a professional boxer. Eastwood plays the trainer, "Frankie", who runs a gym in Los Angeles. Narrated expertly by Morgan Freeman who also plays "Scrap" who was managed by Frankie into a title bout."Million Dollar Baby" is a dark film with an autobiographical feel that never distracts from the characters. It is about a woman determined to make something of herself, and a man who becomes her best friend through her career and final tragedy.


                
I've been pretty moved with this movie. You don't even have to like boxe, I don't. If you like clever, beautiful dramas, I recommend it. First, the acting. It's really pleasant to see how the old trainer (Clint Eastwood) is so confused by Maggie (Hilary Swank) who won't listen to anything he says about getting another coach, going to another club. She just wants him as a coach and no one else. You can feel how Frankie is reluctant to train a girl, but then he starts to like her, and this is made in a very subtle acting. Both Eastwood and Swank are outstanding. Frankie and Maggie have deep psychology, especially Frankie who is really conflicted, and are well-developed throughout the movie. Maggie is an average waitress who realizes she can actually do something great by motivation. It's really interesting to see average people evolving but not much but pure willingness. She stands up to Frankie, it looks like he doesn't really have a choice, she's so stubborn ! Photography is beautiful as well, close shots emphasizing drama, not taking risks but mastering the manual in a nutshell. Now what's wrong. Some really random scenes disturb the narration. They even talk about socks for a WHOLE scene, and it's not presented like it's supposed to be funny, or philosophical or anything, it's just socks, really. About the weird, retarded boxing guy : this is SO badly written. It looks like he is not finished as a character, that he should be in another movie or something. In 2 hours, scenes about him spawn randomly. This serves no purpose. Ending's great because it doesn't follow expectations about your average boxing movie. TLDR; not flawless, but still one of the best dramas, I recommend. If you like uplifting boxing movies, be sure to check out "Bleed for this", too.


                
Saw "Million Dollar Baby" n last night. Clint Eastwood, one of the all-time most famous actors -- and directors -- has more than enough money where he could choose to pull the strings on block buster, mindless action pictures, ala Jerry Bruckheimer, or comic books. This is a film totally dominated by Clint Eastwood. As an actor, he brings to the role total credibility as the tormented soul inside Frankie. Hilary Swank makes a brilliant Maggie, the ambitious girl that gets much more than what she bargained for. Ms. Swank has the best moment of her career after her work in "Boys Don't Cry". Working with the right elements, Ms. Swank is an actress that works with little gestures to achieve her input in the character she is playing.
First of all let me say that I liked this movie. The actors did a great job. Eastwood and Swank were great obviously but sometime Freeman made me forget he wasn't the main character. Up until the 'broken neck' moment it was good and then it just stayed good. Eastwood had the chance to tell a story that could have inspired people for greatness and instead just left them feel depressed. Some people may say that's the way life is. Sometimes people try very hard but fail to achieve their dreams and just have a glimpse at victory before being thrown in hell. Well it may be like that sometimes but this was a movie and not real life although I do not believe Maggie was hopeless even in her condition. I believe not matter what the circumstances living is better than dying. If you live you will find the way to be happy again. The ending gave the wrong message to the audience and I do not accept it. Some people may think it's cool or realistic or whatever that Maggie could only accomplish so much and that asked to die, but it's not.
Maggie Fitzgerald is a thirty-one year old amateur female boxer, and all she wants is a fighting chance. "I don't train girls," says Frankie Dunn, a grizzled, but respected trainer who wants nothing to do with a girl fighter. With the help of Frankie's old partner and gym caretaker, Eddie Scrap-Iron Dupris, they convince Frankie to coach and to be Maggie's manager. Frankie has a relationship problem with his long-lost daughter and adopts Maggie along with her career, until she is seriously injured in a fight for championship and Frankie has to make a decision.This movie was made in 2004 and directed by Clint Eastwood. Scrap (Morgan Freeman) is narrator through out this entire film. Maggie (Hilary Swank) is trying to escape her trailer-trash life and dysfunctional loser family. She accomplishes this by boxing, which she feels is her "way out." Frankie (Clint Eastwood) does not want to coach girls, but is finally convinced to not only coach Maggie, but also to become her manager. Maggie works very hard. She follows all Frankie's instructions, and does not ask any questions. When she finally starts fighting, she knocks out opponents in the first round. Soon nobody wants to fight her, so Frankie moves her up in class. She gets a fight against the champion, but everything goes wrong.This movie does not have one particular plot, but several subplots. Frankie has a long-lost relationship with his daughter. He is constantly writing her letters, but they are all sent back to him. Maggie has a dysfunctional family which she is trying to escape. She also has a dream of becoming a professional fighter. This movie shows me that great films do not need one storyline, just great actors and directing.This movie had excellent use of light and shade. There could not be any better characters put in one movie. I thought the part when Frankie asked Scrap why he had on socks with holes in them, his response was "I like to get air to my feet at night," yet Frankie gave him money to buy socks, though the money made its way to the tracks. This movie will make a viewer laugh, cry, and be moved by this powerful boxing classic.


                
While I liked the movie a little, it just seemed very downbeat and sad the entire time. It's so depressing, you just don't like it as much. The entire atmosphere is depressing. The lighting is dark and shadowed. The whole movie seems gray, and just sad. The acting is good, the plot is good, everything else is good, but I just got tired of seeing depressed scenes the entire time.The whole point of the movie seemed to be to make you feel sorry for all the characters. They all have problems that make you think "aw, thats so sad for them" Even a few minor character(not to name any), have problems you feel sorry for. Maybe if not every character had a problem, and the whole movie wasn't so depressing, it would be a lot better.


                
Great acting, great cast, great storyline. I liked this movie but was a bit disappointed... I expected a different ending and it seemed to slow down a bit in the middle..But This does not distract from the movie at all and it is well worth watching. Clint Éastwood gives a fine, moving performance, much different from his western movies and Hillary Swank's portrayal of a women in a mans world came off very real and believable.I really like Morgan Freeman, he always seems to play down to earth, unpretentious characters and he gives a great performance in this movie. If I was a boxing fan my rating probably would have been 8 out of 10, but it is at least a 7 out of 10 in my opinion.


                
In some ways Million Dollar Baby is as simple as movies get. It's a story about three people. And one of the three seems to be there really just to tell you some things you otherwise might not know about the other two. The two principals in question are aging boxing trainer Frankie Dunn, played by Clint Eastwood who also directs, and the aspiring female boxer he will soon train, Maggie Fitzgerald, played wonderfully by Hilary Swank. The only other character of any great significance, played by Morgan Freeman, is Eddie Scrap-Iron Dupris. Scrap, a former boxer himself, now helps Frankie with the operation of his rather seedy boxing gym. But perhaps more importantly for the film, Scrap serves as the narrator who tells us things about Frankie and Maggie that otherwise would have taken too long to flesh out. We get to know Frankie and Maggie as much through what Scrap tells us about them as by what we see them doing ourselves.The three main characters are brought together by boxing but it's really not a boxing movie. It's more about the life's journey of Maggie Fitzgerald and how Frankie, a man near the end of his own journey, will help her fulfill her destiny. Maggie and Frankie's unlikely partnership drives the movie forward and Swank and Eastwood each do a great job in bringing their characters to life. As the determined and somewhat naive underdog Swank shines. Very few actresses would have been able to handle the emotion and the physicality of this role. Swank absolutely nails it. Eastwood's character has a lot bubbling under the surface and initially we're not really sure if we should like this guy. But despite his initial misgivings (he is very emphatic in stating that he doesn't train girls), Maggie brings out the best in him. They have an unusual but undeniably strong bond and they go on a fascinating journey together.The story is an intriguing one, the characters are compelling and the acting, from Swank especially, is excellent. But Million Dollar Baby seems to lack a certain energy driving the film forward. For much of the film it seems we're just biding time waiting for the inevitable climactic fight. And that climactic fight? Well, it's how shall we say, quite interesting, and certainly puts a different spin on all that has come before. Part of the charm of movies is in delivering the unexpected but I'm not sure how many will be charmed by the climactic events here. In the end, Million Dollar Baby is certainly powerful, thought-provoking and full of emotion. No all-time classic but a fine story well worth seeing.


                
This film certainly deserves the Oscar nomination and to my mind is a better movie than The Aviator.The film focuses on a wannabe boxer who like most boxers is from a poor background. The only difference here is that the boxer in question is a woman. Maggie Fitzgerald (Swank) wants Frankie Dunn (Eastwood) to be her manager. He doesn't want to manage a woman, but I don't think it's giving too much away to say that he finally takes her on.One of the best things about this film is that the boxing is realistically shot and the fact that it's womens boxing doesn't feel out of place. Whilst Swank deservedly takes the honours for acting, Eastwood and Freeman are as dependable as ever. The final act is very well played and if you're into fell good movies I'd steer clear of this. 8/10


                
