It would be difficult to imagine a more perfect trio of performers the likes of Hilary Swank, Clint Eastwood, and Morgan Freeman in their respective roles in the emotionally-charged "Million Dollar Baby." My favorite scenes were the early sequences in which Maggie (Swank) visits the dowdy boxing gym and co-opts Eastwood's crusty boxing trainer Frankie into becoming her mentor. Along with the veteran, retired boxer Eddie, played by Freeman, the performances were as electric as the Ali shuffle.In the overall arc of the story of "Million Dollar Baby," there were three extraneous subplots: (1) Frankie's visits to church and his talks with the priest; (2) the story of the mentally-challenged young man named Danger, who appears in the gym and is taunted by the boxers; and (3) Maggie's family members introduced in two scenes filled with such vulgarity that much of the film's hard-earned credibility was lost. Not only would the film have worked effectively without the subplots, it would have been a much better film without them.While Eastwood's direction was superb, much credit should also go to the designers, especially the stylish work with lighting. I cannot recall a film as dimly lit as this one, and the subdued lighting contributed substantially to the characters and mood evoked in this sensitive film. The three main performances were standouts. But this film was also a very successful team effort.


                
Clint Eastwood is a legendary film personality. I am a great fan of his. As an actor, I had my reservations with him, but as a storyteller, I have truly inhaled him. 'Million Dollar Baby' is amongst his finest films, a superb film, that almost reaches a Landmark level!About a hardened trainer/manager works with a determined woman in her attempt to establish herself as a boxer. 'Million Dollar Baby' begins with some humor, then it improves itself into becoming a motivational punch, but ends as a dry and depressing saga. I adored almost everything about the film, except the final 20-25 minutes. The culmination is very depressing. In fact, one just doesn't imagine it would have to end this way! But in all fairness, this one is a winner! Eastwood's understanding to the subject is objective and that's biggest plus point. Tom Stern's Cinematography is splendid. Joel Cox's editing is razor-sharp.In the acting department, Hilary Swank delivers a Knock-out performance. She is the life of the show. Morgan Freeman is wonderfully restrained. Eastwood's performance, is a pure of example, of apt multi-tasking. Jay Baruchel as Danger, is flawless. Anthony Mackie is his usual self. Brian F. O'Byrne is passable.On the whole, the list of accolades this 2004 flick received is truly unprecedented. It's got a legendary tag. From this writer, Thumbs Up!


                
There is both much to admire, and to despise, within this film. I believe the positives far outweigh the negatives, yet the negatives are so odious, so blatant, that they amount to a major defacement--all the more so because they could have so easily been corrected--marring what otherwise might have been a masterpiece of film making. As a drama about two lonely people who find each other and fall in love (though not in a romantic sense), this film is in a class few others share. As a drama about the sport of boxing, it veers wildly between insightful and ridiculous, and the film as a whole too often embraces caricature and melodrama, crippling our suspension of disbelief and leaving it floundering.The film revolves about Maggie Fitzgerald--a 30 year old woman who attempts to escape a difficult upbringing in a single-minded pursuit of a boxing career--and Frankie Dunn, a down-on-his-luck manager/trainer and owner of a rundown boxing gym. She basically takes up residence in his gym, working out and trying to persuade him to take her under his wing. He wants no part of managing a "girl"--especially one virtually over the hill--and puts her off with one caustic rebuff after another. She persists, and over time, stubbornly refusing to take no for an answer, finally persuades him to train her. Before long, reluctantly, a bond begins to grow between the crusty old trainer, permanently estranged from his only daughter, and this fiercely determined woman whose father, the only person who ever loved her, died long ago. It is this growing relationship that is the heart of the film, and it is magnificently played out between these fine actors. Hilary Swank is mesmerizing, every gesture, every expression is convincing. The fact that her character is so sweet-natured, so adorable (in an early fight, she shrugs her shoulders to Frankie's mock disgust in such a way that it had to have melted the hearts of anyone with a heart) that it might give us pause later after the lights go on when we might ask, "How could this immensely genial character have been so alone?" but Swank is so compelling that as we watch her, we never doubt her or her situation for a moment. Clint Eastwood is almost as good, and his brusque, brooding, deeply wounded old gym-rat provides an excellent foil to Swank's more hopeful character. We become ensnared in their emotional dynamics, much more than their pursuit of a boxing title. As we watch their love for each other grow (the love between surrogate father and daughter), our love for each of their characters grows as well, so that the ultimate tragedy that befalls them is almost unbearable to watch.Or at least, it would be if you can ignore the intruding absurdities. First among them are some of the fight sequences. Most of these play well, though there are occasional moments when a punch clearly lands upon air, half a meter from the opponent's face, and yet we hear an accompanying sound effect as if there had been a solidly landed blow. But the principle problem concerns the fights involving a character called "The Blue Bear"--a figure so ludicrous her appearance in a comic book would be jarringly idiotic. We see her perform acts of deranged mayhem in the ring that make the biting off of an ear seem pacifist. A Nazi Storm Trooper would find her embarrassing. Anyone displaying these traits in real life would be barred from prize-fighting years before reaching a title fight. To suggest that such a one could become champion is light years beyond far-fetched. Apparently, every one of her referees, and the two judges at court-side, are carefully selected for their inability to open their eyes. {Brief Spoilers Ahead} In the climatic showdown, we are told the "Bear" wins in spite of egregious violations, including the knock-out punch which occurs 10 seconds after the bell has sounded. {Spoilers End} I thought "Cinderella Man's" depiction of the fighter Max Baer was a bit over the top--but not compared to this. In a hundred other boxing films I have seen nothing to approach the outlandishness of this depiction.There were other problems. Maggie's surviving family were overwrought, cardboard caricatures. Morgan Freeman, who plays Frankie's closest friend, provides the film's narration, and though he does his usual excellent job, his comments weren't as finely written (or were perhaps over written) as those he voiced in "Shawshank Redemption." Two or three times we hear him talk about being "somewhere between nowhere and good-bye," which was two or three times too many.In spite of the drawbacks, which are far from incidental, I found myself spellbound by Maggie and Frankie's relationship. There are other nice things about the film, not least of which is a crowd-pleasing "interchange" between Freeman and a bully/would-be fighter, and Eastwood's direction which, in spite of contributing to the lapses noted above, does a fabulous job of getting the most from his cast and providing a wonderfully paced movie--but it is the strength of the central relationship which buoys the film, keeping it afloat in the midst of its sea of weakness. I cannot help but mourn the loss of what could have been. A more realistic villain, a fine-tuning of the script, and this might have been both the greatest boxing movie of all time, and one of the great love stories. I'd like to shake Haggis (the writer) and Eastwood for failing to fully capitalize on their opportunity.


                
Million Dollar Baby deserves all the acclaim it received and some. Ebert even calls this film a masterpiece and says it is Clint Eastwood's best film. Eastwood comes to us as director, producer, and lead actor in this knockout film. In more than one way Eastwood showed us that he is like wine <U+0096> he gets better with age! In Million Dollar Baby, Hillary Swank plays Maggie Fitzgerald, a 30- year waitress who sees her only way out of the trailer park is boxing. Maggie feels that her only chance of winning is having Frankie Dunn (Eastwood) train her. Swank did such an excellent job acting, that when I see Swank to this day my heart still goes out to here. I have yet to be able to separate her from her character in this excellent film.Frankie is a 70 year old trainer who is opposed to training a "girly." Frankie is dealing with guilt from two issues from his past. He hasn't spoken to his daughter in years and she won't even read his letters. Also, Frankie feels responsible for throwing in the towel too late in a fight with his boxer Eddie "Scrap-Iron Dupri (Morgan Freeman) years earlier. Frankie lets Scrap live at the gym and keep it up.All three main characters have yet to make it big. Frankie, who is a trainer and "the best cut man," has never been able to get his fighters a title fight. Scrap is a retired fighter who lost eyesight in one eye after fighting one too many fights, yet sticks around to help Frankie run the gym. Maggie is "trailer trash" who's only way out of waiting tables for the rest of her life is to box. Destiny awaits this trio as Scrap convinces Frankie to train Maggie. But, don't underestimate this film, this is no shallow Rocky film.Frankie initially refuses to train Maggie, but gives in after he sees her determination. He takes on a fatherly role and a deep bond between the two emerges. Frankie is all Maggie has, and without him, she can't make it. Frankie and Maggie's father-daughter relationship add depth to the emotional element as he substitutes her for his own estranged daughter.Eastwood did an excellent job of expressing the theme of how life deals some hard and unfair blows. Similar to Ray, the message is clear, one is never to give up in the fight of life. You can't change the cards that have been dealt, you just have to play your hand the best you can. And Eastwood, masterfully exhibits this as Frankie tells Maggie the number one rule in boxing is "to protect yourself at all times" Freeman narrates this film as he did in Shaw Shank Redemption. At one point in this film Scrap, in his very serious and solemn voice, talks about how boxing is an unnatural act and "everything in boxing is backwards." Life seems to be backwards at times especially when bad things happen to good people. This film begins as a traditional fight film, but the backwardness creeps in and brings with it a more profound and realistic meaning.Million Dollar Baby takes a surprising plunge to the dark side of life that we see often. It explores how we respond to fate, especially when it seems we deserve something more. But, Eastwood does a superb job of exploring the complexities of the blows that life deals and the subsequent decisions that we have to make.The lighting, or lack thereof, throughout the film contributed to this theme by adding a dark and gloomy element to the harsh reality of what happens to Maggie. Maggie's life was rough from start to finish. There never appeared to be any lasting sunshine. Therefore, cinematographer Tom Stern kept the majority of this picture in poorly lighted dressing rooms, dark restaurants, and of course the typical stark gym where pain and punishment were endured daily.Paul Haggis does the screenplay in this film and adapted it from several stories out of Rope burns: Stories From the Corner, a 2000 book by Jerry Boyd, who was a veteran fight manager and "cut man" writing under the pseudonym F.X. Toole.Overall, the theme was expressed very well and it had a profound emotional effect as it caused sorrow and pity for all the characters as we watched them each deal with the blows that life had dealt them. We expected sensationalism and the traditional underdog theme, but Eastwood brought us life with all its blows! This is a must see!!!
Take a film, strip it of special effects, a drop-dead-gorgeous female lead, and a box office-friendly, money-making plot line. Replace with a soul-shaking story, timeless performances, and a bone-shattering punch that comes not in the form of explosions, sex, or gratuitous violence, but in the genius of its direction, writing, and soulful thematic delivery; you get Million Dollar Baby. The film with 'million dollar' integrity and bargain $30 million price tag lands a killer, cinematic punch square in the dignity of films with the $150 million price tag and Dollar Store insignificance.Maggie Fitzgerald (Hilary Swank), determined, full of heart and empty of pocket enters the boxing gym of the hard-shelled and well-respected trainer Frankie Dunn (Clint Eastwood). Between her low-paying and hopelessly mundane waitressing job at a local diner, Maggie lands punches at Frankie's gym. Taking little notice to and simply no concern for the "girl" who has been so doggedly training in his gym; Frankie is approached by his old friend Eddie 'Scrap-Iron' Dupris (Morgan Freeman), who has seen something in Maggie, not in the force of her blows, but the strength of her heart. Several times Maggie pleads with Frankie to train her and several times he turns her down. That is until, one night, when another shoebox full of un-opened letters returned from his daughter is filled and Frankie must decide to regain the daughter he lost. Finally accepting her offers, Frankie begins to train the scrappy and determined 31 year-old amateur. Having not in her unfortunate life seen a fraction of the love and care given to her by her new trainer, Maggie is bestowed a father figure in the most unlikely of places. Having not had anything to love and care for the longest of times, Frankie is given the daughter he lost so long ago. Fighting and sweating and bleeding, Maggie works her way to the Las Vegas title fight Frankie never participated in. All the way she is loved and grows closer with her trainer and all the way Frankie regains the fire to care for the person behind the gloves, and not just the gloves themselves.Known for his classical and quiet approach to direction, allowing the actors and storyline to carry his films into the annuls of film hierarchy, Clint Eastwood reaches far beyond the industry's wildest expectations and lands a cinematic punch of unparalleled magnitude in this riveting modern classic. Pacing is done to perfection with well-built character development across the ensemble and general calculated patience in the maturity of the story. The viewer is allowed to ease into their seats early in the film so that they may be as comfortable as is possible before the film's enthralling climax. Simple camera movements and framing (a moniker of Eastwood) are utilized without the pretentious and dizzying camera spasms of Stone, Rodriguez and other ostentatious directors. The unadulterated ability, grit, and strength of character Eastwood exudes through the film give it its poignant, numbing effects. Simple, yet ruggedly-elegant cinematography bodes well for the overall might of the picture. Praised by his casts for allowing their ability as actors to speak through their performances and not through their costumes, make-up, or "punch-lines" and for his meticulous attention to emotions and not explosions, Eastwood's pioneering directorial integrity are ingrained in every frame of Million Dollar Baby.Morgan Freeman delivers another Oscar-caliber performance as the warm-hearted, one-eyed ex-boxer, Eddie. Emotional presence is exuded into every line in a performance mimicking the timelessness of the role of Red in The Shawshank Redemption (1994). Eastwood's unmistakable grit and emotional veracity in his Oscar-nominated performance is simply unforgettable and brings the driest of eyes to tears. But, out-doing even the thematic valor of Freeman and Eastwood is the simply breathtaking, inspiring, and mind-numbing performance of one, Hilary Swank. In the title role of Maggie Fitzgerald, Swank is immaculate. In a portrayal that can only be characterized as miraculous, Swank brings the audience's eyes to the screen as they watch her struggle to survive, taking half-eaten food from the plates of the customers she waits-on. She brings us to the edge of its seats when she enters the ring. She brings us to cheers and revelry with each bloody, pulse-pounding, jaw-shattering first-round knockout. She brings us all to our knees in her despair after being denied the slightest scrap of gratitude after buying her odious, gold-digging, ingrate of a mother a home with what little money she has earned in her early bouts. She moves our souls, touches our hearts, and reaches to wipe-off our tears in scenes of such moving poignancy, they are simply impossible to describe in words. A flawless, awe-inspiring performance at the apex of thematic capacity.Without giving away Million Dollar Baby's gut-wrenching climax, I must touch-on its jarring inspiration.How valuable is something that is two-of-a-kind? How priceless is something that has happened only once before in over 550 different experiences? It is timeless. It is priceless. Until Million Dollar Baby, I had wept only once before during a film. That prestigious honor went to one of the greatest achievements in the history of the arts, Schindler's List (1993). Accompanying me to the film were two of my closest friends, one of which would cry in Finding Nemo, the other has teared-up in only a small handful of films. One, as to be expected ran out of tissues and had tears cascading down her face long after the film's credits rolled across the screen. The other, doing his very best to fight off the torrent of water building deep in his eyes, could not help but choke on his emotions. I, myself truly wept. With each tear the film was elevated to a higher level. With each falling drop, Million Dollar Baby instilled more in me, the movie-goer and me, the human being. Astounding direction, astonishing integrity, miraculous performances<U+0085> why we go to the movies. An inspiration.9/10


                
Million Dollar Baby is a movie about boxing like Braveheart is a movie about men in kilts riding horses. What it is is a movie to experience if you find yourself ever entertaining thoughts about loyalty, determination, talent, no talent, age, youth, courage, fear, fate, and the pain and joy of both living and dying.I read reviews of Million Dollar Baby and expected to like it. Roger Ebert can be soft on movies because he is plainly a big fan, but even he does not lightly toss around the M-word, masterpiece. Yet he drops it on MDB, and justly so. The story is simple and searing. A gal (Hilary Swank) with much heart and no experience aspires to be the champion of the world. She is Rocky in a sports bra. A grizzled fight trainer-manager/gym owner (Clint Eastwood) reluctantly takes her on. His best pal and wise-man assistant (Morgan Freemna) stands alongside them, as the plot unwinds steadily, seamlessly, picking up speed, scene by scene, act after act. Eastwood and Freeman are artists at the top of their profession and they, along with the brilliant Swank, present you the very worthy lives of three people you will care about and remember. The arena is boxing, but it might as well have been boating or baking. It is a story about values and truths that far exceed sports and movies. I walked into the Lowes Lincoln Square theater last night knowing Million Dollar Baby was taking me on a ride and willing to hop aboard. What a beautiful, memorable ride it was.


                
It just doesn't seem possible that Clint Eastwood of Sergio Leon who acted in Fistful of Dollars, For a Few Dollars More, and the Good, the Bad and the Ugly can direct such a different kind of movies which I like as well such as Bridges of Madison County, Mystic River, Changeling and Millioin Dollar Baby.The movie is just awesome! A good story with a wonderful actor Hillary Swank. She is playing a challenging role because such roles are usually prepared for men but Hillary is so good that even men admired her in this role. What can you say more when you have an amazing presence of two great actors like Clint Eastwood and Morgan Freeman.It's a movie that you definitely need to watch and believe me you don't want to miss such a work.


                
We have all seen the Rocky films, and we have all seen Raging Bull. Million Dollar Baby, directed by Clint Eastwood, deserves to sit alongside these terrific boxing films. Great cast, great story, and great direction from Eastwood.When I first sat down to watch this movie I thought that it was just going to be very similar to Rocky, with a girl making her way to the top. But its so much more than that. The film is a powerful and moving experience to sit through.Frankie Dunn (Clint Eastwood), is an experienced and successful Boxing trainer who runs a training gym with long time friend 'Scrap' (Morgan Freeman). Although Frankie appears to be a tough strict, man, he is secretly hiding a heartbreak involving his daughter, who he has made a lot of failed attempts to get in contact with her over the years. Oh yeah, and he 'doesn't train girls'. His work and lack of faith are the two main elements of his life, until Maggie Fitzgerald (Hilary Swank) walks into his gym.Admiring Maggies work rate and attitude, Frankie eventually takes Maggie under his wing, beginning a relationship that see's Frankie develop her into a terrific boxer. The pairs relationship grows and it becomes clear that Frankie may have found the long lost daughter he's been looking for. The two are all each other have, and one horrific incident results in them facing a battle tougher than what they could ever face in a boxing ring.I couldn't take my eyes off this movie and I was very moved by the performances. Easily a film you will watch again and again.


                
Million Dollar Baby made a splash at the box-office. Wowed critics the world over. And scooped four Oscars, including Best Picture. I did enjoy Million Dollar Baby. Clint Eastwood's direction is excellent. There are some fine performances from Eastwood (also starring), Hilary Swank and the underrated Morgan Freeman, and its quite well written too. But after seeing the film I was left wondering why so much fuss was heaped upon it. People called it the best film of 2004, and labelled it a modern classic. These opinions tend to make the film a little overrated. I just liked it for what it was. A well told story about lost hopes and dashed dreams. Nothing more.Clint Eastwood is a fine filmmaker. He has a slick, economical directing style that make any film he directs intensely watchable. And he brings the same approach to Million Dollar Baby. But I can't help but wonder if the film would have gathered the same critical applause had it been made before Unforgiven, the film that had Clint Eastwood rediscovered all over again as a groundbreaking director. Clint had been making films 20 years before that, but people only started taking him seriously as a filmmaker until after Unforgiven. Had Million Dollar Baby been made all those years before, one suspects it would have received half of the attention.It has a plot that's out of a hundred sports movies. An underdog boxer who wants to fight her way to the big time. So you could be forgiven for feeling beforehand that Million Dollar Baby is very predictable. I suppose it has a familiar story arc, but fine acting and Eastwood's direction allows it to transcend its stereotypical origins and become a superior film of the genre. If not quite in the classic bracket.When Clint is not in the directors chair he plays Frankie Dunn, a down on his luck manager who trains possible heavyweight champions who end up signing with new managers. When his latest protégé leaves him in the lurch, he only has one option left. To train Maggie Fitzgerald (Swank), a female boxer. As a rule, Frankie doesn't train women, and Maggie at 31 is too old and too inexperienced. But he doesn't have much choice. She's his last student. Either he trains her, or the gym will go under.Maggie barely makes ends meet as a waitress. Boxing is the one thing she's passionate about. And after relentlessly badgering Frankie for lessons, he gives in. With a little bit of nudging from Scraps (Freeman), a retired boxer who co-owns the gym with Frankie.Maggie forms quite a rapport with Frankie and Scraps. And in between the lessons and training, she's allowed to share their private confidences. Frankie has a daughter he hasn't seen in years. No matter how many letters he writes, she sends them back, unopened and unwanted. Maggie becomes the daughter Frankie so desperately misses. Scraps (short for Scrap Iron) used to be a boxer under Frankie's training. But he lost an eye in the ring, and all because Frankie didn't know when to call it quits. Now Scraps spends his time at the gym training hopefuls, and only dreaming of what might have been.Its individual vignettes like these where Million Dollar Baby really scores. Its a much better film than Rocky, because the excellent cast hits all the right notes. There's nothing wrong with any of these performances. Clint Eastwood delivers an honest, well honed turn as Frankie. This is a man who lets the world pass him by. And even when he tries to change that, he doesn't get much reward for his troubles.Hilary Swank gives a brave and equally assured performance. She's not just up to the physical sessions, she also displays a quiet but astute assessment of the role. Something that serves her well in the third and final act.And Morgan Freeman turns in another excellent performance as the world-weary Scraps, the role that finally netted him an Oscar. Certainly Morgan Freeman is an actor well overdue Oscar recognition. He should have won one back in 1994 for The Shawshank Redemption. Instead it went to Tom Hanks for the overrated Forrest Gump. And Freeman plays a part not that far removed from the one in TSR. He not only provides firm, moral support for Frankie and Maggie in times of crisis, but as the narrator of Million Dollar Baby, he's the film's moral centre.With his customary resigned inflections, he delivers lines of dialogue about the harsh realities of life. And he convinces us without ever raising his voice. He never steps out of character. Which is what makes him such a fine actor.For about three quarters of the way through, the film follows firmly established routes, but suddenly takes a step in another direction in the final act. Maggie ends up paralysed from the neck down. Its a shocking and emotionally crushing moment that leaves one quite numb.Its this part of the film where Eastwood's direction really pays off. He shoots scenes in near darkness, interplayed light and shadow. And it gradually shows Maggie's deterioration. Not physically. But emotionally. And Eastwood deserves credit for avoiding conventional, melodramatic clichés. No sappy music or maudlin dialogue. Just cold hard facts underscored with true poignance. Hilary Swank is wonderful in these scenes. The silent expressions on her face speak volumes about her inner turmoil.When she asks Frankie to help her die, its an approach that actually feels emotionally charged and honest. Not fake and obvious. Maggie's death scene is quite moving. And all because its told perfectly straight.In the end, I do believe Million Dollar Baby falls just that little bit short of classic status. But it is an affecting story all the same. Its a successful package. And it succeeds on levels of acting, directing and writing. You really couldn't ask for anything more.
"Million Dollar Baby" is perfectly cast --- the actors take on their parts and make them their own. The story is about a white trash girl, Maggie, who wants to make something of herself and believes that boxing is her calling. She seeks out Frankie to train her at the gym, but he refuses to take her on at first. At first you think Frankie's sexist, but his character is not that simple. The story builds steadily and you later realize Frankie has many good reasons not to train Maggie, but her spirit and dedication win him over eventually. Frankie ties himself emotionally to each person he trains and tries his best to make them champions. Morgan Freeman is excellent as Scrap the gym's custodian and his intelligence and ability to decipher Frankie even surprises Frankie. Scrap reminds me of a man I met one time at my company who earned a purple heart in the Vietnam War, but spent his days sorting mail in the mail room. Surely, this veteran had more to offer the world or maybe I just didn't understand that he had experienced and accomplished more than most people do in a lifetime. I think the situation is the same with Scrap -- being at the gym doing whatever is still immensely satisfying to him. How many people can say they'd want to live at their place of work like Scrap?! Hillary Swank is wonderful as Maggie and Clint Eastwood... well what's not to like? The man is brilliant in every way -- acting, directing, writing, and so soft spoken in real life that you love and respect him even more.I also was immensely impressed by the minor players in the film, especially the actor who plays Maggie's mother, Margo Martindale. She is just excellent in her supporting role. Lucia Rijker is also fantastic as "Billie the Blue Bear". She is one tough lady! It wasn't until I watched the behind the scenes footage that I saw how pretty she is off screen.One minor problem I can see with the film is the diction and audibility -- I couldn't understand everything Scrap said and had to use the subtitles feature on the DVD player. I understood all of his narration, but not some of his lines when he appeared on film. My complaint sounds like nitpicking and that's not my intention.Finally, it is great to finally see a major film about women's boxing. I didn't know the women's version is just as violent as the men's. I am quite surprised boxing headgear is not worn in women's or men's boxing. Boxing with your bare head makes no sense when you see how many injuries are sustained such as concussions, broken eardrums, detached retinas, and such. The sport makes complaining about a broken nose sound like you're complaining about a broken finger nail. I've heard some of Muhammad Ali's present health condition is attributed to numerous blows to his head during his boxing years.Overall this is an excellent film and well worth the time viewing.


                
Million Dollar Baby, can't get it out of my head.... absolutely brilliant, a deeper movie than at first may seem.Basically surrounds the on going of a boxing coach/manager (Eastwood) who gets coaxed into helping out a determined 31/32 year old girl (Swank) who wants to be a boxer with the mgr's friend overseeing events and hangs on for the ride (Morgan Freeman). Swank comes from a lower class struggling background from the family from hell.In some ways it is part Rocky, but it goes it own way, and the emotional roller-coaster of the movie hinges on that the girl becomes like a surrogate daughter for Eastwood as he is cut off from his own estranged daughter.Very humorous at times, but you can't help be chocked at the end of the film.Class movie.8/10 definites.....


                
Clint Eastwood (Dirty Harry) stars as Frankie, an emotional boxing trainer who takes a determined Maggie under his wing and trains her to compete at competitive levels.Being a fan of Scorsese's Raging Bull and Michael Mann's Ali, I was eager to see this Oscar winning drama and was able to sit and be engaged into a slow and touching plot about the human spirit.Eastwood leads the way as Frankie, a man with a whole lot of personal history that keeps him from making quick decisions, and gives a deserved Oscar nominated performance in his picture, which he also directs beautifully. Through the character's history, does Eastwood capitalize on bringing out the character's weaker side and he does it to perfection, though it's not Eastwood who steals the limelight.Hilary Swank (Boys don't cry) gives an Oscar winning performance as Maggie, another character with the past casting shadows over her judgement and with the characters both having similar characteristics and interests, does a great on screen partnership start to blossom into an emotional tale.Morgan Freeman (Shawshank Redemption) likewise receives an Oscar for his performance as Scraps. Not in the film nearly enough for viewers to get to know him, Freeman does great with what he has. Jay Baruchel plays Danger, a weak person in the mind of so many others and is emotional to watch the character on screen.After a pretty dull opening does the film pick up as we get to know the characters more and the plot comes intriguing with personal issues the focus in this drama.The plot is consistent once it gets going and with a strong line of personalities the viewers are thrust into their lives as they deal with personal and professional lives.The fights are tense and interesting to watch, none more so than the final one of the film, leaving to a sad and dramatic climax.Stronger than Ali and equally as dramatic as Raging Bull, Million Dollar Baby is one of the great boxing dramas ever made with excellent performances which show in a beautifully directed drama.


                
How long has it been since Clint had 2 good movies in a row? How many Blood Works and Space Cowboys must we endure before he pulls out a hat trick like this? After the masterpiece that was Mystic River, this was a refreshing surprise to see the old master do it back to back. It is so rare to see a sports movie that is about....sports! But this did it with wit and sentiment that was never cheap or cheezy.Hilary Swank proved once again that she actually has acting chops and isn't just that chick who played that chick who thought she was a dude. This is the real deal. Morgan Freeman was solid as ever. But all praise to where it is due: Clint.Kudos on Clint's directing, his stirring score and his understated, but superb acting.


                
No doubt in my mind... I am an actor and have seen pretty much all of the greats. I looked down the list of IMDb's greatest 250 movies and I've seen about 80 percent of them. There is not doubt anywhere in my body that this is the greatest movie of all time. Clint Eastwood's direction, paired with his excellent acting, not to mention the amazing performances by Hillary Swank and Morgan Freeman make it a clear choice. Eastwood's use of light in this film creates a unique environment that allows us to see the characters how he wanted us to see them. Freeman's narration is very similar to that of his role in "Shawshank" and I think he was a perfect casting choice. People who disliked this movie don't understand what makes a movie great and should just stop going to the movies. Your opinion isn't worth while if you can't see the genius of this film.


                
I absolutely hate boxing - I find it to be a truly inhumane sport (it's not even a sport; it's people inflicting maximum pain and damage on each other), and I always saw Hilary Swank as just a pair of silicone implants and a horsey smile. But I AM a sucker for films in which the characters (reluctantly) team up to accomplish a goal, whether it is a heist or winning a boxing title.Combine this with the heartwarming, mandatory Morgan Freeman narrative of the film and I have endless affection for it. Well, not endless perhaps - but it is a well-crafted quality drama with superb acting performances and exciting boxing games. Clint Eastwood as grumpy veteran boxing trainer who reluctantly takes on Maggie (Hilary Swank) has got to be one of the most likable characters in film. There is also quite a bit of humour in the first half of the film when he begins coaching her. I love it how he is never disturbed by Maggie's stubbornness, just sort of exasperated. The film delicately sees these two personalities juxtaposed with each other to overcome initial difficulties and in the end, develop a strong father-and-daughter like bond. It sounds corny, but it translates very well on screen and I do not remember the last time I was as engrossed in a character's struggle as I was with Maggie's, which tells me Million Dollar Baby is doing something right. Very right.When Paul Haggis' (of the horrorshow Crash) name popped up in the end credits as screenwriter, I was quite stunned but it made sense later on - because the writing of Million Dollar Baby is very explicit and spelled-out for audiences. That said, it is not as bad as Crash. Had I known Haggis had written it, I probably would have avoided it for a while longer in fear of being met by a blinking sign over a character's head that says "THIS PERSON IS SAD" .As far as sport-themed films go, Million Dollar Baby is a grand accomplishment that projects so much heart that I must have cried nearly all the way through the second half. 8/10


                
Another awesome thought-provoking movie from Clint Eastwood. Million Dollar Baby is the kind of movie that gets you in the gut. Three days after I saw it I am still thinking about it.Hilary Swank is fantastic and deserves Oscar and of course Morgan Freeman gives an outstanding performance. There are the usual whinersand complainers about Clints views on religion, disabilities and on and on. Get a life people. Its a MOVIE! Meant to make one think and ponder.There just aren't any younger actors with the talent and drive to replace Clint Eastwood, Jack Nicholson and Dustin Hoffman when they retire. There are a lot of wannabes but no real talent. This is one GREAT movie.


                
Clint Eastwood just continues to top himself as a film maker.His latest masterpiece is Million Dollar Baby.This powerful,moving drama will have you cheering,as well as bring you to tears.All performances are memorable,particularly that of Hilary Swank.It is not often,in my opinion,that Oscars go to the right people.This is indeed a rare case of the award being given to the rightful person.Eastwood shines just as much in front of the camera as well as behind it,and he never goes wrong pairing himself with Morgan Freeman,whose Oscar was also well deserved(he was long overdue).The ending is a controversial one,as you will see,or probably have heard about in advance.Whether or not you agree with it,you will come away knowing that you have just watched an overwhelmingly powerful,dramatic film,proof that Clint Eastwood has indeed matured as a director.Like fine wine,he gets better with age.


                
There's something that characterizes Clint Eastwood's films: he usually makes a nice movie out of a simple story. Anyone else would have converted Million Dollar Baby into such a TV Movie or something, kind of a "Karate Kid" mixed up with a moral conflict. Nevertheless Eastwood has a steady hand, he's tough when he thinks he has to, and he's spectacular when he thinks the story can afford it. Once again he plays the lead role: the cynical-skeptical-heartless old man unable to feel anything for anyone <U+0085> till he finally does. Someone will say Clint Eastwood can only play one character; OK, maybe that's true: but he is the best playing it. Hillary Swank makes a great job, bringing to life that white-trash-boxer-aspiring (the first time she participates in such a nice project since "Boys Don't Cry").A good movie as was to be expected if Clint Eastwood is behind and in front of the camera. And, why not, he resolves it courageously (there are some subjects that they don't want to talk about there in the United And Puritan States Of North America).My rate: 7.5/10


                
Well it is nearly always one or the other isn't it. Mostly I don't care for Clint Eastwood, though he can be terrific - "Play Misty for Me" being one example that comes to mind, but here he gives a performance that is completely believable, low-key and complex.Here he plays Frankie Dunn, an older boxing coach and manager of a tacky male-only boxing gym. He goes to daily Mass and argues with the parish priest about matters of faith, he learns Gaelic and he keeps an old boxer, his helper (who is the narrator of the movie)living in a small room off the gym floor. Frankie is buttoned down, does not show his emotion but we are given hints that life has been hard on him, relationships have been destroyed and broken.Maggie Fitzgerald (played by Hilary Swank)comes on the scene. She's a thirty-something hillbilly woman from southwest Missouri with a big dream which is nearly impossible to attain, she is too old, too broke and a woman to boot. But she inveigles her way into the gym and practically lives there, training incessantly.I will not spoil the outcome, it works its way into your heart without being melodramatic or over the top Hollywood.Hilary's performance is just as good as it was in "boys Don't Cry", she seems to immerse herself in these one of a kind roles and you are literally stunned at what she can do with them. I cannot imagine anyone else playing Maggie.Morgan Freeman does a wonderful turn as Dunn's right-hand man, but it is Clint't direction and performance that puts the stamp of overall excellence on this movie. 8 out of 10.


                
I went to see Million Dollar Baby tonight, and it was incredible. Clint Eastwood plays Frankie Dunn, a Boxing Trainer and Manager who is nearing the end of his career. Frank is plagued with an inability to take risks, which is the Motus Operandi of boxing itself, leaving him with no real accomplishments to take credit for. He is given one last chance at doing something great with his life when he is faced with Maggie Fitzgerald (Hilary Swank), an aging female wanna be boxer with little trade skill, but a whole lot of heart and natural talent.I am not a huge fan of Clint Eastwood's earlier films (as a director), I think they are a little too clichéd and Dirty Harry-Esq. But somewhere along the line he managed to take a deep breathe and develop his own style of direction that is absolute art. I used to be only a fan of a movie that had some sort of cleverness about it, now every movie you see tries to be clever in someway. But maybe the cleverness of Million Dollar Baby, is that it doesn't try to be clever.The artistic direction in Million Dollar Baby is amazing. Clint has grown an ability to transmute the world as we know it into a modern Norman Rockwell painting. Everything piece of set dec in the movie, no matter how torn up or battered it may be... seems to be beautiful. It is like this gossamer shroud of old fashion imagery, draped over the entire set. Clint has Morgan Freeman narrating the movie, and he does just as amazing as in The Shawshank Redemption. Every protaganistic characters seem to have so much honor, and command respect from the viewer, especially when they are held in contrast to the bad guys in the film. It really REALLY makes you root for the main character, and has that much more impact when disaster strikes. Trust me ... you start cheering for Maggie as she beats the crap out of people :D The character development is absolutely amazing in this movie, and possibly it's strongest feature. Clint develops the characters and their relationships so well, that you can feed solely off their body language. There are moments of silence in the movie, and although nothing is being said, you feel as if the characters are still speaking.I absolutely loved this movie, all performances and characters are awesome. It was very well written and extremely well directed. Go see it. You have 2 days.Million Dollar Baby - 8.5/10


                
I was in no hurry to see MILLION DOLLAR BABY. I am not a fan of boxing films, and I still think the title is less than stellar. And after seeing it, I haven't changed my opinion that ETERNAL SUNSHINE OF THE SPOTLESS MIND is the best film I've seen so far in the 21st century.But number two of the century for me is now MILLION DOLLAR BABY.It's not the story itself that makes this such a great film. The story with it's surface emphasis on underdogs and redemption is actually fairly routine. It is the way Clint Eastwood tells this story, the way he gets such understated yet magnificent performances from his cast, the brilliant use of lighting, of story pacing through editing, his unobtrusive but highly effective music...This film is a textbook example of the best of film storytelling that should be studied by film students in this generation and the next. And the next, and the next...This is not a film about boxing. This is a film about human beings, their hopes, fears, flaws, and potential for transcendent greatness, sometimes through staggering self-sacrifice. It is told with such love and compassion for the human condition that it gives me a little much-needed faith that maybe the human race is still capable of more than the mundane goals it seems to be setting for itself lately.The supporting performances are uniformly excellent. But the three leads reach levels of acting on a par with any great performance you'd care to name in film history. I have not been a Hilary Swank fan. But her work here forces me to acknowledge that she is one of the best in her profession. And just when I thought Morgan Freeman couldn't get any better, here he is with the best performance I have ever seen from him. And considering his past work, that is really saying something.And speaking of best performances, here the legendary Clint Eastwood crowns his career with a titanic performance that redefines him as an actor for the ages. And trust me, the fact that he did it while simultaneously having to spend so much time and loving care on this film as a director makes his work as an actor all the more amazing. Consider this, too: if MDB had been someone else's film, would that director or producer even have thought to cast him in this role? I didn't really expect to be saying these things about this film. But I mean every word of it.


                
Few films stay with me after time has passed but this is one of those that not only stays embedded in my psyche but shows everyone what making films is really about. Story is about Frankie Dunn (Clint Eastwood) who is a boxing trainer and cut man who runs a gym in Los Angeles but he also attends mass and writes letters to his estranged daughter. Living in a room in the back of the gym is Eddie "Scrap Iron" Dupris (Morgan Freeman) who was a fighter for 23 years and lost an eye in a bout that Frankie worked on. After a fight card Frankie is approached by Maggie Fitzgerald (Hilary Swank) who tells him that she wants to be a fighter and also wants him to train her but his response is "I don't train girls".*****SPOILER ALERT***** Maggie is from a white trash family in the Ozarks and has been working as a waitress since she was 13 but she's determined to be a fighter and shows up at the gym religiously and works very hard. Scrap talks to Frankie and convinces him to train her which he does reluctantly and after time passes she starts her professional career by knocking out her opponent. Maggie becomes quite the sensation as she knocks out her opponents and eventually talks start for her to fight the female champion in her division (Lucia Rijker) and a fifty-fifty split for a million dollars. The fight is made but during the bout Maggie is seriously injured and ends up in the hospital paralyzed from the neck down. As she lies in a hospital bed Maggie also loses a leg and tells Frankie that she wants to die and now he must dig deep into himself and his beliefs for what he is about to do.This is Clint Eastwood's 25th effort in directing and it's arguably his best ever which is incredible because last years "Mystic River" was getting the same accolades. Eastwood's directing is such a joy to view simply because every scene in his films has some sort of meaning to them and nothing that we see is for nothing. The banter that takes place between Frankie and Scrap might appear to be idle chit chat but what it's really doing is establishing the comfortable relationship that they obviously have. For me, this film is about pain and the three characters that carry pain around with them but do their best to keep going in life. The performances that take place on screen are three of the best not only this year but in the careers of these actors and Freeman as Scrap shows a man who's been through extremely tough times but came out of it with dignity intact. Eastwood has always been an underrated performer and while some critics think he relies too much on his incredible presence I still remember him giving solid efforts in several films. Here he plays a character so haunted by his past that he would rather keep most people at a distance but his character gradually learns to love and care once again to the point that he must make the ultimate decision. Eastwood is mesmerizing and he's never been better. I have alway's said that Swank gave one of the great performances in cinema history in "Boys Don't Cry" and here she gives another great performance that proves to everyone that she's no fluke. With her tenacity and earthiness Swank gives viewers an utterly believable character from her athletic prowess to the gut wrenching scenes in the hospital bed. It's a performance that will haunt viewers for years to come which is ironic because she did the same thing in 1999 with her Oscar winning role. I'm also a big boxing fan and I can find faults in some of the scenes such as the female champion hitting someone when they are down which in reality would result in an instant disqualification. These little flaws just mean that this film isn't entirely accurate but they don't detract from the emotional power that builds during it's duration. This is a tremendous effort from Eastwood who again shows that his direction can bring out the best in actors but what may surprise everyone (including himself) is that he brought out his own brilliant performance.
Millions of critics have been enraptured by the sheer emotional impact of Clint Eastwood's "Million Dollar Baby". With "Mystic River" and now "Baby", critics that were once "unforgiven" to Clint because of such clunkers as "Blood Work" & "Bronco Billy" are now in awe to the Clintster. Not that Clint cares about that sort of thing so much because in his eyes those pundits should really be called "The Witches of Eastwood". "Million Dollar Baby" stars Hilary Swank as Maggie, an impecunious waitress who dreams of becoming a professional boxer. Maggie is on a relentless pursuit to have a surly old trainer named Frankie train her. Maggie works out in Frankie's boxing gym everyday in hoping to persuade Frankie to be her hit-man. Frankie is played by none other than Eastwood himself. To be "frank" with you, I admired Eastwood's straightforward acting work here, but do not think it deserved a Best Actor Oscar nomination. However, his direction of "Million Dollar Baby" was worth its price. His attention to detail and framework was of the technical knockout variety. Moreover, the movie's startling emotional turn midway in the narrative is one of the most profound plot-twisters that I have seen in film in a very long time. Morgan Freeman plays the assistant gym sidekick to Frankie who he himself plays an imperative role as the overseer & narrator of the story's dramatic chops. Freeman is an acting legendary God in the business; he did play "God" in "Bruce Almighty". However, his work here was poignant but not of the Best Supporting Actor nomination weight-class. The heavyweight of "Million Dollar Baby" is Hilary Swank. She delivers passionately blow-by-blow. Her lauded performance has been recognized by numerous critics and my scorecard also shares that exact sentiment. She is the frontrunner for the Best Actress Academy Award. If Swank wins her second golden boy, Hilary will be living large in the "Hollywood Hills". Paul Haggis' screenplay does possess a heartfelt punch to it, but it felt lightweight at times in the church scenes. "Million Dollar Baby" is somber and it's unlike your typical boxing movie, but those are no reasons why you should throw in the towel for "Million Dollar Baby". Spend a few dollars and check out the "Million Dollar Baby"! **** Good


                
Somebody Up There (at the Academy) Likes Me----8/10.Although the Hollywood hype machine is working overtime for this movie, I cannot anoint 'Million Dollar Baby' as the greatest movie of all time, let alone the best movie of this year, absolutely not. It's not even the greatest boxing movie of all time. If I were to judge 'MDB' against the body of work that Clint Eastwood has done up to this point, this movie would fall down to fifth or sixth on his directorial depth chart. Yes, it is better than 'Firefox', but there's no way this movie could be rated higher than 'Mystic River' or 'Play Misty For Me'. However, I will concede that Clint has surpassed his bloated and overly decorated western 'The Unforgiven'; a movie that I, admittedly, didn't get at all, and to this day, still can't believe how it ever received the award for best picture over 'Reservoir Dogs' (which wasn't even nominated, what a crime) or 'Howard's End' or even 'A Few Good Men'.History may be repeating itself to a certain extent this year at the Academy Awards. Clint could very well be walking away with not only the Best Picture Award, but also the Best Director Award. If you believe the media hype of 'MDB' (and 80% of the comments on 'IMDB'), he's already won the awards. However, the Academy may snub Clint and his bid for the Best Director and Best Picture Award by wanting to acknowledge instead the man responsible for making the best boxing movie of all time; Martin Scorsese. Martin could win it for 'The Aviator'. Talk about 'Fly There and Drive Back'.From what I could see, the underlying problem with 'MDB' is the plausibility of human drama. There are too many situations where I thought to myself, 'Surely that could never have happened the way they did it'. Whereas most people want a strong plausibility for the human drama, most people don't have a problem with the implausibility of comedy. For instance if Harpo Marx pulls a birdcage out from underneath his trench coat, then proceeds to pull out a fish, a cup of coffee and the silver ware for a party of 20, nobody balks at all, it's a perfectly acceptable scenario. But if Clint Eastwood calmly walks into the ICU in the middle of the night with a bag of needles jacked up with adrenalin on his way to euthanize Hillary Swank while at the same exact moment a hospital staff member needs to get a cup of coffee leaving Clint free to do his mercy killing, that starts to feel very implausible. It is possible, I guess, it's just too neat and tidy for the movie, especially a movie that has quickly become an instant classic. There are enough scenes like this one that undermine what is mostly a very enjoyable movie. But can a scene like this really be in a serious drama for best picture? I hope not. There are many fine performances in the film. Clint is good as the trainer/surrogate father figure and boss. Morgan Freeman is excellent as the same guy who narrated 'The Shawshank Redemption' or at least that's what it feels like to me. But it is Hillary Swank who is the true standout performer in the film. Swank plays Maggie Fitzgerald, the undefeated not so young new comer. There are many times in the film where her energy just wills the scene to be good. Her bonding scenes with Clint come across as convincing and turn out to be very moving. If 'MDB' steals any Oscar's, hers would be acceptable.I would be remiss if I didn't also submit my disapproval of the character 'Danger Barch'. Judging by the groans I heard in the movie theater upon his reappearance at the end of the film, I was not alone in my disapproval. I was hoping that when Morgan Freeman put on that boxing glove, that he was doing so to finish him off. If only the implausibility of many scenes could have been tightened up and straightened out before production. If only the producers could have seen a way to erase the part of 'Danger Barch'. If only it could a been a contender<U+0085>actually, it is a contender and perhaps even a winner<U+0085>but if it is a winner, it will be clear to me that Maggie wasn't the only one to take a fall. It's good, it's just not that good.8/10. Clark Richards
I stumbled across this movie on cable TV in its last third and I think it made me cry. Did she have to die. From that time I vowed not to see the entire movie because of the emotion involved. I can still bet you it a good movie.I have had to read the rest of the story from the synopsis and would recommend it it for the world. It reminded me of movies like the color purple, only this one has a loss at the end rather than a reunion. I think Hilary Swank is brilliant. As I write this review I'm now considering to watch the movie in its entirety and I will be ensuring that I watch it alone because Im gonna drop a few tears.
