I don't know why, but I went into the theater thinking I was about to see a female Rocky Balboa kind of deal. I left the theater in a daze. Overwhelmed by the simple truth of its conclusion. My hat to Clint Eastwood. What an extraordinary career. An artist of enormous proportions so well camouflaged behind a shy smile and a charming, clumsy attitude. I remember focusing on Clint Eastwood through a very different lens after sitting through "Pale Rider" a mythological, lyrical western. Actors love him because he, clearly, doesn't lie to them, doesn't kiss their asses. He quite simply gives them room to maneuver. Even someone like Meryl Streep, felt freer and capable to stretch herself all the way to Italy under his wing. Sean Penn, Kevin Bacon, Tim Robbins, Jude Law, Morgan Freeman, Gene Hackman yes mostly men but there was also, other than Meryl Streep, Genevieve Boujold. Marcia Gay Harden, Laura Linney and now Hillary Swank with a performance that not even "Boys don't Cry" could predict. The film is a triumph in every department. My stomach ached from feeling. That's a compliment Mr. Eastwood. Thank you very much.


                
I just got home from watching this movie, and it has left me thinking.I personally think the movie was wonderful. I've read reviews where people say that the euthanasia was unnecessary, etc. However, I feel that the euthanasia was extremely important to the film. Once Maggie could no longer fight, she had nothing else to live for. Her family was trash. She was happy, and wanted to die happy. I think it had a happy ending.I'm tired of movies that have perfect endings and the ending is exactly what you expect when you walk into the theater. This movie proves that happy endings can come in a variety of ways, just depending on how you look at it.
Or at least it seems like genuine emotions in this masterpiece of a film which incidentally is Eastwood's best drama so far and considering how good Mystic River is that's saying something. The storytelling is both fluent and well paced and all actors involved deliver some of their best work so far which is mainly because Eastwood is so good at bringing out the best in his actors. I think people who have watched this film and Mystic River will agree. Eastwood is a no-nonsense story teller and cuts right through to the bone which means that there aren't many subplots and this is a really good thing in this film because the main story doesn't need a large number of subplots to steal away attention. Also at a running length of 2 hours the film would undoubtedly have been too long if Eastwood had added any more subplots.The acting is as mentioned earlier very, very good. Clint chose to appear in this film himself as he does in many of the films he directs but there is something different about him this time around. Eastwood isn't known as a director who pours his soul out on the screen but in this film he seems to add a few emotions to his range of acting. He is still a tough guy as can be heard from his voice but he is also just a vulnerable old man with an estranged daughter. Its hard to write about his performance without spoiling the film so I'll just say this: This is his most well rounded character to date in spite of the fact that it seems a little far fetched that Eastwood would want to learn Gaelic. Hilary Swank won an Oscar for her performance in this film and in my opinion it was well earned. She plays her character in a way so the character becomes almost instantly likable and you cannot help but root for her. This ability to draw the audience in and make them feel is very rare but Swank seems to have mastered it. Overall her performance is impressive. The last notable actor is of course Morgan Freeman who finally won his Oscar. He brings his usual authority and authenticity to the character and while he is "only" a supporting character in this film he definitely puts his signature on it with some very moving scenes. The rest of the cast is decent but as the emphasis is on the three mentioned above there is no reason to talk about them further.The script is rather simple but its simplicity is a quality mark. The film takes you in one direction only to take a twist and turn into something completely different and as the audience had just gotten used to the direction the film was going the twist seems like a genuine shock. I'm not telling what the twist is you're just going to have to watch the film and find out for yourself. The dialog is both witty and intelligent and above all it seems real. Believable. And because of the first class acting it feels even better. When I say that the dialog seems real in fact I mean the entire film seems real. Genuine. Everything from the acting to the atmosphere is highly believable and real even though Swank's character's family and the character of Danger lean ever so slightly towards caricature.The film really managed to draw me in and I felt with and for the characters of the film. The characters are the driving factor of the film and luckily the actors who portray them are skilled enough to make them seem real. Eastwood outdid himself in the drama genre with this film which is undoubtedly one of his best. It doesn't seem fair to compare the film to Il buono, il brutto, il cattivo (or The Good, the Bad and the Ugly) as they are very different films in terms of genre and target group.Million Dollar Baby is undoubtedly one of the best films of 2004 and is deserving of the Oscar it received in the Best Film category as well as the other Oscars it was awarded.9/10


                
Million Dollar Baby (MDB) is about, among other things, a female boxer's fight to get to The Fight, and then her desire to go out swinging. In a sports culture that spits out phrases like "second place is the first loser," Maggie realized that no, she didn't lose: she just forgot to protect herself. Far from feeling sorry for herself, she marveled at the ride she had: traveling the world, being featured in magazines, hearing people chant her name (or at least that name that Frankie gave her). Wow. And when she faced her biggest test, and worst opponent, she stood her ground. Like a prisoner of war defying her captors, she regained her self-respect.Normally I'd conclude by saying, "bravo Maggie." Yet I'm hesitant. As noted, isn't it ironic that MDB came out at the same time as "The Sea Inside," which shares a similar conclusion? Which makes me wonder, what would Christopher Reeve think of all this? He could have died as a B-list celebrity and the answer to a trivia question. Instead he faced his situation and kept going, and thereby found a new life even brighter than his first.A beautiful film, Mr. Eastwood. Yes, among other things, it's about boxing.
As a boxing film it is most certainly immersive in the sense that Clint Eastwood brings the audience into the story and uses them as an emotional punching-bag. Before going into this film it must be stressed that the film is not light even for a boxing film. At the end of the film there is no real hope left as we see the consequences of the events preceding. I am not a boxing fan and believe it to be a stupid sport where death lurks in every dark corner and whether Clint Eastwood is a boxing fan or not he deals with my problems with boxing in an intelligent and moving way which express the consequences of what can come from the sport. The direction from Eastwood is quiet and beautiful, something I greatly admire him for that is on perfect showcase here and in other films such as Letters from Iwo Jima and Gran Torino. There is a simplicity to this film which is both moving and harrowing. The acting is brilliant. Hilary Swank's ferocious intensity is perfect and she is the first character we connect to. She's an outsider coming into the realm of boxing just as the audience is an outside coming into the film. The film's narrator and supporting actor Morgan Freeman turns in another wonderful performance which isn't showy but is real and whole and Eastwood leads the ensemble in-front of the camera in one of his finest performances ever captured. His music is also beautiful as it too captures the simplicity of the story. At the end I just feel sorry for Cinderella Man, Ron Howard is probably thinking 'why did I have to release my boxing movie the same year the best one ever made was?'
I watched this awesome movie last night on TV, and I could not stop crying for half an hour: its greatness and emotional power are really something rare and precious. It is simply incredible how the genius of Clint Eatwood was able to go beyond the physical violence of a boxing story and make it an astonishing metaphor of life. The mysterious and simple truth about life and death are so plainly but deeply concentrated in two hours. Respecting and protecting yourself, distinguishing between the moment you have to fight and the one you have to wait, searching for the great shot of a lifetime, always recognizing one's limits, suffering till the utmost to prove one's strength, standing up after being knocked down but accepting defeat as part of life, enjoying success, but realizing that fair play is not always rewarded, and in the end, feeling when the game is over, for good: this both boxing and life teach. Also faith, however fragile and doubtful, plays a significant role, Frankie goes to mass every day to expiate some guilt of his past life, he needs to believe in something beyond man, although not being fully convinced and although there comes a time in everyone's life when you are alone with your conscience and no one but yourself can make the right decision (the priest, too, knows that religious teachings do not always go hand in hand with the troubles of life). As the movie approached the end I seemed not to be able to stand the strong emotional engagement, I felt like changing the channel, but I did not, obviously, since it is a movie you have to feel until the utmost. Clint Eastwood is the prototype of true humanity, there are no sufficient words to express his greatness, and his pairing with the always impeccable Morgan Freeman make the story reach the deepest chords of the human soul. Hilary Swank proves to be a talented and courageous actress, in that she let herself be deprived of her natural beauty and femininity to convey the bare truth of life. It is a must see movie, one of those which make you think, cry, feel and cry again in an extreme way, a milestone in the history of cinema.


                
Clint Eastwood follows up last year's refined Mystic River, with Million Dollar Baby. The movie starts in a tired and kind of worn out boxing gym in a not too exclusive part of LA. Clint Eastwood's Frankie is the owner, a old and stubborn trainer for some boxers. His sidekick is Morgan Freeman's Eddie, he's the man that runs the gym, an old boxer himself that clean the floors, do some plumbing, give the boxers some words of wisdom when they are in need of it and so on. Into this gym trip's Hilary Swank's Maggie, energetic and determined to go as far as a title shot. What she also wants is Frankie to manage for her so she can get the proper training, but Frankie is made of the old school and that don't involves training girlies. But with her rock hard determination and maybe with some help from Eddie they can wear old Frankie down.This movie was a satisfaction to watch from the beginning, the three lead actors are all at their peak. They have some really strong roles to work with here. Frankie has characteristics with roles we have seen Eastwood done before, he works every angle of it and it results in a well deserved Oscar nomination. Swank is also very good, thrust worthy in the hard-hitting boxing sequences and wonderful as the happy human being she is. Freeman's quiet but always observing retired boxer is another enjoyment to see, a supporting role and Freeman serves it with big chunks that go a long way.With his 25th film as a director Clint Eastwood knows how to tell a story, he does it both sensitive and powerful. A moving film to carry with you. Million Dollar Baby has Oscar nominations in all the heavy categories, I hope it takes two or three statues with it home, it deserves it.


                
This is easily one of the most unforgettable, heart-wrenching, bittersweet films I've ever seen. Eastwood not only directs a masterpiece, but directs himself - a feat which I'm told is rather difficult. Morgan Freeman's narration is hauntingly loving, even though the story he has to tell is quite dark, but the darkness is in the reality of the story, and not in the hearts of those involved. There are few obvious effects, car chases, bullets fired, or bodies burned, but this is quite beautiful in its story, grace, and execution.This is one movie which earned the kudos (and multiple awards) it earned. There are many award-winners which made me stop and say, "Huh?" But this is definitely NOT one of them.Further, this is a movie for everyone. This is not a chick flick, but neither is it a guy flick. Literally all walks can love this work. It is simply amazing, and was a total surprise for this reviewer.It rates a 9.3/10 from...the Fiend :.


                
MDB is a movie I adored when I saw it when it was released - even though my expectations weren't too high despite the raving press reviews, as I'm not interested in boxing. Seeing it again recently on DVD I loved it as much.So I've sifted through the (quite numerous) "hated it" IMDb reviews to try to understand why so many people didn't share my sense of wonderment at what I think is another Eastwood masterpiece. Apparently bad reviews fall in 3 categories: - people who were expecting a boxing movie (Rocky VI) and were disappointed. I can respect that but hey, what can I say? Wrong expectations. - people who disapprove of euthanasia, or who don't like sad movies altogether. Thats' OK, "tous les goûts sont dans la nature" (there's no accounting for taste?) - lastly, quite a lot of people -obviously cinephiles, some of them even Eastwood-fans (as a director) thought the movie was clichéd (simplistic plot, bad dialogue, stereotype characters, etc). Well, I can respect that - probably the movie IS clichéd and simplistic. Clint Eastwood the director has sometimes been compared to John Ford, because his art as a director goes right to the heart of the matter (the heart of human nature?) despite/through a deceptive simplicity. Maybe being foreign (ie French) had something to do with the fact I didn't find the dialogs corny, as some people apparently did, or wasn't annoyed by the "Southern White Trash" portrayal.Anyway... I just thought (still think) MDB is an absolutely wonderful movie, moving beyond description. It's compassionate but not melodramatic, it's beautifully directed and acted. It's a story of people who try to reach for the end of the rainbow, and ultimately fail - a parable of human condition, depending on your metaphysical outlook. Personnaly I can't think of something more moving or beautiful to spend 2-some hours with.
it was a breathtaking movie i have ever seen!the acting was flawless and i couldn't help my tears falling down at the end.i strongly recommend all of you to watch this masterpiece.i really really love and admire Clint Eastwood and his talent is for sure to be respected.Hilary Swank's performance was magnificent and in the film if i were in her position i would take the same decision as her.Morgan Freeman was also wonderful as co-actor.When seeing the trailers,i thought that it was a boring film because it was about boxing however when i watched the film my reaction was that'Oh my Godness!Why didn't i watch this film before?'


                
In a word this film is brilliant. The excellent script , the masterful direction and the strong performances catapult it into the higher echelon of Oscar winning films. The story centres around Frankie Dunn (played by Clint Eastwood , who was deservedly placed on the shortlist for Best Actor) a boxing trainer who has just lost his latest prospect to a rival promoter. Just before he is about to throw in the towel (or so to speak), he encounters Maggie Fitzgerald (an ambitious female boxer who asks Frankie to help train her). At first Frankie is not so sure ,he doesn't want to venture into the world of female boxing at his age. However Maggies drive forces him to take take notice . Soon afterwards he takes her under his wing and trains her for the big time.After a rocky start they become good friends , she even takes him to Missouri to show her mother the new house she had bought for her from the money she won in various fights and tournaments. However her ungrateful mother throws it back in her face leaving Maggie to seek comfort in Frankie. As time goes on she takes part in more and more fights and even adopts the Gaelic term Mo Chuisle (which consequently means My Darling). Very soon she becomes famous among the Irish supporters who fly the green , white and gold at every match.The films strong point is in the fact that the film is not primarily based on the popular sport of boxing. Many themes run parallel to this central event .It is because of these themes that the film is so good). As I said before the acting is top-notch . Hilary Swank won an Oscar for her excellent performance (her second prize for such a short career).Morgan Freeman also won an Oscar for his supporting role?narrator of the film . Although this is not his best performance it is a worthy accolade for a man who has previously been denied the big prize. If Jamie Foxx had not been in the running , Clint Eastwood would have a good shot at winning Best Actor but his awards for best director and best film more than make up for this. The film was also denied the best adapted screenplay award(which went to Sideways, which I have not seen so I cannot comment on whether it deserved it or not although director Alexander Payne has made such films as Election and About Schmidt).Although this is one of my favourite films it will not suit all tastes. People who dislike boxing because of its violent nature should steer well clear as the boxing in this film is of a graphic nature(which earned it its 16 rating in Ireland).Overall this is an excellent film so catch it if you can.
Million Dollar Baby is a great, moving story. This is a movie that sort of deserved the Best Picture award. Nearly all the actors did a fantastic job especially Clint Eastwood.Clint Eastwood stars as a grumpy boxing trainer. He trained some of the best over his long career. Then he meets a poor girl with ambition of winning boxing fights. But, Frankie is reluctant to train the girl, Maggie. He eventually gives in and things happen that are destined to change lives.As I said before, the acting is superb. Clint Eastwood, Morgan Freeman, and Hilary Swank all gave great performances.The story is a moving one. You do not have to be into sports to see and understand the intense drama. You should expect to have a few tears during this film.Overall, Clint Eastwood did a great job. He had a wonderful career acting and directing films. I rate this film 9/10.


                
Clint Eastwood is really making his mark as a director. In fact, I'd say that he's an even better director than he is (and was) an actor. He took a seemingly slow, passive, uneventful tale of a woman boxer and made it into something deeply moving and mesmerizing. I was easily wrapped into the main characters as they were intriguing and the actors did such a great job. There are rarely fairytale endings in real life, and the writers should be credited for being courageous enough to explore and present a dark ending. We were swept from the joyous emergence of a promising young female boxer who was beating every opponent, to her sudden and tragic fall into the fight of her life on her death bed and the battle with the decision of euthanasia. This movie was so excellent because it could have just as easily been poorly done. With the wrong actors, or wrong director, or wrong writers, this could have been a long sappy drawn out tragedy. I extend my compliments to a movie that made a person that dreads dramas and romance actually stay locked in.
I really consider Clint Eastwood as one of the most charismatic persons of the film industry. While starting up with macho roles in movies like "Dirty Hurry" and "The Good, The Bad, and The Ugly", he completely changed course later on and started doing very sophisticated, and even art, films, such as "Mystic River" and "Bird"."Million Dollar Baby" is a prime example of Clistwood's genius. The story is about Maggie (Swank), a female boxer, who has nothing else in her life than her boxing talent. Frankie Dunn (Eastwood) is a tired, old coach, whom she approaches and he grudgingly decides to take her after Eddie "Scrup-Iron" (Freeman), his assistant and pal, persuades him to. The girl proves to be a very promising athlete, and she climbs the ladder of success very swiftly. Frankie starts to feel very close with her, as she reminds him of his long-gone daughter. Things however get very nasty when Maggie suffers from a serious accident, and everything now gets turned upside down...All the Oscars in this film (nominations and winnings), are well deserved: Eastwood provides us with an A-class direction, as he portrays us a dark world of losers where boxing is their only way for them to feel they have a purpose in life. The leading trio (Eastwood, Swank, Freeman) are so superb in their roles, that it is almost impossible for me to distinguish among them. All in all, the film describes a sad story, very well told, which cannot leave you untouched. 9/10.
Unfortunately, it seems as if two-time Academy Award winner Hilary Swank is one of the least famous actresses who managed to win the prestigious Oscar trophy twice during the course of the years. I say so in great sorrow, as I believe Swank is part of an elite list of modern-day actresses who truly lives up to the definition of acting. And boy can she act! Swank has that special ability to absorb herself into the role she's playing. If she's the androgynous victim in Boys Don't Cry, the nerdy cashier in the overlooked 11:14 or the powerful underdog boxer in this case <U+0096> she'll always become the character and deliver a powerhouse, emotional draining, performance.Anyway<U+0085> Million Dollar Baby, Clint Eastwood's little boxer film that could, became a surprise Academy Award best picture winner back in 2005, beating Scorsese's wonderful The Aviator. The plot itself, much like the film and its lead actress, tells the story of Maggie Fitzgerald, a female boxer (Swank) who rises from her trailer-park life and become a professional fighter against the odds, with the help of her devoted manager, Frankie Dunn (Eastwood) a washed-up trainer who has seen much better days. However, this isn't your average boxing film. Unlike Rocky, Cinderella Man and others of the genre, its final twist is truly unpredictable, and will most likely leave you pondering for days after watching the film. Either way, I found it different in the right kind of fashion. It's a film that doesn't give in to the rules of the genre, and stays loyal to the story and the characters instead. Since it did that and still managed to gross over 100 million dollars in the North American box office alone, I would call it a remarkable achievement for the human spirit.


                
He couldn't forgive himself as an ex-boxer for knocking someone out and either maiming or killing them. In the film when the priest says that for anyone to go to Mass every day for that many years he must be unable to forgive himself for something in his past. This also may explain why he holds his boxers back, i.e.,from a title match...not because he doesn't believe they can win, but more because he wants to be sure they are ready and won't get seriously hurt...he has seen a lot in his day and in his career and it has left him jaded and wounded emotionally. On the whole, I thought it was a wonderful movie; dark, like Mystic River, but very powerful. Hilary Swank's performance was great...I don't know how anyone can beat her for the Oscar. And the same goes for Clint Eastwood--I know Martin Scorcese is due for an Oscar and should get it for "Aviator", but my vote would go to Clint.
It took me awhile to get into "Million Dollar Baby." Like all of Eastwood's latter day helmed films, it's snail-paced, darkly lit to the point of annoyance, and at times deafeningly quiet. I thought I had paid to see an underdog triumphs story, a rote boxing pic about an old dog of a trainer (Eastwood) reluctantly teaching a down-and-out youngster (Hillary Swank-amazing here and finally delivering on the promise of her breakthrough performance in "Boys Don't Cry"). The intimate details of boxing and using the sport as life metaphor are done well here, but nothing special.Then, about three quarters of the way through the film, it takes a turn I was not aware it would take, and I was blindsided, and then treated to a bearing of Eastwood's soul as an actor and a director, as a man and an artist...an honest and unflinching tribute to the life and philosophies of the noble outsider, the person living by their own set of morals and values, the person who does what is right even when it flies in the face of standard practices and laws. In the shadows of the tragedy that the last quarter of the film depicts, we get treated to Eastwood, Morgan Freeman, and Swank bearing all, and giving heartbreaking and devastating performances that haunted me long afterwords. Say what you will about Eastwood as a director (he's usually overrated) and as an actor (he usually plays himself), but he gives us a blazing look here into his perspective of the world, and it is both tragic and beautiful to watch in "Million Dollar Baby."


                
Honestly, there was little doubt that this film would be good. With the actors, the director<U+0085> the talent, it was a sure hit. And yet, it still somehow exceeds expectations. First and foremost, Million Dollar Baby is not a boxing film. Yes, boxing is in it. There are boxing matches. Many of the characters are connected because of boxing. But through this the film reaches for so much more than simply telling the story of a boxer and her trainer. Instead, the film ultimately tackles issues of faith, love, life, fate, will, strength and ultimately asks one of the greatest questions of all: what does it mean to live? That's not to say there aren't any cliché's in the film. As hopeful Maggie Fitzgerald goes against all odds to reach her dream of fighting for the world championship there is a hint of familiarity in her efforts that comes in the form of Rocky or real life boxer Jake La Motta (spotlighted in Raging Bull.) Yet, for every cliché there is an original element wholly unique to this story.Moreover, the characters become real. Eastwood's Frankie Dunn begins as a grumpy, old man who wishes not to train Maggie because she is both a girl and too old. Hmm<U+0085> where has this been seen before? But then, it does not end there, and the journey Frankie as well as the rest of the characters face does not lead to familiar territory but rather to a myriad of difficult questions, leaving the viewer with no easy answers. This film does not end with everything tied up in a neat little bow.What Million Dollar Baby does do, though, is leave an impact. Seldom becoming manipulative and always holding a quiet grace, much like in both of Eastwood's previous films Unforgiven and Mystic River, it takes ideas used before and breathes new life into them. The style Eastwood directs with is unmistakable and the emotion he creates unforgettable.Then there is the ending. Recently much controversy has come from some of the choices made by characters at the end of the film, with political commentators condemning the film (Rush Limbaugh is a big example) and some major published reviews even spoiling the end of the film because of its supposed "political ambitions." It's unfortunate, and the hubbub is completely silly. Eastwood has said himself that he meant the film as a story, not a quick answer to a political problem of today. Sometimes the characters an actor will play or the story a director will tell aren't necessarily their point of view. That's why acting is called acting; a character is created. A story is told to transport as well as reflect.Furthermore, much of these complaints likely come from people who haven't even seen the film (it's sadly reminiscent of the butchering Martin Scorsese received for his work The Last Temptation of Christ.) Even more ironic is the fact that the very viewpoints of the attackers of this film are brought up and questioned within the narrative itself. Overall, it's best to see Million Dollar Baby without any knowledge of the ending or even the major plot points, and to instead let the film tell its story. This is art, subtle but never compromising, an example of Eastwood at his best and of cinema at it's finest.


                
The thing that strikes you the most while watching "Million Dollar Baby" is just how confident Clint Eastwood has become as a director. Armed with a good story, he allows the drama to unfold at its own pace, never feeling the need to fancy it up or hurry it along to cater to audience expectations. In fact, in every key area, this masterful film finds Eastwood - as both director and actor - at the top of his form.Eastwood plays Frank Dunn, an aging boxer-turned-trainer who has yet to hit the big time with any of his "clients." The gym he runs in a seedy part of Los Angeles seems more like a watering hole for outcasts and misfits than the launching pad for the next welter-, middle-, or heavyweight champion of the world. Then one day, into his gym, strides Maggie Fitzgerald, a wide-eyed girl from the Ozarks with dreams of making it big in the arena. Even though she has set her sights on Dunn as the man who will teach her, Dunn makes it clear to her that he has absolutely no interest in taking on "a girl" for training purposes. But when he sees her determination and fiery spirit, he agrees - however reluctantly - to show her the ropes. The film is an account of the warm relationship that develops between this old man - who has long ago lost contact with his own estranged daughter, and sees in Maggie, if only subconsciously, a chance to make some kind of amends for his own sins - and this feisty, full-hearted girl from the hills.Even though "Million Dollar Baby" has all the earmarks of a typical underdog sports movie, the film far transcends its genre through the excellence of both its screenplay and the performances by Eastwood, Hilary Swank and Morgan Freeman, who, in the role of a former boxer himself and Dunn's closest friend, provides the voice of practicality and reason that permeates the film. His narration (as it did also in this summer's "War of the Worlds" and "March of the Penguins") lends the film the gravitas and classicism it needs to stand out from the crowd.Basing his screenplay on stories by Rope Burns, Paul Haggis has written dialogue that is astute, dramatic and authentic, far more literate than what we are accustomed to finding in most mainstream American movies. And, in his direction, Eastwood establishes just the right rhythm in the speech patterns to draw the audience into the center of the drama. Of course, Eastwood would never have been able to achieve this level of greatness without evoking strong performances from his assembled cast. As an actor, Eastwood himself has never been better than he is here. Gruff and cantankerous one moment, he is tender and warmhearted the next. Dunn has many deep-seated regrets about the past, but, even though his choices have rendered him virtually alone in the world, he still manages to remain both decent in his treatment of others and optimistic about the future. In her second Oscar-winning performance, Swank provides just the right mixture of naïve sweetness, openhearted frankness and unquenchable determination to bring Margaret to vivid life. And Freeman, as always, delivers a beautifully understated performance as the man of quiet perceptions whom Dunn has leaned on for guidance and advice for nigh unto thirty years. Together, this amazing ensemble molds what might have been a cliché-ridden tale into a work of art.Beautiful in its pacing and exquisite in its details, "Million Dollar Baby" is, without question, Clint Eastwood's finest film to date.


                
The film is only in 50% Hollywood like: the exchanges about "mummy" and "daddy", so straightforward and psychologically simplified, are disadvantage. As if Eastwood didn't have enough trust to the audience - he had to make all the father-figure metaphors, hints and parallels so evident... "American Dream", fabulous for a European like me, in this film becomes a probable option - maybe because the possible interpretations of the "success" that the film gives are not all too one-sided (see "Scrap's" or Danger's" story, for example, although Eastwood is not resolute to explore the theme of a seeming failure as some sort of personal success to the end. At times he even lets us believe that what really matters is the "title" or having one's moment of glory. ) What I loved about the film was its anti-Hollywood features: minimalistic scenery, meaningful play of shadow and light - at times poetic and speaking volumes, when the faces emerge from the darkness, plus quintessential language (except for the "psychoanalytic" utterances, fortunately, not abundant in the film). Very interesting and deep study of the relationship between the master and the apprentice - subtle, complex, moving and, thank God, not melodramatic as the Hollywood filmmakers would typically have it. A good movie, amazing even for a European taste brought up on Kieslowski's or Stuhr's films...


                
A powerful boxing film, it is such a good watch because it goes much deeper than just being about boxing. It is very deeply involving and gripping, and it is likely to even encapsulate viewers not interested in the sport. Swank is excellent but it is the acting from Eastwood that stands out the most, full of realistic emotion in this gritty, authentic tale he has filmed. The film nevertheless is imperfect, outstaying its welcome, having a few medical flaws and some real weaknesses in the plot. It is perfect viewing otherwise however and such a potent experience too<U+0085> insomuch that the flaws of the film do not detract very much. It is just a shame that this film cannot be discussed much further without telling how it ends. It deserves to be talked about.


                
I have seen this movie about 5-6 times. And I am sure i can watch it as much as i can.. because it interesting well told....The best thing of the movie is THE STORY and DIRECTION....screenplay is fine and performances are very good.But the movie is sad i had tears in my eyes in the last 15-20 minutes.... and the direction is sensitive..Anyways the movie is Excellent and a must see.And its the only movie of the decade won Best Picture Oscar that was my choice as well.Original score was good Clint Eastwood is really impressive.... but direction had some flaws but i think million dollar baby is his best movie.So what do you guys think Agree / Disagree.... do vote for the review.


                
I bought this film movie one day on DVD at my old job, since I saw it on sale. When I watched this movie, I have to say I feel in love with it instantlyI'm a boxing fan, and I train with boxers and former boxers at the karate school I go to. Everyone who played in this film did a fantastic job of their parts. For anyone who has either trained in a boxing gym or seen people train in a gym, some of the actors and actresses portrait some of the people that you might see in a boxing gym.Danger, the person who tries to be a boxer, but has heart that's the size of Texas Shawrelle, a boxer, who is good, but is cocky, and has a heart the size of pea. Frankie, the old manager who does things the traditional way. Eddie, the former boxer, who now cleans the gym.While other boxing movies do exist, this is one of best boxing films that I have seen.
Maggie Fitzgerald, a poor thirty-one year old waitress from the very lower classes and with a dysfunctional loser family, decides to make a difference through boxing. She convinces the experienced hardened boxing trainer Frankie Dunn to coach her and be her manager, with the support of his old partner Eddie Scrap-Iron Dupris, who sees her potential as a boxer. Frankie has a problematical relationship with his daughter, and practically adopts Maggie along her career.Overall, this is one of the best films ever. This was the best film of 2004, which won it an Oscar for Best Picture, of course. This film is strong, powerful, dramatic, and is a total knockout! The acting by the leading trio (Clint Eastwood, Hilary Swank, and Morgan Freeman) are all fantastic! There are some scenes that makes your stomachs turn and some scenes that make you laugh.This is a terrific film with everything you want in a good film. It has some dark and sad moments and light and comedic moments. You'll love this film if you actually want to see a good one.


                
If any movie deserved an Oscar for sure then this movie is it. Million Dollar Baby is without any doubt the best American movie of the year. It seems to be a little biographic but it's not. It's a very emotional movie that goes in the exactly right pace to land the "big punch" in the end.Hilary Swank, Clint Eastwood and Morgan Freeman are giving an absolutely wonderful performance, especially Hilary Swank. She looks like the role of Maggie Fitzgerald was made for her, a little like she doesn't even need to act. Clint Esatwood plays very well the tough (well, more then tough since "tough ain't enough) trainer in all situations, although there was something that bothered me about him but I wouldn't be able to name it. Morgan Freeman is actually playing quite a small role even 'though he is in many scenes. I can't say much about his performance because it looks like quite an easy role but I can say at least that he looked absolutely natural.The fighting scenes were all from weak to great but you don't remember the weak ones anyway because they last for few seconds only. They are there only to be passed so who really cares that boxing doesn't really looks this way. I don't think this movie is even about boxing after all, it's absolutely nothing like the famous boxing movies. It's a totally different story and I'm not willing to share any of it with those who didn't see it because one of the things I enjoyed the most was not knowing even a small bit of the story while watching. This way I enjoyed it completely. It's like this movie got pure joy and pure sadness in it (damn, I hope it's not a spoiler). All of course is thanks to a great directing by Clint Eastwood.So for conclusion, I think it's a must see for everyone. There is absolutely no chance that you won't enjoy it.


                
