It's always tough to be the odd man out, it's even harder to be just that on a film by one of your favorite filmmakers. Alfred Hitchcock's Vertigo is often considered one of the all-time greats for the Master of Suspense, and it really pains me to disagree with the vast majority, but that is how these things often go.Vertigo tells the story of a retired San Francisco detective played by Jimmy Stewart who suffers from vertigo. Stewart's character is hired by an old friend to tale the friend's wife who has been exhibiting odd behavior recently, her husband believing she is channeling the spirit of a 19th century woman. The premise is well set up, and the starting paces play out superbly, but when the story starts trying to explain all of the supernatural with a Sherlock Holmes-style deduction, I find the film hard to swallow. The film becomes more far-fetched when it tries to explain realistically all of the supernatural events rather than just letting it be a ghost story. As well, the romance between the characters played by Stewart and Kim Novak, who portrays the woman Stewart is following, just develops too quickly to be believable.As I said, it pains me to talk such as this. The film had been so built up before I finally saw it, that I guess I expected something completely different than what I got, but what I got was something that started out as one thing, and then midway through the film transformed into another that just negated all of the things I loved about the first half of the film. Want my advice, if you love Hitch, try Rear Window or North by Northwest. Way more suspense, way more mystery, and way more fun.I give Vertigo a 4 out of 10!
Vertigo has got to be one of the most absurd and disturbing movies about men and their "modern-day" mental illnesses that I have ever seen. It's true.The mental illness that I'm talking about here is, of course - Men's totally twisted and fanatical obsession about having complete and absolute control over women.You know, I'd say that when it comes to one of Hitchcock's most psychotic "movie-psychos" of all-time - Scottie Ferguson here in Vertigo makes Norman Bates from Psycho look, by comparison, as if he were "normal", yes, NORMAL. I mean, Scottie was one really whacked-out maniac, that's for sure! Personally, I think that director Alfred Hitchcock went way too far out on a shaky limb with this one. And, being way out there, he ended up losing his balance and, literally, getting "vertigo", himself. This film is nothing but a bird's eye view of a supremely grotesque freak show with Scottie (representing the average American psycho, I mean, the average American male) as the main monster of attraction.At a running time of 130 minutes, Vertigo really only begins to pick up steam in the last 30 minutes. The first 100 minutes of it is just endlessly drawn out 'build-up', extremely drab, most of it.


                
In a year when there has been some odd films , films that are not easy to explain ( Shutter Island , Black Swan , Inception etc..) , i thought i was on safe ground watching a good old fashioned Alfred Hitchcock thriller but little did i know this is just as unexplainable as any of those films i have named . Vertigo is sometimes called " Hitchcock's masterpiece" but i don't see it. This is a long ponderous movie that makes very little sense and treats the viewer with contempt. Jimmy Stewart is watchable but his character is not very believable and the relationship with Kim Novak is confusing and annoying. I much prefer Rear Window or Psycho to this movie and to be perfectly honest i couldn't wait for it to finish.


                
Some films are able to twist time to their advantage. Few contemporary critics cared for Vertigo when it debuted (though some will lie otherwise). Today, critics have enshrined it as Hitchcock's finest. A shame.Vertigo's first hour is hypnotic. Jimmy Stewart, a retired cop who suffers from the title ailment, is persuaded by a friend to follow his wife, suicidal Kim Novak, for her own protection. One especially excellent scene involves Stewart examining Novak as she walks through a garden and studies a picture. The mystery seeps through the film's atmosphere, and the scene is quietly beautiful in a way Hitchcock seldom is.Eventually, Novak does kill herself, and so does the film. Stewart soon meets a woman closely resembling Novak and grows obsessed with her. There is a plot twist, but it is so terribly transparent I doubt anyone is surprised. Unfortunately, what little suspense lurks in the second half hinges on this twist, negating Hitchcock's supreme talent. Characters begin acting with little or no believable motivation, and Stewart descends into frenzied rants and raves that are pretty funny to watch. The surprise ending is foolishly revealed before the ending, and when the final scene finally arrives, the melodrama is hilarious. The film nosedives after a promising start and wrecks itself.Critics praise the second half of the film as self-revelation on the part of Hitchcock. Maybe, but most people do not watch films because they care about the director. They watch films because they like films, and Hitchcock's films are more interesting than Hitchcock himself. Naturally, Hitchcock scholars are interested in Hitchcock, and this interest accounts for Vertigo's inflated reputation. The sad truth is Vertigo is a flawed failure.I'm wagering time will straighten itself out. In twenty years, true Hitchcock classics such as North by Northwest will replace Vertigo at the top of critics' list When it does, I'll be the one collecting bets and wearing an obnoxiously smug grin.


                
Do not be fooled, this is by far Hitchcock's best film.I think this has a lot to do with the bare naked screenplay stripped of its social context. Which you may think is unfair. But a film in the modern era does not rely on the life-story of the director or the 'readiness' of current society to appreciate it.Perhaps Hitch was opening himself up in a way previously unseen, perhaps the film was 'off-the-wall' for the audience of the time, ushering in a new era of film-making, but let us look at this thing as a single, self-contained package. It fails dismally.The screenplay and story-line have so many holes and inconsistencies, very rare for Hitchcock, that make this film, regardless of intellectual depth, an inferior film. Regardless of how much you may 'like' or 'get it' in this film, these cinematic faults cannot be denied and rob the film very easily of its title as Hitchcock's greatest, or even as a great film, which it certainly is not.It is not a great film, perhaps a good one, but certainly not great, or even very good. It is mediocre, and we only need to reveal Hitchcock's very own admission that James Stewart's casting was an awful and unforgivable mistake that makes the entire situation unbelievable. Merely the surface of the films atrociousness. This lead actor was ridiculously miscast and that the Director of the film did not do something about it at an opportune time speaks volumes about the sloppiness of this work.Vertigo is a one of the saddest indictments of humanities willingness to collapse its opinions under the pressure of authority. An authority which started with one positive review of the film in the late sixties, a decade after the film was rightfully scathed at the box-office and cascaded to an overwhelming belief that this is one of Hitch's greatest moments. It certainly is not, in fact it is one of his saddest.


                
WARNING: REVIEW CONTAINS MAJOR SPOILERS, ONLY READ IF YOU'VE SEEN THE FILM.
So THIS is the much-lauded classic, a critical hit and a permanent resident of the IMDb top thirty? Was I watching a different film or something?James Stewart is so lightweight as an actor I kept expecting him to float away, which is maybe why he doesn't fall in the beginning... and as for his voice! Don't get me wrong, I've nothing against people with lisps and what have you (Bogart never let it get in his way) but for an adult thriller? I kept expecting him to say "Be vewy vewy qwiet, I'm hunting wabbits, harharharharharharhar!"The only sense of Vertigo I got was a dizzy feeling when I looked at the video timer... still an hour and forty minutes to sit through? But it feels like an age! Don't get me wrong, Alfred Hitchcock is a fantastic director in terms of shots, angles and lighting, but his slightly campy, unsatisfyingly middlebrow suspensers - Psycho excepted - are never fulfilling. Yes, Vertigo is one of the best-directed films of all time, but the performances and plot are no match for the presentation. Hitchcock could shoot dog mess. Even if it was taken from an angle with reverse zoom and colorised lighting it would still be dog mess.Like a meandering travelogue, Elmer, er, Stewart drives around in very nicely mounted but boring all the same street shots. I mean, Hitchcock was having a joke when he made this, surely? Plot elements are brought in, then neglected, while others are allowed to stand still or be completely overlooked. I've read reviews that say the film is complex, which it possibly is in terms of reference. But the plot - Woman pretends to be someone else's wife. Isn't really. Pretends to be killed. Gets found out by likeably light bloke from It's A Sentimental Life - could have been written on the back of a matchbox. As for the "twist" - that Novak staged her own death with a dummy - the dummy used was so unconvincing it would have been more of a surprise if it had turned out to be real.Also odd are a surrealistic dream sequence that gets so near to a cartoon it reminded me of the "Pink Elephants" sequence in Dumbo, and an ending that redefines the meaning of "abrupt". I can picture Hitchcock in Heaven right now, laughing his head off that such a silly film, one that he probably dashed off for a bet, is receiving such a critical reappraisal. Vertigo is in equal terms dull and unconvincing as drama... or is it just me?
From the get go I dislike this movie for such bad labeling. Most people consider this movie as a "suspense classic", whilst, in my point of view, it has no suspense at all. First, because there isn't an interesting mystery to be resolved; due to it's bad and slow plot, I just couldn't care less about who was Madeleine or why that girl was trying to commit suicide. I also didn't care about the retired cop or the crazy husband; they were both annoying. The plot is simply pointless, and so is the outcome. I don't blame Alfred Hitchcock for this movie being so bad, considering that plot itself is much worse than directing. Directing without a good plot can't deliver an entertaining and convincing movie, which is exactly the case. For those who look for real suspenseful movies with quality, consider watching 1960's "Psycho" instead.
Alfred Hitchcock is the master of thrills and mysteries... so knowing that he made this just makes me hate it even more.Every old Hollywood glam cliché is thrown at you. you like elegant women staring off into the horizon? damsels in distress? Kissing on the beach and the waves crash in the background?This movie's got you covered!The plot is straight forward enough, you know what's happening ten minutes in, what the movie banks on however is your investment in the character and watching their decent into obsession.The actors were pretty good (though those eyebrows were distracting... did she use a sharpie to make them?) and the overall movie very scenic but it didn't feel like a Hitchcock movie until the very last scene, that's you're only clue to who could have this twisted sense of justice. otherwise it just felt like a sell-out, this is popular so do this, people like that so add it in... One of my least liked movies by Hitchcock, skip it and watch a good one like rear window.


                
This film is well acted, and the scene come off as real.  Especially James Stewart's anxiety of heights, but and there is a but here, the film shows its age.  Much of the film came across as cheesie or cornballish. Awkward or abrupt would be a better description.  The script becomes a bit stupid in spots, but a ground breaking movie fore its time.  Not one of Alfred Hitchcock's better films. 4/10


                
I'm sure it was great entertainment in the 1950's but unfortunately I watched this for the first time in 2018.


                
What are these unrealistic characters, and why is this man so obsessed with the woman. There's no foundation for being so crazy about her, it just happens out of nowhere, and it's almost as if the story wants to portray how manipulative women are. Or maybe this man just never understood how much she troed to get away from him without being able to succeed due to her fragility.
