Hitchcock was on a roll during that period. Vertigo is one of his most celebrated films, even though it's modeled after Rebecca in that it's 3 films rolled into one: a love story, a metaphysical thriller, and a suspense drama. Nevertheless, the difference between the Hitchcock of 1940 and the Hitchcock of 1958 is vast. The Hitchcock of Vertigo is a much more elaborate director, that dwells on the human psyche to fill the canvas. The human psyche is the protagonist, the suspense is just the background, or even a detail. Vertigo is a major work and an essay on neurosis and repressed desire.The plot: John Ferguson is a retired detective suffering from acrophobia. A rich old friend (Gavin Elster) hires him to investigate the activities of his wife (Madeleine), who he believes is being possessed by the spirit of a dead ancestor (Carlotta Valdes). After seeing Madeleine, Ferguson agrees. Later on, we see that Madeleine half-lives in Carlotta Valdes' house, spends a lot of time in front of a Carlotta painting in a museum, and generally models her behaviour after Carlotta. Also, Madeleine suffers from blackouts, during which she isn't in control of herself. Ferguson forms a relationship with her. He then pressures her to get rid of the past by dwelling on it, visiting places where Carlotta lived etc. During such a visit, and in the same day Carlotta died, Madeleine commits suicide by falling from the bell-tower of a chapel. Ferguson is unable to rescue her due to his acrophobia.Following this, Ferguson is placed in a mental hospital, suffering from catatonic depression. After some time, we find Ferguson released from the mental institution and in better shape. He then meets a woman who looks a lot like Madeleine. Nevertheless, the woman, Judy Barton, seems less perfect and more vulgar than Madeleine. Ferguson forms a relationship with her, and is trying to model her after Madeleine, buying her the same clothes etc. But during one of their encounters, the truth is revealed due to Barton's carelessness. She used the same jewelry as Madeleine. Barton and Madeleine is the same woman. In truth, Madeleine/ Barton was a "doppelganger" to Elster's wife. Elster hired her in order to kill his rich wife, and manipulated Ferguson's illness so that he was a witness to the "suicide". It was the wife, and not Madeleine that fell from the tower.Unaware that Ferguson knows the truth, Barton continues the relationship and the "transformation" to Madeleine. She now is in love with Ferguson, but Ferguson is intent on freeing himself from his acrophobia. As Barton is completely transformed to Madeleine, Ferguson takes her to the same chapel and to the bell tower. Forcing her up, she confesses the truth. She claims she is in love with him. She then sees a shadow emerging, panics and falls into the void. It turns out that the shadow was just a nun. Ferguson stands and watches from above. He is cured....This is not an easy film to analyze. It is very dense and has lots of hidden meaning beneath the surface. The most obvious theme is the one of fixation and impotence. Ferguson suffers from vertigo; Madeleine seems to be possessed by a dead spirit; Ferguson's friend Midge is in love with him but unable to express her love and conquer him; then when Madeleine dies Ferguson becomes obsessed with her.Madeleine represents the ideal love, perfection.In the meantime, there are some other interesting ideas floating in the background. One is that in the second half of the film we witness a reverse situation than that of the first half. In the first half, Elster and Madeleine manipulate Ferguson's impotence. In the second half, it is Ferguson that manipulates the less-than-perfect version of Madeleine (aka Barton), even though she regrets her accomplice and is genuinely in love with him.The ending, as well as the first half, is shrouded in the metaphysical and supernatural. The shadow that Madeleine/ Barton sees could be anything: a ghost, her guilt, Elster, the dark side of her relationship with Ferguson etc. Ferguson models Barton after Madeleine with almost necrophiliac obsession. Just before the second time that Madeleine "dies", she and Ferguson kiss, representing the ephemeral happiness in vain. After she dies, Ferguson is freed from his impotence, but we don't know his feelings, we just see him watching from above. Basically Ferguson is haunted by his search for perfection (an ideal love, a god to believe in?). There is a clear parallel between that and his impotence (the vertigo). When he tries to transform the down-to-earth Barton to the perfect Madeleine, the illusion isn't working. In order to cure himself from the impotence, he kills her (he was the one that dragged her to the chapel).Moreover, what the film seems to project is the vortex of the human psyche. Both in the first and the second half, the conclusion is the same: the woman dies. It's the behaviour of the male protagonist alters dramatically. In the supernatural first half, the protagonist is crippled, while in the down-to-earth second half, he is more free but also less happy.The real moment Ferguson is freed is when he realizes the truth about Madeleine. Madeleine/ Barton is sitting in front of a mirror (representing the dual personality). Then Ferguson sees the jewel and immediately thinks of the portrait of Carlotta Valdes (a symbolism of the original sin? He and Madeleine had an adulterous affair after all). Vertigo projects the male-female relationship into the conflict between the human and the ideal (the supernatural, the belief in the perfect). But there is no way out. Both stories (the first and second half) are two sides of the same coin.
Classic and haunting suspense by the master himself , Hitchcock , dealing with tragic events when an ex-cop keeps an eye on a gorgeous woman . Genuinely great movie focuses a San Francisco ex-detective (James Stewart) suffering from acrophobia , fear the heights , as he is contracted to shadow an old chum(Tom Helmore)'s wife . He investigates the rare activities of an old friend's spouse, all the while becoming dangerously obsessed with her . He finds himself eventually falling in love with her (Kim Novak) , then , tragic drama and fateful events stark . The first part of this extraordinary production results to be slow-moving ; however , the rest takes off at fast speed . Hitch plays on the senses and keeps the suspense and action in feverish pitch . All the elements for a suspenseful evening are in place and things move at an intelligent pace . The story is typical Hitch fare , an issue of fake identity and treason that embroils a man in suicide and murder . Hitch had one of most charming actors of all Hollywood as James Stewart stars a detective who has acrophobia , he also played ¨Man who knew too much¨ and ¨Rear window¨. Furthermore , a marvelous Kim Novak at her best . Good secondary role from Barbara Bed Geddes as eternal girlfriend and Henry Jones as judge . As usual , Hitch's cameo as man walking . Samuel Taylor screen-written from the interesting novel ¨From among the dead¨ by Pierre Boileau . Colorful cinematography in dreamlike style by Robert Burks , Hitch's ordinary . Very good sets and production design by Henry Bumstead and Hal Pereira . Riveting and thrilling musical score by Bernard Herrmann who composed various masterpieces for Hitch as ¨North by Northwest¨, ¨Psycho¨ , ¨Wrong guilty¨ and ¨The trouble with Harry¨Vertigo is one of Hitch's most stylish and discussed films and will keep you riveted and excited until the edge-of-your-seat . Indispensable seeing this quintessential Hitch movie , demanding numerous viewings .


                
Vertigo is considered one of the greatest films ever made and celebrated as Hitchcock's masterpiece. Perhaps it is. But I found myself bored as I watched it even though I had to admire the artistic intent. There are so many holes in the film it could qualify as cheesy. However, try telling that to those who love it. I think they love it as much for its flaws as for its perfections.Perfections: the feel of the San Francisco Bay area, the sense of historical California, the great beauty of the ocean framed by Monterey cypresses, the redwoods, the Golden Gate Bridge as seen from below and off to the side, the Bautista Mission, the fifties interior decor, Madeleine's costumes, the angle of Scottie's fedora, the acting by the three stars, James Stewart, Kim Novak, and Barbara Bel Geddes. The musical score by Bernard Herrmann is also celebrated, but I found it a bit overbearing at times, and of course Hitchcock loved using music to direct our sensitivities, and one can tire of that.Flaws: Scottie hanging from the drainpipe railing, watching the cop trying to save him fly over to land several stories down, dead. What is not explained is how the cop was expected to pull him up with nothing to hold onto or how Scottie managed to survive. Apparently he fell but only broke his back because in the next scene he is in surgical corset unable to scratch certain itches.The ersatz psychology. It was the fifties and psychoanalytic psychology was all the rage. One of the bestsellers of the day was The Fifty-Minute Hour: A Collection of True Psychoanalytic Tales by Robert Lindner in which a shrink relates tales told by his patients. Hitchcock loved this sort of thing (cf., Spellbound (1945) with Gregory Peck and Ingrid Bergman). Audiences also loved it. But the psychology is strictly bananas.Driving on the wrong side of the road (about which Hitchcock is reported to have said when it was pointed out to him, "You drive your way. I'll drive mine.") The plot. Oh, the plot. Never but never has there been a more elaborate and unlikely murder-your-rich-wife scheme. Judy Barton is hired, persuaded or, gee, maybe hypnotized into playing Gavin Elster's wife who is to commit suicide by jumping off the bell tower at the mission. First Gavin (Tom Helmore) has to establish that she's crazy and suicidal. This is done by having her drive dreamily around the Frisco Bay area looking for the haunts of her great grandmother who committed suicide. The key is to get Scottie to believe it so he can testify that she was suicidal. For this to work, (1) Madeleine has to fool a police detective--one might say mesmerize him, which she does, (2) Get him to the bell tower at the right time where he is afraid to go to the top--that works, but you have to buy the psychology, (3) Time it so that Madeleine appears to jump off, but in reality you throw the dead body of your wife off after having broken her neck (body kept warm perhaps in your car with the heater on?), (4) Hide with Madeleine at the top of the tower until the coast is clear (whenever that might be).Although Kim Novak's performance is interesting it is unlikely that she could fool ex-detective Scottie into believing she was somebody else. When she reappears as Judy Barton in the brown hair and the different makeup, it really makes the audience do a double take before realizing that she and Madeleine are the same. But Scottie's take seems to be that she (and some other women at first glance) look like Madeleine--after all, he just got out of the nut house. It is only when he sees the necklace that he comes to his senses.Another thing aficionados love about this movie is the way Hitchcock was able to subtly strip his stars of their glamour and make them look more or less human. James Stewart never played a part anything like this before. All the funny faces he has to make, perplexed while driving, terrified on the way up the bell tower, insane and terrified in the dream sequence, etc. It is said that Hitchcock blamed the lack of popular success of this movie (when it was belatedly released, not now) on Stewart looking too old, and therefore Hitchcock never worked with him again. But I think Stewart, after seeing the way he looked in this movie--so unheroic, so lost as a real human being--decided he was never going to let Hitchcock do THAT to him again, and that's probably why they never worked together again.Kim Novak's curvy body and flopping you-know-whats are revealed in outfits that Grace Kelly would never wear. And poor Barbara Bel Geddes with those most unattractive glasses! How she pines for Scottie. One of the best scenes occurs when she shows Scottie her self portrait as the mysterious Carlotta with the glasses on (!) followed by her "Stupid, stupid, stupid!" self-flagellation after Scottie, who was offended at the grotesque sight, walks out.But why is Scottie always hanging out at her place? And how they talk the plot in the beginning so that we might know that they were once a couple! But Hitchcock never worried about anything but the effect his movie might have on the audience. Improbabilities, clumsy plot devices, etc., were secondary. And you know what, he was right, as P.T. Barnum was right. Hitchcock never overestimated the sophistication of his audience.Somebody said that the real entertainment in watching this movie is in watching it again after you know the story. I think they're right. It's definitely a film buff's movie.(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon!)
There are some films that you somehow don´t like and that you watch every time they are on TV. For me Vertigo is a prime example. It is easy to see what is fascinating: the music by Herrmann the face of Jim Stewart the great sub plot with the down-to-earth friend Mitch played brilliantly by Barbara Bel-Geddes. (When I first saw it as an adult at the beginning of the eighties dozens of people started whispering "Miss Ellie" when she had her first scene.) Why did she end the engagement when she obviously still loves him? The thought of recreating your lost loved one. But at the same time the film is overlong (which is an euphemism for boring). You seem to see Stewart behind a wheel all the time. The plot seems to be too constructed. There is no hint of why in the world Judy should go through everything. Why not confess to John? So she started to love him only later? Why in the world should someone push a puppet down the staple? (Well, that was the troubling thought I had when I first saw the film as a kid. There should be a law against kids watching great movies. They have fun enough being kids and it spoils  the films for them when they watch them later.) Anyway I will watch it again and find out what makes this one ultimately a masterpiece or what it is that makes one think it might be one.


                
Vertigo is a special kind of film. This is because it doesn't follow the usual way a film is presented to the viewer. Rather than having the main suspense near the end of the film, Vertigo has this high level of suspense at both the end and middle of the film. Few could have pulled this off quite as well as Hitch.I really liked this film in the stylish way it was presented. Time is not overly spent getting into the characters here, they are simply presented for who they are leaving the judgement up to the viewer. The "Vertigo" special effect and the nightmare sequence were done like nothing I have ever seen for a film of this time and are enchanting and timeless. The plot and storyline of this film are both original and not cliched. The audience is taken by surprise during the middle of the film and from there on the film becomes even more suspenseful.Jimmy Stewart put another of his great performances into this film and played well opposite Kim Novak's dark and confused character. Stewart shows the full range of emotions as he is taken by the alluring Madeline (Novak) and is driven to a deep depression. Novak had been criticized for playing her role too darkly which is a claim I find completely unfounded. For a woman who is going through so much stress (or at least we are to believe that), she plays as well as this role could have been done. The interesting thing about the performances in this film is how much time Stewart and Novak are on the screen. For 95% of the film, there is not another character to add anything else to the plot. Other than Barbara Bel Geddes, who gives a short, supporting performance, the film revolves around the realtionship between Ferguson (Stewart) and Madeline.I must say that I enjoyed this film just as much as Rear Window and would even put this one above North by Northwest. Hitchcock does suspense so well and is quite obvious to see why he is imitated so much. A recommendation to all.8/10 stars.


                
"Vertigo" is considered Hitchcock's masterpiece by high-brows and viewed as a slow, dull movie by proletarians. Indulge this Olympian generalizations for a moment. If you don't know the story by now, it goes something like this. Jimmy Stewart is a San Francisco detective retired from the force because he contracted a severe case of acrophobia on the job. An old college friend, Gavin Elster, hires him to follow Elster's wife, Madeleine (Kim Novak) around. Elster is afraid Madeleine is going nuts. Stewart takes the job and is soon hooked on the lovely Madeleine. He rescues her from a suicide attempt, lugs her unconscious body to his own apartment, undresses her, and puts her in his bed until she recovers. Stewart and Madeleine fall in love, but she's still balmy and climbs to the tower of an old church to kill herself. Stewart can't follow because of his acrophobia. He blames himself. Later, while wandering the city streets, he spots a girl named Judy Barton (also Kim Novak) who resembles the departed Madeleine. Stewart gets to know her, squires her around, and step-by-step has her dress and groom herself exactly like his lost love. Then he discovers that Judy IS in fact his lost love. Judy was in cahoots with Gavin Elster and Stewart was a victim of a hoax designed to get rid of Elster's real wife. It ends tragically.It's neither a masterpiece nor dull, really. I don't doubt for a minute that it's Hitchcock's most personal movie. Cripes, he's got this luscious blond he keeps dressing and undressing, gorgeous and sexy, but also unattainable and ghostly. (A ghost of substantial heft, though.) That was always Hitchcock's fantasy, the icy Nordic who would attack you in the back seat of a taxi. (Poor Alma Reville, his wife, a rather homely brunette dwarf.) On top of the personal interest that Hitchcock lavished on the story, he adds some technical dazzle. Not too much. The acrophobic detective stares down the tall campanile and the camera simultaneously zooms in and dollies back. The tactic was so successful it's been imitated a number of times. And when Stewart and Novak finally kiss and make love in her green-lighted apartment, the director has them and the camera on a turntable that slowly revolves and shows us varied haunting backdrops. And the movie wouldn't be what it is without Bernard Hermann's romantic and oneiristic score.The whole film is meant to be dream-like and that's why it's understandable that some people would see it as irritatingly slow. It follows Edgar Allan Poe's theory of literary aesthetics. Poe threw reason off the bell tower and went for eerie effects, period. A man buries a murder victim under the floor but nails a cat in with the body by mistake. How can anyone miss a cat that's in the burial chamber? I can imagine viewers now, squirming, and asking, "Where the hell is the logic in this movie?" Let's put it this way. You are a girl named Judy Barton. You're pretty but have no marketable skills. A very wealthy man comes to you and offers you money to help him kill his wife. All you have to do is impersonate the wife and trap a former detective named Jimmy Stewart into falling in love with you and then lead him to a place where the wife can be safely killed and still look like suicide.Then, after the rich dude takes off for Europe, leaving you to become your slovenly self, you accidentally run into the victimized Stewart on the streets. (In a city of 700,000.) He doesn't recognize you, naturally, because now, having reverted to your original persona, you look like an overly made-up hooker. But he follows you home, knocks on your door, introduces himself, and asks you for a date. I ask you -- the discerning, sophisticated, somewhat street-savvy viewer -- would you accept? Would you date a man who will almost inevitably find out you're a murderess? One slip of the tongue could do it. The only person stupid enough to accept would also bury a black cat alongside a dead body.Kim Novak is a lot more effective as Madeleine than as Judy. The latter persona is coarse but tender too. The former is elegant and speaks in a ghostly whisper. Kim Novak was probably right for the part. As Judy, she has these overemphatic eyebrows that lend her the appearance of a Universal monster, perhaps one of the lesbian vampires that smiles as she pours you the drugged wine. But of Hitchcock's other actresses at the time, who else could have done better? The photography is splendid. And the director takes us on a Cook's Tour of many of the Bay Area landmarks -- Ernie's restaurant (now gone), Muir Woods almost, The Palace of the Legion of Honor, Fort Point, Mission San Juan Bautista (which has no tower), Point Lobos. And every day is perfectly sunny. Stewart re-dresses Novak at an expensive shop that was Ransohoff's at the time. It, too, is now gone but I took my wife to its less expensive replacement and insisted she buy a signature gray suit with a soft white shirt and a pair of brown heels. She swore she would do no such thing. After a slight scuffle, not nearly as athletic as the papers made it out to be, we wound up with some cheap scrap of an apron. (She never wore it.) It's only in a film in which there is no place for common sense, let alone genuine logic, that a man can create a new woman or resurrect an old one.I find it a fascinating movie, technically almost perfect, and worth repeated viewings if they're not repeated too often. (It's pretty depressing.) It's at once demanding and rewarding. And I'm certainly glad Hitchcock made it, if only to get it out of his system.
Vertigo is a film I enjoyed very much. It takes what could have simply been a very average story and transforms it into a fascinating look at the human condition and how it deals with grief. Hitchcock is one of the great auteurs of cinema and he shows us why with this film, he is constantly changing the tone of the film and yet it never feels muddled. He combines genres including, Romance, Drama and Thriller; this may not seem a huge achievement but it paved the way for many filmmakers of the future to mix genres. Jimmy Stewart has a very challenging role that I believe he plays perfectly, the subtle change from private-eye to hopeless romantic is actually believable. Kim Novak is also superb as a woman with much to hide. The ending was my only problem with the film, it feels incredibly sudden and more of an exit route for the writer as opposed to an actual conclusion to the film. Nevertheless, I would certainly recommend it to any film fans as a must watch film given how much it has influenced cinema since its release.
In 2012, Sight and Sound dethroned Citizen Kane as the best film of all time, ending a 50-year reign as the top film. The film in which they named the best film, was Alfred Hitchcock's Vertigo. Made in 1958 starring James Stewart and Kim Novak; I was really looking forward to seeing what so many thought was a superior film to the god-like Citizen Kane masterpiece. Vertigo explores obsession and how deeply obsession can take root and the disastrous effects that can have on everyone involved. When a retired San Fransisco detective is asked to do a favor for a friend, and obsession takes root, lives are changed forever. John 'Scottie' Ferguson (James Stewart), a retired detective living in San Fransisco, has been forced to leave his job as a debilitating case of acrophobia, or, vertigo has taken control of him after being involved in a roof-top chase resulting in the death of a subject. Adjusting to a more low-key life, Scottie is spending a lot of time connecting with friends, such re-connections have led him to an old college friend, Gavin Elster (Tom Helmore). Gavin shares with Scottie that his wife has been exhibiting some odd behaviors, in which she has episodes in which she seems to believe that she is the reincarnation of a deceased ancestor. Gavin explains that she experiences these episodes, then abruptly comes out of them, never remembering what she experienced while she was enduring the episode. Gavin asks Scottie to follow his wife, Madeleine Elster (Kim Novak) as he is concerned for her sanity. Scottie obliges, and as he begins to follow her, he gets to know her and almost instantly falls in love with her. Scottie doesn't just fall in love with Madeleine, though, he becomes deeply obsessed with her. After saving her life several times from her attempted suicides, Scottie is unable to save her when she climbs to the top of a bell tower she intends to jump from, due to his vertigo. After several months of brooding after his obsession, Scottie feels magnetically drawn to a woman who looks just like Madeleine and takes her shopping and to die her hair so she may look identical to his obsession. Scottie was making a woman in Madeleine's image until he realizes he has been duped by an intricate puzzle he has unknowingly been a part of. I'm a sucker for openings and movie introductions. Vertigo opens in a brilliant way with an equally as brilliant introduction to Kim Novak as the stunning beauty that kidnaps the eye in the restaurant scene. The colors in this film are fantastic and all of Hitchcock's trials with color come to wonderful fruition with Vertigo. A psychological thriller to end all thrillers, Vertigo is a wonderfully intricate puzzle which is a superb treat for the audience to piece together. Technically, Vertigo is a film to study by anyone interesting in filmmaking or understanding films on a deeper plane and artistic level. The shot composition is divine in Vertigo, creating a work of art in each scene. I am quite partial to Jimmy Stewart and thought he did a wonderful job in the complex role of Scottie. One thing that has always struck me about Vertigo was how unfairly blamed Stewart was for the failure of the film. Vertigo was not commercially or critically successful upon its release, and he shouldered much of this blame on Jimmy Stewart. Hitchcock and Stewart had worked together three times previously, and their fourth film, Vertigo would be their last because Hitch thought someone like another stock actor of his, Cary Grant, would have brought more sex appeal to the role and producing a better final product. Unfortunately, Hitch seems to miss all that Stewart brings to the role, the deliberate motions, and movements that Grant would have faltered with. In any regard, Vertigo has etched a place in history and for just cause as a true illustration of Hitchcock's mastery.


                
Vertigo is many things - a meditation on the illusions engendered by romantic attraction, an original and engrossing psychological thriller, a story about how people cope with trauma and psychological problems in ways that can ultimately prove self-defeating, a film about how people deceive each other, and a look at the ways that men and women lie to each other in the context of heterosexual relationships. Not only is the plot engrossing and the story told one that touches on many interesting and important themes, but the motifs employed throughout the film (the hairstyle employed by the woman in the picture in the art gallery and in other places throughout the film, the necklace, paintings, the old church building, the nuns, the grave, and agoraphobia and vertigo themselves as phenomenological experiences and psychiatric conditions) are nuanced, expertly deployed, and lend themselves to an even deeper analysis than the one provided here. I also found the contrast between John's ex-fiancé and the other woman he falls in love with to be an important contrast in the film as well. The score is amazing and the way that the sound and visual elements work together make it very clear why people say that Alfred Hitchcock was the master of suspense.
No-one enjoyed toying with people's minds quite like Hitch; and "Vertigo" is a film that earns its right to sit proudly alongside his other psychological masterpieces. Stewart is superb and perfectly cast as the archetypal 'common man' who, after an accident, suddenly finds himself embroiled in a dizzying mystery he struggles to keep up with. If this all sounds a bit too "Rear Window", it plays sufficiently fresh to offer its own distinct pleasures, but it would probably be true to say that fans of one will certainly delight in the other, as well.From the captivating vortex of the title sequence onward, "Vertigo" plunges headlong into the story. This wouldn't be Hitchcock without even a hint of a Macguffin, but the real power of the story for me came from being drawn into someone's obsession, and of course the stunning climax of its ultimate resolution. A widely acknowledged classic that's lost none of its thrall in the modern age, "Vertigo" is totally absorbing, and grips you like few other tales have managed to do.


                
Vertigo has an unexpected twist in all over the place. I think that this movie is not tired, so it is said this is a masterpiece. And we tend to go out strange things if we have fear so that Hitchcock could be a member of the most famous supervisions. I think that there are some wonderful point in this film. First, shaft of the story is never shake. Of course, to change shaft is terrible and must not do. But I thought again that his film had unity. So it made me be easy to understand the story. For example, green often appeared, so I could notice that the color was key. Second, this film betrayed me in good meaning. I thought that Madeline killed herself first. However it was mistake. The deed was performance. Therefore Madeline was not Madeline. She was a completely different person. I had never thought like that. It was exciting for me, so it impressed me that scene. Maybe everyone also would do. Finally, silent scene was not even boring me. Usually, when the silent scene lasts, I come to be sleepy. However this film did not make me do that and attracted me!
This one's been through the mill. I mean it, no joke -- every amateur and professional critic has had their crack at this film. If you piled up every interpretation, the film could mean just about anything and everything. You could also see it the way perhaps most of its original audience saw it, simply as a stylish suspense film with Jimmy Stewart playing a somewhat less savory hero than usual. But I'll go ahead and offer up what the film seems to say to me, without fear of repetition or hope of originality because there may simply be no uncharted territory where this film is concerned.Looking at the film's text first -- it should be admitted and recognized that this is in no way a "mystery" film. The whole idea of what happened is revealed halfway through, just in case it wasn't obvious enough for some of the dunces in the crowd. It's an out and out suspense film, and the object of the suspense is the Stewart character and how he will react to the moment when he recognizes that Madeleine and Judy are actually the same person. I would say that in terms of the dramatic functions of the film, it scores perhaps a B plus. Throwing dollops of makeup on Kim Novak and making her look like some kind of gypsy didn't make me think she was a different person, and wouldn't be likely to make this former detective who Stewart is playing either.However there is a lot of very compelling subtext here. There's the whole implication of dopplegangers, the idea of the fluidity of identity which is common to a lot of "noir" films. After all, it's impossible to talk about Madeleine and Judy being "actually" the same person without realizing the irony -- Judy was never Madeleine, but Scottie (Stewart) can never look at Judy without seeing that other person. In the end he is psychologically confused, throwing a tirade in the defense of a "Madeleine" who he never actually met and certainly never loved.There's this striking sense of a disconnect between past and present, intention and action, place and feeling. For example Hitchcock takes this lovers' stroll in Muir Woods among the redwood trees and somehow turns it into a scene of dread, as if the forest were haunted. There's absolutely no way for the characters to connect with that environment, and it produces a weird dissonance. Everywhere in the film, elements are being inappropriately juxtaposed: Marjorie's face on the portrait of the old Spanish lady, an older woman in a similar dress getting into Madeleine's car, the "real" Madeleine being thrown from the tower and mistaken by Scottie for his Madeleine, in the film's final moments a nun of all things being mistaken for the angel of death. The point is never that these things are not what they seem to be -- after all, which Madeleine was the "real" Madeleine, for Scottie I mean?
I have only one question--why is James Stewart still single at the obvious age of 50+ and why is tethered to an old college ex-girlfriend? Hitch used to say "let the audience worry about how Stewart gets down from the roof" but we still worry as to why a very old (esp. in the 1950s) man is obsessed with a young woman who could almost be his granddaughter? And why is he contentedly living alone in San Fran. on the cusp of the gay revolution? His final fantasy is remaking Kim Novak over like his own Barbie just to be able to stomach looking at her in the end. I'd say this is a classic closeted gay man using an ex- girlfriend as a beard while he plays couturier to his doll (Recall Clifton Webb in 'Laura'?) and then bored with her tosses her off the roof (typical teenage boy stuff). It's sad that with a younger lead man and more sex appeal this could've been a great psychological drama!
Vertigo is a really good suspenseful mystery-thriller. It really is one of Hitchcock's finest films. This is a must see film for all movie fanatics and mystery lovers.As far as Hitchcock films are concerned Vertigo is not my favorite of his movies (Psycho tops my list) but I do agree that Vertigo is one of the best Hitchcock films. The cinematography is really good as well as the script. The actors (most all are well known) gave outstanding performances for Vertigo. Sure the movie has some flaws - but that is true for most all films. If you liked Vertigo then you might like movie like: Psycho, Sleuth, Rear Window or Murder On The Orient Express.8.5/10


                
"Vertigo" is a movie which has to do with a retired detective who is scared of heights and he is hired by a man to spy his wife, this is the main plot. Alfred Hitchcock directs an another masterpiece with James Stewart playing as John 'Scottie' Ferguson and Kim Novak as Madeleine Elster / Judy Barton."Vertigo" is a really good movie which combines mystery and drama with love and romance. It's a movie that is worth seeing because is interesting and dominates the mystery.If you want to see whether and what this detective finds out from this espionage you have to see this movie...


                
One of the greatest drama classics of the 1950s and one of the best Alfred Hitchcock films. A true masterpiece, with a captivating story that holds you to the movie to the end, and by the way, the end was incredible. Highly recommend.


                
Firstm, I felt that Mr. Hitchcock drew the film as a male-dominant. I felt this when Scottie told Judy to change her appearance as Madeleine. He didn't love her as Judy. I felt this was not to admit the existence of Judy. I was sad because I think we want people to admit and love myself. Next, I thought that Scottie was brainwashed by Govin Elster. When Scottie was told things of Madeleine, he saw Judy as Madeleine. Also, he loved Judy as Madeleine. Then I thought that people can't reconsider things if we regard something as particular things once. As a result, Scottie and we thought Madeleine committed suicide. After I finished showing the film, I felt that deceit didn't well. First, Judy change her appearance as Madeleine and loved Judy. As a result, at first, Judy didn't love Scottie as herself, and Scottie loved Judy as Madeleine. Surely, they are poor because they couldn't understand each other and Judy died. However, I felt they couldn't face each other from the beginning, so they didn't well. Deceit is not good.
Until last night, i had never popped my Hichcock cherry.Now you must understand. I am a 25 year old lad and the "Greatest" cinema - be it any genre. Is what i have reduced a certain portion of my life with. I use IMDb religiously, for the past several years now, yet have never really watched movies from the 50's or even 60's, Perhaps a few i remember in fragments - such as the classic "The Time Machine" etc. However a few months ago, i added the Hitchcock movies to my collection, as recommended by our awesome top 250 list, this is after watching "12 Angry Men" and being absolutely blown away at the sheer brilliance of the craftsmanship the Acting and Storyline consisted of - the graphics need barely be there, or even non existent. I felt i must at least give a few a reasonable, unbiased attempts to some more high rating classics. I have sorely underestimated old school cinema.. Yes "The Godfather" and "A Clockwork Orange" for example are obvious for me to watch as it crossed into my teenage and early adult age. The age concerned with rebellion and high testosterone, Action, Horror and Mob movies (for me anyhow) ruled all. I Thought id seen everything. How happy i am to find i am wrong. This movie kicked me into overdrive, i am unable to sleep, i have watched 3 of Hitchcocks masterpieces in the last day and continue (bravely, struck with extreme tiredness) into a 4th as we speak.I implore you, if you are like me and NOTHING seems to be new or cutting it for you, and you haven't entered the Hitchcock domain, waste not but another minute. Go and experience the rarest type of film, The REASON we still watch some of the garbage filled pies, crusted with good CGI and misleading trailers we hungrily swallow now day's, is for if not what? moments such as these. When the goosebumps come and you begin to find yourself interwoven with the storyline and characters as they come alive with a great thud, and you realize it set in without you even being aware, However you welcome it.. you know the moments i speak of, the rare glimpses you steal from your watch to see how long remains.. as if you never want it to end? Of the unmatched satisfaction an amazing piece of film, from beginning to end yields is all but a scarce trickle of a once great and raging sea.10/10 - Astonishing, a grip that will not release even after the credits roll.This is my first review, i had to write something in awe of this great director and movie. My appologies for it's size..Enjoy!


                
"Vertigo" is the cleverest of Alfred Hitchcock's murder mysteries, and it's probably one of the cleverest thrillers of all time. But what I find with Hitchcock is that with some thoughtful consideration after the fact, there are usually some annoying little details that the Master himself never fully deals with. What intrigued me the most about the story was that Gavin Elster (Tom Helmore) put Scottie Ferguson (James Stewart) on the trail of a phony Mrs. Elster right from the very start. So we never even get to see the REAL Mrs. Elster. Which is OK as far as that goes, but doesn't it strike you as curious that Mrs. Elster would never think about using the car when 'Madeleine' was out and about tooling around San Francisco leading Scottie on his mission?Then there's 'Judy' putting on the Carlotta Valdez necklace to go out on a date with Scottie - holy smokes! - where were the alarm bells on that one? You mean to tell me Judy couldn't make that connection? Actually, it wouldn't have been the first time a piece of jewelry helped identify a murderer, but it was done with a bit more finesse in 1945's "Conflict", with Humphrey Bogart being tripped up by a stickpin brooch.Finally, I have some trouble with the final scene where Judy 'accidentally' falls to her death. It's just too convenient an ending, much like Uncle Charlie's demise at the end of another Hitchcock thriller from 1943, "Shadow Of A Doubt". Just how did Judy manage to fall off the the bell tower landing when Scottie himself needed three steps to get to the edge?Aside from all that though, the story is a compelling one and does convey an air of intrigue and mystery, especially in the early going when the viewer rides along with Scottie following the intricate deception that Madeleine lays out. It's too bad Scottie didn't take Midge (Barbara Bel Geddes) along for the ride, she might have been able to smoke out the whole ruse.If I'm being too nit-picky about the film, it's because Hitchcock has this reputation as one of the all time great directors, yet a lot of the story doesn't ring true under close inspection. I've found the same to be the case for some of his other pictures, like "Strangers On A Train", "Rope", and the earlier referenced "Shadow Of a Doubt". But to be fair, he also had some thrillers that were exceptional, namely "Dial M For Murder" and "North By Northwest".One last thought, and this one bothered me throughout the whole picture - how was Scottie rescued from the ledge in the opening scene?
I'm not much of a Alfred Hitchcock fan (not even sure I spelled his last name right:), but I do love Vertigo. It's exciting and chilling and surprising. All in once. I've only seen it once a long time ago but I've always wanted to see the movie again, which I'm gonna do soon. I've forgotten much of the movie. What I remember from most is that guy on the rooftops. And the music is amazing. Vertigo and Psycho must be the best works of Mr. Hitchcock. He is great when it comes to mystery and suspense. I wish it could be shown at the theater again. It would be worth it or I wish the TV could show Vertigo a little more than Psycho. They send that one a lot more and I'm kind of tired of Psycho.


                
Possible spoilers`Vertigo', Alfred Hitchcock's 1958 film starring James Stewart and Kim Novak is a psychological thriller in which Scottie Ferguson (Stewart) is a retired detective hired to track the daily activities of Madeleine (Novak), the wife of an old college friend who has been exhibiting some disturbing behavior. The problem lies in that Scottie has the medical condition `Vertigo' due to a recent work recent work accident, so anytime he ascends any kind of height, he gets dizzy and ill.  This doesn't appear to hamper his investigation until a crucial moment in the film, but is present throughout. The situation is further complicated when he falls in love with his subject, and the situation eventually spirals out of control, causing permanent damage to everyone involved.`Vertigo' is said to be Hitchcock's masterpiece, and his most personal film. Judging by the disturbing psychosis of the main characters, this would be a pretty interesting thing to explore.  The film could be construed as slow for the first hour or so because there is a lot of character and story development, which leads to a pretty bang up ending.  James Stewart, as always, is excellent, and he certainly breaks type from his `aw shucks' type of role by portraying a severely flawed `hero', but I have never been a friend of Kim Novak's work or herself personally, so I could see just about anyone else in this role and think it would be fine.I'm not entirely sure why I've always had a soft spot for `Vertigo'.  It is vastly different from all of Hitchcock's other films, and therefore quite different from my personal stable of Hitchcock favorites.  Perhaps it is because the film is so dark, and therefore risky for its time.  It could also be because it IS different from his other work, and therefore it requires embracing.  Regardless of the reason and despite its flaws, `Vertigo' remains a beautifully filmed psychological thriller that is timeless in its themes of obsession and betrayal.  Be sure to pick up a copy of the restored version of the film if you are renting, because the restoration is absolutely gorgeous.--Shelly
Bernard Herrmann's haunting score keeps you on the edge of your seat in this seamless production from Alfred Hitchcock. Stewart delivers with his usual style and grace, but it is Novak who is especially impressive.


                
Vertigo. Yet another Alfred Hitchcockian experience that keeps you dazzled throughout. James Stewart playing an ex-detective John 'Scottie' Ferguson has fear of heights. He is requested by one good old friend to follow and watch his wife's abnormal behavior at times. Doing so, John gets dangerously obsessed with her and things starts to complicate. Movie is like a ticking time bomb, keeps you puzzled, revealing important twists time to time. Like any other Hitchcock work, here you feel and live what characters feel and live. James as the lead actor does an astounding job. Kim Novak is gorgeous and magnetic as Madeleine Elster but somewhat mechanical as Judy Barton. But Vertigo is not without its flaws. Other than lead characters, people keep disappearing just like that from the plot, like Kim's husband and James's friend. The whole focus is on James and his fear of heights. Going towards end, movie heightens the suspense but leaves you with a heartbreaking climax that somewhat lessens the overall impact.I am going with fantastic 8 out of 10 for Vertigo. It is controversially one of the best of Hitchcock but it is still way ahead in its genre.


                
San Francisco police detective Scottie Ferguson retires after suffering vertigo during a roof top chase. A college friend Gavin Elster is a wealthy shipbuilder who hires him to follow his wife Madeleine (Kim Novak). He thinks she is being possessed. Scottie finds her obsessed with a dead ancestor, and attempting suicide. He rescues her and falls for her.This movie does move a bit too slow especially in the first half. The difficulty lies in all the following in the car. It's not the most exciting thing to drive around. In a modern movie, those scenes would be severely edited down. It's not like they were exciting car chases.It's not my favorite Hitchcock movie. I did like James Stewart when he gets obsessive. He's good in that section. As for being too old for the part, that to me seems to work for him in this movie. His obsession becomes more self-destructive. It has a creepiness to it. I have to admit that I didn't recognize Novak as Judy Barton. It confused me a bit at first. I think people of that era would have an easier time recognizing Kim Novak. As homage to its importance and inventive camera work, I'll add an extra point or else I would have given it 7/10.


                
This film has been heralded as Hitchcock's greatest masterpiece, his most personal thriller and a major classic. Its even ranked in the IMDb top 50. That's all very impressive and while I can't say I don't like the movie, I'm not willing to get quite that giddy with praise. I just watched it again, the magnificently restored version, in Hi Def. That's also very impressive. So where does it fall short of its lofty historic ranking for me, hard to say without sounding awfully nit-picky. Maybe it is nit-picky. The lush San Fransico background is amazing. The artwork, the flowers, the surrounding architecture are dazzling. The award winning music score is perfect for 1958 and sets the movie's mood, which changes several times, in lush, often rousing tones. But........ the story, the pacing and even some of the casting has always left me cold. Hitchcock can play a scene for a long time, almost leisurely, to get a MOOD. In "VERTIGO" they are maddenly leisurely. And the premise of the possessed wife, the concerned husband, the off kilter damaged cop, the insurance con is downright goofy! Especially the race to leap off the building for a dramatic suicide. The part 1 love story can be bought (the con and all!), and well played by the two stars, but the part 2 love story is so dark and possessive that it has always smacked of mean spirited to me. Now the casting. Jimmy Stewart has never taken a false step, but at age 50, despite his perfectly coiffed toupee and heavy makeup still looks it. Kim Novak, despite the worst eyebrows in cinema history, is a ravishing early 20's and looks it. The fake and then real attraction to Stewart is hard to imagine. Especially when the apparently lonely (how could she be) and distraught Novak, who really loved Jimmy, has heaps of humiliation piled on her by the dark and damaged Stewart. It threw my "suspension of belief" off a bit. And the surprisingly attractive Barbara Del Geddes (pre-Dallas Matron) is supposed to be Stewart's old college chum!! He must have been post, post grad and she was Freshman. Hey, I said it was nit-picky!!I've read that the movie was actually poorly received and attended during its initial release. And that was at the height of Stewart's and Hitchcock's powers. The supreme inventive director of his day, he used interesting angles and zooming in and out cameras to get all his desired affects of vertigo. If there was better entertainment around in '58, with more star power, I'd be surprised, so why not a hit?? Were people nit-picky then too??


                
