One of the many things that made Hitchcock such a great director is that he did not just stick to the same formula time after time; all of his best movies have their own unique feel and characteristics.  "Vertigo" is particularly distinctive, both as a complex story filled with suspense, and as a fascinating study in psychological tension.  While it lacks the humor of some of Hitchcock's other masterpieces, and sometimes moves rather slowly, it is unforgettable, and a great achievement by the director and his cast.If you have never seen it, you will enjoy it more if you do not know too much about the plot, although the actual story is somewhat secondary to the ways that the characters are tested and their weaknesses exposed by the various events.  Hitchcock uses a complicated story, interesting characters, lavish visual detail, and deliberate pacing, plus a fine musical score by the incomparable Bernard Hermann, to produce a mysterious, almost unearthly, atmosphere.  The tension rarely lets up, and the viewer is caught up completely in it, at times almost to the point of discomfort.  It's the kind of film that repays careful attention, as almost every moment is filled with significant detail.There are also some great acting performances.  Jimmy Stewart is outstanding in a role far different from his usual screen persona.  He enables the viewer to sympathize completely with him, even as we cringe at many of his character's actions and decisions.  Kim Novak is completely convincing in a difficult dual role, and the movie would not have been as compelling without her fine performance.  The rest of the cast all have much smaller roles, but are all quite good too, especially Barbara Bel Geddes as Scottie's (Stewart's) old friend, who provides important insight into Scottie's character."Vertigo" is a classic by any standard.  It's a must-see that remains just as impressive with each viewing.


                
Although it got at best mixed reviews when first released, Vertigo is now considered one of Alfred Hitchcock's classic films. A tribute to the players, the director, and the composer of that haunting musical score that will stay with you forever.The music is probably more important here than in most films, let alone most Hitchcock films. Because for most of the first half of the film and a great deal of the second half, it is without dialogue. In fact Kim Novak does not have a spoken line until about 48 minutes into the little more than 2 hour feature. She's under James Stewart's surveillance and the whole story of his growing obsession with her is told through his facial expressions and through Bernard Herrmann's music.Stewart is a cop retired on disability who is hired by an old college friend Tom Helmore to follow his wife. Helmore tells Stewart a tale about his wife falling under the spirit of her dead great grandmother who committed suicide. The wife he's following is played by Kim Novak. Novak in fact makes a suicide attempt and by jumping into San Francisco bay and Stewart jumps in and saves her.In a brief prologue the reason for Stewart's disability is told. While on the police force, he lost a man while pursuing the suspect in a rooftop chase. Another cop was killed trying to save Stewart who had slipped and was hanging on to a roof gutter for his dear life. After that Stewart acquired an understandable fear of heights with accompanying dizziness, vertigo.Later on at an old mission which has significance for Novak's family, Novak runs up to the top of the bell tower and Stewart because of his Vertigo can't pursue her to prevent her from jumping off and taking her life.Later on he spots Kim Novak again with a different color hair and this time essentially stalks her until they meet. By now he's totally obsessed with the dead Novak who he fell in love with.Alfred Hitchcock is plumbing some depths of the human psyche in Vertigo. Certainly good old all American Jimmy Stewart would not be one you would think of casting as a voyeur and a stalker. But he pulls off the performance in probably the film with the least dialogue Alfred Hitchcock ever made since sound came in.Kim Novak is hauntingly beautiful in Vertigo, she has to be or the whole plot would make no sense. Barbara Bel Geddes is in this also as Stewart's girl friend who finds herself losing him to an obsession with a ghost. She also serves as a sounding board for Stewart as he expresses some of his feelings to her.This was the first of two films Stewart and Novak made together. Ironically enough the second one, Bell Book and Candle, is about a witch played by Novak who actually uses witchcraft to ensnare Stewart. Given Stewart's obsession with Novak in Vertigo, if Hitchcock had thrown in witchcraft into the plot, the audience would certainly have believed it.Of course this is an Alfred Hitchcock film and therefore not all is as it seems. I can't sat any more, but there are no happy endings for anyone in this haunting film.
Alfred Hitchcock made a career movie with "Vertigo," one of several career movies of his, but maybe the most enduring. On the surface, it's a love story with a mystery, bright and shiny, maybe his most sumptuous feast of the senses. But it has a cold heart.James Stewart is the key to the film. I think a lot of people misjudge the film by misjudging his character, police detective John "Scotty" Ferguson. They see him and see the guy who played amiable dipso Elwood P. Dowd in "Harvey" or noble Mr. Smith or George Bailey. The secret of Scotty is he's no nice guy, though. He's more than a bit of a heel, a hard and greedy man eminently deserving of the roasting he gets in Henry Jones' postmortem. Watch Stewart in Hitchcock's "Rope" or the unjustly overlooked "Carbine Williams," and you see the hardness Hitchcock was after, and got, from his lead here.Scotty does a lot of mean things in "Vertigo," actions that feed his illness and lead to his doom. The character of Midge, subtly portrayed by Barbara Bel Geddes, is a key for understanding this. His casual stoking early on of Midge's flames of unreturned desire, especially when viewed in retrospect, burns through their happy banter and demonstrates how miserable a man he is, nowhere more brilliantly or ruthlessly than when he cuts her off from his life over a silly gag. Watch "Vertigo" more than once, and you may find yourself hating the guy as much as I do. But you still follow his path of doom with total sympathy; because of the elegant, enveloping way Hitchcock draws you into this world of passion, cut off from all bounds of propriety, even space and time.If Scotty was played by anyone other than Stewart, it's hard to imagine "Vertigo" packing the punch it does. You wouldn't have enough tolerance for the character to stick with his story. In its own day, "Vertigo" was a bit of a misfire, probably because audiences felt alienation from the Stewart image they were accustomed to. Yet now viewed from a decent remove, you get more of what Hitchcock was after, and respond to it better.Still, it's easy to understand people not liking "Vertigo" the first time they see it. At least that's true with me. I didn't like "Vertigo" the first time I saw it. Here's what helps you find the right handle. Fall in love with the wrong person. Become bitterly disappointed. See the one that you loved in the face of passersby, in odd places, and in your dreams. Then you begin to get it. Life is a series of hellos and goodbyes, as Billy Joel once sang, and trying to hold on too long is a recipe for self-inflicted pain.Talking too much about "Vertigo" is not a good idea. There's too many obvious spoilers in recounting the plot of the film, in explaining why Kim Novak is so flat-out stupendous in her performance, and how you are left feeling by film's end. "Vertigo" is a uniquely personal film, not only for Hitchcock, but for a broad array of viewers who like me have latched onto its tragic story.That's not to say it's perfect. There's a murder mystery wrapped up in "Vertigo," and all the pieces don't exactly fit when you think about them later. Hitchcock called it "icebox talk," something to leave the viewer pondering after the film was over, but maybe he left a few more loose ends than he should have this time around.Still, what "Vertigo" is after is not making sense but magic, and it succeeds wonderfully, nowhere more so then when it bends the laws of reality. Take the moment when the bookstore owner tells the sad tale of Carlotta Valdez while the lights of the room around him dim in eerie, unnatural sympathy. Or the way the flowers in the shop Madeleine visits seem to glow in unearthly splendor as Ferguson, his eyes glowing strangely too, spies on his prey.You may not like this film the first time you see it, but if you are left disturbed and uneasy from the experience, you owe it to yourself to see it again. "Vertigo" is a film that keeps on giving, with all the power and mystery of unrequited love, but unlike most forms of infatuation, this film has a way of returning the ardor with which it is held. Utterly timeless.
Although it was only modestly successful in theaters, time has been kind to VERTIGO and now many believe this is Hitchcock's masterpiece. Time was NOT kind to the original prints of the film, and in the mid-1990s Universal Studios put up one million dollars for a two-year restoration of the film. This is covered completely in a fairly fascinating 29-minute extra on the DVD, originally broadcast as an A&E special. The entire original film-making process is covered, the movie was first called "From Among The Dead", and includes current interviews with many principals, including Novak and Bel Geddes, plus the techniques used for the restoration. This special edition DVD should be a must-own for any fan of the film VERTIGO. The sound and picture are just fabulous for a film made in 1957.My review, following, contains certain SPOILERS which are necessary for my summary. Please read no further if you have not seen the film. Watch the film first, you will not be disappointed.The film starts with cops chasing a crook on SF rooftops, Scottie (James Stewart, 49) misses one roof, is hanging high from a gutter, cop returns to offer assistance, but instead falls to his death. This traumatic experience triggers the vertigo in Scottie, makes him unsuited for police work, he quits, and Midge (Barbara Bel Geddes) tells him only another emotional shock will bring him out of it. Midge, an artist, not so secretly wants Scottie, but while they are good friends, he just doesn't love her.Old college friend, wealthy shipbuilding magnate, hires Scottie to follow his wife who had been acting strangely. He meets Madaleine (Kim Novak, 24) and follows her to find that she visits the grave of Carlotta, who died at 25 in 1857, also visits the portrait of Carlotta at the art museum, has "visions" of being in a Spanish mission, all indications are that the dead Carlotta is taking over Madaleine's mind. While following her, saving her from a jump into SF Bay, and keeping her from jumping into the Pacific, Scottie is falling in love with her, the first time he has had such feelings.Scottie feels he needs to take Madeleine to the old mission 100 miles south of SF to free her of this possession, but instead she climbs up the mission bell tower, Scottie is unable to follow quickly enough, his vertigo holding him back, he hears a scream, sees what looks like Madeleine's body falling to the red tile roof below, dead. A quick inquest ruled it a suicide, the friend gets out of shipbuilding, travels, while Scottie tries to get over his great loss, his first ever love, includes a stay in a mental hospital.Not too long after, Scottie sees a woman remarkably similar to Madeleine walking to her residence, a hotel, he follows her, knocks on the door, she is dressed differently, has different color hair, a different personality, speaks differently, and says she is Judy, from Kansas, has lived there 3 years, even shows Scottie her ID to prove it. But Scottie has not gotten over Madeleine, is obsessed with recreating her, asks Judy to dress like her, get her hair colored, all the while Judy just wishes Scottie would like her for who she is, not because she looks like someone else. But she gets completely back to the Madeleine look, same clothes, same hair color.By now we have seen through Judy's flashback what is really going on. The wealthy husband had hired Judy to impersonate his wife, Madeleine, and had set up the incident at the mission so that he could shove the already dead wife off, Scottie would be the manipulated witness that she had climbed the stairs and jumped off, and after being paid off, Judy could resume her life. To her detriment, he also gave her the heirloom, Carlotta's necklace, and her wearing that is what got Scottie suspicious of the whole scheme. He catches on, brings Judy back to the mission, they climb to the bell, a nun approaches to see what is going on, Judy panics and falls to her death on the roof. Scottie no longer was in love with her, feeling lied to and manipulated, he has no emotion, but goes to the edge of the ledge and looks down, his vertigo gone. The emotional shock that Midge spoke of has cured him.The story is a tragedy of two lives that only through misfortune become intertwined, Scottie's and Judy's. He is not young, now retired, and had never found true love. In Madeliene he thinks he found it, only to be shocked then disillusioned when the full truth came out. When Judy died, he was back where the film started. Maybe Midge was the one after all. Judy was very flawed, enough to participate in a murder plot and feel no apparent guilt over it. All she wanted was to be loved by Scottie, but a relationship built on fraud has no chance, especially since Scottie was an honest man.James Stewart is known for his ability to play an "everyman" character, and is superb as Scottie. Kim Novak is a bigger mystery. She was not the first choice for the role, received it virtually by default, but after watching the movie it is hard to imagine anyone else playing the dual roles of Madeleine and Judy, she pulls it off so well. A big bonus is her commentary on the making-of extra, seeing her after all these years. She was only 24 when Vertigo was filmed, but she looked 40, a glamorous and beautiful 40. Actresses today who are 24 often still play teenagers. How things have changed in the movies!
(No fooling -- SPOILERS galore here!) It's hard to believe now, but when I was younger, I used to have a love/hate relationship with Alfred Hitchcock's classic romantic psychological thriller VERTIGO. I loved its suspense, moving performances, haunting love story, dreamlike quality, and poignant yet powerful Bernard Herrmann score -- so why did it take me years to embrace VERTIGO as wholeheartedly as our beleaguered hero John "Scottie" Ferguson embraces his beloved Madeleine Elster? James Stewart plays Scottie, a former police detective who finds out the hard way that he has acrophobia (fear of heights, to us laypeople) when he can't save a patrolman from falling to his death during a rooftop chase. Since VERTIGO is a Hitchcock movie, what better place for our hero to live and wrestle with his phobia than San Francisco? While working on a cantilever bra invented by an engineer (nice work if you can get it!), Scottie's gal pal, designer Midge Wood (wry scene-stealer Barbara Bel Geddes) tries to help him overcome his fear gradually with stepladders ("I look up, I look down..."). Too bad the ladders happen to be next to Midge's high-rise apartment's window. Poor guy, it's always something! Scottie's old college chum Gavin Elster (suave Tom Helmore) offers him a private investigator job tailing his lovely but troubled young wife, Madeleine (Kim Novak in her finest and most challenging performance). Seems that Madeleine -- one of the coolest and most elegant of the director's legendary "Hitchcock blondes" -- thinks she's possessed by the spirit of her late great-grandmother Carlotta Valdes, and is behaving accordingly. Scottie tails Madeleine all over San Francisco to the places where the tragic Carlotta lived, loved, and went mad after her sugar daddy "threw her away" and kept their love child. Our detective finally comes face to face with his quarry after saving her when she jumps into the bay in one of her fugue states.As the song says, the hunter is captured by the game. Soon Scottie and Madeleine are mad for each other -- but it seems poor troubled Madeleine is also mad in a less romantic way. When she confides in Scottie about her recurring morbid dreams about the Mission at San Juan Bautista, Scottie brings her there in hopes of curing her obsession. Bad move, Scottie -- Madeleine bolts to the bell tower. Scottie gives chase, but his vertigo paralyzes him halfway up the stairs (great spatial F/X here). He hears a woman screaming, sees a body fall past the window...and his beloved Madeleine is no more.Or is she? After he recovers from a grief-induced nervous breakdown, Scottie spies shopgirl Judy Barton (the versatile Novak again). Except for her red hair and somewhat tacky fashion sense, Judy's a dead ringer for Madeleine! As their relationship grows, so does audience apprehension as Scottie obsessively tries to give Judy the ultimate makeover, recreating his lost love. (Where's the WHAT NOT TO WEAR crew when you need them? :-)) Judy's a quick study -- because she's really Madeleine! See, Judy was Elster's mistress, and he coached her to look and act like the real Madeleine Elster as part of a murder plot. 'Twas the real Mrs. Elster who died at the mission that day, and Elster's real purpose for poor Scottie was to witness the "suicide." Since Judy truly loves Scottie, has all the self-esteem of a squashed grape, and doesn't want to spill the murder plot, she's willing to play Eliza Doolittle to Scottie's macabre Henry Higgins. But the jig is up when, post-makeover, Judy wears a necklace Scottie recognizes as part of Madeleine's Carlotta Valdes collection. Furious at being played for a sucker, he takes Judy to the mission tower and forces her to confess. A black shape looms. Guilt-ridden Judy is so spooked by what turns out to be a curious nun (Judy must've gone to one of those tough parochial schools) that she loses her balance and falls...and a shattered Scottie loses his Madeleine a second, final time, looking like he wants to join her.When I first saw VERTIGO in my college years during its 1980s re-release, I thought it was well worth seeing, but Scottie's necrophilic mania to recreate Judy as Madeleine really upset me. I found myself rooting for, angry at, and sorry for Scottie and Judy all at once. Stewart's portrayal of a man obsessed is tragic and unnerving; Hitchcock really knew how to tap into his leading man's dark side. As if the ghoulishness of Scottie's romantic obsession and the malleable Judy's heartbreaking lack of self-esteem weren't frustrating enough, even the department store salespeople and salon personnel in the film go along with Scottie's demands ("The gentleman certainly seems to know what he wants.") despite Judy's anguished protests. My husband Vinnie aptly noted that everyone on screen acted like Scottie was having a dog groomed.On my first time around, it seemed to me that Hitchcock gave away the mystery's solution too soon, making the rest of the film anticlimactic. But my appreciation for VERTIGO grew over the years as I matured and learned more about life, people, and emotions. By the time we saw the beautifully restored version of VERTIGO at NYC's Ziegfeld Theatre in 1996, Judy's revelatory letter touched my heart and added to the suspense of waiting for the other shoe to drop for Scottie. There's no question that VERTIGO has long since become one of my favorite Hitchcock films!
When Alfred Hitchcock's "Vertigo" opened in 1958, it had a cold reception by both critics and audience, and many even consider it a failure in his remarkable career. Even Hitchcock wondered about what went wrong and he blamed lead star James Stewart for the failure. What probably happened, was that this time, Hitchcock's usual walk on the dark side went a bit too far for the times."Vertigo", based on Pierre Boileau's novel "d'Entre Les Morts", is a dark tale of romance, obsessions and lies, all spiced up with the lead character's acrophobia. James Stewart is our protagonist, as Scottie, he plays a detective whose sudden retire from the police was caused by an accident involving his acrophobia, his fear of heights.Hired by Gavin Elster (Tom Helmore), a mysterious old friend from school; he accepts the mission of following Elster's wife, Madeline (Kin Novak), who supposedly is possessed by the ancient spirit of one of her ancestors, and that eventually will take her life. As Scottie tries to protect Madeline, he falls in love with her, starting a forbidden romance that is doomed from the start. After Scottie fails to save Madeline's life due to the vertigo caused by his acrophobia, his obsession with her take him to commit unexpected actions.Boileau's complex story of obsession may had been too much for the critics and the audience of its time; and watching James Stewart going from a regular guy to a man bordering insanity certainly didn't help the film. Nevertheless, time has proved that "Vertigo" was indeed a powerful film undeserving of the cold reception it had.James Stewart gives probably his best performance ever, the sudden fall from grace that eventually take its toll on Scottie is perfectly portrayed by Stewart. Hitchcock was really wrong at blaming James for the failing, as it was the audience who was not ready to see their hero turned into a grotesque monster.Kim Novak plays his role with grace, although certainly her character is not as demanding as Stewart's. The movie is all about Scottie and his failed romance leading to the destruction of his life. This complex persona makes him one of the best fictional characters ever written, let alone portrayed on film.The technical aspects of the movie are superb too, Hitchcock creates a brilliant composition of colors and the visuals are beautiful. Bernard Herrman's score is subtle but fitting, although not as powerful as his famous work on "Psycho".If a flaw is to be found, I would say that the script developed for the film was probably not the most friendly for the audience. This film is certainly not for everyone, as it's slow pace and heavy darkness in the subject may turn off people familiar with Hitchcock's lighter films as his usual dark humor is not present here The only film I can relate to "Vertigo" in terms of harsh "darkness" would be "The Wrong Man"; although the big difference is, that in that film, the trouble is caused by outside forces, while in "Vertigo", we get a glimpse to that dark part of our soul we do not dare to watch.The first time I watched it, I was not sure about what had just happened in front of my eyes, not sure if it was good or bad. After a second watch I guess this is of the kind of films that grow on you. Some consider it a failure and others consider it a masterpiece; my opinion stands closer to the latter: I call it a great piece of cinema. 9/10.


                
Excellent drama about a cop who is hired to watch over a wealthy man's wife. This he does while slowly losing his heart to her. As usual, Hitchcock give the viewer a double dose of tension and bizarre excitement. I particularly enjoyed the psychedelic bits the film utilized in the opening credits and when Stewart was having his nightmares. Very good plot, with some real surprises along the way, especially the stunning finale. Great movie. Plus, Kim Novak is a definite babe!


                
Alfred Hitchcock's "Vertigo" has a narcotizing effect, a lulling, dream-like ambiance that is hard to shake off, which may explain why many viewers keep returning to it. It's also a strangely muted and anticlimactic film, posing yet another possible reason moviegoers watch it repeatedly: they hope (or need) to get more out of it the third or fourth time. Retired police detective James Stewart meets and makes over a woman who reminds him of his only true love--a suicidal woman he lost, but perhaps can find again by dipping back into the past. Hitchcock seemed to relate to Stewart's "Scottie" moreso than any other character in his films, and--having a gleeful touch of nastiness himself--is careful not to let him have his way. Glamour-mystery is gorgeous to take in, fascinatingly written and well-acted. Only one question: is the hotel manager (Ellen Corby) part of the scheme or just a dotty old broad? ***1/2 from ****


                
Vertigo is directed by Alfred Hitchcock, is based on the novel by Pierre Boulle, has a beautiful score by Bernard Herrmann and stars James Stewart, Kim Novak and Barbara Bel Geddes.A haunting and suspenseful story that is one of Hitchcock's best if not his all time best film.Vertigo surprisingly didn't do very well on it's initial release and wasn't well liked.However over time it's become a massive success both with critics and audiences and is a truly stunning piece of work.Detective Scottie Ferguson(James Stewart)is hired to follow an old friends wife Madeleine(Kim Novak). She is apparently being possessed by the spirit of a dead ancestor who killed herself. As he begins to do some research into Madeleine's past and sees more of her, he is caught up in a very weird situation.The film becomes quite creepy in a disturbing way as he becomes obsessed with Madeleine and later with a woman who looks like Madeleine called Judy(Kim Novak in a stunning duel performance.) Part ghost story and part love story this is one of Hitchcocks greatest films, a combination of genres and featuring a great cast and lots of suspense and tension. James Stewart gives one of his best performances and is excellent as the emotionally tortured Scottie. Vertigo also features some gorgeous location footage of the city of San Fransisco.This is a must see film.
Oscar ignored this fantastic film by Hitchcock starring James Stewart. It gave nomination for Art and Set decoration and Sound. Small acknowledgment of an outstanding film.James Stewart was outstanding as a detective that was duped by his "friend (Tom Helmore)." We were all led on an adventure that made absolutely no sense until we were shown the result. This film really had me going! Kim Novak was also excellent in her role as the wife. She was so good that I had no idea that she was anything more than object of Stewart's obsession. Hitchcock had me going her also.This was an excellent movie and should have had more recognition.


                
Two years before Hitchcock's legendary horror movie "Psycho" (1960) hit the theaters, our Alfred stunned audiences with another masterpiece. Perhaps not as dark, cruel and shoking as "Psycho" (1960) or "The Birds" (1963), "Vertigo" (1958) still manages to be called a timeless classic.First of all, Scottie's condition allowed the use of an entirely new camera technique. "The Dolly Zoom" is one of cinematography's most impressive camera tricks. Years before Steven Spielberg used it in "Jaws" (1975), Irmin Roberts was the first cameraman to ever use this technique, in a Hitchcock film.This movie tells the story of Scottie, a retired cop who's asked to investigate the case of his friend's wife, which seems to be possesed by the spirit of a dead young woman who committed suicide.As the chilling story goes on, several moments of suspense accompanied by chilling musical scores are happening. If you're not a fan of it, you can still enjoy the superb settings throughout the movie, and as well the beautifuly filmed shots. These elements alone are a pure work of art in my opinion.Because it's a 50's film, you will encounter extravagant dialogue between the characters, that still manages to look natural. It's not over the top forced as you may see in other films of the era.Toward the end of the movie, I appreciated the interesting depiction of madness that Alfred creates throughout dreams and illusions that our leading man deals with.
The beautiful lighting used in the last half an hour of the movie is also outstanding enough to be mentioned.
And, without spoiling anything, I'd like to mention how from my perspective, the leading man portrayed throughout the movie as a tragic hero, becomes an antagonist.Definetly an unpredictable and stylish classic you don't want to miss.


                
So this is often labelled as one of the greatest films of all time; I haven't seen enough movies to agree or disagree, but it's definitely one of the best movies I've ever seen. Alfred Hitchcock is at his best with this suspenseful mystery, unraveled by a retired detective being the subject of merciless mind games. The story and direction are nearly perfect and the mystery is solved with appropriate pacing and character development (mainly Scottie, the detective, and Madeleine, his target). The movie lets the audience figure out parts of the mystery for themselves (so there's lots of, "OH THAT THING," moments, which is the movie engaging the audience and making the viewing experience even better). The effects and music are excellent - my favourite scene is Scottie's nightmare where he looks into the grave (you'll find out) and falls into a spiral with flowers transforming into colours and all this beautiful stuff (it's 1958, so you don't even expect much, but Hitchcock nails it with stuff that looks better than some of what you see today). No scenes in the film feel out of place; there's no bad or unsuitable moments - whenever the film's not being brilliant, it's still very good and sustains itself well. The lead performances are great, especially Stewart's (he plays Scottie), who works in the unfortunate victim role brilliantly, with his acting of fear and nervousness being the most notable parts. Their romance is steadily driven along a fine line with over-sexualisation on one side and being annoying on the other, being perfectly woven into the story and seeming entirely human (doesn't even seem like a movie, given how their relationship develops with Scottie's behavioural changes). The only potential problem would be people not fully understanding the mystery (I did, and people should put in some effort to process events and connect the dots themselves because films - especially masterpieces - rarely explain everything explicitly).


                
Not very popular with critics or audiences when it first came out, probably not what they were expecting form the master director. Certainly a very different movie not in the usual Hitchcock formula. The movie probably needs more than one viewing. I can understand why some people don't like it much, but if you can get into the mood and atmosphere it's a surreal masterpiece. The movie is really about creating a surreal dreamlike world to enter. Set in San Francisco in 1958 it is like nothing before or since. Unforgettable and mesmerizing it is full of great locations, strange characters and stories. We go on a strange uneasy journey with Jimmy Stewart where there is no return and end up somewhere between sanity and insanity. Everything about this movie goes together to create another world which you feel like you have entered, the music, the 1950s grainy film, the dull colours, the incredibly shot locations, the changing light. It is certainly a strange movie hard to put into a box. It is from another time. Amazing. Like a dream... A classic film from the golden age of Hollywood. A Hollywood which doesn't exist anymore. There is just something about this movie, which you can't put your finger on. It's full of secrets.


                
Like most Hitchcock films, Vertigo has a wonderful mystery and tons of suspense. We follow the story of a man who has developed a terrible fear of heights after an accident. He is hired to follow a woman and we get to see various places in San Francisco through his eyes. A very strange story comes out of it. It winds up being like peeling the layers of an onion. Most of the film you have no idea what is going on but it slowly revealed. One of the innovations in this film is the "vertigo" effect that Hitchcock uses: He alternates moving the camera in while zooming out or vice-versa. It has a very dizzying effect and works very well to let you know how the character may be seeing things. This is a wonderful mystery and suspense film and has a crazy twist that will leave you shocked.
Jimmy Stewart plays Scottie Ferguson, a police detective who cannot abide heights. An old school acquaintance exploits Stewart's weakness to make his wife's murder look like a suicide. These are perfect ingredients for a mystery-thriller. The film seems to reach an ending of sorts when the crime is committed. Stewart is sent to a sanatorium because of his double guilt: falling in love with the beautiful Madeleine (Kim Novak), another man's wife; and not being able to rescue her when she climbs a high tower to jump to her death. He just can't get (it) up to follow her to the apex - classic Hitchcock sexual imagery. Adultery coupled with inability to consummate is a miserable combination.Just when you think it's all over, the film really gets going. As is often the case in Hitchcock's thrillers, the real fun is not in the crime, but in unraveling the mastermind's evil plot. Think about "Dial M for Murder," or "Rear Window," another Stewart vehicle.While detective Scottie Ferguson strolls along the streets of San Francisco, having recovered from the sanatorium, he sees - Madeleine!She turns out just to be a sales girl who resembles his dead flame. Or is that all? As Ferguson slowly remakes the sales girl in the image of Madeleine, the resemblance is just too uncanny. Finally a small mistake gives her away. It becomes clear that this girl IS Ferguson's Madeleine whom he loved, and that his school friend's real wife was the one dropped from the tower on that fateful day. When Ferguson insists on revisiting the crime scene, he inadvertently drives the impersonator who has come to love him to her real death atop the very same tower.Hitchcock leaves it open whether the impostor's death finally frees Ferguson not just from his guilt complex, but also from his inability to have an intimate relationship. He certainly was no longer in love with the impostor when he realized the truth. And his patient girlfriend Midge, who nursed him through the sanatorium for months (played by Barbara Bel Geddes to great effect) is still there, waiting...Midge is really the only good person in this morality play, really better than what Ferguson deserves. This is the reason Hitchcock cast the more ambiguous, sometimes whiny Stewart in the role, as opposed to a Cooper, Peck, or Grant. Hitchock plays all the drama to the max, assisted by the usual excellent Hermann score. The Edith Head costumes play a pivotal role in distinguishing the Madeleine-sales girl identities. Even the rear projection is fun to watch, as one can divine when Hitchcock thought a scene important enough to leave the safety of the studio. A 9/10 from the era when people still took Freud seriously, and suspenseful fun to watch even in the era when Freud is exposed as, well, let's just say someone who selectively analyzed his data. Just like Scottie Ferguson in this film.
SPOILER FREE REVIEW:Hitchcock is considered one of history's greatest directors for a reason. Watching through Vertigo one time straight through gives an amazing experience. The characters are intriguing, the plot is suspenseful, and has many twists and turns, like you are falling through spiraling mayhem.****************************SPOILERS AHEAD********************************* From the beginning of the film we have one of the greatest opening credits sequences of all time. The close up shots of a face, followed by spinning shapes and spirals. As irrelevant as this credits sequence may seem the first time around, it quite literally delves into the mind of Scottie (James Stewart), our protagonist. The way he perceives Madeline (Kim Novak) is not as a person clearly, but for who she is as an object. He doesn't see her as a full person. That is why from the opening credits, we see features of a woman on there own, separate from the rest of the body. These spirals represent how Scottie feels with the chaos ensuing in his life throughout the film, and his vertigo.
 
 Another brilliant subtle use of imagery in the film is with color. In particular, the colors red and green, for stop and go. The first time I watched the film, this imagery totally went past me. Although I was in a class where the teacher was analyzing the film, and this suddenly became almost too obvious. In nearly every scene featuring Scottie and Madeline/Judy, the colors red and green are very present, whether it be the lighting in the space, their clothing, the wallpaper the room, or even something as simple as a reflection.
 
 The one element I didn't love in Vertigo which many people would disagree with is the ending. I really loved the buildup as Scottie follows Judy up the tower in the final scene, and he slowly builds up in his anger revealing he has caught on to the whole scheme, but I found the very ending bizarre, and was given no good explanation to it. My assumption was at the ending there would be some sort of intense final dialogue between Judy and Scottie at the top of the tower, and Scottie would dramatically either commit suicide, kill Judy, or just something very intense, but the way that Judy dies didn't make much sense to me, or make me feel the film had a satisfying ending. She dies because some nun we've never seen before startles her. Why does this happen and what does it mean? I read somewhere that she thought the nun is a ghost, but why is that relevant? When the movie ended the first time I watched it, I thought to myself, that was weird, although I'm sure I'll find some complex mind blowing explanation online. Nothing. If someone can link me to a great explanation of who that nun is, and what she represents, it would be appreciated.
Okay, so I love this movie just a little! But what's not to love! One Of Hitchcock's greatest movies in my opinion. There are so many good characters in this movie - but I almost think my favorite character is the city of San Francisco. Not really, it's Jimmy Stewart. BUT San Fran sure figures prominently in the movie. What a gorgeous city. Perhaps I'm a little partial because my husband & I spent our honeymoon there 20 years ago. The cinematography alone is worth seeing this movie as it is filmed beautifully. Also, there is some artistic twists like the green lights and haze in Novaks apartment.This movie is definitely a great plot twister the 1st time you see it. It of course loses some of the bang with subsequent viewings since you know the twist. However, subsequent viewings are still enjoyable as I always notice different tidbits and details I didn't catch before.I love Jimmy Stewart in his love-sick puppy, obsession role. I love the title theme music. It starts creating tension right off the bat, and keeps your pulse going throughout the movie, anticipating what is going to happen next.I just recently re-watched the movie (probably my 5-6th time) with my 14 year old daughter, who was seeing it for the first time. I had yet been able to convince her to watch any old, classic movies with me ( too old fashioned in her mind). But for whatever reason, she agreed this time. And what a great 1st classic movie for her to see. I was surprised but she not only stuck with it all the way to the end, but was actually somewhat riveted throughout the movie! What surprised me is she somewhat predicted the ending ahead of time. That kind of shocked me because I never saw it coming the first time I watched.I'm not sure why, but Midge's character creeps me out more with each viewing. Especially the painting scene - she seems like a stalker, obsessed lover. But Bel Geddes plays her beautifully.You definitely have to see this movie. It is one of Hitchcock's best!


                
Perhaps the best word to describe Alfred Hitchcock's "Vertigo" is "bizarre". The film even gives this impression with the twisting imagery and hypnotic music of its title sequence. Next, John Ferguson is introduced as a detective that retires due to his inexorable fear of heights. An old friend of John's contacts him and asks him to investigate his wife's strange behavior, which he explains is a result of supernatural forces. John is skeptical and reluctant, but quickly takes the case and begins to observe a bizarre chain of events.James Stewart plays the role John Ferguson and is effective at portraying the transition from impartial investigator to an increasingly involved and even unnerving one. Kim Novak is also excellent as the enigmatic and sporadic Madeleine Elster. Barbara Bel Geddes is also memorable as Midge, particularly in the "painting" scene.Most of the story doesn't rely on direct plot twists, but rather a methodical investigation of the mystery presented near the film's beginning and the interesting and peculiar behavior of the subject under investigation. The film is well-made such that it doesn't tip its hand early as to the solution to the mystery, but when the film's major twist does come it is brilliant. This methodical approach is effective, although personally I preferred other Hitchcock films that featured more twists over this one. The film's bizarre quality is developed with the help of eerie music and unorthodox effects sequences, including an interesting effect to represent John's fear of heights.


                
The initial critical verdict of Vertigo was that it was not one of Alfred Hitchcock's better films. Time has turned it into his most analyzed and revisited movie and, in the eyes of many, his masterpiece. I still don't subscribe to the opinion that this is Hitchcock's greatest film (give me The Thirty Nine Steps, Foreign Correspondent or North By Northwest) but it is certainly a wonderfully absorbing mystery, and the original indifference that greeted the film from critics and audiences was totally unjust. It takes multiple viewings to fully appreciate what Hitchcock is up to in this movie - it is a sophisticated and multi-layered film that grows in stature the more times you view it.San Francisco cop John "Scottie" Ferguson (James Stewart) has a hair-raising escapade on a rooftop while chasing a robber. Thereafter, he develops vertigo (a fear of heights) and retires from the force. Some while later Scottie is contacted by his old friend Gavin Elster (Tom Helmore) who wants to hire him for a little unofficial private detective work. Elster is worried by his wife's increasingly outlandish behaviour - she seems to go into a dreamy state of mind and wanders off for hours on end without any explanation as to where she has been. Scottie's job is to tail her and learn where she goes. The mystery thickens when Scotties starts following Madeline Elster (Kim Novak).... the more he learns about her and her wanderings, the more it seems that she is possessed by the spirit of her long-deceased ancestor Carlotta Valdes. Eventually Scottie saves Madeline when she tries to drown herself in San Francisco Bay, and soon after they fall in love. But just as Scottie begins to make headway into her psychological problems, she kills herself by leaping from a bell tower. Scottie is left in a state of mental shock but later, following his release from hospital, he bumps into a woman named Judy (Novak again) who is the exact double of Madeline....Hitchcock generates a stunning air of mystery with Vertigo, coaxing brilliant performances from Stewart and Novak and using the location of San Francisco as almost a third leading "character" in his story. Stewart's obsession with Novak, and his descent into madness as he grieves over his inability to protect her, is brilliantly portrayed. As ever - in fact, more so than ever - Hitchcock keeps the audience off-balance with his disorientating camera work, ingenious plotting and atmospheric use of colour. Bernard Herrmann contributes a haunting score (his fourth for Hitchcock) that heightens the passion and suspense even further. The solution when it comes is extremely clever, and proves (as if proof is needed) that Hitchcock has a masterful touch when it comes to clever plot twists. The film's chief drawbacks, for me, are the excessively studied pacing in the first half, and the somewhat abrupt ending. On the whole, though, this is a superb film which is always a pleasure to come back to.
Considered by many to be Hitchcock's masterpiece, "Vertigo" may be tough to warm up to on a first viewing. It's an enigmatic and extremely slow-moving film, and it feels personal in ways that many of Hitchcock's other, more playful movies don't. You get the sense that Hitch is working through his personal demons on screen -- the fetishes and obsessions that played such a major role in so many of his films leading up to "Vertigo" feel like characters in and of themselves here.James Stewart delivers a frightening performance as a man who plunges into a world of weird sexual obsession when a woman with whom he's formed a romantic attachment dies (or seems to). He finds another woman who looks amazingly like the first, and proceeds to force a complete physical makeover on her in an attempt to recreate his former love. Kim Novak plays the two women in her typical icy fashion; for once, her stilted, awkward acting works for a role and comes off as an attribute rather than a liability.In its new remastered life on DVD, "Vertigo" looks stunning. San Francisco and its surroundings are bathed in ethereal, dream-like lighting, and Hitchcock pays more attention to art direction and the use of color than he ever had previously. Also, there's that amazing swirling Bernard Herrmann score that haunts the film, and accompanies one of the most memorable opening credits sequences ever filmed.There are still a number of other Hitchcock films I would rather watch before "Vertigo," and many others that I would qualify as much more fun, but I can't deny that this one certainly has an allure.Grade: A


                
I've seen this movie many times now. First, I thought that basic concept of the story is unique, before or since. Confused identity of course goes back to antiquity, but this treatment is a whole different take on the idea. Second the execution of colors, music, shooting style are breathtaking and still look, for the most part, fresh today. What is must have looked like at the time! By the way the special features on the DVD are also very good.Now for the problems as I see them. First is Jimmy Stewart. He is credible as a police officer and as someone who had lost his nerve, but as someone who falls obsessively in love; I didn't think it was credible. Plus he is too old for Kim Novak.Spoiler below: Are we really to believe that the murder plot was conceived to include pretending to be suicidal, jumping in the ocean, enticing Stewart, and getting him to climb up a set of stairs to "witness" the wrong thing? Told "mystery style" where you find one thing out at a time hides the ridiculousness of this part of the plot, yet it is a crucial part of the story. Could even the great Hitchcock not figure out some more credible way to deal with the story requirements?
The legend that is Alfred Hitchcock needs absolutely no introduction, so I won't waste time with rhetoric. Vertigo is a psychological mystery starring the fantastic James Stewart as John 'Scottie' Ferguson, a retired detective who is approached by an old school/college friend, Gavin Elster, and requested to follow the gentleman's wife, in the vein of a private detective. The reason for the pursuit is the friend's wife Madeleine is acting bizarrely, and Elster believes she is literally possessed by a ghost. She seems to have conscious blackouts and doesn't remember things which have happened to her.Scottie reluctantly gets involved and follows her, studying her intriguing behaviour and trying to figure out what on earth is happening to her, without making contact. However, after a dramatic event at the Golden Gate Bridge, the 2 'meet' and Scottie finds himself getting involved to an unprofessional level...James Stewart, as expected, is spell binding. He truly is the most popular star of all time and with performances like this it was not hard to see why. He brings an everyman personability to every role, and is never less than utterly likable. His down to earth charm is always as gripping as it is believable.Kim Novak, as the troubled Madeleine, is also absolutely excellent in a type of Sugar Cane but-more-serious-type of role as the perfect woman who seems unobtainable. Her slightly austere personality fits the story perfectly.The last major player next to Elster is Midge Wood, a type of live in 'friend' who stays with Scottie. She is also completely besotted with him but it doesn't seem entirely mutual. Balanced but infatuated, her existence is a slightly tortured one.The direction is the 4th major character here, and I say that deliberately. It is quite outstanding, with some truly rich colouring, top class cinematography, and impressive special effects. The world of Vertigo is brought to life by a true master of cinema in Hitchcock.It might not have the claustrophobia or wit of Rear Window, or the horror of Psycho, but it's clearly intended as a movie entirely on its own merits.A great tale and utterly timeless.


                
Having seen Psycho I thought I had seen Hitchcock's best film. This film compares favourably. Vertigo has a great cast, Jimmy Stewart, and Kim Novak. Set in San Francisco with beautiful scenery, a plot unravels where you will be drawn in, and hooked to the conclusion. This is a suspenseful film from beginning to end.This is beautifully filmed, from the camera work, to the use of colour, and the film score adds greatly to the drama. This is a thrilling and clever film. The characters are whole and interesting, and Stewarts performance is compelling, and really marks him as one of the great actors. Kim Novak puts in a performance that is one of the best leads I've seen by a female actress.All round this is a wonderful, delightful film, with a in depth look at the human psyche, that has a strong resonance.Doesn't get a 10 because, i'm a film buff and very stingy.


                
From the very start, Saul Bass's innovative introduction, reportedly the first ever to use computer graphics, sets the film's overall circular motif in motion. The physically debilitating condition of vertigo, which is triggered by the central character's acrophobia, is the engine that generates all of the events that follow.Several reviewers here focus on this film's status as "number one" among at least some lists devised by critics who actually dare to rank movies, and these same writers spend an inordinate amount of time and effort challenging its high position. For what it's worth, I have created a list of my favorite 150 movies of all time, and "Vertigo" is right there along with seven other of Alfred Hitchcock's greatest masterpieces, but I personally find the numerical ranking of movies, including the best of them, to be all but impossible. How could I rank the movies that I love the most? I find it interesting that Bernard Hermann based his remarkable, ever changing musical score on the Wagner opera, "Tristan and Isolde". Although I am not an opera expert, that music has always suggested a circular motion much in the same way that Hermann's score, especially the opening theme, creates the dizzying sensation that the physical condition of vertigo produces in its victims. James Stewart, Kim Novak, and Barbara Bel Geddes are excellent in their roles, especially Stewart, whose character, John (Scotty) Ferguson, experiences a wide range of powerful and complicated psychological conditions, which could not have been easy to portray. Regardless of how Hitchcock was reported to feel about her performance, I believe that Novak brings just the right amount of mystery, intricacy, and physical beauty to both Madeleine and Judy. Lana Turner, also considered for the lead, would not have offered the same depth and complexity to the role. I also appreciated supporting cast members Ellen Corby as the cautious and peculiar apartment house manager (did she know more than what she appeared to know?) and Henry Jones as the anal retentive trial official who publicly humiliates Ferguson in a devastatingly cruel way.In addition to the excellent direction, musical score, and acting, the magnificent cinematography of Robert Burks, who maximizes the photogenic setting of San Francisco and its picturesque surroundings, and the intelligent screenplay by Samuel A. Taylor have kept "Vertigo" on my own list of favorites after nearly six decades and many repeated viewings. Just don't ask me to rank it.
Vertigo is one of the perfect examples of a film that will always stand the test of time and one that should never be remade. Alfred Hitchcock is a genius and has many excellent films under attached to his resume. Psycho is the one synonymous with his name but Vertigo is arguably his best directed piece. Scottie Ferguson (Jimmy Stewart) is a retired detective who dwells over a failed case. An old friend, Gavin Elster (Tom Helmore), goes to Scottie and asks him to investigate his wife, Madeleine Elster (Kim Novak), who he thinks is cheating on him. Scottie accepts with the hope this will allow him to put the past to rest, but it turns into a twisted obsession that engulfs him. This film was glossed over at the Academy Awards in 1959. But today the film will always stick out for its directing, the superb screenplay, and the amazing performance of Jimmy Stewart. These factors make this film a classic and give it top shelf status even still, today. Vertigo sets the bar for a lot of thrillers today and many directors and writers have taken lessons and paid homage to this film. If you haven't seen this film yet, don't read anything about it. Go into the movie and get lost in where the story takes you.


                
