This is the most daring, out there, hilarious show on Basic Cable TV.Dave Chappelle has taken a bit of everything out there, put it in comedic sketches and has driven them off the cliff. Make no mistake, for the weak hearted, some of his sketches will offend some folks, but for the rest of us, this is one of the funniest programs of the new season. Comedy Central did "good" in presenting this guy a show.Some of my favorite drop dead funny highlights from his first season (and I rate as must not miss...) sketches are "Ask a Black Dude" with Mr. Paul Mooney, "Ask A Gay Dude" with Mario, the "Pop Copy Training Video", "The Real World" spoof (Which is the most funniest spoof I've seen on this EVER!), the "Pretty Woman" spoof of 'if these movies were real life', the really out there "FrontLines" spoofs (The Hollywood animal one and the backwoods writer one are to die for!), the "World is Comming to an End Presidential Press Conference" and...the "Reparations" spoof had me on the floor in laughter.I sure hope Comedy Central remembers to turn in some of these to Emmy Voters, they are funny -- I cannot wait to see Chappelle present more of this in additional seasons.


                
The biggest disappointment in television history is the that this show only really lasted 2 dang seasons! Probably the greatest sketch comedy show ever made, however brief, and unfortunately Dave couldn't handle it. The big wigs should be ashamed of themselves for not stepping back and letting him do his thing. As Chappelle said they came in while he was filming and he didn't like the way they were laughing at him, not with him. Keep hoping one day he will return but it will probably never happen.


                
Brilliant, clever, irreverent, incendiary, thought-provoking, comedy.A show full of skits and stand-up, hosted by and starring Dave Chappelle. The skits are incredibly original, intelligent, left-field and funny, often covering topical issues like race relations, drugs, personal relationships, Prince and Rick James... Very edgy, and clearly for the open-minded. If you're a bigot and/or easily offended, best to not watch it...Pick of the skits, for me, would be from S1 E1 - Clayton Bigsby, the black White Supremacist. He's blind... Not only funny but also shows the irrationality and absurdity of racism.


                
The Chappelle show is a Three season long sketch comedy show hosted by Dave Chappelle. The series is closely related to Key and Peel in the sense of how the show works. The Show is made up of different skits put together for a 30 minute episode. Dave Chappelles creates high quality skits. Most of his skits involve celebrities, comedians, and movie stars that were popular around the episodes launch. Some of his appearances include Charlie Murphy, Rick James, Red Man, Lil Jon and many more. The Chappelle show is the most popular Comedy DVD to ever be released. The first day season one was released it grossed over 1 million dollars. Although the show was very popular not everyone agreed with his style of comedy. Most of Daves skits are vulgar and mature ,some episodes even deal with racism. If this is a turn off for you then you should look elsewhere for sketch comedy because this show is not for you. Another show related to this is the Key and Peele show. Both shows are made up of sketches and put together to make an episode. The Chappelle show is more popular than Key and Peele show but everyone will have an opinion on which is better. In my opinion the Chappelle show is better because his sketches are well thought out, planned, and executed. I highly recommend buying the Chappelle show. I got all three seasons brand new for a low price of $20, an amazing price for the amount of gut busting laughter you will have from watching this show.


                
When i heard of the Chappelle's Show i saw 1 sketch about a man name Clayton Bigsby a Black white supremacist LOLL! how is that possible? the man was blind and in the shelter for blind kids the nurses and the Doctors decide to tell him that he was white because it would be easier for him with the other kids because he was the only African-American and he grow up to become a white supremacist spokesman, publish 4 books with tittles like (smell like "N" Word) all about white supremacy and in his public appearances he uses the Ku Klux Klan hood so nobody knew that he was black until... Well you have to see it ; But that was it for me ,I'm addicted to his unapologetic ,racist (to all races) stereotypical , dark and clever humor and his impersonations are amazing I just found itIf you are looking for good comedy this is your cup of tea I have stomachache of how much I have laughed in the last 3 hours I just finish first season Buy it ,download it ,youtube it whatever just watch is unbelievable...Im rich bitch!!! LOL


                
Dave Chappelle is a genius. He takes racist stereotypes and skewers them in the funniest ways imaginable. Some critics say he is too foul mouthed and crude, but walk into any middle school in America and you'll hear 11-year-olds saying worse stuff than he does. Dave is a brilliant comic and it's a shame this hilarious show didn't last longer. If you've never seen it, SEE IT!! Some of the best sketches:"Black Bush"- Dave imagines what it would be like if President Bush was black. The part about the UN was superb."Trading Spouses"- Trading Spouses has gone interracial with hilarious results!"World Series of Dice"- Live from the Marcy Projects in Brooklyn, New York!"Clayton Bigsby"- oh my goodness, BREAHTAKINGLY HILARIOUS!!! How did Dave think of something so clever, so perfect as a blind, black white supremacist?"The Mad Real World"- that was so funny I was in tears. "The Niggar Family"- a hilarious and surprisingly insightful look at racial epithets"True Hollywood Stories": the Rick James one is hilarious, but the Prince one is really funny, too, especially if you are a Prince fan.And the best of all:"The Racial Draft"- the funniest thing I've seen in a long, long time. Watch Chappelle's Show and you won't be disappointed!


                
As shows like Mad TV and Mind of Mencia finally see their ends, one must look back on Chappelle's Show and wonder what comedy television would be like today if Chappelle didn't get burned out and leave the show. Believe it - Comedy Central wasn't paying him ridiculous money because the show was just good. It was and will always be LEGENDARY.Most sketch comedy shows are hit and miss. Kids in the Hall and SNL in its prime in the late 80s and early 90s are the closest that shows have come to the hilarity that is Chappelle's Show. Only Chappelle can turn an already legendary figure Rick James into a whole new level of legend, absolutely REAM R. Kelly, beautifully spoof both Law & Order and the reality of white collar crime vs. ghetto crime in one fell swoop, and after leaving the show, have a 2Pac skit that's easily among the best skits he's ever done solidify his legacy (notice the tremendous irony in that?!). There is no unwatchable Chappelle's Show episode...even if some skits aren't THAT funny, almost all of them are at least somewhat funny, and there's generally at least one very funny skit in each episode if not most or all of them. There's more than enough horrible entire shows of SNL, Mad TV, and Frank TV.Most shows start off weak before they hit their stride (most pilot episodes of shows are ironically pretty bad compared to the rest of their runs) but Chappelle had probably one of the strongest outlandishly funny pilots of any show ever (South Park is pretty close). There was no doubt that something special was going on right from the get-go, and Chappelle never failed to deliver.Some people would say perhaps it's best that the show didn't live a long life because most shows that have age like an old ballplayer still believing they can outplay everyone else. I think any true fan of the show would disagree...Chappelle has been a funny guy since back in the Robin Hood: Men In Tights and Half-Baked days and I'm pretty sure he would have still kept his knack for comedy for many more years if he kept the show going. Still, it's his show, his wish, and at the least we can thank him for 2 brilliant years and the extras that came afterward.


                
Dave Chappelle is one of the funniest working comedians. His style in his stand-up is sometimes topical, but mostly he ruses on a lot of different topics, like race, pot, women/relationships, celebrities, etc. This sort of mold then went into his television show, which he co-created and co-wrote with Neal Brennan. I knew from the first episode that this would be a good series, because quite frankly it was a true knockout (it's climax was the Klu-Klux Klan skit, where Chappelle played Clayton Bigsby, a blind white supremacist). One of the treats of the show though was watching him make fun of celebrities, especially the more eccentric, popular, and deranged ones. The 'Rick James' bit is now almost over-praised at this point (although there is still much about it that's laugh-out-loud funny), but also his imitations of P. Diddy, Lil' John, Tiger Woods, OJ Simpson, are perfectly tuned to get the laughs at the most random and absurd points. The sketches on rappers and relationships also are knockouts (like the Trading Spouses sketch or the Wu Tang cameos). While it is hit or miss with the musical acts he brings on towards the end, the satire makes up for it. There's even one or two sketches with Half Baked homages. So it's a very ideal purchase to get either season 1 or 2 (especially because its uncensored, and from his stand-up I've learned its twice the laughs), or to just tune in the several times a week Comedy Central plays the episodes. One can hope that if Chappelle doesn't return to the show at all, he'll come back with something that can be as entertaining and hilarious as this was (err, is).


                
This show is the most politically-incorrect, racist, dirty, raunchy, vulgar, and just plain wrong show on TV...but god DAMN is it hilarious. Once you get by the fact that Dave Chappelle is pushing the limit on what he can do on TV and put yourself in a mode that isn't reality, then you're ready to watch Chappelle's Show.In this show, Dave Chappelle hosts and writes the show, which contains various and reoccurring sketches that make fun of celebrities (Rick James, Prince, President Bush, Lil Jon, R. Kelly, Samuel L. Jackson, Tiger Woods), other TV shows (Fear Factor, Real World, World Series of Dice (from WSoPoker)), almost every race (White People Dancing, Niggar Family, Racial Draft, 3rd World Girls Gone Wild) and society in general (Chappelle For Office, Real Life Internet). He does this in brilliant ways. He even makes fun of himself occasionally. He also has one of the best consistent casts in the TV biz, with Bill Burr, and Donnell Rawlings, reoccurring guests, such as Karl Lake, Charlie Murphy, and Paul Mooney, and big name guests including Chris Rock, Rick James, John Mayer, Ron Jeremy, Wayne Brady, Eddie Griffin, and Lil Jon. You also see a variety of musical guests with John Mayer, Kanye West, Big Boi, Common, Anthony Hamilton, Ludicrous, and the Wu Tang Clan.Never before has there been a funnier show on TV. Once you realize that Chappelle isn't trying to start conflict, you can sit back and relax to the hilarity of Chappelle's Show. 10/10 No Doubt.


                
The Dave Chappelle Show is so funny! They had lots of skits that I thought were just hilarious!Like some of my favorite Dave Chappelle skits are:The Niggar FamilyWorld Series DiceTime HatersSamuel Jackson BeerWhen Keeping It Real Goes WrongTyrone's Fear FactorMy Baby's MommaBlackzillaMaking the BandChappelle PhoneThe Real MatrixReal Deep Impact and lots more!I watch this show a lot on Comedy Central and when I am done watching it I just can't stop laughing because Dave Chappelle always hits my funny bone! This show premiered on Comedy Central, January 2003.BOTTOM LINE: I CAN"T STOP LAUGHING!User Rating: 10/10


                
Dave Chappelle has done what many have failed to do well. He has created a GREAT show based of exaggerations of reality. I have always been a Chappelle fan from day one and the first episode I had ever saw was just confirmation of his comic genius.He covers all the topics that have been covered a million times since the inception of TV comedy but it always has such a completely original flare to it you don't feel cheated like you are hearing recycled jokes. Thats hard to do in a world loaded with great comedians.I watch the show every chance I get and even have some of my favorite clips downloaded on my computer so I can watch them over and over. He nails the people he impersonates to a T.Charlie Murphy is a great addition to the show. He has a very talented actor that surprisingly enough didn't make it big until Chappele show. Where have you been hiding all these years Charlie? If you watch this show be prepared to laugh you aZZ off and hope that there is an hour of it scheduled. Because if you watch 30 minutes of it you are gonna be begging for more.I do not think there is a funnier television show in existence. Kudos to Dave for leaving when he felt he was being immoral. He chose to be a good person then to take more money and go against his standards of morality. Just be glad he gave us the great gift of comedy at all. Thanks Dave.


                
Dave Chappelle is a genius! This show is full of "skits" and i cant remember one that didn't make me laugh. The show does a lot of racial jokes, "they kid about racists and racism, not actual racist jokes" and Chappelle pulls it off every time. I cant remember how many times i watched the episodes over again. Me and my friends always talk about this show, we talk about the different skits and its almost as funny as when i first saw them. If you haven't seen Chappelle's Show, you better! You wont be disappointed unless your a racist or humor paralyzed. This is the best comedy show i have ever seen, with runner ups like Seinfeld, Simpsons, The Office etc etc.


                
The Chappelle is just brilliant. Especially Season 2. I was hard pressed to find a skit that I didn't throughly enjoy. Its timely humour combined with timeless social commentary. The musical guest appearances where amazing. I really enjoyed performance by Kanye West and Common. I didn't the any of the skits form the "Lost Episodes a.k.a. what was supposed to Season Three". Don't get me wrong. Charlie Murphy and Downell Rawlings are very funny. They are great character actors that are part of a brilliant ensemble cast but only Dave Chappelle can really do these skits just with his monologues. I am not a fan of the way the media seemed to portray Chappelle as having a emotional breakdown because he couldn't handle the pressure. This was how it seemed to be spun to me. Chappelle was given a boatload of money by Comedy Cental for season three. Chappelle went to Africa because he "crazy". Give me break. This show stands on its own. I really believe that he didn't walk away from his show because of the pressure. I think he betrayed philosophically by a number of people around. Especially Comedy Central. That is why he felt that he had to make "Block Party". To explain his actions to his fans. Isn't about brand extension or merchandising? Its about people. A connection between himself and his fans. His material spoke to me personally. Made me think. He could really mix it up. He wasn't one dimensional in the sense that he would strictly use stand-up comedy or throw in a random joke here and there to "spice things up".


                
This show is up there with one of my funniest shows I've ever witnessed after just watching only one episode. i have to say that even though the program is immature and racist i couldn't stop laughing it was that dam funny. also Dave Chapelle is one of the funniest comedians I've seen and heard in a long time and he is the one that makes this show worth watching.This was my first time watching this show and after hearing bad things about it being racist and unfunny i cant believe i listened to them and watched the show a long time ago.I will definitely watch this again and cant wait until the next series.overall this show gets a easy ten out of ten absolute cracker of a show which i hope keeps running in years to come and i hope that Dave can keep up the great work.


                
Without a doubt, Dave Chappelle, along with his superb writers, have created a small space in this day and age of over-censored television, where anything goes and laughter is always the final product. If you are inclined to dislike the humor in racism, do not watch this show because your head would explode. If the thought of a black-blind-white-supremacist sounds like something you would find amusing, go ahead and watch Dave work his exaggerated magic. Remember Eddie Murphey? Well Charlie Murphey, Eddie Murphey's brother, spices things up with his favorite Hollywood stories and guest star Paul Mooney, delivers a clear-cut hit with his improv-comedy. I recommend this show to all viewers, with an appetite for comedy criticizing the social and political problems of our GREAT country.


                
