This show is beyond funny. Dave Chappelle is hilarious. I like his brand of comedy. He has the jokes and sketches that make everything funny. I love his Tupac sketch with that song. That was the funniest sketch he has done. I couldn't stop laughing through the whole thing. I also like some of his early season episodes too. Dave Chappelle has starred in some countless funny movies. This show features some of the funniest episodes of comedy made so far. I think he should make another season but that is my opinion. All in all this show is one of the funniest shows i've seen. Also When the Chappelle Show first came on Comedy Central, I was amazed that they were able to air it. It made so many racist jokes that I thought for sure it wouldn't\'t last 3 episodes.


                
There's no way I would call Chappelle's Show the funniest show ever, but as far as sketch-comedy, it achieves far more than the recent years of MAD TV and Saturday Night Live. From Dave's impersonations as Rick James, Prince, and Samuel L. Jackson, there's truly a laugh-a-minute with those bits. The comedy can fall flat in some skits, as it goes too far in raunchiness and loses the comedic effect intended -- but this is rare. Dave's skits are hilarious, from The Mad Real World to Charlie Murphy's True Hollywood Stories, there's a lot to enjoy.All in all, while Chappelle's Show ended very prematurely, what episodes remain are enough to garner repeat viewing -- I recommend maybe once every six-months, so that the comedic genius remains. Definitely watch this show; white, black, orange, blue -- this show is for everyone.
My summary line comes from(if you count compilation shows as episodes)the amount of shows this ran for it's two year,two and a half(really)seasons. A shame,really,because between all the material that's out there,and the fertile minds of Chappelle and his writing co-horts(among them co-producer and writing partner Neal Brennan and Charlie Murphy),there could've been so much more than that amount of shows.But alas,between DAve's lack of enchantment of being on a television production rigors and routines(he claimed he never wanted to do more than two seasons)and the network(Comedy Central)'s demand for more shows on THEIR schedule,this show was probably doomed to only go so long. Still,that shouldn't ruin one's enjoyment of the gutsy,edgy comedy supplied here(if anything,it might ENHANCE it)which featured equal parts sketch comedy based out of celebrity parody(riffs on Prince,rapper Lil'Jon,R.Kelly and Samuel L.Jackson stick out)and sly social commentary(his take on shows like "Law and Order" and "Thje Real Wrold "spring to mind). I think I may be interested in checking out the DVD's for extras,suspecting that there may be extra material where that came from. A show that need not be missed,since syndication(WGN,among others)has kept this show circulating. Highly recommended!


                
Comedy Central is usually hit or miss. Sometimes they have shows that start out very good, but lose their lust along the way (RENO 911). However, once in a while they strike gold, and this was one of those shows. Up until this show Dave Chappelle had little fame. Sure, he was in Half Baked, but not that many people have even seen Half Baked. At any rate, he is now probably one of the most famous people in America, and for good reason. He and co-writer Neal Brennan have created a show with a formula that allows them to do just about anything they want whenever they want and it is as close to genius as a modern TV show has come.These two comedians have accomplished more in 2 seasons than South Park accomplished in 6. Outside of a few near misses, this show is funny with everything it does. It is a political, social, racial, and every other comedy out there; it parodies everything almost perfectly. I do not think you can find a kid anywhere in America who doesn't know what, "I'm Rick James, bitch!" comes from. The only parts I do not like are the musical guests, but that is because I am not a hip-hop fan, but it is very easy to ignore.9/10 Brilliant!


                
I just couldn't help but comment on this show. It's clever. Everything is. It's a show full of sketches, and less of the chit chat you get on Mind of Mencia.My favorite, the R Kelly skit, when he was caught urinating on a teenager. Very funny. I also love the one about the president when he confesses to the press after everyone finds out a meteor is going to hit hurt that he made contact with the aliens, we didn't make cellphones, he cloned people, and so on. Very funny sketch. Wouldn't be funny if it really happened, though.I also love the "Ask A Black Man" thing. I don't think it's offensive one bit in my opinion. I love the guy who answers the questions, whatever his name is.I recommend this show for anyone.. Well, anyone mature enough to watch it.
