I can't believe how weak the storyline is in this latest series (shown on BBC January 2019).It is so weak and predictable with the characters being very unbelievable.I used to like Luther but struggle to watch this rubbish!Have the scriptwriters changed?


                
Since I'm a sucker for British productions, I was misled by the ratings and tried to watch the series. I really liked the play of Elba, the settings are in London which is my favorite metropolis and the direction is actually at Hollywood level. So, why the heck didn't they pay attention to the script. - I really find it very hard to believe that police officers don't carry handguns in Britain. Even if that is true, they made it look too easy for a maniac to kill a group of policemen throughout the second episode, until Luther Almighty disarmed him with plain reason. - In episode 3, the unarmed police officer policy reach to another level, when the serial- satanic killer surrenders to unarmed Luther, after confronting him with... arguments. - and finally, in episode 5, my last, he goes to arrest the kidnapper/multiple murderer with a holy bible. He succeeds of course, but doesn't bring the suspect in, because his trusted long time friend/colleague kills the suspect from point blank, fails to hit Luther from 2 feet away, escapes the crowded hotel without being caught on any cameras or seen by any witness, continue to kill people (like Luther's wife) and manages to incriminate somehow Luther, with every disregard to other evidence such as call records. Well, that was the last episode for me, because I totally lost interest.The script is lame and it's really a pity, cause every other part of the production is quite well. Such a disappointment comparing it with "the wire".
Where to start? The latest series of this (once promising) police drama has, after several series, reached rock bottom.
Shots fired on a busy London street? No problem :- apparently no one heard.
Detached home in affluent neighbourhood houses a gang of gun toting villains ? :- don't worry, nobody notices.
Warehouses, suburban homes, city streets and back gardens play host to death, torture, fire and explosion? :- not one call from a concerned witness.
A police force appears to consist of just 4 officers ( and a bunch of SWAT guys who arrive late).
This is an insult- preposterous nonsense which (please God) is now, like Alice, finally dead.
It's a shame that potentially very good series with very good actors have to rely on bloody and cruel scenes. A lot of other series rely on the same. Unfortunately it's what people rate as the best, so the problem is with a lot of sick people. Commercially oriented producers have to satisfy that sick people. I started looking at other series with lower rates but not so sick. One of them is The Chicago Code and I hope is not going to the same, looking for that sick ratings.Is it possible to have good series that don't rely on sick and cruel scenes? You can see series with very hard topics and themes that doesn't need to exploit morbidness and explicitly show the cruelty and sickness of human beings.It looks like humanity is going backwards in relations to moral issues.


                
I had hard time even finishing the very first episode. Ruth Wilson looks obnoxious af. Too bad since Idris Elba's character was interesting to watch.


                
I waste my time watching season 5, it was very boring and the story is the same of season 4 and become more stupid and Contains nothing also the story of Alison become so fatuously, Shame on you!!


                
Spoilers. First episode shows a dog who has been shot several times in the face by the woman that owns him, blowing his head apart so she can hide a gun in his body. By the end of the second episode, Luther is having coffee with this deplorable woman. Luther is unlikable and the woman is vile. Match made in heaven. But I'm not watching. I can't watch a show where there is no one to root for. Disgusting animal violence.
