Let me be clear, I despise police or detective shows. It just doesn't do it for me. They throw in a new criminal each episode to fill up most of the time and add a little bit of main story progression at the very end of the episode, leaving it to the season finale to wrap things up in ONE good episode.Luther does not do this. Luther is a ride that relentlessly takes you through a thick plot. The story is compelling and realistic. The acting is of class (I really like Idris Elba). The music choice at certain parts of the show is so fitting that a smile makes its way on my face amidst the gruesome storyline. I just think this show is spectacular.I understand that for a lot of viewers, certain scenes of this show are difficult to watch. I consider myself capable of handling some pretty nasty stuff, but some parts even got to me. I applaud this show for being the first one in many years to give me that effect.I would recommend this show to anyone. I truly hope it continues.


                
What's remarkable about "Luther" is how series creator Neil Cross takes a rag-tag bag of clichés--brilliant but damaged rogue cop, long-suffering boss, genius killer, etc.--and makes it all seem so fresh. Of course, having the fantastic Idris Elba helps immeasurably. He doesn't just act the part of Luther; he is Luther, fully inhabiting the role and moving like a force of nature through every scene. This is one of those rare times where you see an actor's innate intelligence and physicality used perfectly. (Watching Luther decompensate, as he does at various times over the story arc, is really something to see.) Elba is matched every step of the way by Ruth Wilson, playing a sort of female Hannibal Lector--brilliant, amoral, remorseless, scary, and, I daresay, sexy. She and Elba make quite a pair, and their interplay is priceless.Finally, it's worth noting that this series, while ostensibly a cop show, has its own look and feel. It plays more like a beautifully filmed, weird morality play. (Cross makes the point that Luther believes in only two things, life and love, though the viewer will quickly see that, despite his damaged psyche and emotional baggage, he also ultimately believes in himself.) Some may think that it's just insane, far-fetched, and way over the top. (which it sometimes is if you look closely and cynically). But I think that it exudes a unique vibe. Take a look at the impressionistic opening credits with Massive Attack on the soundtrack, and you'll know right up front that this is something special.


                
Bias, it's a terrible thing I know but I have to admit I AM biased,biased against police drama's, for me they signify the apathy and mediocrity at the heart of British and American television. However, occasionally along comes a series that sits so far above the grey landscape of indifference that it blinds by the light of it's creativity, one such show is the British drama 'Luther'. The show's direction takes the viewer helter skelter into the very heart and soul of John Luther, a dedicated senior police officer in a constant struggle to retain his moral compass because he dares to use questionable methods to ensure justice for victims of the most brutal crimes within a labyrinthine bureaucracy of a legal system whose very existence seems intent in ensuring the path towards a successful arrest and conviction is as difficult as possible.Idris Elba is excellent at portraying this wrought, fallible but noble detective John Luther, which reflects once again how far Elba's acting range can reach post The Wire. The audio track is charged, insightful and electric, employing talents such as Emiliana Torrini and her track 'Gun'. One of the more interesting back stories is the role of Alice Morgan, a young multiple murderess (played brilliantly by Ruth Wilson) who gives Luther chilling insight into the minds of his suspects while challenging him on sexual, intellectual and moral levels, intent on drawing him further inwards to the heart of her passion, John can see this, it both frightens and attracts him leaving the audience on a constant cliff-edge awaiting his fate. 'Luther' reminds me of 'the number 23' and how obsession can destroy and destroy utterly taking everything and everyone with it.A triple A show among E-average competition.


                
I have watched countless TV shows from the US and the UK and this is by far one of the better written shows. It is not fully packed of twists and turns but the actor who plays 'Alice' is pure evil genius. She alone takes the show from being 'just good' to fantastic! Overall it is worth watching and much better than any other police show I have found in recent years, with a possible exception of 'Dexter' (US TV show).Without giving too much away it is a story about a 'troubled' police officer who is highly skilled at his job, however has to deal with many issues. Throughout the show he comes across as very self-contained with a few outbursts of anger; these highlight his frustrations of the harsh situations for which he has been placed.Sadly the series is only 6 episodes and I am truly hoping for a second series. For this, I will be keeping my out for! However some of the best shows only ever have one season of pure genius as not to ruin them. I suspect that this may be the case here, even though I do feel there is room to extend the story at least into another 6 episodes of series 2.


                
Okay, it's been a while since i actually saw a series I liked so much. England doesn't churn out amazing movies or TV programmes by the dozen, but when they get 'em right, they get 'em perfect. And Luther is one of those gems.A very gritty setting, and perfect execution for a detective series. Each character is very detailed and constantly evolving and growing with Idris Elba playing DCI Luther, constantly fighting his own deamons and a rich cast of characters who make his life 'interesting'.This is a true gem of a series, and in true British style, ends the first series only after 6 episodes, leaving you wanting more and more.


                
Now I love detective series, and tuned in to Luther expecting something interesting. And did I get that? Yes I did and even more than that. It mayn't be the best programme ever, but over the past six weeks or so it was one of the better programmes airing.The violence is shocking I agree, I admit I had to look away when a woman was abused in one episode. But it is not exactly happy families, the violence in Luther is gritty and suited the tone of the series well. The stories were well written, unpredictable and quite nail-biting and the writing is intelligent and fairly humorous in spots. The series is also strikingly filmed, with a dark edge to it and the direction is solid.And the acting is very, very good, as they bring to life interesting characters who have flaws but we get to like them. For example, Luther is fairly unorthodox, but he is also troubled and dedicated so the character grows on you like the series. Idris Elba gives a charismatic lead performance, while Ruth Wilson almost steals the show from under him seamlessly as Alice and Steven Mackintosh is charming as DCI Reed. The villains are outlandish in their motives, but they do maintain interest too. Overall, Luther is a very interesting detective series, and also very compelling and absorbing. 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
When i heard that Idris Elba was doing a BBC series i almost hoped it would be a one season-er, but i have to admit this is probably the most enjoyable BBC series in years. Finally a show that relates to the real life of a copper instead of the stupid mistakes we always can identify on shows like CSI, sorry David Caruso but you cannot act for a toffee, not even a bland one. One thing that makes this show so unique is its reality, not all of the episode is committed to the case and its interests, some how it still makes time to experience the personal problems of a copper with people breathing down his neck 24/7. All in all i take my hat off to this show and hail for some more episodes in the near future!!!


                
Nothing is perfect, of course, but, for interesting characters and good plot development, I have to say this is an excellent series.The character of Alice is particularly well nuanced. Luther himself, of course, is brilliant. Naturally has has the usual flawed, but clever detective characteristics, but it's better than that, the back-plot with his wife is well orchestrated.spoiler -The bent copper is convincingly unbent almost until the last moment. The frame looks so well constructed that you can't see how Luther could get out of it.Yes, yes, there are some real needs for a suspension of disbelief, but the production quality means that you're happy to go along with themI'm really looking forward to the next in the series - that there has to be.
I remember when British television was laughable, and not in a good way. I loved Dr. Who, and Monty Python Beyond that forget it. I saw them on my local PBS station. Now, thank goodness for BBC America! There is some good stuff here! Oh, sorry! I'm rambling again! LUTHER! Great show! John Luther is a brilliant detective with a lot of inner demons. He has a boss who tries to keep him grounded but usually gives in to his unorthodox approach to his methods and he gets the job done. Yea, yea we seen that before. But the actors really sell me on this. There is something about Idris Elba that I really like. In fact I had no idea that was him in 'The Reaping' (maybe because of the American accent) and I liked him in that too. He has an honesty about him that like. On the flip side Ruth Wilson is fantastic as Alice Morgan, the super intelligent psychotic unofficial partner of Luther's.The show itself is really entertaining and you really get into it. Unlike many of the cop shows that I grew up with it's not filled with car chases, fist fights, or gun battles. It really is deep.Some of the classic American shows like "All In the Family", "Three's Company", just to name a few were based on British television shows and did well in their own right. However I hope nobody touches this show and Americanize it. I can only imagine what they would do to it. Look at "Top Gear USA"! If you live in the states and have access to this show I recommend that you give it a try and see what a television show should be.


                
My Review of "Luther" Essentially a crime drama, "Luther" provides us with entertainment on various levels. The show can be quite dark at times, even for a crime drama. In the various episodes of season 1, we follow DCI John Luther(played by Idris Elba), a troubled and brilliant chief inspector, in his daily life.We see him returning to the police force to catch killers, and there is his relationship with Zoe Luther, his ex-wife, that also demands a lot of him. He balances solving tough cases with his marital problems, a dangerous combination for a man that's as emotionally unbalanced as he is.To make matters worse for John, Alice Morgan commits the perfect murder, and he finds her oddly fascinated with him. She keeps meddling herself in John's life, and they form a very unique, yet unhealthy relationship. This cat-and-mouse game forms the mythology of the first season, as John vows to take Alice down; very refreshing for a crime series, because this show -- unlike other shows -- balances between case and mythology in a way that's rarely seen.The writing, the acting, and the fast-paced direction make every episode of "Luther" incredibly entertaining. Aside from many crime shows, this isn't strictly a procedural; you will get to see plenty of John's troubled life, too. I commend this show for maintaining such a good balance, whilst simultaneously keeping interest for the case at hand, his marital issues, and the mythology -- that's pretty hard to do.The last episode of season one ends with a cliffhanger, one that I anticipated on, though liked tremendously. There is still a lot left to explore, so bring on season two.
The show may on the surface, seem quite cliché for modern-day series; it is set in a big city with a troubled, yet brilliant detective who's obsession with catching the dead renders him almost insane, and a questionable relationship with a psychopathic killer. Despite that, Luther's eccentricity differentiates itself among the normal cop as he appears, at many times, seemingly normal. It is only when a case comes along, or his wife files for a divorce, when Luther's character begins to shift into a more kooky one. The show also captures the 'real' atmosphere of London, whether it be the constant wails of police sirens or just the grey weather and council houses. In that respect, it doesn't exactly adopt the traditional commodities of a regualar TV show which is somewhat refreshing. Alice, who is played by Ruth Wilson is an excellent addition to the TV show as over time, as Luther becomes less and less occupied as to what he 'should' feel about Alice, they develop a sweet, unorthodox relationship. It is worth mentioning that Idris Elba does a brilliant job of capturing Luther's personality.The element of corruption within the police force and 'dirty cop' label that has been attached to John makes the show more noteworthy and there are a number of plot twist and adjustments that will leave you on the edge of your seat. There aren't a great number of episodes which speaks more to the time the production team has spent on each episode - but is nonetheless unfortunate.Overall the show does a great job of keeping the mundane and realistic aspects of a policemen/ policewomen's job in London, without losing any sense of urgency and action. Other than Alice being portrayed as a psychopath due to her saying perverse things with a sly face, which is admittedly not entirely pragmatic, it is both authentic, realistic. And its brilliant - Alice included.


                
Luther and Alice are outstanding!!!! These two have kept me looking and waiting for this show!! I am so glad for it's return. They are very talented and have been watching everything I can find with them in it after seeing them do such an incredible job in Luther!!!!


                
Is the best cop show I have ever seen. Luther is loyal to the law he serves, but he says and does what everybody else is afraid of doing but wished they had to guts to do. The Henry Madsen episode was riveting. He struggles with his ethics but he has an internal, deep compass inside of him that guides him. And his strange, but fascinating relationship with Alice is amazing to watch. She is a female version of him in a way. Their loyalty to one another is weirdly admirable and one that should continue. I would like to see Idris Elba in a Luther movie and I would love to see him play Luther until he is old and gray because nobody could replace him.


                
This Show is absolutely mind blowing please hurry up with season 2.... I watched season 1 and really looking forward too season 2... Whats the hold up guys........ i watched it on Netflix back 2 back in one day and now i am sitting here wondering what too watch..Six episodes was not enough the suspense kept me going i didn't even wanna get of the sofa. I give Luther 5 stars any day and Alice she really played th at roll to a tea.Don't tell me that there is only gonna be one season if it is u guys are really slipping hurry up and start season 2 and put it on Netflix please while u have every bodies attention...You guys have a outstanding cast.I can tell i really like this show because i didn't even wanna budge thank God is was a free day for me or else i would of been in a lot of trouble.


                
I can't say I've written many reviews for television programs but this demands an exception! "Luther" is simply the best television I've ever seen, period! Perfect casting and high quality performances from the entire cast! It's rare to find such excellent talent meld together and produce such a well, crafted detective series such as this one. Idris Elba is the stalwart, volcanic leader of the cast. His humanity is actually the star of the show as he's unlike any other detective show character. His intricate understanding of human nature puts him at risk as he struggles to keep a hopeful, optimistic viewpoint of humanity.His main battle is not apprehending the criminals he must bring to justice; but the never-ending struggle to prevent himself from being mired and eventually drowned in cynicism. Luther is a man who struggles to hold onto all the redeeming things that make life worth living. I highly recommend this first rate series and can't wait to see the next season.


                
Is not surprising that none Idris Elba has this performance so complete. For those who accompanied the wire Idris knows he has talent and that talent is how can internalize the characters.Luther's a fairly comprehensive series on everything from the scenery passing by the argument ending in production. And one thing not many series that have the interest and addiction from the first minute until the presentation of the next episode.I just hope luther continue this level of quality and not get lost as many series which have 23/24 episodes with no content and only with a money order.Idris Elba rulezzz


                
This show will grab you and make you watch. It is more than a crime drama. I think TV shows started using multiple themes or multiple stories to keep your interest in the 90's. Now, this show uses the main crime drama story, excellent character sub stories, and intertwines them in a way not seen before. They also are willing to cross lines that other shows are not willing to cross, but in an odd way.Rather than read my review. I would just go watch it. The 2 seasons are short but excellent. Idris Elba is really awesome and creates this intelligent, neurotic, confused hero that is really easy to side with and latch on to. The show operates on multiple levels which keeps me interested too. The SVU series here in the US cover morale topics and current news happenings, but the world of Luther is all the writers work, not too much current news borrowing. The writers make you rethink morale codes of right and wrong in different ways than I've seen. The show doesn't just try to shock you.


                
This was gripping from the word go. It had a swiftness and 'no wasting time' editing but unlike shows like 'Sherlock' it gave the average audience enough time to digest the storyline. I love the whole twist and logic behind what Luther says and the characterisation is just enough to create a substance that one can relate to the main characters and not least the main hero. I am an avid fan of British TV and boy this is right on top of the list. I spend a lot of time watching Agatha Christie because of the twists but Luther although very different and more 'on your face' satisfies my intellect in a much more upbeat manner. I have only watched the first two episodes and I cannot wait to delve into the others. The last time this happened to me was when I stumbled upon another BBC series 'Jonathan Creek'. Intelligent , well thought out and way way over the top! But isn't that part of why we watch something other than our own lives. I give 'Luther' a 10 out of 10 and that is very rare of me. Just go to Netflix and start the journey and enjoy as I have done.


                
I LOVE this series on a number of levels.....first of all it is original, intelligent and excitingly quirky. The acting is superb and the interaction and dialog between the characters avoids stereotypes and clichés. In America, producers seem not to be able to resist introducing racial issues in any series with a black man as the main character but in this British series John Luther is simply a brilliant and flawed human being. So refreshing! I love the Alice character also.......its easy to believe a woman that assertive and brilliant...and sociopathic.....could still fall in love with a man , who in many ways, is her alter ego......this relationship indicates that there is a very thin line between law enforcement and criminals.......really just a matter of appearance rather than anything essential. Both Alice and Luther believe their actions serve a "cause" which justifies ruthless means. It works though for great entertainment. I have rented the DVD series and watched it more than once. I give it a perfect 10


                
Such a great show. Idris is an amazing actor. Love his work, especially in this!


                
If you haven't seen it and you are looking for something riveting to watch get on Netflix and you will find the entire series.Only 2 faults 1, there isn't enough of of it, with only 15 episodes over 4 seasons.2, I really wish the BBC would show London as it actually is rather than the traditionally English London Hamlet it isn't.


                
Luther is an intensely awesome action drama. great story line and perfect cast. Luther is a good cop / bad *ss cop with a heart of gold and a fist of iron. I cant really compare Luther to any show iv seen in the past, but if i were to compare Luther to any other show or movie it would be casino royal. Iv binge watched Luther a couple times so its a definitely good watch for sure. Im definitely looking forward to more seasons.


                
When I started watching this series, it convinced me from the first minutes. That sometimes happens with other shows, but after a number of episodes they usually let me down a bit. That never happened while watching Luther. It raised the bar to a high level and just kept going, even raising it a bit more during the second and third season.Even if you're fed up with watching police shows, this is a series you must see. Most of the time you just forget you're watching a detective series, since Luther is... well, not exactly the perfect cop. But that makes him so brilliant. Luther has no limits and crosses the line all the time. The series does the same thing: it always goes way beyond your wildest expectations.There is just one more thing to add, a message for the producers: please give us more! The challenge to still improve the show is enormous, but that's exactly when Luther starts to excel.


                
Utterly amazing, totally gripping from start to finish each & every episode / series. Acting throughout is sensational, story lines are simple but keep you rooted to the edge of the couch with intense situations that pull on emotions as you watch the stories unfold! Watching Idris in action throughout each series made me want to see what else he was in. However, some of the other characters do also take the viewer on an emotional roller coasters during the program. The villains in the show in particular really do give a sense of psychotic dread. I really hope the proposed movie keeps to the core of what makes this the best 'cop' TV to come out of the UK - period. Usually I'm very difficult to please but this was an easy 10/10 for me. Only issue is that after watching Luther, my wife & I now always have to check under the bed before we go to sleep!!!!


                
Luther is a prime example of British drama at its best and it sets the bar high for the rest. It is a simply fantastic series and it combines many different themes which makes is so watchable. It is predominantly a crime, drama, thriller and yet it also has the odd comical moment.One of the reasons why this is such a brilliant programme is due to the amazing cast and how well their on screen relationships work. Most importantly John Luther himself is extremely captivating and the different levels of his character make you want to find out more. Aside from Luther one of the most notable characters in the series is Alice Morgan who provides another thrilling element to the whole thing.Another amazing aspect of the whole series is the way that every single episode is so good, although there are a few which stand out, the general level is of such a high standard. The way the story always unfolds gradually creates immense suspense and the climax of the individual stories are always executed through brilliant scenes.The cases usually start and finish in one episode although the particularly explosive cases expand over two. Each new case is extremely different from the last and yet they were all shocking and thrilling in their own way. I would recommend this series to anyone to at least try and even if you don't normally like this type of drama I'm sure it would manage to draw you in.


                
