Since I've already watched The Bridge, Happy Valley, and Broadchurch, and The Night Of is almost over, I needed a fix. I saw the reviews of Luther and thought I had found it. Luther is ludicrous, though. It's like the old Batman series (with the"pows" and "zooms" included)meets those terrible NCI shows. Ludicrous plots, ludicrous characters, and virtually no development of the crime. Luther just figures it out, all in his head, and then tells us, wham, bam, thank you ma'am. The back story (that he had some sort of meltdown and was put on leave, but now he's back) is undeveloped, generic. His anger is over the top, and also not developed. I do not understand this character at all. He seems like a hodgepodge of standard cop characters. I want to care about him, I want to see a real person with a unique set of issues. I want to understand why he is broken. But the writers just don't bother. Luther is a comic book character. If he could climb buildings or fly, this series would be more believable. I am a little stunned that so many people love this show. It presents itself as a realistic drama, but in reality it's a melodrama, maybe even a comedy. It's overacted, illogical, and insulting to my intelligence.


                
Yes the cinematography is good. Yes Idris is a hottie (or so I'm told). But other than this, this 'show' is just ridiculous. I'm not even averse to silly plots, for I enjoy the odd episode of Midsummer Murders, but this just takes the biscuit.I just don't get what all the fuss is about. This is an empty vessel. There was more depth of plot in Spooks and that's saying something.When are the Beeb going to stop condescending its viewers and provide us with a detective drama with a trail of clues that let us at least use our brains and have a go at working out who done it?If aliens were to tune into our airwaves they'd think much of society was made up of serial killers and serial killing paedophiles (judging by most of TVs output).If you want edge of your seat action you'd be better off watching Wimbledon or the Snooker.Please can we have at least one piece of intelligent fiction for my license fee?


                
I've put off watching this since seeing the first two episodes of series 1 and I must say, I am still astounded. It is one of the most ridiculous, clichéd programmes I have seen in a long while. I still can't fathom which is more wooden, the dialogue, the acting or the story lines. How this has received awards and glowing reviews is truly beyond me. It is just plain bad, on so many levels. It truly saddens me that the writer of this has garnered so much praise, for what is, basically, a poorly written, clichéd riddled, ridiculous excuse for a detective series.I've given it one star, as that is classed as 'awful', although three stars is my usual benchmark for 'awful'.


                
What i can remember of the other seasons was pretty good, this latest season was a pile of rubbish.
Boring..


                
A certain individual in my house keeps putting on this show on Netflix. It looks well done visually etc. Seems they tried really hard, just two main elements of a show are missing. The acting isn't terrible, it's just not good; and the story isn't terrible, it's just not good at all. It's just right at the point where when the story and the acting is off so many episodes you start to really hate the show. The opening credits and the facade give the impression that the show will be cool, and then it just basically starts getting annoying. I feel the writing is there just to fill space on the page and not to be important or realistic. No one in real life sits and talks and talks and over explains in such a preplanned way. I know it's BBC British television and is expected to be a little off mark on these things but this is silly. It's like that Aaron Sorkin awful show The Newsroom - it takes a real life profession and just makes it this over the top chatty, overly expressive and dramatic mess. If the actors could act and not pretend they are in some stage play then that would be nice. I don't agree with the majority that stage actors are better than screen actors. That's just not true.


                
This is a well acted, poorly written, implausible epic.
The story hasn't got a narrative structure. It is linear, which is a nice change. However, it is so disjointed it should go to a chiropractor.
Luther is a gloomy maverick. He staggers along with a face like a smacked arse. His nemesis rocks up in three of the four seasons. In the fourth season she is added to a very dry script. Arrid.
A killer. A series of unspeakable mutations. Yadda yadda yadda.
Come on BBC why did commission this dross once let alone four times.
The first season is best. The second pathetic. The other two boring. Don't bother there are so many better things you can watch.


                
I heard there were good reviews about this series and got interested. But the first several episodes were so bad. Not only a silly story, but the acting was horrible. Each and every actor felt like amateurish and incompetent. Like a gathering of lame beginners. The main character's toughness was so funny. The evilness of the silly girl monster was so stupid. After those few episodes I simply could not watch it any more, I could not afford to waste time on such 8.5-rated garbage.


                
Seeing Luther for the second time I realize how stupid this series is. Over the top, non-characters, serial killers all over the place, unbelievable and silly walks by Luther.
Every story is lineair and all episodes follow the same lines. Boring and irritant after 1 season.
Why is this a BBC-thing??? 
Almost as dumb as Dutch movies and series.


                
I am amazed.....quite frankly astonished by the amount of people that are giving this show a rating of 10 and stating best show ever.
Luther just blatantly flaunts the law to try and catch the bad guy.
Decision after decision in this show is just implausible and stupid. Please watch it and see for yourself.
You will fall into one of 3 categories:
1. Love the show because you lack the intelligence to spot just how unrealistic and silly it is.
2. Keep watching because it looks like it should be promising and could be better....but sadly it doesn't.
3. Quickly realise how stupid it is and if you are lucky stop watching the show.
I wanted to put a list of all the idiotic things in the show.....but felt it would take me too long and essentially I'd be just re-writing the script.


                
