OK, ***spoiler*** Cutting to the chase, - Episode 1- somewhat psychic cop with psychological deficiencies, knows psychopathic girl murdered her parents and ingeniously disposed of the murder weapon but cannot prov it. They are palled up by the end of the series, her having performed some kind of bizarre counselling with regard to his marriage... Doesn't sound too promising in black and white does it? Once you suspend belief and treat it for what it is, Luther is rollicking entertainment! The villains are truly frightening, Ruth Wilson is mesmerising, the bad guy in episode four really gave me the creeps, great acting all round, with the exception of Idris Elba and his lady boss who over egged things a little too much for my liking.Most impressed by the fact that the producers managed to pull in such a great collection of old cars, reminding me of my youth (had my first encounter of the female kind in a Volvo just like Luther's!). Would be nice to know what happens next, so let's see series two.
Short and Simple Review by WubsTheFadgerLuther is a dark and disturbing crime drama. Each episode has a linear story that mostly deals with Luther's personal life. Each episode also has a criminal who is murdering people in very disturbing ways. I found the stories to be very good mostly because the series has great characters.The acting is very good. Idris Elda performs exceptionally. Ruth Wilson also performs spectacularly as the psychopath Alice Morgan. She is so seductive and disturbingly sexy. Dermot Crowley, Michael Smiley, Paul McGann, and Warren Brown all perform very well. Nikki Amuka-Bird performs the worst in my eyes. She is ugly, has weird lips, and her characters sucked. I wish Rose Leslie was in more episodes besides the final two. She is such a great actress and she is so beautiful.The pacing in most episodes is slow and the runtime for each episode is a little longPros: Dark and disturbing stories, great characters, amazing performances by Idris Elda and Ruth Wilson, and all around good actingCons: Slow pacing, the episodes are long, Nikki Amuka-Bird is ugly and her character sucked, and I wish that Rose Leslie was in more of the episodes because she is a great actress and she is beautifulOverall Rating: 8.4


                
The show follows the main character Luther who has built himself a reputation for being a dirty yet excellent investigator, and the story allows you to make up your own mind on the character.The "Villains" of Luther are in my opinion what makes the show so great each one being portrayed excellently and really adding something special to each of their plots. The way Luther corresponds to these villains along with his team is exceptional and portrays him as a conflicted character who the audience can never quite decide upon.While the show may seem upon first glance about one super-hero police officer who closes his cases single-handedly, but he also has personal problems which need to be solved, It is not and instead a rather unique crime drama. The secondary characters such as his friends and partners really contribute to the plots.


                
I have nothing more to add to this excellent series which haven't already been covered in numerous user reviews. One aspect that has made me stop rating this series a 10/10 is because of the angle of Luthers relationship with his ex wife. I personally think that aspect has not added any more value to the series or its character development. It's just non-stop moaning about his relationship that drags down the speed of the series somewhat. I wish this was just purely focused on Luther's brilliance in solving crime and no side stories to detract viewers from the main course. If we want to explore the complicacies of relationships, there are countless shows to watch.


                
I watched this because I'd been so impressed by Idris Elba's acting in 'The Wire' but was initially disappointed as I was expecting a realistic police but as I watched I grew to enjoy it more and more realising it was really a melodrama not something meant to be realistic.The story opens with Luther, played by Idris Elba, letting a suspect fall from a great height presumably hoping he will die although in reality he ends up in a coma. The indecent takes its toll on Luther who ends up off work for some time and his wife leaves him. His first case once back on duty is the murder of a married couple; Luther is convinced that their daughter Alice is the killer but with no evidence he is forced to let her go. Over the rest of the series she continues to try to get involved in Luther's life; visiting his wife and new boy friend, eliminating the man who could give evidence against Luther and ultimately helping him when he is framed for a murder.Idris Elba puts in a fine performance as the eponymous Luther, he is ably assisted by Ruth Wilson as the brilliant but psychotic Alice, Steven Mackintosh as his friend DCI Reed and Saskia Reeves as his boss DSU Teller. Early on I wasn't too impressed with Paul McGann's portrayal of Mark but as the series went on I changed my mind and by the end thought he was doing a good job as a character who had become more interesting as the various events effected him. With only six episodes this was a fairly short series, I hope it performed well enough for the BBC to commission a second series as the ending left me wanting to know what happened next.
I thought when they had got it too early on in S1E5 that they had taken it beyond far, and brought it past salvation. But then E5&6 redeemed it, bringing it back to wanting to be involved. The story-line is very, very good.. but the casting of the several up front leads is just seriously exceptional. Had always liked Ruth Wilson in The Affair.. but now see where that all came from, and she is without doubt a major future on-screen player, in most everyone that knows better's book. You just cannot help be drawn in by her.. whatever the story.. she is simply, irresistibly, incredible. There's only fourteen Luther episodes so far, spread over three 'seasons'. There should really be lots more, although without Alice it will not be anywhere near as captivating as it might have been. Wilson is very good in The Affair, but it is here as Alice that she really shows her brilliance, and she is the only bright light in what is an exceptional, but truly very dark and brooding production. It's now been announced the show is coming back for a two-part S4.. but without Ruth Wilson it will be minus something special. Alice really does deserve her own production.. let's hope that comes about sometime in the near future.


                
2/2/18. Finished the 4 seasons that were available. I really liked this psychological crime thriller with Elba as the brilliant detective that can solve serious crimes despite his own mental health issues. Over the course of 16 episodes, Luther suffers professional betrayal and personal loss yet still manages to catch the criminal. Good screenwriting, interesting serial criminals and Luther's passionate sleuthing make this a must-see series. Luther can probably use a good backstory to explain why he has anger management issues.


                
Luther, and it's lead actor, Idris Elba, deserve their place in the Hall of Fame of the Golden Age of Television. Idris Elba's Stringer Bell character in The Wire was the best character in TV's best show. The man deserves a the role of Bond, if Sony had any guts, or desire to do more than clone a sequel.


                
Watched Season 1-4 and loving it.The only problem, I find, is when Elba acts emotional it seems very fake. Other than that, he is a powerful actor and surely a good candidate for the next Bond!


                
Luther as a series is quite incredible, the breakneck speed in which it unfolds somehow manages to get so much across to its audience most of if not all of which is relevant at a later date. Despite some of the fantastical character choices and archetypes the short series are thrilling and uniquely grounded under the London estates. With loveable characters, shock twists and well crafted villains Luther is a fine series


                
Pretty good season that gives us the Luther as we know and love. The plot is a little unbelieveble at times but nothing to mutch. If you like Luther, go and see it.


                
The show got a great start but season 4 and especially 5 are ridiculous. Do yourself a big favor: when it's starting to feel way to weird, just turn it off and don't come back.


                
Excellent story lines, splendid acting I would have given a ten star rating if it wasn't for the annoying shakycam scenes... no need for it!


                
Idris Elba, must surely be next big acting icon to come from wee britannia, he has the gravitas the presence and the charizma to make you believe that a London cop could really be like this. Dangerously unhinged, a walking timebomb who still handles multiples of very serious problems and still gets the bad people! Of course it is all just one big fantasy from start to finish with situations and characters that are outrageously far fetched. Nonetheless, this series i have only seen series one so far, is engrossing stuff very polished with each episode a self contained episode while being part of a broader story line. For TV though i am no small screen expert but it seems very gritty and bloody, and sometimes nasty with its violence. Our hero is always under suspicion of breaking the rules and the moral code but he gets the villains any way he can, so i guess Luther is a old fashioned anti hero? A kind of thinking person's Dirty Harry, or simply a very British icon for modern times, this is good TV so i am of to watch the rest of the bbc box set.


                
An amusing series following DCI Luther through crime scenes and his private issues. World-class acting and an attractive storyline. During the episodes Luther is accompanied by Alice Morgan, Justin Ripley and later on Marry. A real adventure through the streets of London. British crimes/detectives are in my opinion one of the most enjoyable series in film production.


                
Lovely Detective series. With the best romance being between the Detective and the one he chases. The romance we wished for in silence of the lambs comes closer this time.


                
Good story, ideis elba lives upto expectation but the ending could be better


                
/refers to 1-3/Last decade has seen several crime dramas where at least some later episodes are influenced by the very first ones, i.e., for full comprehension, you have to watch all episodes in a sequence. Not easy when depending on TV only, but modern technical solutions are of assistance here. Luther is captivating from almost at once and several good British and Irish character actors provide additional watching value. Idris Elba as the series's lead character, Detective Chief Inspector John Luther, is really catchy, deserving fully his Golden Globe Award for Best Actor; for me, he is in a line of intelligent Black actors avoiding roles with rap music, roofless cars, and chicks in underwear in the background, and I intend to follow his career more closer. The other more memorable characters were Alice Morgan (Ruth Wilson) and Martin Schenk (Dermot Crowley) - although, as mentioned, there were no dull or annoying performances.The scripts, however, are not for everyone as the line between good and evil is often thin, among the police as well; common people tend to think that cops are always good or often bad - depending on the country, and corruption is perceived in different ways. As for the evildoers, most of them were essentially crazy (I tend to prefer greed, envy, concealing other crimes, etc. as the main causes of crimes); some episodes lacked realism in the sense that people with smart-phones tend to record everything, making it impossible for someone to organise massacres in crowded areas and then leave unnoticed... But those were apparently included for the sake of length and do not diminish the logic of events and distinctive acting.All in all, a good series, created for people with open mind regarding police-work in a metropolis.


                
Since there are a plethora of romantic comedies, all attempting to expound upon "The Proposal", this was a very refreshing series. I typically don't watch sitcoms, until they come out on Netflix, so that I can watch them consecutively. So, I'm just stumbling upon this series Dec 2012, approx 2 years after it showed. Pros: 1. Great casting - the actors fit their roles and they are all believable 2. Great screenplay- the filming is in and around authentic London (no tourist areas). I did not notice any props, fake backdrops or stage play. All of the filming appears to be in the actual live settings. 3. Great plots - I watch A LOT of movies & series shows(love Netflix). So, there is always some predictability. But this show had many twists and turns to keep me guessing (which is hard to do). Cons: Their was only one season !
I like the show, plain and simple, but at times you have to endure some serious stupidity as far as reasoning goes. Why and how can those two cops just investigate him when there's no reason whatsoever to make that jump sorry, watch the last season...there are a dew things that are just there to make the story more interesting but for a really smart show they fall short...Also, cliché, stupid victims...if they solve those issues, were the show to continue, the show would be even better....luther draws you in, but seriously.Hope they keep the show on but please, don't do the stupid victim thing....


                
Despite its flaws---and it has several---Luther is one of the best portrayals of a dark, complicated and even damaged leading character ever depicted in a television series. It's no surprise this was attempted on the British side of the pond. It's much too complicated and adult for a largely narcissistic, action junkie and pablum-fed American audience. The project would never have been green-lighted in Hollywood.From the very first episode, it's made clear that John Luther has 'issues'. The fact that he's very good at what he does is itself a tip- off, isn't it? He's not the first or only detective --- on or off a police force --- to suffer personal demons and risk becoming what they hunt; but he is one of the most compelling depictions of such a figure. He is his own worst enemy not because of his rage and his anger, but because his keen intellect, instinct and overriding sense of justice, compel him to set things right regardless of cost or implications. Which of course makes John Luther something of a self-appointed Avenging Angel,and therefore in many ways not terribly unlike the serial murderers and self righteous lunatics he's tracking down and bringing to 'justice'. The haunting contradictions within and without John Luther are best illustrated by his strange and wonderful relationship with the serial killer, Alice Morgan. This is one of the oddest and yet most fabulous and intriguing relationships between a cop/detective and a criminal in all of crime fiction. Some would say that Luther's sidekick, Justin Ripley, is the conscience of the show, but I beg to differ. Ripley never had the gravitas to assume that role. Ripley tries to do right, but he's never quite sure what 'right' is, is he? He's loyal to Luther, sees the method to his madness and is willing to overlook it at times, because, like Schenk, he sees Luther can subdue the greater evil. I would suggest, instead, that Alice and Luther are opposite sides of the same coin, that they are one-another's real conscience and true compass; dispelling each other's illusions/delusions about who and what they are and what they, in their respective roles, have done and are trying to do. It's an awkward relationship to be sure, one that keeps us, the audience, on edge every bit as it does the principle characters involved. But it's also clear that neither can apparently function very well or for very long without the involvement of the other. They are alike in ways neither at first wanted to admit but now seem more comfortable in accepting, and the bond between them is as real and vital as it is dangerous and contradictory. That involvement and contradiction is the real 'dark place' of the the entire series. Everything else is backdrop and window dressing to the disturbing yet compelling bond between Luther and Alice; including the criminals and cases. None of them have anything on what John and Alice are capable of. That, in a way, was a key element in both episodes in season three; the Tom Marwood vigilante character and the confused, alas poorly written Internal Affairs investigation by Stark and Gray. All of them were using the very same murky even illegal', certainly suspect and unsavory, methods/motives they were accusing John of and which Alice openly admits to. So in the end it's really all about Luther and Alice, which is why they walked off into the sunset together to a cover of the Jerry Butler classic "Never Give You Up"; Alice asking John "What now?" That may be the one question worth asking moving forward. It boggles the mind to think of what these two might do to each other and the rest of us, but its certainly a ride worth taking. Bring it on!
My Brit friend introduced this series and I must admit, I have only watched the first two episodes. However, I enjoyed it immensely. I love the theme - with one feet on the other side, one wonders if that is where one belong? Reminded me of Nietschze's quote on battling monsters.The script is tight, coupled with the effortless acting; this is a winning formula. Plus, it is a nice change from American-centric detective series.What I found interesting was the theme song from Massive Attack's Heligoland, Paradise Circus. Very apt, but on the second episode, the camera zoomed in to Alice Morgan's nametag and the name stated Ingrid Jones. Now, Paradise Circus has footage from a classic porn Movie - The Devil in Miss Jones. Is this deliberate or coincidental? Are there any other instances in the rest of the episodes. Does anyone know?


                
First of all this show is absolutely great the acting the storylines the way its filmed everything about is great If you have not seen it you should take out some popcorn and start watching it from season 1-5 to the end without any breaks!That being said I have to say season 5 seems kind of rushed witch is strange since there is a couple of years between season 4 and 5 one would say enough time to make a good end season !in my opinion the double storylines and plot-twist kind of messed up season 5 because they had to rush the end I mean you spend all this time building up your serial killer and then the end is kind of disappointing what,s the use of building up your serial killer but rushing the end.The serial killer deserved at least 1 whole episode surrounding his story alone and his capture ..
In the U.K. there are about 50 to 60 gun killings annually. In the USA, by contrast, there are about 160 times as many gun homicides in a country that is roughly six times larger in population. There were 8,124 gun homicides in 2014, according to the latest FBI figures. As for police being shot in the U.K. that's rare and a national headline event. So people running around with guns left right and centre is not believable ... yet! But as entertainment without your stats anorak on Luther is very good entertainment!


                
Great to see Luther back on the screen after its last few seasons being great but very hot and miss with some seasons only having 4-5 shows and others having 7-8. I hope they have made enough to keep us going this time round. But last night's season premier was not disopointing at all, a bit predictable that they piggy back the trend of the purge style killing but I think the BBC are still on a winner with the new season.


                
