Class! What an excellent series.I've always liked Idris Elba - maybe it's because of The Wire or maybe because his screen presence is so compelling. When our TVs schedules are filled with so much dross to have this little gem of a series appear is so refreshing.Luther (Idris Elba) is a Detective Inspector in a Special Crimes Unit who has just returned to work after having recently recovered from a mental breakdown due to pressures of a marriage break up and over commitment to his job. His relationships with his ex-wife, his new colleague DS Ripley and a psychopathic but brilliant young lady are central to the development of the series. Each episode leaves one wanting to know how the plot will develop. There are of course the crimes to be solved and Luther's unorthodox but canny methods.I will not divulge any more but the climatic ending to episode 6 makes one want to know 'what now?' I strongly recommend Luther who anyone who appreciates 'quality' television drama.


                
"Luther" the new BBC detective series lead by Idris Elba as DCI John Luther, is a riveting watch. This character, Luther, is a loose cannon primed to fire at will or by wonder, yet this detective's intelligence and focus seems to keep him charging in the right direction. He and fellow officers appear to work on a rather intuitive level and their ability to relate to us 'common folk' and our reaction to injustice, is a magnetizing factor. The relationship he has with his wife, Zoe, works well as a part of the machinery that helps reveal the different layers of his character. Beyond that, I must admit I feel slightly ambiguous towards her part, at this point, anyway.But I am fascinated with Alice Morgan (Ruth Wilson of "Jane Eyre" 2006). I had a very good friend with similar characteristics as she; the writers, as well as the actress, portrayed Alice as if they knew my friend intimately. Of course, it is difficult to know the 'deviosity' of which such people are capable, especially when your affections are securely attached through years of shared experiences. As I watch Alice Morgan attempt to secure even the friendship of Luther, I think, "Oh, go ahead, trust her." And then, I remind myself that this character killed her parents! This goes to the depraved depth of the sociopath's personality and how they can manipulate us. Chilling! Great stuff<U+0085> For anyone who holds an interest towards the Behavioral Sciences, and desires to watch something that will entertain, as well as appeal to that part of your brain, give "Luther" a shot, you won't be sorry.


                
wow! this is the most entertaining detective show I've ever watched! if you like gritty detective dramas with cleverly pieced together plots then.... watch something else. This series has outlandish criminals doing their thing while Luther magically appears with all the answers and at the same time insults your intelligence.But when you have the amount of unbelievable & and some times shocking action that they cram into Luther you wont care! the 1st 4 episodes are the usual 1 villain per episode formula of many TV shows but the 5th episode was absolutely gripping and left me wanting the next episode straight away, instead of the usual welcome 1 week break. it really did step up a gear. The only program that comes on in the week that i specifically make time for to sit down and watch. id give it a 10 if they just gave the crime solving aspect a LOT more thought. crazy comic book is action is just fine with me though.


                
Elba as DCI John Luther is what makes this click. He's awesome as a highly intelligent dynamic loose cannon who is on the verge of being what Dexter Morgan is to the Miami Metro. With a little help from a former suspect; Alice Morgan (hehe) who slipped in and out of an unresolvable murder case, he unwillingly gets out of very sticky situations.The suspects are not your usual petty crime thieves and crooks but rather intelligent, self absorbed and twisted minds who think that they are going to get away with the awful crimes that they are committing. The stories are told at a fast pace and Luther always has a lot on his plate apart from his broken marriage that he's trying to repair.Big up to the writers who allowed for this series to be so detailed and dynamic. And also to the cast who together shine and do great performances. I am entertained! Thank you!
I would have missed alot if I've never came across this show - Luther. Most importantly I would have missed Alice Morgan, played by the very charming Ruth Wilson. I would just like to say that I am here because of Alice Morgan, not that I would like to take credit away from Idris Elba, he's great ! Its just that I'm blown away by the character of Alice.In fact, I'm so smittened of Alice's role that I think the writer and the producers of the show should give Alice's her own show!All in all, this show is highly recommended. The cast is superb. And the people who made this are great ! I'm looking forward for more seasons to come !The only reason I'm not giving this a rating of 10 is because for me, there is no such thing as perfect !


                
A deeply flawed detective - enigmatic, fascinating women - clever writing - intricate dialogue - and some of the weirdest bad guys you will encounter - that's "Luther" - the amazing BBC crime drama on Netflix.Idris Elba stars in the gritty 4 season show which breaks with a number of conventions for shows of this type - especially the length of the seasons. The shortest season (season 4) is only 2 episodes long, but they managed to pack a lot of drama, intrigue and surprises in these 2 episodes - season 4 may have been the best of the series.DCI John Luther is a highly intuitive detective who continually skirts legality as he goes about corralling some of the crazies who make up the London crime scene. There is blood, abduction and internal conflict- both within Luther and his police department. But Luther is always seemingly on top of things. While deeply conflicted with an explosive temper, Luther uses intuition and projection (thinking like the killers) plus his invaluable Benny (the IT expert - all of these shows have one)to discover the identity and motive of the latest killer by looking at the past, establishing motive and determining what the killer is seeking. Along the way, he has to deal with the fact that most of the people who are close to him, or that he loves, end of dead.But the highlight of this show for me is Alice Morgan - the quintessential genius. She is transfixed on Luther and holds the same influence over events that Hannibal Lechter did from his cell block. Ruth Wilson plays Alice, who gives a chilling performance as the "prime mover unmoved" in the drama. Season 2 suffered from her absence.Season 4 unearths another very enigmatic female in the person of Megan Cantor - who is as mysterious as Alice and (maybe) just as deadly. I hope there is a season 5 to see what happens.Another fascinating relationship is established in season 4 when Luther crosses paths with George Cornelius, who appears to be a crime lord. He and Luther have a congenial understanding/relationship based on their needs. They remind me of the relationship between Raylon and Boyd in "Justified." If you do not recognize that reference - you have some watching to do - check out "Justified."The final impression I have of the show is that it makes me really glad we have the second amendment. The people of London and the police are at the mercy of anyone with a hammer, knife or a gun who have some deep seated issues, or are merely having a bad day. The police are always at a disadvantage - arming themselves with pipes or boards as they face down the bad guys. Very interestingly though is the fact that Luther uses words and psychology to disarm many of his foes - usually with success, but at a serious price to himself and those around him.Enough bloviating on my part. If this kind of stuff is your cuppa at all, check out "Luther" - you will love it.


                
Let's face it, in a world where very seldom a few Afro-American actors get the limelight (or fan gratitude) as main characters and 9 times out of 10 either the character is a total prick or a complete stereotypical crippling of itself; it seems that BBC did something very unique when they made a 6 part TV series staring the very underestimated actor Idris Elba what you have is one very smart, sexy, and hard hitting detective story that only needs one name, 'Luther'. Series Creator Neil Cross hit the mark right with this series by fleshing out each actor and showing the reality in the mist of corrupt, dark, and gritty UK that the series portrays and each actor plays their character to the best of their abilities; And while the first episode was pretty slow to start it did give you a peek in the life of the World-weary anti-hero DCI John Luther (Idris Elba); John Luther as a Detective Inspector is one of the best in his career when it comes to solving crimes and sometimes he tends to brake the rules along the way which in turn gets him in some (if most times big) trouble. But John Luther in personal life is a bad husband to his (ex) wife Zoe Luther (Indria Varma)who's somewhat conflicted between her questionable love towards him and the new love in her life, Torn in love/hate emotional conflict with a suspected, beautiful, and pretty crazy killer Alice Morgan (Ruth Wilson) who seems to have a thing for the hardened cop, A difference in opinion with his supervisor DSU Rose Teller (Saskia Reeves)who despite of that has complete trust in him, and his partners DCI Ian Reed (Steven Mackintosh) and DS Justin Ripley (Warren Brown) who seems to question him depending on the nature of the crime each episode puts out; all of this along with some of the most interesting and depraved killers this show conjures its no wonder Luther's life is never easy...nor fun and that's great in our book. Now, Some people feel that Idris Elba is trying to hard for this character and the answer to that is...what do you know? Its very rare to see any Black actor put much world-weary feel..and the feel that the character's life is nothing short of pleasant despite of the job he does and the life he leads I feel that people ignore that and focus on who's white and cute and who's not. I say it again Idris Elba is a very underestimated actor and with pretty decent movies under his belt its about time that someone gives this talented actor a chance to shine even if its not to everyone expectations; Luther's relationship with Morgan is a very hot if volatile one both of them tend to put that, "your the bad girl but yet i'm attracted to you in a weird way" aspect even though there are moments where Alice Morgan does something that will defy their questionable friendship but its good to see that thru Ruth Wilson who portrays that side with such intensity that seems almost plausible with every scene.Sometimes I feel there's a strange uncomfortably between Varma's and Elba's character sometimes especially in one somewhat romantic moment between them in later episodes; But either way she does stand out on her own two feet and she makes Zoe's persona a very interesting one...something for Luther to think about what he missed because of a constant focused life as a cop. Reeves, Mackintosh, and Brown's characters as partners and supervisor are very strong and it works for all of them...it shows the differences and yet it also envelopes a bond as offices doing the same job even though when it comes to Luther one has to question his motives for the things he do. All in all, this is one show that I would like to say can become a hit if they stick to what they are doing now; But for a 6-part series I think they want to keep the premise just the way it is without mocking up the very thing that can make it a continuing success (Ahem Season 5 Doctor who much? LOL).'Luther' will go down as being one of the fast paced, smart, dark, and intense crime story that I've seen from the UK; and while it doesn't hold originality to the context in some areas it does keep a person fixed on what will happen next and it becomes immediately a guilty pleasure show one I hope with more interesting stories will continue to second season....if possible.


                
A very unique detective show. Very smart with a lot of psychological insights but if you have a delicate stomach for violence be careful. The production spares no gory details.


                
At 57, I've seen thousands of movies and TV series episodes. As a kid I adored the Saint and Ivanhoe, but also the Untouchables and the Invaders. The Avengers were so cool but matched by the Mission Impossible. Right now, after seeing the latest episode of Luther, I feel the Brits have got it but the Americans not.Luther should be compared with the (tepid) Ironside or any other one-cop-genre offering. London is to be compared with L.A. or New York. I feel the UK beats the whack out of most US produce. Why?In UK productions the people and settings are for real. There's psychology. Everyone's not pretty. Endings are not subdued to please the advertiser or an imaginary general public taste. Luther is visceral, whereas CSI and Bones only show off unpleasant sights. As an European I'm happy to see the Old World is going strong TV-wise and no stupid zombies roam the London streets.


                
This is a very good show. I love British TV. I have to say though British shows have this kind of creepy vibe to them that makes them very fascinating. The British maybe our cousins and all of that but they has very different ways of going about things than we do. That is not necessarily A Bad Thing


                
(Reviewed after Season 5).John Luther is a police detective, and a very good one. He deals with murder cases, often involving serial killers, and has a knack for getting inside the mind of the killer. However, his methods, personality and troubled private life often get him into strife with his superiors, leading some to regard him as the problem rather than the solution.Superb drama. The plots around the crimes and the solving thereof are very clever and highly intriguing, with some great twists and turns, investigative work and psychological aspects. Good character drama too, with Luther and some of the other major characters given good character depth and development. Very gritty: hardly any character is above being killed off and it's not all American-style gung ho, guns-blazing police work.Great work by Idris Elba in the lead role with an excellent supporting cast. Ruth Wilson is especially good as Alice Morgan, as is Warren Brown as DS Ripley. Dermot Crowley is irritating as Martin Schenk, however, especially in Seasons 1 and 2.On the negative side, while the main plots, tracking down the killers, are really good the writing gets a bit loose with the sub-plots. Plot developments don't always make sense and it often seems a case of creating a tense, no-win situation for the sake of it. Season 2 has a great example of this, with the situation involving the mother and her daughter who ended up in the adult industry. The leverage they and then the criminals had over Luther never made any sense.On a minor note, it would be great if the BBC had not added the "Next week" bits at the end. They gave away far too many twists and important plot developments. Yes, I could just skip the closing credits but the closing music was always so good...


                
This show is amazing. The main character and the other supporting characters are very well flesh out and given very difficult decisions. They do take cuestionable decisions but that makes it even better.
The main character is not the flawless kind of heroe but he' s complexe ,charismatic and very impredictible.
The villains are absolutely great and disturbing ( also great acting from Ruth Wilson) . Its a very well directed show too. The pacing is very well done and I can't remember a flaw in this regard neither. I have only praise for this show.It just misses that little something for me to get the 10.
If you want to watch a show in one view or might want to watch just a fantastic show with great performences ,great villains, also a less predictible story and a very great heroe than this is your show.


                
Luther is the story of a good looking and near genius detective who tracks down the most heinous murderers all while grappling with crushing marital problems and training a rookie cop. When the top brass isn't trying to suspend or fire him, he is busy being toyed with by a former suspect. Heard this one before? For those in the United States, Luther looks little different from another episode of Law & Order: SVU. Episodes tend to finish with a clean conclusion (i.e. Luther nabs the bad guy) and story lines rarely encompass multiple episodes. Luther's detective abilities regularly stray into the unbelievable, like in one instance where he accurately determines a suspect's guilt within seconds of an interview.Despite all the hackneyed clichés, Luther isn't a bad show. It manages to be quite entertaining, and is assuredly better than your average cop show. But if you are looking for a top quality detective series, go watch True Detective or The Wire. If you are looking for a decent show to provide a quick escape, then Luther will fit the bill.


                
I'm actually surprised that there are negative review about this TV series, which in my opinion is almost masterpiece, and definitely one of best TV series in its genre, delivering everything that should be delivered, not so familiar with Idris Elba, but his performance is a class for itself, it seems as he is not acting at all, just being what he is- an emotional but genial murder detective.


                
I really enjoyed the first two seasons of Luther. They were provocative and insightful, a real breath of fresh air in the otherwise boring TV series landscape. I was so disappointed with the third season! All the magic was gone. Everything seemed rushed and predictable. The main characters lost a lot of their depth, and the action became mundane. It started resembling those stereotypical procedurals for audiences that were too lazy to think. And I couldn't stand the idea of policemen chasing criminals without guns, being completely at their mercy! But even with its disappointments, it is better than 75% of the TV series out there.


                
Luther series,is it a copy of sherlock?,is it better? Or worse? When I decided to watch this serial I asked myself those questions,well here I am,I finished watching it and know ready to answer, honestly Luther is like the sherlock series but its not a copy for sure, is it better or worse? I really don't know how answer that,for me it was better because I liked the Luther's main character(Luther(idris alba)) more than sherlock Holmes.Maybe because unlike sherlock(an ice and selfish detective),Luther is an emotional(angry mostly)man. I think This serials is a gem for various Reasons: 1.Main character:Idris Alba did a fantastic job,you can believe Luther,you can feel his pain,and you get angry when he gets angry, I liked Idris Alba because of his role in The Wire series,But know thanks to Luther series he is one of my favorite actors. 2.Other characters: They are good,of course none of them are as good as the main character,but they are good enough,The good thing is there are different characters in the movie:some of them like Luther(Zoe Luther),some of them hates him and some of them trust him(like DS Justin Ripley)and some of them think he is a dirty cop.and at least one of them is smarter than him(Alice Morgan). 3.Story: Luther series has one of the best stories I have ever seen.Its a mixture of cases and Luther's personal problems,He is running in all the episodes,he solves the cases,help his friends,tries to fix his problems with his wife and its just like he never stops,he solves a problem and jump into another one. 4.Its a British serial!:I am pretty sure that Luther series couldn't be this good if it was a American serial,Why? Because of the atmosphere,this series has a special atmosphere that you can only see in a British movie.Their accent,their ways of arguing are very suitable for the serial,actually I cant imagine Luther anywhere but England(especially London). 5.Its a short serial!: do you thing Luther could be this good if it was a longer? I don't think so,Like I said before,Luther is running all the time(and that's what makes Luther a special serial) and I don't thing that could happen if it had more episodes. I liked everything about this serial. it was a "must watch" for me.so I highly recommend you: Don't loose it.Its one of the best,and it can be in everyones top list.


                
I love Luther - it is a fantastically gripping series. I was so disappointed, though, when Ruth Wislon as Alice Morgan did not appear from the start. I found it a little like a shock horror show in the first episode and have to say I almost did not continue with it. I am glad I did because it got better and better, particularly with the vigilante storyline. When Alice finally appeared I was elated because the show came to life when she entered the story. Ruth Wilson has a unique presence in this and must be destined to become a major star even though The Lone Ranger has been labelled a turkey. Idris and Ruth have a real sexual chemistry which leaps out of the screen and grabs the viewer's attention (this viewer anyway). I hope another series is on the cards. All that said the investigation by the Irish detective was poorly constructed with no real explanation for it - a bad move on the writer's part. So instead of 10 I give 8.


                
I'm not normally a huge fan of graphic violence on shows but it can be worth sitting through it if it's an integral part of a story line. The acting, writing, direction, and overall production of Luther make it well worth it.Idris Elba has to be one of the most charismatic actors in television and he propels this series along engagingly. Warren Brown and Ruth Wilson also log solid backup roles. I've seen some essentially valid criticism that this show is not entirely realistic at all times but in an era of super-hero dominance in the entertainment world, I'm surprised that it's bothersome to some.Luther relies on character and psychological suspense to drive the plot and it does it better than just about any other show that I've seen. That's enough for me to put it at the top of my list.


                
Brilliant. Watch it.Oh, you need more than that, right.Elba is just excellent, as always. Believable, raw, unhinged. Same of supporting cast. The writing is superb, dialogue is snappy.The plots are very dark, with the banter between Luther and partner providing relief. it all has a very strong Nolan's The Dark Knight-esque vibe to it; a violent spectacle that still somehow remains utterly possible in the viewer's mind. The result is a show that hooks you and doesn't let go, and has you shouting at the telly for more at the end of every season.The BBC has really struggled to put our TV Licenses to good use and make good dramas. Honestly? This makes it worth it.


                
I kept passing this show by as I scrowled through Netflix. One day I just said OK. It was very late at night, but I ended up watching two episodes. The next day I watched the last four episodes of the first season. The sixth episode/final episode for season one was sooooooooo exciting for me. I have never screamed and cursed out my TV like that. I have never squirmed so much in my chair watching a TV show or movie for that fact. I watched season two's four episodes in one day. I really enjoyed this show and was very glad I gave it a chance. I love the writing and found some really good wtf moments. I advise everyone to watch the first two episodes and see if you don't want more. Yeah Idris and Ruth!!


                
With the release of Luther i was a bit skeptical. Sure, the BBC is on of the world's best detective-series makers if you look at their history, they made classics like 'A Touch of Frost' and the still playing 'Midsommer Murders', shortly after the release of Luther's season 1 another outstanding and great detective was released by the name of Sherlock, with this release the press and the viewers all stumbled upon this new and very great series, but what a lot of people tend to forget is that in that year another great series premiered; Luther. I'm not gonna say it's better than sherlock, simply because it's not, but it's different from Sherlock in many ways. One simple reason is the episode length, which is only for about an hour with Luther. Then there's the whole sphere in Luther, Luther seems to be more of a darker, rougher, in some episodes even sadistic series. That does not take away the fact that this series is very clever and very realistic. A series as Luther stand of falls with the acting, because the series is quite personality driven, for such a strong personality as DCI Luther, an outstanding actor is necessary, but even the less important roles have their own characteristics in this series, and thus needs a good actor. And that's where this series becomes outstanding, though the sphere and the script are good, it are the actors which makes this series so damn good. Idris Alba never loses it's charm as DCI Luther though Luther seems to be out of control, somehow he keeps it's charms. Definitely worth the Golden Globe he won this year. But it's not only Idris Alba, Warren Brown as DCI Ripley and Ruth Wilson as Alice Morgen both keep Luther, and thus the outstanding Idris Alba, on the right track and that is a real achievement. After 2 seasons, with only 10 episodes, i can't wait for the third season. I hope the BBC can keep the script makers and the actors on the right track, and this series may even become an instant detective classic.


                
I am very happy to see this series return for a fourth season - it is one of my favorites. However, Alice Morgan and I, except for the same last name, have at least one more thing in common: We both hoped to had seen the last of that coat! Did John Luther fish the thing out of the Thames?! That three-quarter length coat is not only unattractive. It is downright ugly. And when he is on the move, it has a crazy looking side-to-side swish. It doesn't match Luther at all.I much prefer the casual coat with the hood that he was wearing when he kidnapped the ,man who contracted Alice's murder. But perhaps it is too casual for a police detective. If something more formal or dressy is required, consider going either shorter or longer. Personally, I like longer - something lightweight and weather appropriate. Such as a trench coat! London Fog makes some very attractive coats that would look great on Luther.Please, John, I know you can't bring Justin back, which would be at the top of my wish list. But, barring that, you can lose the coat!


                
Luther is a dark, witty, and well thought out series. As an American we realize there are a few things lost in translation but we love the show. It's a toss between know who the killer is or find out later in the show but we like the format. The cast is perfectly chosen. The only problem we have is that there needs to be more shows made!Hurry up and make more. And, I read they want to do an American version. Nope! Keep this original. Idris' version would be a hard character to duplicate.Until then, we will love every dark and twisted second of what we have available.


                
First, casting and acting in this cop series is excellent. I mean top notch. If you haven't seen Idris Elba's range, check out The Wire. The really creepy guys are really creepy; the a-holes are a-holes, and so forth to the tee.Overall the plot is excellent in every episode except IMO the internal affairs stuff gets kind of old after a while. It makes you wonder if the Brit justice system is flawed or some of these IA guys are incompetent or more likely somebody didn't come up with a better plot. I like the setup: murder work and a side story like in the Mentalist, but like I said, there could have been something else besides IA (a la the Alice Morgan piece of the series which was brilliant).What else? Well, how about expanding the series? This could easily have been a 12 episodes/season series, it's that good. Or even more - look at the Mentalist pushing the envelope with 20+ episodes.


                
Hadn't watched the show in a while; put it on in the background while working on other things. Then episode #2 comes up, sucks me completely in, and reminds me just why this show is so awesome! Idris Elba does an amazing job playing the role of a tormented, complex, brilliant, but morally compromised detective. His character is so completely filled with passion. Love, anger, fear, frustration, his obsessed quest for moral justice<U+0085>. these feelings are never expressed in a subtle way with John Luther (Elba's character). Characters counter balancing the brilliant but emotional dynamo that is John Luther are: -His partner, Justin Ripley who is smart, young, inexperienced, cautious, a bit strait-laced,"by-the-books" type, but incredibly loyal to Luther -His estranged wife, Zoe, who is nearly saint-like. She loves him deeply but cannot live with his demons anymore -A sociopath, Alice, who gets away with murder (Luther knows, she implies admission, but the proof was destroyed) in the 1st episode, is a equally brilliant as Luther, and seems to develop an obsession with Luther. She is a bit of a wild card. Brilliantly acted out by Ruth Wilson -Mark, Zoe's boyfriend, who in early episodes seems like a nice & honest guy but basically a weak character, perhaps added just to contrast with Luther and to illustrate the stability and "normal-ness" Zoe gained by leaving John Luther. Stick with this character though<U+0085>. he develops into a strong character who is wonderful to watch as the series developsThere are other good (and even great) performances in some of the other characters. Casting and writing are very well done as each actor is a good fit for their role and each character is well-developed. It is certainly one of the best shows out there. I would recommend the show to anyone who appreciates strong characters and is looking for "something different" from the "normal" cop drama.
