After reading some of the other positive reviews I decided to give this a try. It's like a politically correct UK version of American pie without any of the funny jokes. It tries way too hard to be funny and simply ends up being a parody of itself. If you have even a slightly intelligent sense of humour then you will find this rubbish an embarrassment to even call itself a comedy. If this is the future of comedy then I want absolutely no part of it!


                
I gave it a shot and it did start off fairly well.
But as it went along it kind of fell straight down hill.It seemed like is stopped trying to follow a basic plot and started checking off stereotypes. They tried to hit at least one an episode.It got tiresome fast. They would have done a lot better trying to make their own story rather than making sure that they hit every mark they could.The soundtrack, on the other hand, is awesome in every imaginable way from the actual songs played to the bands talked about.


                
Absolute garbage. Over exaggerated scenarios, deconstructed character profiles and stereotypes, contrived cliches and some of the most over the top acting I've ever experienced.Nothing about this show is even slightly relatable and I would be incredibly concerned if it is. I get it, it's supposed to be humorous. However, it feels directed towards teenagers who have 0 maturity or developed taste in humour yet its content is not within the boundaries it should be within to actually be viewed by said audience and yet it will be. It's literally just Angus thongs etc on crack and loses any kind of relatability by being so ridiculously over the top.


                
I'm not sure what the demographic is of those who like this series but it really mindless drivel and hence a lot of the sex etc becomes somewhat distasteful. Clearly a Marmite production.


                
A strange kind of Disney/Hallmark perfection in sets and clothing. Not funny and really odd timing issues.


                
What decade is this supposed to be set??? Starts out as if it's late 70s then 80s then god knows when!? Terminology like 'monged' and 'vegan' weren't used then at all. Then they talk about CGI and porn hub yet live in really dated houses! Just stupid! Netflix are just churning out tripe now!


                
It started off well then soon turned into complete degeneracy.


                
This is supposed to be English. It was clearly made by America, the humor is American, the script is appallingly American just with English accents and English actors, i don't think it was even filmed in UK. Just because the accents are English doesn't mean that it is going to be English humor. This series is terrible. The decor of the houses was made by someone that saw an English house once in the 70's. What a horrible attempt. Do not bother.


                
Not funny. Cliched characters and contrived plot. A juvenile soft-core sex romp.
What is Gillian Anderson doing in a show this bad?


                
Weak confused mess that's just trying to sell itself to as many simple minds as possible with stupidly unsubtle jokes and shoving sex into your face. what did I just watch


                
When you thought that Netflix and other studios have learned their lesson they come out with this poorly written, bland and generic "comedy" show on a backdrop of teenagers and their sexual fantasies.If you ever thought the newer generations are messed up, this is a good indicator.


                
Ok should have given this more time but the whole setup was just terrible. uk accents, filmed in Wales, grey sky but carbon copy of US high school in the 80's. Problem is no one who went to school in the 80's in the UK ever experienced anything like this. Go watch the UK very of Teachers instead.


                
I get they want to get things a little opened to keep collecting our money for season two. But closing only one of the more than ten threats on the plot is not fair.Come on. You can do better than this. Or maybe not. In that case stop trying to tell us a complex story because obviously you don't know how to end it.I'm getting really tired of this trend. We know you have to win money with more than two seasons. Just don't make it that obvious.


                
Just look down the comment section and you'll find dozens and dozens of duplicate comments.People are saying this show is funny. I kiddz you not, the only thing funny are the reviews saying how "great and heart warming" this show is XP. Its just propaganda by lefties in the west to brain wash our generation into low Iq mind sets.Don't be fooled by these shows people, they are designed to trap you into a stupid life style. I used to watch shows like this (SKINS) and that show brain washed me to have a stupid mentality but thank goodness I came out of it before It was too late.VIEWER BE AWARE (If you want to stay intelligent) ;)


                
Sex Education is an attempt of Netflix to make an original series about all the sex taboos and the lack of basic knowledge by teenagers.It starts quite interestingly and with unique characters, facing ordinary problems with sex, with some over the top acting and comedic situations, along with some good British humor. But from the second episode, goes all "American Pie Movie" way and loses all its charm.I would recommend this mess only to American Pie & "Movie The Movies" fans, or to some hardcore Agent Scully fans. Everyone else, just pass...
Series about sex education, which is afraid to show a woman's vulva. And you still wonder why women are ashamed of their genitals/wonder why young girls cut their genitals.
The series promotes a typical view that breasts = penis and vulva = be ashamed. I really wanted to watch series which is not afraid of female genitalia and I'm dissappointed because sex education promotes patriarchy we live in. "Women should be ashamed of their genitals etc etc". Really sad show, not edgy at all.


                
I don't understand why any normal person finds these kinds of shows "watchable".Honestly, this show is made for that one kid in a public high school which likes to view women/men as objects and sends them creepy facebook messages wanting to get laid.
lol Hollywood is so dead with their modern day cringe tv shows
Come on America, you are better than this X,p


                
A show aimed at teens, with little humour and boring soft sex references throughout.Dull characters, stupid fashion, a waste of time.


                
I thought Love Island was full of degenerates and bad role models for the youth of today but this tops everything. Complete anarchistic nonsense reminiscent of the anti-culture movement of the 60s which is still harming us today. Plenty of left wing "lgbt" propaganda for those of the hive mind. Full of harmful and ridiculous stereotypes, classless 0 IQ characters, over the top references to sex, and just plain unrealistic social interactions and characters which no doubt some reprobates would call "progressive". Give me a break, I thought we were over all this degenerate and harmful messaging to teens. If teens did act like these characters there would certainly be a lot of emotional baggage down the line and our society would be screwed (not far of what is it now tbh)!


                
