In an era of too many options on TV, I was feeling a bit down and out about the lack of good shows actually out there, then I discovered this series. It's so bloody refreshing, hilarious, honest and endearing that you can't stop watching. The cast is brilliant and the plot is interesting, with the right amount of predictability and surprise. It's beautifully shot and the acting is really amazing. Can't praise this show enough, I'm going to have to start rewatching it if season two doesn't come out soon...


                
Probably the best production Netflix has ever done so far. By the way it's not just for teenagers I'm 67


                
Maeve Wiley is my pride and joy. I'm a child of a addiction riddled parent, I spent alot of my life looking after myself and I love when it's portrayed accurately on TV. And the abortion storyline, wow, I'm sick to death of whenever an abortion comes up it's dismissed. Usually ending with the woman carrying and having the child, because of pressure about it being murder or wrong to god, or they have some accident. Because abortion is so taboo. So I super appreciated then not doing that for her. I read reviews about it being highschool when it's said a lot of times that they're in sixth form sooooo it's not some American version of England Huns. I loved the variety of characters and characteristics. Each one was truly different to the rest and its a rarity sometimes. But I definitely say everyone should watch it. Maybe not with their parents or kids or anyone they'd find it awkward to watch sex scenes with. There are a few.
At first I was thinking, okay this is pretty good... reminds me of all the teen comedies I grew up watching in the eighties, but as it went on they fleshed out some of the characters who began as basic tropes and caricatures and I ended up really liking it by the end.It's the equivalent of watching four solid John Hughes movies with a little Judd Apatow Freaks and Geeks feel as well. Much more enlightened than a Hughes script yet still irreverent and fun.Can't wait for season 2... well done everyone!


                
I had just pulled an all night movie session off with a friend & as the sun rose thought I would watch an episode of this series. I ended up drinking coffee & bingeing it, because it's that well acted, colourful & human on every level. I can already see reviews criticising making school in the U.K. visually look like the U.S., but if it helps it appeal to a global audience I don't blame them! It works. It's done perfectly with that in mind, and if you are complaining about that then you haven't watched the full beauty & impact that this series should create. There is no racism of any kind, and people are attracted to the person, the way it should be. It puts a spotlight on homophobia & shoo shoos it away for how ridiculous it is & how strong the gay supporting character is, the styles of dress never conform, and it just shows a more beautiful fluidity of beauty, colour, sex, style, and sexual honesty that I wish the whole planet was like. Nit pick what you want people, but in my opinion that's a reflection on you & "The Norm" when I see a fantastic cast with great writing, direction, costume, location, etc... That shows a new ideal town. I wish my high school was like that instead of a stuffy all boys grammar school with bums to the wall when I was outed at 16. Thankyou Sex Education for educating the world on a whole lot more acceptance than just bedroom antics. Watch this show. It's important.


                
Just loved this. I'm 38 but still really really enjoyed it. Being a teacher, I see the issues affecting young people and this show addresses all of those and more. What is commendable is it's diverse cast. No other tv snow has managed to do this successfully without having stereotypical stock characters. Hats off to the writers. Some people are getting too bogged down by the setting etc but the point is, it doesn't matter. This could any school in any western country.


                
2 Episodes in and I'm hooked. I´m a little older than the target group but still find it to be very relatable, not your typical high school drama but more about teenage life (but exaggerated ofc) . Great character build up with clear target of each problems and goals. Superb acting!


                
Was not a fan and didn't expect for this series to come out. But oh my god, I'm glad that I watched first episode, after that I binged it for two days. Actors, plot, characters, everything was on point! Great comeback for Gillian Anderson (ofc. she was on American Gods lately, but had not so much of a screentime), Asa Butterfield is the British Timothee Chalamet.
As about the series, there is something that every person will find for themselves, friendship, teenage problems which can be relevant for an adult, unrequited love.
What I'm saying is that there is something in this series that hook you from the first second you see it and don't let you go even after you finish it.


                
Honestly when I first started watching this show I wasn't expecting much except the usual sex based puns and jokes about teenagers. Going deeper into the show however, I laughed, I cried, had an almost existential crisis and I loved every minute of it. 10/10 would recommend


                
I've never actually been really hooked to a show in my life, sex education is binge worthy, funny, relatable and the acting of these actors are mind blowing. I made an imdb account just to make this review. If youre a teenager this show is perfect for when youre exploring the sex world.. answers all your curiousty and ever episode will make you die of laughter. EVERY. EPISODE. trust me!


                
Loads more to cover here so fingers crossed for a season 2!! Very relatable and not over the top, would let my kids watch when over 16 because it's very well done, informative and normalises a lot of what isn't talked about even in 2019.


                
I have immensely appreciated the release of this series, I must say it has broadened my vision on many aspects of life, such as the desire for human contact, solid relationships, more acceptance of the LGBTQ community etc.
I thought the title was just there to generate more clicks resulting in more viewers, but I was completely mistaken, the plot is really solid, extremely well acted out (the three main characters are exceptionally talented!) and the location where this was filmed looks very appealing. Overall an unexpected brilliant series!


                
Loved everything about this Series. The characters wore cast brilliantly. Literally couldn't stop laughing at the quirkiness of this show. So so funny. I don't want it to end <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+00A2>


                
I can only assume reviewers getting confused by the American high school aesthetic have never watched a John Hughes film (Breakfast Club, Ferris Bueller, Pretty In Pink etc) The references are scattered throughout and just add to the experience.Sex Education is one of the best series I've watched for sometime. A superb script coupled with some wonderful performances had me laughing out loud so much, I had to keep rewinding to catch lines I'd missed.Ncuti Gatwa playing Eric is the absolute stand out. From perfectly delivered comedy to heartbreak within a blink of an eye. An absolutely wonderful performance.I'm already looking forward to another series.


                
I just excellent, I really enjoy watching this show


                
After watching the first 2 episodes I loved the show, thought it was funny and good stories love the characters especially Eric I think he is great character to have in the show, I do have they make another season


                
What a brilliant show. They've approached difficult subjects with tact and sensitivity, while still ensuring hilarious moments. I love that they haven't overly used cringe comedy, too often a crutch for shows like this. Can't wait for a second season.


                
I love this show! i started binging it last night and i can't stop. it covers a wide variety of sex topics that some people might be too shy to talk about in real life. it also mixes in lots of romance of drama, to make you keep watching.
i saw a review that talked about how unlikely it was to have an openly lesbian couple in the 80s, etc and it's?? not set in the 80s?? you can clearly see the characters use smart phones (viral pics sent around) and macbooks. the style of clothing the characters wear is very popular rn if you haven't noticed and it's typical for UK schools to use older-looking buildings, if that got you mixed up.


                
A funny, smart and well thought out series. It touches almost ALL the bases. Ignore the setting and focus on journeys and stories; you'll have a wild ride!!! Pun intended <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+0089>


                
My viewing experience if similar to a lot of other reviews I read; stumbling upon it and giving it a chance. Boy, am I happy I did. I haven't seen something this good in a long time. Every single character is fleshed out and has their own interesting story. It doesn't focus on the kids and leave the adults out either - Gillian Anderson gives an amazing performance and I was into her life just as much as everyone else's. I love that the show didn't grasp onto happy endings. It was real and complicated, sad, messy, and pure joy. All the young actors were amazing but I have to give the most praise to the actor who played Eric. I've never seen a performance like this before. Yes, he's the "gay character" but he's so much more. He is the heart and soul of this show and should win all the things! This show's portrayal of the frankness of sexuality might put some parents off but it's acceptance of people is so wonderful to watch that parents should encourage their children to watch it.


                
I am a teenager and I feel that I have always been different because of my love for 80's music. I really sympathize with Otis and I love his friendship with Eric. Most guys that are around 16, which is my age, are scared of boys that are homosexual. Otis may be nerdy and have low self-esteem, but he is mature beyond his years because of his unique upbringing.Gillian Anderson plays Otis's mother perfectly. She is very open and honest with Otis that reminds me of my relationship with my mom, but not necessarily to the same degree. Otis, because of his mother, knows the complications of growing up and becoming an adult.Lastly, this show is very open and there are some graphic scenes, but this show is openly tackling topics that are not discussed in our culture today. People treat sex or sexual feelings as a taboo topic and it is refreshing to see storylines that are the opposites of tropes seen in other shows. Teens are actively discussing their feelings, sex is shown, but the amazing quality of the show is that no teen is alone in what they are experiencing.This show reminds me of 13 Reasons Why, because it is so groundbreaking. The show has a light tone, but still tackles topics like sex, social anxiety, and LGBTQ. Each character in the show is so different that you can find someone that you can relate to. One of the better Netflix originals that I have seen in a long time. Please watch the show!!!


                
This show is absolutely hilarious, so strangely interesting and funny. It's just great and I really hope there's another season!!!


                
This series is awesome and i portrays a brilliant story of a teenage boys life and peoples first experiences with sex. It feels very nostalgic, and they keep portarying all the akward and funny things that comes up in our teenage years. It is brilliant and unique, and this role is played to perfection by Asa Butterfield, he is a brilliant actor and this is a perfect role for him.


                
I love love loveeee this show :) i gets so exciting and funny sometimes and sometimes sad.


                
3 episodes till now and i can say I pretty much enjoyed it!
I like the relationship between otis and meave.
I like how the series talks openly about the sex between teens because alot of people are shy and cant talk about it but i can recommend this series as a teaching -comedy+drama- series.
