Everyone calm down. It's not that good. Also, I don't know why everyone is dressed like it's 1985, anyway.


                
Mine included obviously.
This show is nothing but a bunch of unfunny clichés about sex and low iq teens


                
It's set in 4 different decades! In 2 different countries and characters are mid 20s acting as if they are ment to be 13.It's not fun or clever just annoying. If I want to watch something so unrealistic I'll stick to Harry Potter.. Well there are plenty of wands flying around.. but not the magic kind.I just hope my girlfriend hates it as much as me or I'll be stuck watching the whole darn thing.Definitely for late teens. If your over 30 and enjoying this.... no words.


                
Some of the characters talk like they are American, particularly the therapist mother. The school is modelled on an American school yet it's filmed and set in the U.K. I spent the first part of the episode trying to work out if the kids were transfer students. Really odd and a bit disappointing that we couldn't have a proper British show,Glee was huge despite being set in an American school, British viewers just didn't view it as an issue. A really odd production decision that detracted from the acting and the storyline.


                
So like usual with netflix lobby decide what we have to watch and this time it's a black gay, a 30 years old men having sex with a grandma, a couple wearing god and disguising like horse.P.S.: I rate 2 because is well filmed


                
On which planet, which year, which country this takes place ?
Because there was and there is no such place, as what is presented on this creation, in what purpose ?Ah, title says: education. Sure, we need to educate with some very irreal environment, family (or what is left from it), then typical cliche USA high school image from movies of 80-es of last Century. That was never real, but overdone - with mandatory bullies, clicks and like. This is what was here, only with some British accent (not too good most part) .I was never in British school, and even less in some USA school. But somehow don't think that in 80-es in USA being gay was something what people easily admitted, talked about it with friends. And there was even short scene of girls in love in public.After some 20 minutes I just switched it off. Pretty obvious where it will go.
This is not education. This is new age propaganda, part - put here some large number. Maybe I would stand it for next 10 minutes if female main actress would be really attractive, and not only some BB type :-)


                
First of all just want to say dont listen to those who said the serie is good , couz its not ;worst acting , bad script , the ideas is good tho , could be much better if u had good acting performances .


                
This show is awful to the point of nauseating!! These reviews must be fake or paid. This show is just CRINGE! the main character best mate Eric is so overly gay it's laughable but not in a good way! Give this show a very wide berth & don't waste your time on it, enough said.


                
I really need to cancel my Netflix subscription as they seem to produce more misses than hits these days.


                
