Love the soundtrack but don't get it . It just seems so contrived , it's got a 70s/80s soundtrack , the lingo is 2019 but they attend what looks like a privileged private college whilst living in thatcher council estates . The biggest disappointment is there is not one single likeable character . They are all gross , only watched 5 of the 8 episodes . Somebody tell me does it improve ??


                
As a high school teacher, I watched the show because a friend of mine said it would be superhelpful to get a deeper understanding of teenagers. What a mistake!The main character is likeable and you really want him to finally get laid (which, I guess, will happen in season 2), but, apart from that, everything goes wrong in the sense that nothing is believable.First of all, Maeve is depicted as a strong young woman who has been through a lot. I get that. But there's no way you walk around like nothing happened after getting an abortion. Yes, it's an unwanted child, but still.Also, Jackson, the charming popular guy, is raised by a multiracial lesbian couple. I enjoy the fact of diversity being represented on tv, but that was too much. With Jackson's two mums, there are 8 homosexual characters in town and 5 interracial couples. That melting pot doesn't feel realistic to me in a Welsh small village.Eric, the flamboyant gay sidekick, belongs to a religious, traditional African family, but his parents are supportive of him even though he ends up wearing RuPaul-like outfits and make-up... to school. Seriously!Finally, Otis' sex therapist mum, goes way too far beyond the mother and son relationship boundaries. As a mother of two kids, I'm sure I would never let my multiple one-night standings meet my son every morning, especially if they're just wearing underpants and my dressing gown. Needless to say, children don't need to hear their mother's moaning during intercourse. It just doesn't feel right.There are many other characters that don't represent reality as it should be, but it would take me ages to go one by one.Watch the show if you like, but don't take it too seriously.
Contrived, faux americana in an everpresent summertime of Penarth, South wales. Has amusing parts but utimately it's just video-cocaine for the lost middle classes pining for a placetime that never existed and never will. Cynical and lacking in soul, despite the observations of maturing. An impossible confection of fake multi-kulti semi-rural neverland.


                
Ummm, are we in England or America? Why are these kids in casual clothes if in an English educational establishment? English school pupils wear full uniform.
So we have a bunch of English kids in an American school?
I've heard of escapism but come on! Get it together.


                
I started watching this due to a friends recommendation but while the acting is good and the whole series is based around a popular topic it was missing something that just drew me in to keep watching it after making it through half of the season.


                
