Everyone has said this, but I also think most of the commenters below are Brits. As an American, I really don't think this show needed to be so 80s American high school. I would have much rather watched a more authentic portrayal of a British college.I feel like as Netflix is broadening their international shows, its kinda counter-productive to produce international shows that are Americanized. Then what's even the point of a non-American show? I feel like this is one of the reasons why Americans are so culturally ignorant. Counter to one commenter below, even if one 6th form school in England is like this show, the vast majority aren't. And counter to another commenter that said this is how to reach a global audience...since when is the U.S. a global audience? Like come on. I think this should be an opportunity for Netflix to give Americans what we don't already see all the time.That aside, good acting and just interesting to see a more complex conversation around sex and teens especially with young guys. You just never see anything other than guys constantly wanting to have sex. This show paints a different picture.


                
This isn't really a review of the plot or acting, more the setting.I found it very difficult to understand what was going on in terms of why there were loads of English teenagers in an American high school. Not just the lack of uniform that gives this vibe, the sports, varsity jackets, college flags in Jackson's bedroom, lax attitude towards classes and study.The other thing I found baffling for the first two episodes was when was this set? A lot of people seemed to be dressed in 70's garb. And then a whole bunch other in 90's. And the main characters house is quite mid century in its interior design. Also everyone wears colour and statement outfits all the time, sort of bizarre.But the bit that distracted me the most throughout the show was that it was constantly good weather, t shirts all the time etc. I don't think there's anywhere in England this could be set that would allow that apparel for any time of year other than the summer months, which it obviously isn't as they're in school.I actually thought it was a really pleasant to look at show and enjoyed the colour and nostalgia etc but just found it a bit confusing because it wasn't addressed and didn't add much and seems like someone just wanted to have British accents for American appeal but nothing else as not to turn viewers away. Strange


                
I don't understand whether this is an American school transplanted to the U.K. or a bunch of Brits in America.
Everyone seems to be 5 years too old for it to be a secondary school, behaving like 13 year olds and since when did UK schools have varsity style jackets?


                
It's well written, mostly good performances and great to see something British that isn't miserable. Just wish a little more time was spent on making me care about the characters: it feels like they've covered off everyone on the list but forgotten to give me one person (at least) to hang my hopes on. I do like the fact that as with any good high school drama, they've got actors who could be thirty playing teenagers.


                
There are so many stereotypes and clichè in the show. We're all expecting to see the awkward boy and underdog girl getting together, while getting distracted with some side stories like the golden boy, the openly gay and the secretly gay dudes, the alien girl or the experimental mom. But the show puts all this together with a well written storytelling, solid cinematography and a gorgeous retro atmosphere from British countryside. I liked it more than I thought and I expect to see more soon.
A quirky coming of age show. Is interesting enough but reminds me of a lot of the movie Charlie Bartlett with the late Anton Yelchin.


                
Initially for the first episode or two I couldn't get over the over Americanised everything!! Why is the school like an American one, why are there cool gangs and Jock style characters? Also the 80s style was just odd. Once past that the story lines were funny and characters were likable, but as for people talking about how diverse this was and a breath of fresh air, skins did it all over 10 years ago. However, I really enjoyed it.


                
I've been reading comments and reviews on this show and honestly I can only describe it as a soft porn show. Ok, yes, it's about SEX but seriuosly, the plot is quite predictable and it gets boring at some point. If it wasn't for the sex scenes I don't think it would have hooked many people because, let's face it, most live for the thrill of drama.


                
It's a bit over the top, a mix of decades and doesn't feel very british but rather american. When I had come to terms with that I found it entertaining.


                
Sex Education can often be tonally inconsistent, and I have no idea when or where it is supposed to be set, but the cast of characters did grow on me throughout this first season and it's pretty funny in places as well. It's not up there with the best drama or comedy series of recent years but as long as you're not the prudish type it's worth a watch.


                
The story of a completely imaginary, idyllic English senior school where the late-developing son (Asa Butterfield, excellent) of a sex therapist (Gillian Anderson, brilliant, hilarious and deep) becomes unofficial school sex therapist, thanks to the support of 'Cock Biter' Maeve (Emma Mackey, this year's model). With whom he's in love.It's funny, mostly. A bit of pathos, occasionally. Some terribly tedious 'headmaster' tropes regurgitated. Several great supporting characters - the biology/music teacher, the handyman, the girl desperate to lose her virginity but can't; all that and Emma Mackey, who makes Brigitte Bardot look like Emma Forbes.But you've seen it all before, just not with so many LBGT and wanking references - which is the point, I suppose.Occasionally you think you're watching a terribly earnest public service film, but on the whole, thanks to its sense of humour (not its lack of abandonment of cliche), Sex Education is worth your time.


                
Honestly speaking, I thought this might be another teenage drama & I wasn't interested in it coz I have seen insatiable and I expected much from that show but it didn't live up to it's expectations but the title of this show "sex education" got me intrigued so I gave it a try. A big fat question from me "where the hell is sex shown in this series?". It literally has sex in the title of this show. I expected much nudity from this show coz Netflix pretty much shows sex scenes openly in their other shows & movies. Hell, even HBO shows lots of nudity in their shows and that is a cable channel. We just got to see a few sex scenes here & there throughout the season, a penis in the first or second episode and a vagina in the third or fourth episode(I don't remember). That's it? I was also expecting some homosexual love but it was just confined to few minutes in few episodes. I was disappointed. There shouldn't be any boundaries when a digital content is being created. Coming to the storyline, it is a typical high school teenage drama. There is nothing unique. Acting parts of the actors are ok. Gillian Anderson is always iconic. The kids & other supporting characters are ok. But the storyline got dragged & dragged. Netflix, if ur watching this review plz take my advice and show us lots of sex. We are living in 21st century for goodness sake.
It was good I guess, but I really thought it would have a better ending.. I will be back for season 2, but only to see if you fix what happened in the end of season 1... you know what needs to happen... or else I'm done after season 2... otherwise good. <f0><U+009F><U+0098><U+008A>


                
When I started watching it, I was hooked on the "detective shows" gimmick. I expected it to be more focused on an inexperienced teenage boy solving his schoolmate's sex problems (like the trailer suggested) and a lot less on the private lives of the main characters.
However, my biggest issue is not this more personal direction of the show, rather than the characterization itself. It felt like they tried too hard to create some multidimensional non-stereotypical characters. Ultimately, two opposite stereotypes were mixed in the same individual in order to make them seem complex. Most of the nice guys would make some terrible out-of-character decisions so that they may seem less nice than we thought. Same thing goes for the bad guys who occasionnally would do/say something nice. It didn't show the difficult period that puberty is, it was more like a try-hard attempt not to make the characters stereotypical.
The two characters I liked the most (Eric and Adam) were very interesting and strangely non-contradictory but were left undevelopped. Oh well, you have to hype the viewers for next season somehow, I guess. While I will probably continue watching it, it's far from my favorite Netflix shows.


                
The series started with lots of promise, with the critical topic of sex among the teenagers and the issues appearing as the main theme which indeed had a lot of potential. As the series progressed, it lost its purpose and turned into yet another teen comedy. It felt like they had a very good script for first 4 episodes and then someone forced them to convert it to a eight episode series and they filled it up with the most generic plot they can think of. Utterly disappointing second half. It is full of as many cliches you can think of. Other than the sexual problems that they discuss of, there is nothing new to see in this series.My rant doesn't mean that it is a bad series. There are positives like the you fall love with the characters.The characters are good and carefully developed and loved Adam's character. Even if the story is old, the execution is fresh. The performances are good and were probably best that this writing could get. Music also makes the series watchable.Overall review: Watch only if you are a big fan of teen comedies/ Don't keep high expectations. Watch it like any other teen movie, and you won't be disappointed.
This series was a good watch; although it was very confusing to understand what time period this was set in. At first I thought it was set in current time, with maybe an 80s theme. But after Jackson talked to Maeve about one of her favourite books he says... "you have been the only person taking this book out since 1972" (not exact reference) so would imply that they are now in the 80s. Another part that confirmed their location was a scene where Maeve & Aimee where smoking and she talked about a president. Maveve turned around and said they don't have presidents which would prove they are not in America.The show is interesting and relative to teens and young adults going through their first sexual incounters. Although the show is constantly contradicting itself showing 80s homes, cars, TVs and clothing. But then talking about Kim Kardashian, snoop dog as well as having mobile phones and MacBooks. The show just doesn't seem to make a lot of sense.At the start of the series I found it boring but as it progressed it became more interesting as the character gain more depth and better story lines. The series even finds a way to incorporate more characters even if they are in for short periods of time.It's worth a watch!
I love this new series on Netflix. It's pretty funny. But what I don't get which is why I gave it a bit of a lower school is, why if it's set in the uk does it look like a school in the us in the mid 90s. Also why does it look like the 80s/90s seeing as it obviously isn't, because the kids have iPhones! I really like the show. But as a Brit myself all I can think about is the inconsistencies!
It's a British show with a mixture of Modern-day British Millennials with an 80s American high school Backdrop.. goodness knows what the Director was thinking was he making this show.
it's far removed from reality however but its vary watchable and not to be taken too Seriously..


                
Mmmm not sure what audience this is aimed at as seems a bit rude for young teens but a bit immature for adults. Will continue to watch as long as the wonderful and gorgeous
Mikael Persbrandt (Jakob) is in it. Do fast forward to his parts!!


                
