Sex Education is a coming of age story about 16-year-olds, their life in high school and at home, and, most importantly about their sexual developments. The main storyline unfolds around a boy named Otis. His mom is a sexual therapist, which makes sex and everything connected with it even harder for him to talk about. Ironically, Otis, who has very little experience and feels tremendously awkward when it comes to sex and relationship, is surprisingly good at giving advice on those subjects to others. Therefore, this edgy cool girl Maeve, who is, as most would say, way out of Otis' league recognizes his "talent" and encourages him to start a sex clinic inside school. And so that the story starts.Compared to other teen series and films found on Netflix, Sex Education may be the most substance-rich, but it lack innovative concepts and novel themes to be called a round work. So you get presented many important discussion that deal with homosexuality, family problems to far-reaching critical issues such as abortion. However, I found dealing with these conflicts often very clumsy and superficial. In many places I had wanted more depth and a more intensive handling of the individual topics. Instead, the discussions were kept to a minimum and barely picked up by the characters and packed into meaningful dialogues.Another point of criticism was the often stereotypical portrayal of many protagonists and the entire social environment shown. So it seems almost a trend to be that just standing in the corner inconspicuous boy may someday have the girl of his dreams. I do not doubt that there are such social structures or at least similar ones in every school and in almost every life of a 16 or 17-year-olds. But the creators of the series could have trusted more and to be able to present a story without the obvious presence of such clichés. There are some clichés, but it has no special effect on the whole. Even at its lamest, cliche moments, this quirky show remains quaintly entertaining. In many series or films for similar target groups, puberty, first love and first sex are often portrayed romantically and therefore often appear unrealistic. Sex education, however, shows a blunt and sincere approach and may perhaps convince one or the other viewers of this uniqueness.I believe it's important to see this series. It opens a subject about sexual developments of teenagers that should not be ignored. It also shows how everybody has their problems and nobody is perfect, and that there is an explanation to everything. We can see the fact that everything happens for a reason, that everything has a start somewhere and that if we as a community help to find that start, we can also help one to get rid of their issues, feel full as a person and happy with who they are.In terms of acting performance, Sex Education painted a picture similar to own. The individual performances were in some cases quite authentic and convincing. However, some protagonists were so over-cliched in my eyes that the performance of the actors had to suffer as well. So you may praise some protagonists for their performance, others were not particularly prominent and therefore not very credible.Although most of the time the viewer will know what the stories are all about, "Sex Education" is the first pleasant surprise of the production year. With consistent and clever ideas, playful performers and a lot of charm, this coming-of-age comedy with adult audiences should be a reliable "binge watching" candidate for many. "Sex Education" was certainly not a bad series and could also take some positive points with its open-hearted nature. 8/10


                
Just thought I'd write this after reading some early comments. These are meant to be 16-18 year olds in sixth form college. I can't speak for all seperate sixth-form colleges, but the one I attended did not have a uniform, was based in an old mansion and yes even in the UK we'd occasionally throw an American Football around. Just because it's not the expected experience doesn't mean it doesn't occur.It may feel alien to most, but the environment felt very nostalgic to myself. Now the storyline premise, that's a whole different story!As for the plot, at least it's original and two episodes in it hasn't disappointed.


                
It's not usual teenage drama or comedy, not american stereotyping, it's English through and through .
Very funny, intriguing issues, and require attention.


                
It had everything:great plot, great acting and also funny af.the series it's based for teenagers and also adults which makes it even better.cant wait for the next season to begin!


                
Sex Education is one of those rare comedy TV shows, that also includes heavy dramatic moments, without feeling bizarre. Usually TV shows try this and fail miserably, but this new Netflix comedy is a fantastically written teen TV show, that deals with a ton of adult and human problems as well. We follow a now older Asa Butterfield, and Christ has he grown, I remember him as a tiny child in the TV show Merlin, now he towers over most of the cast. His character suffers from sexual problems, which is every teen boys worst nightmare, and he uses his knowledge of sex to his advantage to give advice to his peers, giving that his mother (played amazingly by Gillian Anderson), is a sex therapist. And please tell me I am not the only one that thought Jean, was played by Emma Thompson, Gillian looks exactly like her. While Asa's Otis is our main character, he isn't the sole holder of the show, he is surrounded by an amazing and diverse cast of characters, the stand out being his best friend Eric. Ncuti Gatwa gives us a heartwarming, and sometimes heartbreaking performance of a gay teen not only coming to terms with himself, but also embracing who he is. Not many TV shows can pull this off without going over the top. Another main character, Maeve, played by Margot Robbie look-alike Emma Mackey is another compelling and interesting character, who has been living a trashy life, but is secretly smart. She is like if Hermione from Harry Potter was raised by junkies.It is not only the fantastic cast of characters that drive this show, but also the story. We follow young Otis as he tries to follow in his mother's footsteps and give advice to young teen, on how to not only embrace who they are, but help them sexually in the bedroom, and this helps to provide some hilarious interactions. But these scenes don't feel far fetched or cheesy, they well done, and given help by the amazing acting of the cast. The style of the show is also fantastic, being in the UK myself, it feels like they have given us an 80s American TV show, set in Britain, but feels American at the same time. But this show isn't set in the 80s and it isn't set in America. And this helps the show greatly. I often got a Stranger Things vibe from it.Sex Education is a great new TV show, but it also has problems, but these can easily be ignored, as it doesn't take from the show. One being, it is quiet predictable, and cliche at times. You will know where the story will end up around half-way through the show. There is also a few cheesy moments, that feel straight out of an 80s romantic comedy, like the guy making a big speech to get the girl, or embarrassing themselves in front of tons of people. But some of you may like this kind of humour, but for me, it's not my style. But it isn't enough to ruin the show. The other is at times it feels very progressive and feminist it times, and it get's distracting when a character is trying to shove some sort of message down your throat, but that is to be expected from a TV show nowadays. They did however handle entire homosexuality message perfectly, and I can see it inspiring a lot of young people who watch the show.This is a great new show, and I can see it running for a good few seasons, if the quality holds up. It is one of the better Netflix shows, and now that most of the great ones have been cancelled, (goodbye Daredevil), Sex Education, along with "You" are hopeful new shows that will keep us interested.


                
Very good so far. For those saying it's set in England but very American. They obviously go to a private school and that's a rugby ball...not am American football. It's not set in the 80s...everyone has mobile phones.Very entertaining!


                
This show appears to be set in an alternative universe where Americans speak British and smartphones were invented in the 80s. This asides, the writing and acting are superb, and despite some rather silly plotlines, the story telling is sharp and wonderduly original. Would have given only 7/10 if it wasn't for the touching and believable character development.


                
Loving how this series confidently addresses the struggles of teen life... Raw and emotional but with an hilarious twist! If only everyday life could be this open about such sensitive topics.Only downside is it's weirdly set in what seems to be 80s America but is filmed in Newport and they've all got iPhones? Don't really get it. But...


                
Netflix has indeed brought us with a Series which every Teenager needs to give a watch as each of em' goes through such situations when about reaching to Puberty. The Actors were great and so was the content with not so Vulgar talks but fantasized and sensible Sex talks.


                
This quite delightful comedy with a sprinkling of drama is not just about the kids, although they are the primary focus, but also the adults including the wonderful Gillian Anderson and an unexpected Mikael Persbrandt giving great performances.Whilst if you lay out the plot it is quite a conventional teenage sex comedy of the type endlessly produced in the US but the difference here is the intelligence of the script and the depth of the characters that change this from just a run of the mill comedy into something quite a deal more.The fine cast lead by Asa Butterfield, Emma Mackey and Ncuti Gatwa are marvellous.Some wonderfully comic moments and some moments of pathos and genuine drama make for a binge worthy experience.But you will need an open mind and not be offended by bad language or sexual discussion and images.And a twist in the final episode will not be totally unexpected by those who watch closely. (But I can say it is perfectly believable).but just enjoy this sex ed class.....


                
It's a overall interesting and funny serie to watch. The plot is original, the acting is good, and the serie is really captivating! Just something u need to watch, If u are feeling a bit down or just not in the mood for anything, try watching this serie, it's funny, interesting, and a overall a feel good serie.


                
After each episode, I said wow. Every single episode is good. Sex Education is funny and captures the emotions of teens very well. Sex Education is not only about sexual adventures of a bunch of teens. It is something more than that. It also talks about the importance of friendships and relationships. Every single character and those who portrayed them is very good. A special mention to Gillian Anderson, Ncuti Gatwa and Emma Mackey. Cinematography of Sex Education is extraordinary and there are many breathtaking visuals. The songs and music is also very fresh and keeps the mood of the series. Sex Education is simply one of the best series Netflix has ever made. Eagerly waiting for Season 2.


                
I could go on about how the script is tighter than a Senegalese drum...or how the actors are succinct it puts most shows to shame! This is a great coming of age TV show (regardless of where you might have fallen on the spectrum). Amazing direction, which is obvious in how good the cast mesh together & the camera work that makes the TV show feel like a long, but incredible movie! Do you're selves a favour and just watch!


                
Good series, with a small production, good story, good cast, sex education leaves nothing to be desired, just fantastic..


                
I clicked on this title with no expectations. But after the 1st episode, I was HOOKED!
The series is fresh. It is a teen show without all the cliches and cringes of a typical teen show.
Kudos to all the actors , they were really well. The story is also amazing! And the soundtrack has to be appreciated! The cinematography ,in particular, during the drug scenes and the last one are really good.
The series hits the right notes with its freshness and the right pacing. The only thing that sags it in the end was the same teen cliches returning back, but in the end. I hope they up the game in the next season.


                
"Sex Education" is a witty and engrossing show; the smutty teenage humour is handled well, and it's reminiscent of the in-betweeners in the way it deals with teenage schoolchildren, relationships and sex.Here's the rub though; the show is clearly meant to be set in Britain, with a British cast and locations, but the cultural context is all wrong. The very grand looking school might pass as a private school in the UK, but some of the pupils don't seem that well-off. Regular British schools just aren't like that. Equally the identities of the characters and the semi-rural setting don't really fit. If this is supposed to be Wales (and it's filmed in Wales) then where are all the Welsh people? Why is the mix of accents and backgrounds seemingly at odds with the location?One could argue I suppose that it's refreshing to see a British show that's not hamstrung by the contexts of regionalism and class, but on the other hand, I dislike that this is essentially an Amercian high school drama that's been somehow transposed into the Welsh countryside.None of the above makes this any less funny or engaging as a show, but I do find the large-budget abandonment of British cultural identity somewhat disappointing.


                
Very original series and also very addictive. With a lot of lovable characters, this series mixes humour with sadness perfectly. Definitely a good watch.


                
The series was very beautiful in terms of drama and comedy and it was so fun that I wasn't paying attention to the time where it was going fast. I hope there's a second season.
I'm still not getting it why Eric still went to the music department when he got back after the suspension. And that kind of sex between Adam and him was just weird and out of nowhere. And Adam, I mean, can't he just actually grow up? After all the stuffs he was still being a d***head in front of other students and being a coward in front of his father. What is actually wrong with him? And how come did Otis actually turn from Maeve to Ola? Was Ola sort of practice for him or what? And the last point is, I really hate the headmaster. He's so arrogant and feelingless, and an a**hole. Most parts of the first season was cool and funny though, just a bit disappointed about the ending.
It's relating, funny and emotional.
Asa Butterfield and Emma Mackey are so charming and great in it, that doesn't feel like they're just acting.
[Date: Jan 21-28]


                
A very picturesque corner of Monmouthshire is the setting for this time shifted window (80's fashion, 21st century mobile phones) on a quasi Anglo-American sixth form college.Gillian Anderson plays sex therapist mum to Asa Butterfield's quiet, studious and sightly confused 16 y old 'Otis'. However, Emma Mackey's 'Mauve' sees an opportunity to capitalise on Otis's skill in talking therapies for other students sexual problems. Slightly implausible, but the premise does make for entertaining TV!Although far from the slapstick comedic moments of the 'inbetweeners' this follows a similar 'rites of passage' trajectory with wry humour and dynamic and full characters. To be recommended - commission season 2!


                
This was a fun watch, the character and plot development gave it the extra substance to make it a series i really became invested in, most of the characters were given an arc of sorts which lent to a sense of understanding towards pretty much all of them, with their respective personalities then explained by what it was that bought them to this point then expanded beyond that.That said an awful lot of the characters were massive cliches and occasionally i couldn't help but roll my eyes at this. Sure they were developed beyond the cliche but even then a few felt a little too broad.Keen to see what series 2 brings and where it goes from here.


                
So much to love about this series! There was some fine acting to bring numerous really likeable characters with their insecurities and imperfections to live. Great way to educate the young and older generations about sex and relationships. I just hope that by casting mainly 20+ year olds as high school students it won't give teenagers watching the show the impression that their own bodies should be developed like that at age 16-18 as well as their interest in sex. The final episode was a bit too predictable and overall the show tried too hard to be Hollywood. But overall very enjoyable.


                
This is mix cool romantic motivation gayism( why so much gay )And this is good kindof addittive slowly


                
Cast is brilliant and fresh. Only thing wrong was that the season was so short. Bring on season 2 please.


                
