I am so surprised by this show! I'm a 38 year old dude who wouldn't even really consider watching a show like this. I just randomly clicked it because I was bored before going to bed. I typically watch documentaries and shows in the style of The Wire or Game of Thrones. Everything about this show is great! The vibrant acting, the story narrative, the gorgeous cinematography, the absolutely stunning location (Penarth, South Wales), the great characters, the relationships between characters, and Gillian Anderson! I'm also not a fan of sex being portrayed in films and tv because it's usually cringe-worthy, but this is fun and educational. It's like a coming of age film that's really fun but deals with important and complex subjects. I don't typically get hooked on shows but you got me Netflix! Cheers! Well done.


                
IT'S NOT SET IN THE 80'S, THEY HAVE MOBILE PHONES.
IT'S NOT IN AMERICA, NOT ALL BRITISH SCHOOLS WEAR UNIFORMS.
THEY ARE IN 6TH FORM, VERY FEW 6TH FORMS WEAR UNIFORMS.
IT'S A RUGBY BALL, NOT AN AMERICAN FOOTBALL.All in all I loved it.


                
Sex Education is an excellent show with some witty, genuinely funny and honest writing; diverse and beautiful cast; and stories everyone can related to. Performances are just magnificent, especially by Asa Butterfield and of course, Gillian Anderson.


                
I watched all eight episodes in one go, it was a delightful experience. Some stunning acting it does what a lot of British drama does at its best blending comic genius with some heartbreaking serious consequences and issues, but never in an overtly preachy manner.
Ever character however superficial they initially appear show great depth and complexity in the course of the story.
The filming locations are very near to where I live, and have been captured beautifully on camera. Symmonds Yat and the Wye Valley are designated areas of outstanding natural beauty, and the director happily used the area to it's full extent.
I've no idea why they decided to go with 1980's cars for everyone whilst at the same time using 2018 mobile phones and laptops , other than that a refreshing amusing and sweet series. I hope it gets another season


                
Well Well Well ... absolutely love it so far! The story The laugh The underneath massage! It's just lovely! It's one of those shows that you watch and be like I never knew I needed this! Asa Butterfield is an amazing young actor! Hope to see more of him in the future because boy I'm telling you that kid is GOOD! Hugo sure grew up to be fabulous 10/10 for Asa but 9/10 because I'm only two episodes in! Again so far so delightful and fun! I'm sure the rest is just as good if not better!


                
Can't stop watching it oh and the guy who plays Eric is phenomenal.


                
It is fair to say the school setting of this show is totally Americanised which I did initially find odd. I got over it pretty quickly though, artistic licence and all. I do find some of the plot contrived or predictable at times, but that said, I'm loving the characters and story line so far.


                
Just finished watching it and I must say it is a very entertaining Netflix series.
I loved all the episodes.
Season 2 will be happening for sure.
Enjoy the show!


                
I can't understand why would anybody get confused about the era - only 80's vibe I was getting from the 'clique' but it makes sense since the whole 'mean girls' concept is pretty outdated. I thought this was a way of making fun of. Enjoyed watching Eric and his father's relationship - also shout-out to the art department for all the items Eric has worn throughout the series.


                
Great show, I've seen endless comments about the show coming across as 'American' even though its set in Britain. The program is set at a Sixth form college rather than a school which is why they do not wear uniforms, this is common.Also, colleges and sixth forms tend to have lockers, mine did anyway. And also, I've seen rugby balls being thrown but not American Footballs. Even though, yes, the show is influenced by America, as the writers said. Its not quite as influenced as people may think.Overall a really enjoyable show and great acting. Would recommend.


                
This show is amazing its really funny and it reminds of the inbetweeners in a way because like the inbetweeners this show constanly had me going "Oh god no" no because the show was bad but because of the situations the charecters were in. The acting is pretty good i would say Maeves actress was the best at acting. I think its good thing this show is out around nowadays because there really isnt many shows like this. They devolp the characters so much for example Eric is attacked for being gay and this changes how he acts and this sub plot lasts for multiple episodes which was nice to see and must shows would have quickly rapped it up to go back to the main story but this one takes its time devopling the charecters


                
Great acting by all involved. Gillian Anderson is in top form. The dialogue is sharp, pacing is superb and the story is absurdly delicious. Off center just enough to be awesome.


                
I loved this! So well made. It was funny and beautifully shot. I just kinda wish the actors would have been actual teenagers themselves. You could tell a lot of them were in their twenties and when you know they're supposed to play sixteen year's olds, it's a bit distracting and makes it feel a bit fake.


                
Out of the gate it had a little bit of an awkward start, but each episode seemed to improve on itself. Overall the acting is great, especially for a Netflix series. The plot doesn't get stale and there is always a multitude of things all going on at once. I never wanted it to end, can't wait for the next season.


                
I hope this is renewed for 2nd series, as I want to see what happens to the characters!Everyone else has covered the main topics so all I want to say is I like the way the gay characters are treated, very non stereotypically. And the end episode is a real surprise for the main gay character with a very surprising twist, although those who are alert will have seen it coming!
I started watching the show expecting it to be some sort of British teenage drama. Kinda like The Inbetweeners but less funny and more about discussion of topics related to sex.
But as I started watching the series I realised that this IS actually a teenage drama. The entire setting, tone characters, and the plot seems so....... American until you hear the characters speak. This did not feel like a British show to me at all.
Despite all the fuss about it being an "Americanised British show", the plot really holds everything together. It is a decent story that includes topics like teenage pregnancies, Abortion, masturbation, sexual health, sexual orientation, etc. while maintaining the audience's attention and grasp on the events by adding humour to the story.
All in all this a great and a fun-to-watch show when you're bored.


                
Funny drama mixed with just the right amount of vulgarity. The good thing about Netflix buying everything is eventually they get a hit...and why not?....they got the money!


                
Just finished watching it and thought it was brilliant.
The vast majority of the characters were thoroughly engaging and it's sense of humour, whilst occasionally cringeworthy was overall very entertaining.
Despite this though the dramatic moments were so gripping that I couldn't look away from the screen.
Casting as a whole was pretty good although if I had to point to the best performances it would obviously have to go to asa butterfield for one with his amazingly mature delivery of every line that almost makes you forget that his character is meant to be 17. Also, whilst only a bit player, Alistair Petrie's performance as headmaster Groff was one of the best parts of the show. The authority with which he delivers every line was just superb, and in particular his delivery at the end of episode 5, being almost deadpan in an otherwise hilarious scene was just superb.


                
It's absolutely amazing! It's very funny, I caught myself laughing out loud multiple times, but above all, it's relatable! Asa Butterfield is the perfect nerdy kid and Emma Mackey is also amazing. Need we even mention Gillian Anderson? After you've seen an episode or two, you'll realise this was what you needed all along. I'm giving it 9/10 because I've still got 3 episodes left to watch and those might ruin everything for me (tbh they probs won't)


                
Love it! Great blend of humor with wonderful touching moments as well. This show is fun to watch. The performances and writing are terrific. There's even some great education, not so much about sex, but about the complexities of relationships and people. Unless you have some serious pent-up sexual issues, I can't see how you can't love this show.


                
Why is it the eighties but also not?
And why are they in a non uniform high school of their in sixthform...
I think although it's a really amazing show they missed a great opportunity to show a real british teen life and real british school


                
I really enjoyed the show I though most of the acting was very good but I assume in the attempt to make it understandable for Americans some of the details we're a little odd like the layout if the highschool


                
This is one of the few netflix originals that is very upbeat and that really helps this feel very fresh over the usual serious and dark tales netflix likes to tell. I really enjoyed this show, watched it all in one sitting during an all nighter, and I'm pretty glad to say this is one of Netflix's best shows. The only problem I can find with this show is that a certain swedish plumber man comes to fix something and his daughter comes in, I didnt like her at all. I found her unneeded in the story and really was just there to counter the relationship with Maeve and Jackson, and I thought this show was building up to Maeve and Otis becoming something and Ola really just ruins this. Other than this small negative thing which I really didnt like, it is a good show. It is a very funny show, and it tells a very sweet tale about Otis and Maeve starting their own sex therapy clinic for their school. I would recommend this show to basically anyone, that is anyone that is fine with the very frank discussions about sex, sex problems and relationship problems.
Butterfield and cast were great in this, all of them. Such a funny show set in a 6th Former school where Butterfield & Mackey are partners in a Sex Clinic at the school. Teen to Adult angst, Parenting, Best Friends, Mean Girls/Guys, Cheating, a bit of everything thrown in (even the kitchen sink) and it works.A little inter-racial, gay bashing, feminism preachy/over-reaching, in your face at times but forgiven with so many burst out loud laughing moments (Lily and her manic devotion to getting laid for the first time and her comic book sketches were hilarious, Adam and Viagra, Aimee learning to pleasure herself, bestie Eric and his outfits and far too healthy outlook on life, Otis and his very devoted Sex Shrink Mother, etc.).I'm a Boomer, brought back fond memories for me. Not much has changed in youth other than the toys. Have not laughed so much during a series for a long time like this. It is really worth watching. Just finished binge watching it all. Infectious, in all the right ways, show.-1 Star for the preachy, in your face stuff. If it were not for that, a solid 10/10.
Very creative writting sometimes characters lose there tracks but the written is geniun and the show is fun to watch.
If looking for comedy and a bit of emotions this show maune a stop for you.
Beautifully written but no much different from the shows nowadays a brave step taken in the direction of something new not quite reaching there but really worth a binge.


                
