The hype for this film belies the second rate racing sequences, especially the claim that one would feel as if he or she were in the cockpit of an F1 car. If you are interested in F!, I suggest that in lieu of wasting money on this film, one should either rent or buy the 1966 movie Grand Prix. That film brilliantly presented the thrill and drama of F1 in all its glory, excitement and tragedy. Grand Prix's story line is generally considered rather weak but that is a very small concession for it incredible racing sequences. John Frankenheimer was an extraordinary director who visually captured the excitement of open cockpit racing in what was truly its golden era. Ron Howard on the other hand uses a combination of slapdash racing sequences and optical effects which fail, in my estimation, to truly convey the stunning excitement of this incredible sport.


                
I was so bored the first 45 minutes! It was SO SLOW. Even the good looking blond guy was a drag. The women in the film have nothing to do but look miserable and/or have sex because they are SO turned on by men who are willing to die in cars. Really? The hospital scenes are purely gross. I did not even watch most of it. The car racing scenes are techno--meaning that they are quick cut aways and close ups of people's faces ==a lot of nothing. If you want a race movie go see Grand Prix. This is getting good reviews because Ron Howard directed it. Sad. The guy has lost whatever went into making Apollo 13 or Beautiful Mind or Splash etc.


                
Twice.After 45 min into it, there was about 5 minutes of actual racing. Went to the restroom, ran into a friend, spoke with him for about 15 minutes. Came back to my seat and asked my wife...."What I miss?" Her: "Absolutely nothing." They went back and forth some more about who had a bigger attitude, and who was the better driver and then I fell asleep. Wife woke me up to see the last (and apparently only) race. Fairly expensive nap.Worst Ron Howard film I have had the opportunity to miss. I never fall asleep in movies, but this was nap material.


                
Instead of a decent movie about a great rivalry of teams & drivers howard turned it into a childish shaky camera hand job.Really boring to start & Hemsworth as wooden as ever,then when the action starts it's this silly shaky zoom in & out of wheel nut.Over hyped & really not well acted using the term extremely loosely style over substance


                
No matter how obsessed we continue to be with the 1970s, there's always one more myth left to excavate, and this very entertaining and well-made motor racing movie from director Ron Howard and screenwriter Peter Morgan brings us a meaty tale from 1976: a story of antler-clashing, engine- revving alpha-males. This was a year in which not everyone in fact was obsessed with the release of the Sex Pistols' Anarchy in the UK. In the profoundly conservative world of Formula One, millions of TV viewers were increasingly preoccupied with an extraordinary duel developing between two drivers: the glamorous swashbuckler from Britain, James Hunt, and the icily correct Austrian Niki Lauda.


                
............. in a super slow movie!There are a lot of reviews here so this review is to the point. Skip the first 40 to 45 minutes. At that point there is some great racing footage and an actual feeling of excitement. And you will not be lost in the plot line.From there on you can skip 'the incident' and jump to more racing or just finish this predictable flick.The rivalry between Hunt and Lauder is easy to keep up with and figure out its conclusion long before the end of the movie. Its two hours of movie which could easily have much more editing to shorten it because when its over it was all much ado about nothing.


                
