''Rush'' is a very good film about the rivalry between two Formula 1 race car drivers and their lives behind it. Directed by Ron Howard, the film is a triumph concerning action sequences, film editing and sound. Despite it being a sports film about racing, ''Rush'' never fails to develop its characters, its story and its suspense thus delivering a deeply satisfying conclusion.Beginning with the film's performances, one would expect to see little character development, acting and emotion but a whole lot of action. However, this is not the case. The film's performances are very good. Daniel Brühl gives an outstanding performance as Austrian Niki Lauda: from the character's personality, body movement, expressions and emotions to his speaking accent, Brühl manages to handle it more than well and deliver a very authentic and powerful performance. From his first appearance in the film, he stays a very powerful figure throughout the film and very memorable after it. He realizes the character's motives and feelings which enables him to fully portray his character. Despite his performances in films such as ''Thor'', ''Red Dawn'' and ''The Cabin in the Woods'', Chris Hemsworth gives a decent enough performance as James Hunt. He is far from outstanding but he portrays his character as he should be, never overacting nor underplaying his character, thus delivering a satisfying and believable performance as a race car driver. The rest of the cast doesn't have much screen time since the film mainly focuses on the two protagonists but their acting does not disappoint.The film's exhilarating action sequences are probably the main reason people will go to see it and they will not be disappointed. With rapid but smooth editing, the renowned film editing duo (Daniel P. Hanley, Mike Hill) manages to ''tell'' the story rather clearly rather than just smothering it under its heavy action scenes. Other technical aspects such as sound editing, sound mixing and cinematography are superb. Sound, especially, plays a very important role in the film and luckily, the sound is clear, realistic and not bombastic as most Hollywood action films. The racing sequences are superb: we see them from every angle possible, never confusing nor annoying the viewer with their rapid cuts, instead keeping the viewer interested (especially during the final climatic race). As for the score, Hans Zimmer's fast paced music adds nicely to the film's racing sequences, turning the suspense meter way up without distracting the viewer. As with most of Zimmer's works, the film's score is very epic and memorable which captures the film's action.What works very well in the film is the fact that it's not just a film full or car explosions, racing and trophies but a film which tells the story of two people who succeeded in the race tracks, a film which doesn't drown its characters under its impressive action sequences but allows them to breath.


                
On of the best Grand Prix movies ever made.RUSH is a testosterone race fest. Ron Howard deserves credit for taking a redundant series of races and making them interesting and watchable. Good performances all around. The movie is elevated by an outstanding Hans Zimmer score. Excellent cinematography and ear pounding sound of engines put the viewer in the action.The hospital scenes are a bit tough for the faint of heart. The quiet face to face scene at the end between the competitors takes the movie to a higher level.This one should be seen and heard on a big screen.
After a short framing section, this starts off with a bloody-mouthed Chris Hemsworth in half-undone racing coveralls strutting into an emergency room on a wave of testosterone like a cock into a hen house. Every female head in the place turns, and a glaze of lust falls across nurse Natalie Dormer's face. Within a minute and 4 lines of dialogue, he and she are doing the horizontal mambo on the examining table and, through a series of quick cuts, plenty of other places. In short, it looks like we're going to get a 16 year old boy's dream of being a race car driver.It turns out to be a great deal more. Director Howard and writer Morgan turn out to have a lot more empathy with the precise, earnest, uber-professional Austrian Niki Lauda (known as the Rat or the Sour Kraut) than they do with long haired, gorgeous English party animal James Hunt – there's a montage after Hunt wins the 1976 Formula 1 driving championship that subtly trivializes and belittles what he does with his victory, and a concluding tête á tête between Hunt and Lauda that makes it explicit. This isn't surprising considering the way the critics have treated Howard's body of work over the years. But along the way we're treated to a struggle between Cavalier and Roundhead, JFK and Nixon, inspiration and perspiration that is never less than captivating. The personal distaste between the two men, the contrast of styles, and the way they get into each other's heads are too intense for the subject of their rivalry, which after all is only motor racing. You feel that they were born 30 years too late, and that they should have been up in the sky a generation earlier, trying to kill each other in Spitfires and Messerschmitts instead of zipping around in McLarens and Ferraris. The gorgeous women (Dormer, Olivia Wilde, Alexandra Maria Lara) are more or less along for the ride as arm candy, although Hunt gets to display some dry, malicious English wit after his supermodel wife (Wilde) dumps him for Richard Burton. The racing sequences pull you in, and the overwhelming sound design gives you a real feel for the power (and fascination) of the internal combustion engine. The climactic race is subtly different than you'd expect from a sports movie but absolutely true to the characters.This is not great art, but it is thrilling popcorn entertainment the way it's supposed to be done, and it is to racing movies like Das Boot is to submarine movies. They'll never have to make another one.


                
Rush tells the true story of the heated rivalry between two Formula 1 drivers; playboy and hot head James Hunt (Thor) and level-headed and calculated Niki Lauda (a brilliant Daniel Bruhl). Rush begins with their humble beginnings in Formula 3 and their instant distaste for each other, and continues with their rise to Formula 1 and Niki Lauda's infamous crash that almost claimed his life. After the accident, their rivalry evolves from being fueled by hatred to one of mutual respectRush gets off to a rocky start, but once it gets its footing it envelops you in an atmosphere that is gloriously 70's. The cars, the hair, and vibrate colors is pure time machine. Rush is a born entertainer, a natural extrovert, the people are beautiful, the cars are flash, the sun is bright, the locations are breathtaking and the action is remarkable. You are constantly bombarded with high quality sensations. It's a dazzling experience.Rush is fun in a superficial sort of way, but the script only sporadically delves below surface of its source material. It comes down to the script not spending enough time on Hunt and Lauda's rivalry and hanging around too long on some of it's side plots. Also, there is no reason this movie needed to be "R" rated; The sex scenes and cursing could have easily been toned down or cut all together and taken nothing away from the core of Rush's appeal. In fact it would have streamlined the script and made Rush appeal to a wider audience.Don't worry, you probably won't notice my complaints, and if you do you won't care a damn. Rush is entertaining, gloriously action packed, beautiful to look at and is exceptionally well executed. Ron Howard's directing, particularly during the racing scenes is stellar and Hans Zimmer's scoring is hair-raisingly awesome. Rush is refreshingly slick, suave and adrenaline-infused. I say you'll be beguiled by it like I have, but the feeling won't resonate.


                
Rush has my personal distinction of being the first film I've seen after reading the script. Why did I do that? Mostly curiosity of how a film like this is written. I want to be a screenwriter so I wanted to see how it's done, especially those races. It's not the only film of the next four months that I've read nor the first of the bunch. I read upcoming films because reading scripts of films I know can be distracting trying to picture them for myself and unproduced scripts are most likely unproduced for a reason. Upcoming films means I have seen glimpses of them from the trailer but not too much and they're considered good enough to be produced right now. I wouldn't read a potential favourite but I'm still generally excited for the big films of the year. Anyway, it had to be said as it did affect my viewing experience, but it was certainly not a hindrance. It was only a hindrance for differentiating the film and script between the few scenes cut and added but there are only few and mostly for the better.The first thing I got from the script was that Rush is all about sex appeal. James Hunt's introduction is written in big bold words given its own line: Sexy. The characters inhabit the extravagant sexy world of the 1970s with all of its grainy flavours and gritty vices. The use of words in the script invite vibrant technical potential in the editing and cinematography department for a audio-visual sensory experience over anything else. All this is designed as a juxtaposition to Niki Lauda, of whom is frequently described as a rat. Rush is sex vs. rat. Which is fine as an oversimplification, but it trades characterisation for superficial personality traits. As charming as Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Bruhl (who is good, not as great as his current acclaim) are in their roles, they rarely feel like relatable human beings. Granted, the film wants them to feel larger than life but personally I prefer emotional immersion than a spectacle that pushes its audiences away. But flash if it must and flash it does well.The rival's back-and-forth continues throughout the film by constantly switching protagonists which although its intentions are that it wants to cover all ground, it results in us never feeling intimate with either of them, especially as each scene is rather short. Ironically, it feels rushed. It's scared of being boring. However, it's the film's third act that makes it all worth it. In that final race, everyone in front and behind camera is at the top of their game and it's a fantastically nail-biting sequence. Even if you know the result, it raises the stakes magnificently. I even forgot what happened by then. Not only is it thrilling but by this point the rivals have found an emotionally rewarding bond, even if they are still at odds. The film quite reminds me of last year's Argo in its pace and rock and roll atmosphere but its final cathartic act makes Rush a stronger film over last years Best Picture. Some have considered that this might be this year's Best Picture and Director. Even if 12 Years A Slave and Gravity weren't this year, I wouldn't see it happening, but after seeing the film I can see it earning a nomination, which I didn't after reading the script.However, the representation of women is still terribly neglected. They are forever on the side, forever turned on (or off) for the men and racing. Olivia Wilde's character is a joke. It's not her fault, it's just what she had to work with. I wish the film didn't bother rather than awkwardly work women in, as there isn't a developed one here, even though the existence of Lauda's wife becomes key in the third act. That's what Rush is like until its third act, unfocused. The best scenes are the longer ones which move the story forward. Ron Howard is usually a very bland director. My favourite of his films is The Grinch, mostly for nostalgic reasons. What lifts Rush is the signature work of Danny Boyle's regular cinematographer Anthony Dod Mantle. He may have let Trance down but his kinetic closeups make the film, even his documentary-esque wides can be messy and not cut well together. They still made it cinematic. Zimmer's score does a great job of matching up to that standard. I wouldn't call Rush a winner, but it's worth watching. 7/10


                
Like many Americans, I know next to nothing about open-wheel/Formula-1 racing beyond the Indianapolis 500, so names like James Hunt and Niki Lauda meant nothing to me up until a few days ago. In many ways, I wonder if that wasn't to my advantage going into Ron Howard's 'Rush', a sleek, well tuned film that focuses on the brief, but intense rivalry between these two very different men.Though the film is tightly focused on Hunt and Lauda, I still found it to be a somewhat superficial examination of them. Like the cars they drive, the movie races by at breakneck speed, rarely taking a pit stop. It's a gorgeous looking film that totally immerses you in its time and place, and the performances are all top-notch, but if I had one complaint it would be that it's just a tad too shallow in its observations and characterizations of these two men and the compelling rivalry they shared.


                
I enjoyed "Rush", as have a ton of other people. As of today, it's #142 on IMDb and it was nominated for Best Picture. While my score of 7.0 is slightly less than the current 8.3, I was glad I saw this film.I was surprised because I thought the film would be very much like the classic race films "Le Mans" and "Grand Prix"--two 1960s films about Formula 1 racing. However, it was very different. These older films focused on the driving itself--and both had amazing camera-work. Additionally, the films seemed much like watching the races yourself (particularly "Le Mans"). However, both films were a bit light on plot. "Rush", on the other hand, had surprisingly little (and slightly underwhelming) race scenes--mostly because this was NOT the focus of the movie. Instead, it was more of a character study of the two drivers, Niki Lauda and James Hunt. How the men were similar and how they were significantly different is the focus of the film.The acting was very good and the film engaging. I could say more but, frankly, the film's been out for some time and it already has more than 350 reviews, so I'll just wrap it up now.PLEASE NOTE: The scenes after the 'big crash' are very hard to watch--particularly those in the hospital. This along with the crudeness of the language and brief nudity make this a film you might not want to show to your kids.


                
In the 1970's world of Grand Prix racing, there is an intense rivalry between two top drivers - the intelligent and perfectionist Austrian Niki Lauda, and the charismatic and talented Englishman James Hunt. Things come to a head at the 1976 world championship when both men must come to terms with triumph and tragedy ...I love motor racing and so in many ways this is a dream movie for me, about one of the most famous and shocking seasons in the sport's history and two of its greatest and most iconic stars. Watching it sometimes seems like it's a made-up Hollywood fantasy - the dashing playboy versus the determined fighter, the high-octane competition that goes down to the wire, the troubled star whose personal life falls apart just as his professional one hits its pinnacle, the horror crash halfway through and the resultant fightback. If you were going to write a race car movie this is what you'd do, but astonishingly not only is it all completely true but the movie's real strength is its drama - the depiction of how the events affect the two drivers. When Lauda tells Hunt that watching him win races from his hospital sick bed was the primary motivation for his recovery, he is speaking with incredible honesty, straight from the heart. Here is man whose very essence was to beat everyone and be best in his chosen field, and no amount of pain or circumstance was insurmountable for him. Equally, on a technical level, the movie is an astonishingly beautiful recreation of the period - the cars, the sets, the visual effects, the costumes and every other aspect of the design contributing to an amazingly detailed Formula One time capsule. The recreation of Lauda's infamous and terrible crash at the Nurburgring and its aftermath is astonishingly painful to watch, and the movie documents every detail of the men's often bitter rivalry with incisive drama, humour and precision. Both Hemsworth and Brühl are marvellous in the leads, although for me Brühl is just mesmeric; he strikes an almost perfect balance between impersonating Lauda's unique mannerisms and finding the drama and passion within the man. In many ways it's an unusual two-piece picture which almost forces you to side with one of these heroes, and in my case it's Lauda - his return to racing at the Italian Grand Prix, a mere six weeks after a near-fatal crash and in unimaginable pain his subsequent fourth-place finish is in my view arguably the greatest sporting achievement of all time. Extremely well written by Peter Morgan, with a great jangling tense score by Hans Zimmer, this independent British-German-US production by Working Title Films is one of the best motor racing movies ever made. Filmed mostly in the UK, notably for race fans at Donington, Brands Hatch and Cadwell Park.
There was a time during my boyhood in the sixties and seventies when I took a keen interest in Formula One racing, but my enthusiasm quickly disappeared when I realised what an appallingly dangerous sport it was; during this period several of my heroes were either killed (Jim Clark, Bruce McLaren, Piers Courage, Jochen Rindt, Peter Revson) or seriously injured (Stirling Moss, Graham Hill). Despite my disillusionment, however, even I could not fail to be captured by the rivalry between James Hunt of Britain and Niki Lauda of Austria in the 1976 season. The events of this season read more like the script of a Hollywood film or of a blockbuster novel than the record of actual historical events. Lauda, the reigning champion, dominated the early part of the season, opening up a big lead in the championship ahead of Hunt, who was regarded as his closest challenger. Hunt won the Spanish Grand Prix, but was disqualified after the race for a technical infringement of the rules. (He was eventually reinstated and his points restored). To add to Hunt's problems, his marriage fell apart when his glamorous model wife Suzy left him for the actor Richard Burton. The drama reached a climax when Lauda was seriously injured in a crash during the German Grand Prix. It seemed that his racing career was over, but only six weeks later, defying his doctor's orders, he returned to the wheel of his car in the Italian Grand Prix. During his absence, however, Hunt had whittled down his lead in the championship, and everything now turned upon the final race of the season, the Japanese Grand Prix. Apart from their love of their sport, the two men had two things in common. Both were from a prosperous upper-middle-class background, and both had defied their families by taking up a career in motor racing rather than in the professions. Both were married to beautiful wives. (Lauda's wife was the socialite Marlene Knaus). In personality, however, they were very different. Hunt was a brash, outgoing playboy and party animal, a lover of the good life and of beautiful women. (Suzy was far from being his only conquest, and his frequent infidelities were a major cause of the breakdown of his marriage. It is, however, perhaps ironic that she left him for Burton, a man twenty years his senior and with an even greater reputation as a hellraiser and womaniser). He started his Formula One career driving for Alexander Hesketh, an eccentric aristocrat and kindred spirit who had founded his own racing team. His aggressive, and often controversial, driving style won him the nickname of "Hunt the Shunt". Lauda was much quieter, a calm, calculating perfectionist who was an expert motor mechanic and knew as much about the technical side of the sport as about the actual driving. According to this film, the two men disliked one another intensely, although the accuracy of this has been questioned. Ron Howard is one of the more versatile directors currently working in Hollywood, able to turn his hand to a number of different genres, including comedy ("The Paper"), the Western ("The Missing") and sword- and-sorcery fantasy ("Willow"). "Rush", like some of his earlier films such as "Apollo 13" and "A Beautiful Mind", is a biographical drama, but is quite different in content to either of those films. Howard is able to elicit good performances from his two leading actors, Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Brühl, who are able to bring out the contrasting personalities of the two rivals. Hemsworth also achieves a remarkable physical likeness to the real James Hunt. As with some other sports, notably soccer, there have been a number of films about motor racing, including some good ones, but no really great ones. (For some reason, apart from "Chariots of Fire" about athletics, nearly all the great sports films seem to be about either boxing or baseball). "Rush" does not quite come into the "great" category, but it is nevertheless a very good sporting drama, with some fine acting and exciting action sequences. 7/10


                
Sure, cutting edge is sexy and gets a lot of attention from both critics and casual movie goers—it's easy to recognize and even easier to talk about. However, there is a place for supreme competence and Ron Howard is one of the most supremely competent. But just because he isn't pushing the limits of style or technique—which can sometimes be little too calculated and self conscious—doesn't mean he's not versatile. Consider the impressive Frost/Nixon and his latest effort, Rush—about as far from each other in style and scale as you can get—even if they do share a common theme. Both films are, essentially, about two men, rivals, who need each other in order to reach their full potential and self awareness. Rush is the story of one of the greatest sports rivalries of all time— the battle for title of the best Formula 1 racer in the world. The sometimes friendly, and often bitter, rivalry between Britain James Hunt (Chris Hemsworth) and Austrian Nikki Lauda (Daniel Bruhl), captivated the racing world through much of the seventies, reaching a dramatic peak in 1976. Note here that in Europe, where Formula1 racers are accorded rock star status (something Hunt's overactive libido takes full advantage of), it captivated far more than the racing world—it captivated an entire continent. One of the best scenes in the film shows, in amusing fashion, that for Italian men the only things in the world more exciting than a beautiful woman are a fast car and Formula 1 driver.Jame Hunt, a brash and sometimes offensively arrogant playboy, navigates his McLaren "bomb on wheels" by instinct and guts; Nikki Lauda, a calculating and sometimes offensively arrogant technician, drives his Ferrari by the book, assessing risk and reward like a bond trading statistician. When the car isn't what he wants it to be, Hunt berates his mechanics to make it better; Lauda tells his mechanics precisely what is wrong and how to fix it. Hunt is the charming bon vivant, comfortable in any social situation because he makes it his own; Lauda is an acerbic social misfit with no idea that he repels almost everyone he meets.Daniel Bruhl's portrayal of Lauda transcends the genre, elevating the film to more than just an action-filled biopic. He plays Lauda as humorless, but with a subtle, squashed wryness behind the eyes. It's a nomination quality performance. Chris Hemsworth proves himself to be better than the pretty boy roles he's had until now—much better. This guy can really act. One problem throughout the film is that Hemsworth is just too damn good-looking, distractingly so. The casting smacks of manipulation. It feels as if the film uses every angle to make us like Hunt as much as we dislike Lauda , to the extent of making Hunt overly attractive and Lauda, well, not so much, in order to set us up for self- chagrin when, later in the film, Lauda faces a personal disaster that can invoke only the most profound sympathy. But in retrospect it makes sense—actual footage of the two runs behind the final credits and it turns out that Hunt was strikingly handsome and Lauda.....Howard brings together his standing team of Anthony Dod Mantle, cinematographer, and Daniel P. Hanley as editor—and to good effect—the three work together seamlessly. The colors are bright and saturated (A red Ferrari is a damn red Ferrari) with with almost garish seventies style banners flashing on the screen announcing the location of every race—and there are a lot of races. The film does not want for road action. One of the reasons for going to a race movie is to see racing. Rush delivers, and delivers well. To the credit of Hanley, the scenes on the track are exciting and tense in just the right proportion and show in visceral detail how these machines work and just what they and their drivers are capable of—truly awesome, and not in the pop sense of the word.It's hard to come up with a criticism of Rush. After all, it is a racing movie and a story of a spirited rivalry between two of the best in their field—each a time-worn genre and somewhat limiting in their strict forms —so it gets a little room for having a few clichés, which it does. But, having said that, it is one of the absolute best of both types. It's fun, it's exciting, there are no slow spots and it's got some really cool cars in it. (Maybe the Italians have their priorities in line, after all.) It's definitely worth seeing, and worth seeing on the big screen—the racing scenes deserve far more than a small screen can deliver.


                
There's been a lot of hype surrounding Academy Award winning director Ron Howard's newest venture into the world of Formula One racing starring Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Brühl. It's safe to report that "Rush" from Universal Pictures is a thrill ride that will leave you entertained from moment one. Telling the dual stories of rival racers Niki Lauda (Brühl) and James Hunt (Hemsworth), two polar opposite personalities and their appreciations for the sport are put in the forefront by screenwriter Peter Morgan.Off the bat, one of the greatest takeaways from the picture is how confident Ron Howard has become as a director. He handles this sport and story with perfect execution, knowing exactly how he wanted to tell the story. He's never been as stylistically profound as he's been in this film. It's his best outing since "Cinderella Man" - a film I found massively underrated in its awards year.The technical team assembled debuts some of their finest works in years. From the first frame, you immediately recognize the power and execution of the Sound team. Polarizing, loud, and engaging, nothing makes the film sing more than aural elements put together. DP and Oscar-winner Anthony Dod Mantle has finally found the right vehicle that not only showcases his unique style but takes liberties and chances that pay off in a big way. It's not easy filming a racing movie, in what feels like 48 frames per second, and have the audience catch everything you're doing along the way. Hans Zimmer is on a roll. After infusing his own style into Superman earlier this year with "Man of Steel" and added tender qualities into the arsenal of "12 Years a Slave," his work in "Rush" is just as impressive and awards worthy for a Original Score mention. Film Editors Mike Hill and Dan P. Hanley cut the film brilliantly. There's a consistent pace that keeps you at the edge of your seat. The editing duo have delivered time and time again in works like "Frost/Nixon" and their Oscar-winning works in "Apollo 13." This stands firmly next to those films.What helps the film move along are the impressive turns by Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Brühl. Two outstanding actors that haven't been given their chance yet to show what their made of in the film world, nail each of their characters beats and motivations that are completely lively. Hemsworth, who has been quite successful in the "Thor" franchises and even dipped into the horror genre in "The Cabin in the Woods," has all the goods as a leading man. Fascinating and layered deep with a silence under the glitz and glamour, James Hunt was a lonely person. Hemsworth illustrates all of it with a light sensitivity and a charismatic nature.Brühl fully understands the mechanics and precise ways of Niki Lauda. The co-leading man is just as charismatic, even when he's unlikable, the character actor who has starred in "Inglourious Basterds" and "The Fifth Estate," displays his abilities when given the opportunity to do so in his own film. Motivating and awkward, Brühl gets what Niki is all about. It's a remarkable turn from the Spanish-German actor.Two things happened when the credits started rolling. The first was I got in my car, which is an automatic Toyota Yaris, and attempted to down shift like a race car driver. "Rush" does for Racing the way "Rocky" did for Boxing. The second was a burned scene in my brain of a lonely James and an apprehensive Niki speaking by an airplane about what they did for each other. A scene that stands as one of the best of the year so far. Where Morgan falters in the middle with weird character rhythms and missed opportunities for a stronger foundation into their lives, he nails some instrumental scenes that makes the film succeed.Read More @ The Awards Circuit (http://www.awardscircuit.com)


                
Ron Howard delivers another broad slice of muscular, high-tension biographical melodrama (see previous CV entries: Apollo 13, and Frost/Nixon, both of which are touchstones for some of the thematic elements here), with the retelling of the professional rivalry between 1970s Formula One racing legends, Niki Lauda and James Hunt.Chris Hemsworth tackles the more showy, but actually rather tricky task of essaying Hunt: A cocky, risk-taking, rock-star playboy, who could have been frankly repugnant in less skilled hands, but is handsomely (in every sense of the word) fleshed out by the God of Thunder. Meanwhile Daniel Brühl quietly stamps his authority over the drama with a disciplined take on Lauda's acerbic, neurotic Austrian. The script trowels on the stereotypes a tad thick at times, but both leads deliver, pulling off the not inconsiderable feat of making the audience root for both sides in during their battles.Meanwhile Howard, and his DOP, the brilliant Anthony Dod Mantle, find all manner of extraordinary places to stick their cameras, wedging us into the cockpit in ways that give each race a distinct personality, as well as a tremendous vitality and urgency, and then matching this with a glorious, cacophonous sound design that places one deep inside the action.It ain't subtle. True or not, Hunt's team of amateur Hooray-Henrys appear to have been culled from the Four Weddings understudies list, and the leads' almost comically contrary character traits are perhaps spelled out rather too frequently. But nonetheless, this tale grips like a Brabham, convincingly delivering the thrills and excitement of an era when Formula One was a perilous and free-spirited enterprise.


                
It's my firm belief that if you have to start a movie in medias res and go back to the beginning, then your original beginning isn't strong enough. This holds true in Ron Howard's latest film about F1 racing legends, the Maverick Brit James Hunt and his prickly Austrian rival Niki Lauda, where the movie opens at a critical moment only to immediately go back in time to recap. Ron Howard knows how to create drama, pace and suspense perfectly but there seemed to lack a cohesive narrative thread that would have made Rush outstanding.What I liked: The movie is as slick as a race car and the racing scenes are wonderfully executed, especially when there is poor weather conditions. The movie is certainly entertaining. The characters and relationships however are underdeveloped and, frankly, a little wasted; except for Daniel Bruehl who plays Niki Lauda and adds all the heart and soul to this film. He is brilliant and seemingly reaches beyond the written character, if I am to compare him to Chris Hemsworth's less dynamic portrayal. Somehow, while Hemsworth is convincing his character, ironically, lacks the charm to carry the emotion of each short scene, whereas Bruehl's Lauda grows on us and stays with us. The best moments of the film come late when we come to respect the rivalry as they do. I enjoyed that there is no definitive hero and both characters make for a series of well captured scenes but<U+0085>What I didn't like: The film unfolds like a feast of tasty appetizers that never settles into a meal. The story is interesting and there are well-executed moments of real connection and emotion but they never last long enough or fit properly to create a fluid whole. The camera-work by Anthony Dod Mantle was electric and worked very well in some seems but, again, seemed to piece together different moods or ideas that contributed my overall sense of disharmony.My rating: Wishing for an Oscar nod for Daniel Brühl.http://canyoutellastory.wordpress.com/


                
Unexpected from a racing film, this movie is a sure was to indulge yourself in the realm of competition and rivalries within sport. With the exception of Ron Howard, all aspects of this film where keeping me from seeing it. However, the racing (Formula 1) aspect is the least poignant part of the film. As always, Howard's multi-faceted approach to a film is a grasping angle to what this film offers. Hemsworth's role was far from the macho and mundane characters he has been type-casted in in the past, and Brulh's performance is probably the best of the film. The dynamic relationship between the two main characters and their impeccable direction of their story, from Howard, makes this film an enjoyable watch and perhaps a reference point for the genre of future racing films, that until now have always exhausted my senses.


                
For whatever reason, the sport of Formula One is one that hasn't been served incredibly well in the movies. Aside from Asif Kapadia's 'Senna', there haven't really been any shining standouts. Thankfully, 'Rush' the latest movie from Ron Howard (reteaming with his 'Frost/Nixon' screenwriter Peter Morgan) is excellent, managing to make someone with no knowledge of the sport (i.e. this writer) compelled during the race sequences and throughout the entire championship. The movie centres on the rivalry between two F1 racers during the 1970s – the British playboy James Hunt and the disciplined Austrian Niki Lauda, played by Chris Hemswoth and Daniel Brühl respectively – and particularly during the 1976 Championship. This chalk-and-cheese relationship is at the very heart of 'Rush', with the differences between the two painted broadly, but effective nonetheless. Hunt is a racing pop star – with a legion of screaming fans and tendency to the go to a party after race. Lauda, on the other hand, is socially-inept and rigidly determined to win the championship, consequently being unafraid to speak his mind as he calls an extremely expensive Ferrari made for him, "a s***box". Hemsworth plays Hunt in a way similar to how he played Thor but still gives a good performance, while Brühl once again proves him to be a great actor, delivering a terrific and always engaging performance as Lauda. It wouldn't be a great surprise if he picks up some major acting nominations.The race scenes in 'Rush' are a sight to behold – Howard uses every trick going to make them exciting and he succeeds. With the shadow of death looming over each race, they are simultaneously exhilarating and terrifying, particularly Nüburgring in Germany, as Lauda and Hunt dart furiously around an incredibly dangerous track in extremely stormy weather conditions. Aiding these sequences, are Anthony Dod Mantle's excellent cinematography, some roaring sound design and Hans Zimmer's score, which sounds unlike much of his recent work, wonderfully sounding like The Edge from U2 at times and at others like Ramin Djawadi's score for 'Game of Thrones'. 'Rush' is easily one of the best movies Ron Howard has directed in recent years, (it's a vast improvement on 'The Dilemma', that's for sure) and possibly one of his best films in general. You could level numerous complaints at the film, that many of the characters are thinly- drawn or that the script isn't up to the standard of 'Frost/Nixon', but when said movie is emotionally engaging with heart-pounding races, such flaws don't even register. It may not break the mould, but 'Rush' is funny, intelligent, thrilling and moving.


                
I am an F1 fanatic - I not only follow the current events, but also the background stories and history of the sport. Therefore I am fully aware of the dynamics of the sport throughout the decades, and the details of the Lauda and Hunt careers.As such this film was a must-see for me, in the hope that it gives justice to F1 as a film topic, and also to see how this fantastic story is told.The performances of Hemsworth and Bruhl are superb...without doubt the best thing about this film...both performances are Oscar-worthy. I had already heard acclaim for Bruhl as Lauda (and he was great), but for me Hemsworth as Hunt was surprising - he really nailed the accent and mannerisms.The second success of the film is its authenticity. Clearly a lot of effort has been made to get the details of the era - the cars, the sponsors, the fashion, the F1 facts, the characters. Without this authenticity, real F1 fans would hate this film, but I believe they will be satisfied.The look and sound of the F1 action is pretty good. Some of the CGI is not the best, particularly when used to make a car spin more dramatic that it perhaps was, but overall it does not ruin the film.The film is more about the characters of Lauda and Hunt, than the sporting action, and that's fine. If you want to see more about the racing events and actual footage, watch the season reviews. This film does not provide a detailed insight into what happens throughout the seasons, nor events beyond the main characters. There are some weaker aspects to the film: 1. The film feels fairly clunky, almost like a series of movie trailers stitched together...it does not flow from chapter to chapter. I think this is because the makers are trying to cover all points in 2 hours - character background, on-track action, news events, etc. Perhaps it would work better as a TV mini-series (episode 1: pre-F1 careers, episode 2: pre-1976 F1, episode 3: 1976 up to German GP, episode 4: 1976 and career climax). 2. The commentators are simply annoying. There is a continuous commentator narration around the race events, and also a poorly cast Stirling Moss character pops up at each race. These are supposed to provide an update on what is going on in the season, but it could have been done better - at least with variety. 3. There is a little poetic license. Non-F1 fans or even casual F1 fans probably will not notice, but if you know the details of the era, how F1 operates, and Lauda/Hunt as drivers, you will spot them. Obviously these are there to add to the drama, and in general they can be accepted.Documentaries aside, I believe this is the best motorport movie so far. Sure it is not full of action, but it's a drama...a character study. When the action does intervene, it is heart (and ear) pounding.F1 and motorsport films have been a challenging topic, and there are not many about, so I hope this will encourage more, because there are some equally fantastic stories to be told.


                
Ron Howard has directed a tense insight into the dangers of Formula 1, while showing how determination and intelligence strive in a world of distractions. Both Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Bruhl gave performances that summarised the drivers personalities artfully, especially the later. However, the film's constant bombardment of tense race after tense race made it lose sight, it was slightly dreary. But, it left a sweet after taste, expressing the real passion Niki Lauda had for the sport, and even more universally, that grit and determination is rewarded, despite all the negativity surrounding working hard in a world of distractions.
James Hunt's arrogance and snobbishness makes Niki Lauda's buck-teeth and resulting the lisp seem charming. It's amazing how much these two actors look and sound like their characters, the way Lauda speaks in clipped sentences, the way Hunt's like, "Yeah, whatever". I can't even drive, but the dialogue in this film is how race car drivers explain racing, from too fast in the corners, to rain on the track, to the grip on the tires. It's ironic that Lauda wanted to boycott the race he was hurt in. And I like how the film shows the way the right kind of adversity makes people better at what they do. The dark clouds covering the sun seem so literary I don't know how I feel about them in a film, but it was a good way to show the dread involved. I think the film could've been longer. I saw an interview with Ron Howard where he said it was hard to get it down to two hours, and I wish he'd made this three hours or so. It felt like a sample tray of these two men's lives. (Am I being too feminine here?) Although I wouldn't want anything weepy, a little go get'em, honey, would've warmed my little girl heart. (And can you tell I really couldn't stand the Englishman?) But as I'm writing this I know I'm wrong. It is a good film the way they have it.


                
Review: This movie was made extremely well by Ron Howard and the actors done a great job portraying the rivalry between Lauda and Hunt. The only problem that I found with the movie was that none of there personal stories were seen through. Hunt seemed to jump from one girl to the other and Lauda seemed to keep his personal life secret so there true personalities came out when they were racing. The scenes on the track were very realistic and they brought some intensity to the movie. I also liked the fact that you actually see the real drivers at the end of the movie. Anyway, this movie is definitely worth a watch if your a racing fan or if your into your intense dramas. Enjoyable!Round-Up: Chris Hemsworth played Hunt really well and he suited the cocky character very well. After all his fame from being Thor and the Huntsman, you can actually see him being like that in real life. Daniel Bruhl brought intensity to his role which made the rivalry realistic and great to watch. The only problem that I personally found with the film was the fact that I'm not really into racing so I didn't know that much about the characters. Of course, I have heard about them before, but I never knew anything about there careers. This is were Ron Howard done well by entertaining fans of racing and people who are not into that particular sport. Budget: $38million Worldwide Gross: $90millionI recommend this movie to people who are into there racing movies about the rivalry between Lauda and Hunt. 7/10


                
At first I thought this would be a movie you couldn't watch if you weren't interested in racing and Formula 1, but I was wrong. This is a movie you actually can watch without being a big fan of either. I really enjoyed this movie more than I thought I would. Some scenes made me speechless, some scenes made me laugh, some scenes made me feel sorry and all the scenes made me feel the excitement, tension and drama in the story. Both Chris, Daniel, all the other actors in the film and the ones who made the film happen did a great job and they made the story very alive. I didn't know anything about this specific rivalry or anything at all about racing, but the movie still caught me and I could always feel the tension and drama. Even if you don't like racing, this film is something you might enjoy just like I did and if you love racing and everything that comes with it - this is definitely a film for you.


                
Man, that was a good movie! Heard some good reviews and wanted to see it, but I prepared myself to be disappointed.I didn't like any of Ron Howard's films which came after "Backdraft (1991)", but this movie shows he's still go it.Technical aspect is excellent: Score (didn't realize it was Hans Zimmer until I looked it up just now), editing, cinematography, sound editing and I assume there is a lot of seamless CGI. And makeup.All of the above really give energy to the races and put the viewer inside the race. Great job. I loved the rough cinematography and editing - it gave the movie a documentary-like feel.Daniel Bruhl is excellent in his role and gives one of the better performances I've seen this year. I just noticed that he's nominated for a Golden Globe - he deserves that. Wait, he's nominated in "supporting role"? wtf?Chris Hemsworth is basically playing himself, but he's a good casting choice and fits the role very well.Don't get me wrong: A #149 place on IMDb is ridiculous and 2013 was a very weak year at the cinema, but this movie gets my vote on the list of the "Best Movies of 2013".I'm surprised to see that it did so poorly at the cinema: $90m worldwide on a $38m budget. I was certain it made much more.7/10 Highly recommended


                
Rush is such a pleasant surprise! I have never much cared about Ron Howard's intent and style as film director, yet admire his ability to zero into what sells now - whenever now is - in Movieland. His populist touch once made me thoroughly dislike A Beautiful Mind (2001), a film that has everything in it for me to love and was deluged with awards. Cryptography, mental illness and Russell Crowe as John Nash seemed a perfect match, but a tendency to ease the audience's experience by spelling out the future drove me away. That tendency still exists. In less subtle territories such as Apollo 13 (1995), Ron Howard really does himself justice. And in Rush where sports history serves as guide, kudos to him for straying from philosophical considerations and going for pulsating material, hand-held camera first.Formula 1, a compelling rivalry, 70's glamour and serious speed with Thor/Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Brühl at the wheels cannot fail. In principle, that's what Rush is. However, in the hands of Peter Morgan who wrote The Queen and the adapted screenplay for The Last King of Scotland, something incredible happens: the perfect Saturday date night movie scripted as if the author personally knew James Hunt and Niki Lauda when they put everything on the line in 1976.Rush is the closest most of us will ever come to driving a Formula 1 race-car. It excels at giving the audience a genuine sense of the speed such finely engineered machines generate and the relative lack of protection they offer. The polarity of James Hunt's gregarious rock 'n' roll persona played by a charismatic Chris Hemsworth with Brühl's technically brilliant but emotionally remote Niki Lauda, eventually feels more like a duality. Both these extreme athletes from before the X Games era may have had more in common than they probably ever acknowledged. In 2013, they are revisited by two actors who for disappearing into their respective roles could find themselves sharing centre stage with Ron Howard and Peter Morgan in March 2014. I would not be surprised for Julian Day's costume design to receive an Academy Award nomination too. Frida Giannini's period-evoking looks for Chris Hemsworth and Olivia Wilde (Suzy Miller) are so in tune to the glamour of the times they represent, they are desirable now. Rush is a beautiful movie to watch and Gucci can expect a stampede for several bespoke items. I wish product placement was always this subtle!Like the absorbing Senna (2010) by Asif Kapadia, Rush does not require in-depth Formula 1 knowledge. One is a meticulously crafted audiovisual memoir in documentary form and the other is a cool action flick for a cosy night spent in good company. The journey starts with Rush.


                
Ron Howard has a thing for movies based on true stories (see Apollo 13, Frost/Nixon and A Beautiful Mind), but none has been quite as high- octane as Rush, which has a very different feel from his previous work. I'm not saying that's a bad thing. After all, Howard is arguably one of the most consistent directors working today as far as quality goes, and Rush is a high-quality film. However, it feels like it's lost somewhere between a drama and an action movie. There are a lot of scenes representing both genres, but the two somehow seem out of sync. Something holds Rush back from being a truly great film.Being that it's Ron Howard in the director's chair, I had high expectations for the movie, especially because it stars Thor himself, Chris Hemsworth, who is quickly becoming a household name and is deserving of a role in which he can flex his acting muscles rather than his biceps. For the most part, he does a convincing job as Formula 1 driver James Hunt. This is probably because he has Daniel Brühl to work with as his arch rival, Niki Lauda, who shares tremendous chemistry with Hemsworth. And yet, the two are comically different from each other. Hunt is the playboy, partying it up and living each day to the fullest, while Lauda is cold and calculating, as finely tuned as the machines he drives. Really, it would have been next to impossible for these two not to be rivals, and indeed that's the focus of Rush.The film takes a firm look at what it takes to be a champion and, more importantly, the cost that such a drive can have on a man. The best example is the brutal car crash Lauda experiences mid-season, from which he miraculously recovered in order to return and finish the last of the races that year. While Niki's cost was more physical, James has quite an emotionally driven journey as well, as he literally destroys his life in pursuit of that championship title. Really, it's as though the two drivers represent different aspects of one person, and the movie represents the personal tragedy from which all great tales are built.Visually speaking, this is Ron Howard's most unique film to date. It's a lot more visceral than his previous films, with sex scenes and even a few stomach-churning wrecks (Niki Lauda suffers horrifying injuries as a result of his crash). It's also a lot bolder than his previous works. Howard adopts a style meant to mirror the high-adrenaline lifestyle that these two men enjoy, with plenty of slow motion and tight editing. With all this, though, I have to ask: "Why does it feel so slow at certain parts?" I'm not normally the type of guy who shrugs off a movie's story, but I couldn't help feeling impatient waiting for the dialogue to end and the racing to begin. This is one reason I don't feel like Rush was a truly great film.I'm not saying that it's a bad film, though; quite the contrary, Rush is a very good movie, and probably one of the best racing movies ever made. It pretty much gives the audience everything they expect, and in some cases even more (props to Hemsworth for being so much more that a pretty face). I'm almost positive that it will pop up for some sort of award during the Oscars. For me, though, the film never really shifts into high gear. It doesn't cross that line into greatness, and I'm pretty sure I wont remember much about it when 2014 rolls around. That doesn't mean that it isn't worth seeing, though, and I would actually highly recommend it. After all, it's a very human tale, and it's one about which I can imagine everyone finding something to enjoy. It's just not something that echos with the viewer after the end credits.


                
Ron Howard's "Rush" relates the true-life tale of two Formula One racecar drivers - Britain's James Hunt and Austria's Niki Lauda - whose intense rivalry helped to define the sport in the 1970s.As befits a pair of arch competitors, Hunt and Lauda were polar opposites in any number of ways. Hunt, the "bad boy," was a hard-drinking, hard-living international playboy-type with a crappy marriage - his supermodel wife (Olivia Wilde) was having an affair with no less a figure than Richard Burton - while Lauda, the "good-boy," was a work-obsessed, early-to-bed homebody with a terrific marriage to a beautiful and devoted woman (Alexandra Marlena Lara). Hunt was also devilishly handsome and sexy, a fact which garnered him a bevy of overeager groupies and celebrity status, while Lauda, with his self-described "rat face," barely registered as a blip on the cultural scene. The movie chronicles their relationship - defined by incidents of high drama and near-tragedy - both on and off the track, with each developing a grudging admiration for the other's doggedness, tenacity and undeniable devotion to the sport over time.The movie has a number of things going for it. The screenplay by Peter Morgan doesn't dumb down the characters or overdramatize the conflict between them. In addition, Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Bruhl are excellent as Hunt and Lauda, underplaying rather than grandstanding their way through their roles. And, of course, it goes without saying that the racing sequences, though truncated at times, plunge the audience right into the heart of the action in a way not available even to real-life fans of the sport, be they sitting in the stands at the track or watching at home on TV. Once again, the intimacy of the medium of film makes itself felt in a major way.Why then the overall feeling of dissatisfaction with the film, the nagging sense that, for all the quality elements that have gone into it, the movie just doesn't amount to all that much in the end? Could it be that, when all is said and done, the story really isn't all that interesting or the characters all that compelling (Hunt's wife is given particularly short shrift in the screenplay)? Whatever it is, there is something about "Rush" that keeps us from giving ourselves over to it completely. So just enjoy the performances and car races and don't expect a life-altering experience from Howard's latest feel-good opus.


                
Making films about real life characters always presents a challenge; more so if one of them doesn't live to see the day his tale is made into a film. Coming from director Ron Howard, known for films like 'Apollo 13', 'A Beautiful Mind', 'Da Vinci Code', 'Rush' is about two great personalities in the high adrenalin Formula 1 racing. The story begins on the start line where Niki Lauda (Daniel Brühl) narrates the story of how James Hunt (Chris Hemsworth) influenced his life and the days of Formula 1 in the 1970's where it was not uncommon for drivers to die in accidents. James Hunt, who in real life was known as a playboy is appropriately portrayed on screen. There's a scene from his early days where he walks into at a hospital to get his injuries treated and lo behold, he seduces the nurse in James Bond style! Then, we are introduced to his career in Formula 3 where he drives for Lord Hesketh's team. Although the film marks the meeting of Lauda and Hunt in the F3 race on a sour note, it is believed that the duo were actually friends and shared an apartment during their early days. Was this an error? Or was it deliberately avoided to bring about dramatic tension between its lead stars right from the start? We wouldn't know. The character of Niki Lauda starkly contrasts with Hunt as he is cool, calculating, working with the team on developing the car and isn't bothered about partying or popularity. In real life too, it is believed that Lauda never let the achievements get into his head and he gave away his trophies to a local garage in exchange for car wash.Discussing the story itself isn't necessary for the review as most of the critical elements of the plot are based on actual, well known events. Its most poignant moment is how Lauda returns to track merely six weeks after a near-fatal crash with bandages on his wounds and leads the championship till he pulls out of the season's last race at Fuji when the treacherous weather conditions made the race too dangerous. 'Rush' does a wonderful job in recreating the F1 races, the imagery of powerful engines, tires ready to zoom as pedal hits metal, and the infamous Nürburgring crash of 1976. In fact, Niki Lauda in his interviews has praised the filmmakers for portraying the crash and his treatments in a realistic manner and that the scenes 'shocked' him. Reportedly, the actors weren't allowed to drive real Formula 1 cars. So, the film makers are said to have used F3 cars with the bodywork of F1 cars of that era to make them look like the real deal. Still, they drove some mean machines. Wow! The actors have done a good job and look like their real life counterparts. Chris Hemsworth still seems like Thor with the long hair, but less bulky. Daniel Brühl, an acclaimed German actor embodies the role of Lauda, Olivia Wilde as Suzy Miller, Alexandra Maria Lara as Marlene Knaus and Pierfrancesco Favino as Clay Regazzoni have done a neat job and there's not a moment where it feels inauthentic. What works for the movie, other than the stunningly recreated visuals is the emphasis on its characters. At its soul is the portrayal of how Hunt and Lauda influenced each other's lives and careers. Although the two champions were very different by their outwardly lives, they shared a common passion for racing and winning and looking at each other to seek the much needed challenge and why you need enemies!Verdict: if you are one of those who like Bollywood family dramas branded as racing films, like Ta Ra Rum Pum, let me assure you that 'Rush' isn't for you. But, if you are a Formula 1 fan, don't even think twice; just go for it.


                
