The film is just over 2 hours long, but when it was over it seemed like I had been in the cinema about 30 minutes. The film centres on the battle for the 1976 Formula 1 World Championship, and the rivalry between the Austrian "professor" Nikki Lauda and the British playboy James Hunt. The two are depicted as enemies, but in actual fact they were good friends who trusted and respected each other on, as well as off-track. This bit of artistic licence does not spoil the film and is reasonable in order to make the battle between the two for the F1 crown more intense. The film is nicely paced. We are introduced to both characters through their own narrative and scenes that leave the watcher in no doubt as to their background and philosophy on life. The two are first seen in competition in 1970 at a Formula 3 race at Crystal Palace (where they have a coming together) and sets the scene for the rivalry throughout the film. I'm not sure if this is further artistic licence. The two definitely did race each other in F3, but I am not convinced as to whether this actual incident occurred. After that we are given a whistle stop journey between 1973 (when Hunt came into F1) to 1975. We are shown the dangerous nature of F1 at the time with the Francois Cevert accident at Watkins Glen in gory detail – although this does not seem like gratuitous, but necessary to bring home just how unforgiving the sport was back then – and it truly was (of the top 12 points scorers in 1976, F1 cars were to claim 3, 1 ended up in a wheelchair and 1 had his career ended by a leg crunching crash). We are then taken to 1976 and that titanic struggle for the World Crown. Only one real issue here – the British Grand Prix result, but I suspect this was simplified in the interests of time. The casting is superb. Chris Hemsworth, an Aussie, does an excellent job on public schoolboy James Hunt, while Daniel Bruhl both sounds and looks frighteningly like the Austrian. There is little room for a supporting cast amongst the drivers which is a shame – only Clay Regazzoni has a part of any real substance. Peterson, Watson, Depailler, Scheckter, Andretti et al could have featured a little more I think. What did their contemporaries think of the two protagonists? The supporting cast is mainly required for Hunt – Lord Hesketh, "Bubbles" Horsley and Teddy Mayer / Tyler Alexander of McLaren, while the Ferrari team principals are rarely seen. The love angle is perfectly catered for by Olivia Wilde (Hunt's first wife Suzy) and the gorgeous Alexandra Maria Lara - of Downfall fame – as the future Marlene Lauda. Both give quality performances. The attention to detail is superb. Although the tracks are not the actual ones (for understandable reasons) the cars, the helmets, the sponsors are all authentic. The film "feels" like it's happening in the 70's. For anyone interested in great personal stories, F1, the 70's, cars or just like to see a great film, then Rush is for you.


                
As a Cineworld Card Holder I was invited to a screening last night of Ron Howards new movie Rush.Before I start...I am not a F1 fan, but I knew enough of the history of the main protagonists to appreciate the film. The main set pieces of the film set a year before I was born in 1976, so mainly my knowledge was based on my Fathers recollection of the events. I'd seen James Hunt in interviews and recently watched footage with Niki Lauda so got an idea of the characters.The film is bang on in period, cars fashion and sets the tone excellently, the cinematography is nothing short of breathtaking and the fx are very much in keeping with the period, no ridiculous CGI.The acting, on the whole is nothing short of miraculous, Hemsworth and Bruhl are fantastic, particularly Hemsworth, who's accent, mannerisms and natural acting was a big surprise. I could see a few awards for this role. I have seen Bruhl in quite a few films and I am always impressed so this just continues the trend. All the support actors are very good in smaller roles.The film is well paced for 2 hours and quite graphic, particularly a few accident scenes.Direction: Ron Howard - nice job, I'm not a massive fan and particularly after the da vinci/Angels fiasco's a big return to decent form. The flair was there but played safe (As normal) but let the story and the actors take centre stage.If you like History in F1, a well documented rivalry and a film that capture this, watch it. It is similar to the excellent Control, Moneyball etc but with a bit of heart.8 1/2 out of 10


                
RUSH is such an enthralling movie!! Amazing direction by Ron Howard, strong performances by Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Bruhl (he exactly sounded like Niki Lauda). Hanz Zimmer is the man for scoring this movie. The movie is not about the sport, it's about the hateful and envious relationship between two rivals the whole world knows about. I did not expect this movie to surprise me so much as it did, the drama was invigorating and exciting at the same time. It was such an honor to meet Niki Lauda who flew himself specially from Monza, Italy for the premier at TIFF. Such an amazing night.The movie is based on the rivalry of Britain's McLaren F1 driver James Hunt and Austrian driver Niki Lauda who represented Ferrari at the time. Great men!


                
"Rush" is one of the best films of the year. I was pleasantly surprised by the amount of depth and emotional story telling this film possess. From its brilliant script that infuses humor, drama, and a story about a fascinating rivalry to its impeccable and detailed oriented direction, this film succeeds on every level.Ron Howard's direction is extremely noteworthy as I felt like a part of the journey and involved with the characters as I cheered them on. In the beginning, I was rooting for James, but as the movie progresses and things unravel, I was cheering for Niki. However, as the movie moves forward, I couldn't choose one over the other. This is the type of engagement that I love in movies, it keeps the audience involved and contently thinking about every situation and the characters as a whole.This film is well edited and shot as well. I couldn't find a useless or uninteresting moment in this film. Everything flowed very well and the film moved at a brisk pace. It felt as every shot or sequence is catered to moving and developing the characters and their story forward. The racing sequences are well shot and make you feel a part of the race. My heart rushed when characters successfully made narrow life endangering turns. It is a really good film to look at as the scenery and environment crafted feels inviting and absorbing.The cast in this film is superb. Chris Hemsworth gives his finest performance to date as a carefree playboy. Even though his character James Hunt doesn't appear serious, he struggles with his inner demons trying to be taken a bit more seriously. Daniel Bruhl also gives and equally impressive, if not better, performance as Niki Lauda an arrogant self-absorbent racer. It's interesting to see his character go from caring only about himself and racing to something more important. The greatest aspect of the characters are their interactions. I really enjoy how they can't stand each other, but can't be successful without each other either. While they hate one another, they find a mutual respect for the other. It's quite endearing to see how they have each others back off the tracks.Overall, "Rush" is an amazing movie and totally worth your time. It's a movie that has everything, from drama to humor to love. The greatest aspect of the film is its truly brilliant and masterful score by Hans Zimmer. His score gives the right amount of emotional punch along with improving everything we see and giving the film a greater amount of importance. I give this film an extremely high 4.5/5, a well oiled film that has no wasted parts.


                
This is the best movie for Formula 1, especially the scene at the race course, it's really real like you are in the scene also. The way that the director show the viewpoint from many cameras. I like the camera that attached with the car. It's so real. The actors work perfectly. I really love the main actors great performances by Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Bruhlyou You will forget Chris Hemsworth from movie Thor definitely. The screenplay is also very well, not boring at all. After watched this movie I got so many ideas and opinions from the movie. This movie is not only the sport bot this movie focus on the relationship between the sweet enemy by base on true story in 1976. Don't miss!!!


                
In my world it is impossible to achieve a 10 out of 10. It does not exist. That is the only reason Rush gets 9 points from me. The last 10min of this film are as close to cinematic perfection as I have seen. The story, the score, the cinematography all reach a beautiful climax. I would urge anyone to watch this film, even if they are not Formula One fans.The casting is absolutely brilliant if you compare the actors with the people they are based on. The acting is also great, with Daniel Bruehl picking up on small traits of his character that make him even more believable."Everyone needs an enemy in life" Someone to bust his balls and push him further. The themes in the story are about working hard and never giving up. But also about enjoying life after having worked hard. There is no antagonist in this story, only two equally great but very different protagonists and the audience has to decide who they identify with more.


                
Rush is one of the ultimate biographical sports drama movies I've come across. The movie is gripping till the very end and a must watch esp. for racing fans. This movie is the most apt adaptation of the real life events between the F1 racers Niki Lauda and James Hunt.It is obvious that the crew and cast have worked sagaciously to make this as good (and better) to describe the relationship between these two racers perfectly to the real life characters that the movie is based upon.Every scene in the movie has been exciting till the very end and towards the end the viewer would only feel the awe of the whole experience. It is my hope that there be a sequel to this with the same crew perhaps based on the life of 7-time world champion Michael Schumacher as it is in the same genre and I'm certain it would be a wonderful watch like how this movie turned out to be!


                
I have to admit, I never thought I'd be really convinced by this movie. I don't really have a keen interest in the Formula and only really know Lauda, but even his story was not one that I could recite or anything. It might have helped or not, but I can say, that this drama is more than just a movie about two fast drivers.It's also a duel that takes place with two different life styles, two different characters. Daniel Brühl might be German, but his performance as Austrian racing legend Lauda is his best to date. Ron Howard knows how to make movies and this is another showcase for that. Because while this does focus on the drama and the life story, you still get racing scenes, on and off the tracks. Men will be men, I guess ...


                
I liked this film a lot more than I would have anticipated. Sure I knew going in that the two main leads were both brilliant actors - Hemsworth especially has become a recent favourite of mine - but they both exceeded my wildest expectations. They became James Hunt (Hemsworth) and Niki Lauda (Daniel Brühl), down to the smallest of detail, the most delicate of nuance. The 1976 racing season was before my time, but even though I'm just a casual Formula 1 fan, I had heard about it and I knew who these two were. They were such large characters, such giants in their chosen field, that had this film not captured them perfectly, it wouldn't have been half as good as it is now. Luckily Howard's directing and the performances of these two are some of the finest I've seen in a long time.I also really like the fact that Rush is more than just a sports film about racing. It's a character study about two masters of their craft, embedded in deep rivalry. Both of them know that they stand unopposed, except for that one man, who's their polar opposite in both personality and driving style, yet who is just as capable. That's a great setting for a movie and Rush beautifully explores the possibilities given to it. You buy the rivalry and by the time of the final race I found myself at the edge of my seat, even though I already knew the outcome.It's also great how the movie never takes sides. It's not a film about Niki Lauda - even though he was involved in its making - nor is it about James Hunt. It's about them both and about the sport as a whole.To sum it up, I'd say this is the best sports movie I've seen in my life. But it's that because it's more than a simple example of its genre. It's a brilliant character study, an interesting period piece, a gripping drama and yes, at its core, a film with furiously fast cars. Highly recommended.


                
This movie is a must watch for all the Formula 1 fans. The legendary rivalry between Lauda and Hunt showcased brilliantly by Ron Howard. Chris Hemsworth and Daniel Bruhl do justice to the roles portrayed by them. apart from the excellent acting, the movie progresses nicely at a good pace without too much "drama" and overemphasis on the rivalry. Enough importance is given to the technical know how of the Formula one cars without making it over bearing. The racing is shown beautifully! Daniel Bruhl is really impressive in the role of Nikki Lauda and Chris Hemsworth does not look like Thor for a change! Formula 1 fans like myself is grateful for Ron Howard for actually making this movie. All in all, a treat to watch. Highly recommended.


                
I've been to the German Grand Prix and driven the Nürburgring. I've known drivers and racing directors. When Niki Lauda told the BRM guys the car was too heavy, it gave me a chill. When I hung around BRM, they were struggling to develop a new motor. They came up with a contraption called an H-15. It was massive, and it was heavy. The Nürburgring is not just dangerous, it wrecks cars with its dips and rolls. A heavy car bottoms out and destroys its undercarriage, and sure enough...well, so much for BRM. The H-15 was before this story. Obviously, BRM never learned their lesson.Of course, there's the human element. I've often thought that bullfighters and race car drivers are the only successors to the gladiators. The personal and professional rivalry between Niki Lauda and James Hunt reveals the mentality behind men who flirt with violent death. For one it's a means to an end, for the other it's the end in itself. And this is the hub of the story.Rush is the real thing. It is simply the best racing movie ever made. It's a crime that it wasn't nominated for an Oscar.


                
I was never much interested in Formula 1 and if someone would have presented this as a film about sports, I am sure it would not have sparked my curiosity very much. Admittedly, Chris Hemsworth sold it to me (he's all over the poster :D), but I was pleasantly rewarded with much more than his pretty looks and good performance. This film offers quite a rush as it shows an adrenaline-packed moment in the lives of two passionate men. Based on the true story of Lauda's and Hunt's rivalry during the 1970's, it retells the events that lead to their respective winning of the World Cup. The strong, engaging plot given by a good script reveals two very different characters, bound to forever compete by their common goal of being number one. There is an underlying respect between the two, almost like a brotherhood in the end. There is definitely a parallel between their personalities and the way their live their lives, which, though not too subtle, adds depth to the story. One of the men is precise, prudent, and methodical, the other is exuberant, charming and has unending "joie de vivre". Yet both are risk- takers, both know they are good and don't accept defeat. They stimulate each other into always giving their best through constant competition and comparison. Maybe they even like each other.And while they drive, we race with them; we feel the hurt, we sense the drive. There is beauty to it: an almost artistic perspective of the mechanical as something alive and pumping.
this is the story of two formula one drivers. one (hunt) is a reckless hunk, a smooth-talking, get-all-the-girls typical type of driver who amazingly drives very well. the other (lauda) a confident, disciplined, laid back kind of guy, doesn't care what you think of him, luckily comes from a rich family and also a super-skilled driver. flip side is he's also a pompous, arrogant, know-it-all on cars, engines, etc therefore the kind of guy nobody likes. the movie takes us through the rivalry of these two guys in the very dangerous F1 racing scene of the 70's. It shows how Lauda's discipline gives him an edge over his rival but also how Hunt's likability and sometimes cunning ways evens this score! All in a riveting movie which will keep you glued to your screen till the end. everyone of us will relate to one of the two opposing characters in the movie, and will probably be rooting for your guy to come out tops.. the danger in the races will keep you on toes throughout, remember this is from a true story and things do get awry in true stories..all in all riveting - from start to finish!!


                
Amazing movie with excellent pace and perfect portrayals, with an especially outstanding performance by Daniel Brühl as Niki Lauda. Watching it in German, I tended to forget the fact I see an actor and not the original most of the film. Stunning!I also loved the racing scenes, filmed with excellent camera work and cutting, something I have never seen before in a Hollywood feature like this. I found the film very well balanced concerning personal scenes and the racing sport. The film made you not sympathize too much with one of the characters, at another point I found myself liking them both. One of the major aspects for the film being so intriguing from my point of view is, besides all the above mentioned points, that it does not take itself too seriously. It has no universal or fundamental message to convey and the film acknowledges exactly that. It's fun to watch, exciting, appealing and sometimes disgusting at the same time!


                
I went in there really not knowing anything about the film other than it was a racing movie. I was really hoping it was not something along the lines of "Days of Thunder', luckily it wasn't. I was very entertained as the movie caught my attention at the start and held it all the way through. Nothing exceptional about the acting but some very good, believable performances. Daniel Brühl played in my opinion an excellent Niki Lauda and Hemsworth seemed to be right on in his portrayal of James Hunt (and not too out of character if the tabloids are right, lol). To be honest there was not a lot of room for them to show their acting chops as this was based on real people and actual events and staying in character was important. Some decent car racing scenes but it wasn't about that as much as the story of the people involved. It is not filled with or overwhelmed by actual racing scenes or CGI. It had a great balance of action, acting and human interest. SPOILER ALERT: During the scene with the car fire you could actually feel the audience getting drawn in and hushed whispers abounded, "oh my god", "did that actually happen?", "is he going to die?", etc. And when the movie ended (at just the right time, not too long or too short of a film) the people in the audience in the theater I was in started applauding. I don't remember the last time I saw that happen. But I joined in as I had just been impressed and entertained...
Director Ron Howard hit this one out of the ballpark!I wasn't expecting much going into this, but I have to say I was pleasantly surprised! The writing/screenplay was on point. The Cinematography was outstanding.And the all star cast of Daniel Brühl, Chris Hemsworth, Olivia Wilde and Alexandra Maria Lara where all very convincing in their roles.This film was unexpectedly really good!It's a 9/10 from me!


                
White-knuckle racing with tons of heart and a raging fire in the pit of its stomach. Like the similarly adrenaline-drenched "Warrior" before it, Rush does an excellent job of evenly pursuing its dual leads, examining both to such lengths that we have ample reason to pull for each in their climactic showdown. Directly inspired by the real men behind the story, its depiction of both personalities, warts and all, is masterful. Ron Howard's always known which strings to tug for maximum emotional impact in his work, but that usually comes at a price: simple, one-dimensional caricatures at the helm. Rush represents an evolution for the director; he no longer shies away from the darker, less desirable elements of his leading man/men, and that strong investment in their development pays dividends at the climax. The pulse-pounding F-1 scenes are gripping and intense - I'd expect no less from today's bombastic Hollywood effects departments - but the real attraction is the race that goes on away from the track, as two dedicated drivers break themselves in half to one-up a lifelong rival. An excellent, impressive blend of moods that touches many nerves.


                
If you are not into cars and racing, it doesn't matter. Rush, 2013 is a well written tale of two race car drivers at odds with each other, and the viewer will not know who to root for. That is what makes it so unique. It reminded me of a souped up version of the Black Stallion but with cars instead, and two equally ambitious characters who both love to win. It is one of the best movies I have watched this year. It was so intense I was literally clutching my glass of wine! The visuals are amazing, the soundtrack was just perfect for the movie that takes place in the 70's. It also has superb acting! Ron Howard did such a great job directing, and the pace of the movie just flowed naturally and at a good clip! It was exciting, dramatic, and thrilling. The movie is based on a true story and I was so impressed with it that I looked up the added details about the cast, crew, awards because I was just sad that it had ended! Watch it! You won't regret it!


                
It's not an ordinary movie about sports and the rivalry and respect that comes with it. It's an extraordinary story which happened in real. This movie is amazing in that it gave importance to every detail of the true story. Starting from the looks of casts resembling the actual people to every small incident connected with the story. It is really amazing. Don't worry about the climax or the thrill. It is full of it. Because it happened in real. And the makers of this movie recreated that to amazing perfections. You will enjoy this movie and at the same time you will get to know how serious and thrilling the world of Formula One is. Amazing!


                
Although this movie is about Formula 1, Nikki Lauda and James Hunt, it can be enjoyed by people who are not into formula 1 and cars. The movie is more about the rivalry between those two and how far someone goes to be better than the other. James Hunt just want's to prove he is the best and when he does he's done with it. Nikki Lauda on the other hand also want's to be the best but he want's to stay the best and will continue to fight for it. He's not there to prove someone a point other than himself and i think with that attitude you can achieve a lot more because he is more motivated to win more often. The movie is very good and i enjoyed it with my whole family.
I was lucky enough to attend two pre-screenings of this movie (spoiled, right?). Let me start by saying that I have limited F1 knowledge, and the guests I brought to the first pre-screening had zero racing knowledge. That being said, we honestly didn't expect to really enjoy the movie - to us, it was just a free movie. Let me tell you though, we all came out of the theater and just said, "wow".The movie has racing scenes, yes, but the movie is not a racing movie. Racing fans will appreciate the mild technicality of the F1 scenes, but EVERYONE will love the meaningful message and themes that Ron Howard successfully portrays through these two characters.I wasn't fully familiar with the Hunt-Lauda rivalry prior to the movie, but even if I was, I really think this movie is a fresh new look at these two important F1 figures and their interaction with each other. The casting was just spot on and you can just see a glimpse of that if you ever watch live interviews of the characters after seeing the movie (which I did, admittedly).So, I saw it again. I got to really focus on the background scenes and the beautiful cinematography the second time around. It's really just a well crafted movie, and you need to go see it. Don't let the F1-ness of the movie turn you off. I almost let it, but I'm glad I went. Bravo to Howard, Hemsworth, Bruhl and the rest of the cast!


                
Sport and the rivalry between champions has been an integral part of Western drama and culture since it's inception in ancient Greece, replete with archetypes of struggle, hubris, victory and loss, triumph and tragedy. With the advent of organised mass participation sports in the 20th century, the sports tales enjoyed a revival in popular culture, but their basic structure and purpose remained intact. "Rush" is just such a tale, taken from real life and made into an epic poem for the masses.The sport in question is Formula 1 (The world racing league popular especially in Europe, Asia and South America but largely unknown in the USA) which has all the required thrills of speed, skill and danger as well as brilliant mavericks at the wheel, the modern day epic charioteers. The story it tells is that of the infamous 1976 season - a period when danger and death still stalked the sport in a way that has been largely erased today -and the rivalry between two legendary drivers, the Briton James Hunt and the Austrian Niki Lauda. The two came from similar backgrounds (wealthy business families) which they shunned to pursue the chequered flag. However their personalities were polar opposites, Hunt was the typical Errol Flynn style devil may care cad gay-blade and libertine, living for the girls, the booze,the adventure and the Devil take tomorrow. Lauda on the other hand was the cold, clinical rationalist technocrat who calculated everything in terms of percentages, including risk, and who treated fun and happiness as enemies of a stable existence. The media naturally played up the rivalry and turned the season into a battle between the two. Their rivalry was indeed very personal, and the two never lost an opportunity to mock or belittle the other, yet like all epic enemies they not only respected each other but needed each other, one not whole without the other, day and night, ying and yang. Like all epic tales, theirs came complete with shades of both victory and tragedy. Lauda crashed and was terribly scarred by fire during the Nurburgring race, nearly dying, yet he fought back and even returned to racing mere weeks later, still contesting the title, and despite losing to Hunt, went on to win many more championships and became a successful business mogul and technological innovator to boot. Hunt fought back against seemingly endless hurdles and setbacks to claw impossible victory with sheer guts and pluck to take the world championship, yet his wild ways destroyed his marriage and happiness then eventually his whole life, ending up dead aged just 45.The film is a British-European one, telling a European legend, yet it has the most American of directors, Ron Howard. Surprisingly, the film is largely devoid of Howard's trademark sugariness and mawkish sentimentality save for the final coda, and even that feels strangely appropriate given the story he has told.Instead it showcases Howard's technical flare and experienced hand, telling the convergent and then concomitant stories of Hunt and Lauda, including their courtships and marriages, in just two hours in a time when even action movies with nothing to say scrape the three hour mark as a norm. His visual skill is also notable, not only in the all important Formula 1 scenes, which wisely follow Frankenheimer's example in "Grand Prix", but also in giving the film a good sense of period feel. For a cheap film, it looks great. The script by Peter Morgan also follows classical form and avoids making it a simplistic battle between a "good guy" and a "bad guy" (as many sports biographies do to their shame and detriment), instead giving us two great heroes, flaws and all.The score comes courtesy of the legendary Hans Zimmer, and is strictly in the "Gladiator" mould (aptly enough) with epic themes laced with anthems of struggle and victory, and laments of tragedy and loss. Complementing it is a selection of fantastic songs from the period from the likes of Thin Lizzy, David Bowie, Mud, Slade, Stevie Winwood, Clara Nunes & Rosanna Fratello.Of course everything hangs on the actors playing the mythic heroes, and here is the film's greatest strength, two well known skillful actors who also look remarkably similar to their real life counterparts. Chris Hemsworth, playing the dashing heroic Hunt with an upper class English brogue naturally evokes "Thor", yet the evocation is suitable, as both are mythic figures who start out as cads and grow into wisdom. He finds both the dash and the inner pain of the character and makes us care for him despite his many faults. Similarly, Daniel Bruhl, best known as the sniper in "Inglorious Bastards", gives us a Lauda who is cold, unlikeable, rude, very arrogant and superior, and a poor loser, yet also finds the buried spark of life in the man, a passion that is expressed in the language of mechanics but comes from a strong heart, especially in the powerful bond he has with his wife Marlene. She is played excellently by Alexandra Maria Lara, while Hunt's rather temporary wife, supermodel Suzy Miller, is played by an unrecognisable Olivia Wilde, emoting pathos for the love she hoped for but never found. The rest of the cast is well filled with excellent veteran character actors, including Pierfrancesco Favino as Ferrari teammate Clay Regazzoni and Christian McKay as Hunt's humorous aristocratic backer Lord Hesketh.A powerful and engrossing human story, epic poem and true life chronicle, it is enjoying great popularity in Europe and elsewhere but will inevitably face problems in F1-phobic America. Let us hope it can cross this cultural barrier, as many, many US sports movies have coming in the opposite direction, and be enjoyed for the universal tale it is, well told, thrilling and uplifting.
I am old enough to remember the real duel between Lauda and Hunt, and am delighted that someone has finally spotted what a great story it was. I loved the film because it took me back to being an impressionable sixteen-year-old who, in common with most of my friends had fallen completely for James Hunt's charm and offbeat good looks. We hadn't been Formula 1 fans - or fans of blokes with posh accents, being northerners - but we definitely were now! I remember following the whole season on the radio, deciphering Murray Walker's near-hysterical commentary to find out what was going on. Needless to say, I loved the film and I thought the two main characters were unbelievably good, especially Chris Hemsworth, who pulled off the depiction of something close to a national icon incredibly well, getting Hunt's public-school drawl and round-shouldered walk perfectly, as well as his dangerous mixture of immaturity and charisma. I also thought that Daniel Bruhl made an unlikeable character, - frowning, earnest, pedantic and generally irritating - much more accessible than he could have been.The atmosphere of the 1970s was captured perfectly - leather miniskirts, dubious haircuts, rampant sexism, and incredible freedom and glamour for those who could afford it. I also liked the way the grime and scruffiness of Formula 1 came across, as well as its hazardous and uncertain nature: it's hard to believe that nowadays the Nurburgring simply isn't used any more because it's too dangerous. My only caveat was that some of the other characters in the sport, like Enzo Ferrari, and some of the other drivers like Fittipaldi and Scheckter could have been used to greater effect, but maybe that would have detracted from the leads, who were just electrifying. I hope Ron Howard can collect some kind of award for this film because he certainly deserves it. As to the warts-and-all depiction of Hunt, I hope the film stirs memories of a great sportsman, so British he was almost a cliché, but who in addition to being insanely brave also had humour and intelligence way beyond the capacity of many of the much lesser characters in the media nowadays. His family should be really proud.


                
I've been avoiding this 'critic darling'. Seems like the lower end of the nominee spectrum.Be that as it may, this doesn't mandate the dreaded slot on the back burner.At just a nose past two hours, the pacing's fast and smooth.Gravity's place in the Best Picture nominee list is nothing short of laughable. Captain Phillips and Her certainly deserve the accolade, but Rush is better than both of these films.Chris Hemsworth as James Hunt and Daniel Bruhl as the rat-faced Niki Lauda turn in exceptional performances.I love Sir Chemsworth, I gotta be honest.I'll say that Bruhl in the hospital is the slowest portion of the movie. But it doesn't last too long.The only time it got dusty for me was because his wife (Alexandra Maria Lara) seemed to be having a tough time of it. And I felt for her. Boy oh boy did I feel for that fantastic character.Go ahead, call me a 'softy.'Two of the major themes? Athleticism and assholes.I'll never tire of seeing movies with an R-rating. This is a fine example of nudity solely adding to the overall viewing experience.(Censorship's the bane of my existence in case you're unaware.)As usual, Olivia Wilde as Suzy Miller is a bit of all right in this film. She glazes over Hunt's infidelity quite quickly, yes yes? I like her depiction of a strong woman in an nonviolent yet strained relationship.(This illustrates a well-executed, subtle and original character flaw for Hunt. James and Suzy have a magnificent argument midway through.)Did I mention Hemsworth's performance? It's spectacular.Olivia's furiously ascending the ladder of this reviewer's favorite thespians. She solely delights. And I first noticed her in Cowboys & Aliens, which was a hundred times better than anyone wants to give it credit for. Not since Sharon Stone has there been such a great Lady Gunslinger!I'm not sure what else to say about this movie because it's just so spectacularly shot, written and edited. Rush is a visual masterpiece with compelling characters and spectacular direction.The tension's high. The acting's great. The story's enjoyable, informative and fun. What more do you need?See this film!
Man, we all have been crooning about the great acts in the likes of gravity n American hustle but what is more axiomatic is the true sheer pleasure n the thrill associated with the flick in question,post watching it.. Director Ron Howard who has given us classics like a beautiful mind , to name a few has delivered a directorial take resplendent with tight editing n in the process bringing us a slick, stylishly crafted, intelligently made n high on octane, edge of the seat thriller , accrued by some good confident performances by both the lead actors.. Even though i ain't a racing fan & till now haven't witnessed a single race even on TV but such is the intensity, racy feel to the movie, right from the first scene, that one doesn't even require an intermission.. Though the rivalry shown is guess, a tad exaggerated but who cares with the great view on offer!!! Not to seize any credits from both the lead actors, Hemsworth & Daniel, who as shown later during the end, look quite the champions they have portrayed on screen.. There is the flamboyant, boisterous & carefree maclaren driver, who believes in living life on the edge, making use of every min.available & never abiding by the rules.. Contrastingly, his competitor up next is a German , a boring , serious guy who stops in the middle of a race to avoid any mishaps, after images of his wife appear in his mind.. Who speaks not so fluent English but is a master at his work, knows his machines inside out n is a disciplined types.. Worth seeing is when he ,while driving a borrowed up car is questioned of not being a racy driver, since neither does he possess long hair, nor flamboyant enough to be called one!!! At this he retorts saying that he does not see any incentives /rewards on driving faster!!! Also worthy is the detailing, the picturisation of races, the cars itself, the background score by the famous zimmer.. In fact, the human emotions, fear & risks involved have been explored & presented to us in a never seen manner.. Indeed their rivalry is the highlight of the movie, which prompted each of them to give it their best.. They don't interact much with each other but do look the part ,especially at the end, seen conversing with each other.. It indeed is a great watch, & not only for some cheap action or some racy sequences..
