The difference, of course, is that while both are about nothing, Seinfeld episodes are funny. Somebody did find the scene of the three old men getting drunk to be humorous, but I'm confounded if I see it that part as anything but maudlin and pathetic.My family and I lived for four years in Japan, and learned to speak some and read enough to follow street signs, at least. Some of the most striking things about this movie for me were the views of Tokyo and the infrastructure. How did they manage to rebuild their factories to rebuild their train system, only eight years after the end of the war?I gather that the Japanese of the 1950's were not a great deal like the Japanese I knew in the 80's, although the connections across three decades were visible. The Japanese women of my neighborhood were a lot more like Noriko than Shige. The older men I knew reminded me of the father -- self absorbed and uninterested in the women around them. Did you notice the way the father behaves at Atami? When he and the mother sit on the causeway and decide to go back home to Onomichi, she stands up but feels dizzy. He basically tells her to shake it off and walks on, not even looking back to see how she is. Again, after the funeral, a neighbor asks how he's doing and he talks a bit about his days will seem long without the mother's company. It's all about him, right?Reviewers notice how Noriko, the widow of a son killed in the war, is the only one who shows any compassion and interest in the parents, her in-laws. This is matched by the fact that none of the rest of the family, all of whom seem relatively successful, have any real interest in her. They have reasonably decent houses while she lives in a crappy apartment building with shared kitchen and bath facilities.Overall, I found the Japanese I knew in the 1980's to be easy to like, hard to love. With that I experience, I watched Tokyo Story and found it hard to like, hard to maintain any interest, and hard to care about. All the commentaries above that go on about how universal this film is are deluding themselves. Likewise, all the commentary about how this is one of the greatest films of all time are not comparing it to Kurosawa's best work, which totally blow this boring soap opera away.Anyway, I rate it a three -- not totally awful -- but would never spend another 2 hours and 15 minutes of my life watching it again.


                
When i heard that this film had been critically acclaimed many times over and has been in the critics top ten films for many years i was expecting a classic. All the film was is a bunch of people who dnt seem to show emotion no matter what is happening, for example when the fathers wife dies he doesn't look bothered. Also, can somebody tell me what actually happens to make this film good. Compared to Kurosowa's films of the time like Seven Samuri and Rashomon which were fantastic this must have been the worst Japanese film I've seen to date. Half way through it i was beginning to believe that we were watchin a pair of old buskers going from house to house talking about how much sleep they had. Very disappointing picture.
