In Onomichi, Hiroshima, the retired Shukishi Hirayama (Chishû Ryû) and his wife Tomi Hirayama (Chieko Higashiyama) live with their single daughter, the teacher Kyôko (Kyôko Kagawa). They decide to travel in a long voyage by train to Tokyo to visit their children, the doctor Koichi Hirayama (Sô Yamamura) and the hairdresser Shige Kaneko (Haruko Sugimura). However, Koichi and Shige can not afford time to spend with their parents but the widow sister-in-law Noriko Hirayama (Setsuko Hara) gives attention to them and go on sightseeing through Tokyo with the old couple. Shukishi and Tomi note that their children do not have time for them and they decide to return to Onomichi. Along their trip, Tomi does not feel well and they stop in Osaka to visit their son Keizo Hirayama (Shirô Osaka). Soon each son and daughter receives a telegram from Onomichi with sad news."Tôkyô monogatari" is a sad story of family indifference, selfishness and farewell directed by Yasujirô Ozu using his traditional style with a steady camera and centralized filming. This movie makes the viewer thinks about parents' seniority and children indifference and selfishness that cannot spend time with them. Makes also think how short life is and how soon the son or daughter will become the old parent that he or she neglected. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): "Era Uma Vez em Tóquio" ("Once Upon a Time in Tokyo")


                
"Tradition is the illusion of permanence." - Woody AllenYasujiro Ozu's "Tokyo Story" finds an elderly Japanese couple visiting their adult children in Tokyo city. They intend to spend time with their offspring, but the kids are too engulfed in their own lives to make much time for their mother and father.Having seemingly lost the ability to relate to their parents, the self-absorbed kids thus shuttle the couple off to a luxury spa and hotel, all the while resenting their parents for the expense. Even the couple's grandchildren treat them with a great deal of scorn. The eldest grandson grows angry when he learns that he has to share his study with his grandparents and later throws a tantrum when the family cancels plans to visit a restaurant.Ignored by their family, the elderly couple wander about Tokyo city, visiting friends and soaking up the scenery. They receive more affection from strangers, old friends and the wife of one of their dead sons, than they do from blood relatives. The film ends with the family's frail mother predictably dying. Though her children take a few moments to mourn her loss, stating that they regret not treating their mother better whilst she lived, they promptly return to their old selves, their dead mother quickly forgotten.So what we have here is a simple morality tale. Ozu is a traditionalist, and the majority of his films view with bittersweet sadness how the traditional family unit has disintegrated in an increasingly urbanized post-war Japan. And yet, while Ozu waxes nostalgically for some ideal familial bond, his films are also about the "inevitability of change". One need only look at the titles of Ozu's better known films (Early Spring, Late Spring, Early Autumn and Late Autumn) to see that he's attached to a very specific form of Japanese seasonality. In "Tokyo Story" he makes this point quite literally when he has one character state that all families unavoidably drift apart, pulled in their own individual directions. The result is that "Tokyo Story" has an oddly counterproductive tone, Ozu both acknowledging the inevitability of change and mourning the loss of some idealized good old days. Typical of Ozu, the director's camera is always distant, austere and motionless. He doesn't sledge hammer his points and maintains a very remote tone throughout. This has led to critics and fans applying buzzwords like "un-sentimental" and "restrained" to "Tokyo Story". But is the film really "restrained", or is Ozu's emotionally inert quietness fooling us into thinking we're watching something of depth and complexity?Consider, for example, a scene in which the daughter pokes fun at her mother's weight, only for the mother to die at the end of the film. Instead of delving into the couple's relationship, Ozu opts for simple button pushing, forcing us into the easy position of hating the daughter and pitying the mother. Ozu's aloof style therefore disguises the shallowness of his material, whilst also denying us the satisfaction of what is really shameless domestic melodrama.Like Dreyer, Ozu thus has a tendency of packaging very sentimental and simplistic morality lessons in what can at times be a very challenging aesthetic. In other words, "Tokyo Story" is more challenging stylistically, than it is intellectually, morally, or emotionally. It is neither complex nor nuanced, its solemn style completely at odds with what is really a very easy and agreeable lesson.Still, it's not all black and white. If the sons and daughters don't have time for their parents its only because they are genuinely busy. Ozu even makes one son a hectic doctor in an attempt to absolve the boy of all guilt. Afterall, how can we hate a kid for cancelling a diner date with his parents when he's absent only because he's out saving lives?The waters are muddied further when late in the film the father reveals that he is disappointed that his children are not more successful. It gradually becomes clear that he has relied on the success of his children to validate his own life. Throw in the fact that the mother is a bit of an airhead, the father was once a drunk and that both parent's constantly put on a ridiculous facade of kindness, and it's hard not to empathise with their offspring. The kid's may be dismissive of their parents, but the parents, we learn, are equally dismissive of them.7.9/10 – An influential film, viewed as a masterpiece by many. Still, peel back its uptight stoicism and "Tokyo Story" reveals itself to be a pretty condescending message movie. Much of Ozu's filmography is like this, hiding sentimentality behind an austere aesthetic. Consider all the pavlovian heart attacks and wistfulness in "End of Summer", his sentimentalizing of the unemployed in "Tokyo Chorus", his fondness for abandoned, kindly old parents (Tokyo Story, Late Spring), the way he scorns (and celebrates!) modernisation (Good Morning) and mourns the way time rips all children away from the elderly (Late Autumn). Worth one viewing.
Strengths:+ A really heartbreaking story about an elderly couple, and their children & grandchildren who don't really care about them. + The whole film has a powerful bittersweet mood. If you are into that sort of thing, you will love it. + The grandparents are very cute and nice people. You just want them to be your grandparents. + Unique cinematography. The camera is always at a low height, and almost never moves. It feels like you are there with the characters, sitting in the next room on a tatami.Weaknesses:This is not a great drama...there is not enough conflict, character development, dialogues, and even less turns in the story. I didn't find the characters layered. What you see from them in the first 20-30 minutes of the movie is pretty much what will get form them later on. It becomes kinda predictable. The cinematography is unique, and interesting at first (just ask any film snob), but its not enough to carry a movie. This is not 2001: A Space Odyssey.Conclusion: Ask any snob, they will tell you, this is one of the best films ever. Its not only touching, deep and well made, but its also Japanese, more than 50 years old, black-n-white, sloooow, and not popular with the masses, because apparently, these things count as positive. Don't get me wrong, I have no problem with Japanese (Kurosawa), slow (Stalker, 2001) movies, or movies that are confined to a few interior places (12 Angry Men). And I think this is a very good movie. It just doesn't have enough content other than its mood, to hold up as well as some other old classics.Still, I say, give it a watch. But I warn you, this is minimalist cinema.7/10
SPOILERSUnfortunately, I'm from the If-It-Doesn't-Move,-Poke-It-With-A-Stick school of film criticism. No, I'm just kidding. I like a lot of slow-moving movies. No, Tokyo Story has problems up the wazoo. It's not that it's a bad movie, either. I actually liked it, marginally. 7/10, for sure. I do feel that it's vastly overrated - about as overrated as movies come. It's very often considered one of the ten best films ever made. Personally, I don't think Yasujiro Ozu gives human existence enough credit. Life is never this uninteresting, nor are people. I have lost family recently, and I could relate stories about funerals that have such enormous depth that they would blow this thing away.I've heard so much about the amazing restraint of Ozu's style that I really just have to question it. I have seen one other Ozu film - Bakushu is its Japanese name; I can't remember whether it's Late or Early Spring. It was boring, too, but interesting culturally. It really was stale, with almost no movement whatsoever. Tokyo Story is clearly Ozu's most famous film, and, I have to say, the style here is not restrained at all. There are only two tracking shots in the whole film - that's what people usually point to when they're looking for stylistic techniques to point out. One person I've talked to said: "In Tokyo Story, there's only one tracking shot [sic], and it cuts like a knife." I'd say that the one he's talking about does add to the poignancy a little, and so does the one he forgot. It didn't, however, affect me greatly. In fact, only a couple of individual shots touched me at all. As for the rest of Ozu, he does position his camera lower to the ground than probably any other director - a technique that isn't really very noticeable. Otherwise, it's not too much different from Hollywood. In fact, most Hollywood films of the era have limited or no tracking shots just based on their budgets. The editing patterns are almost identical to anything you'd find anywhere else, except for this odd and annoying type of cross-cutting that pops up whenever two people converse. I don't get that; it's really choppy, rather jarring for a movie that seems to want to be so realistic.And that's where I think this film's critical prominence lies, in its realism. I don't understand it, but whenever any film tries to be realistic or naturalistic, critics and most film buffs develop a raging erection. I know what real life is like, and I'd much rather see it exaggerated. To tell you the truth, as I said above, I don't think Ozu is presenting real life in Tokyo Story (or Bakushu). Real life has much more drama than this film. This is doing the opposite of hyperbolizing; it's minimizing real life. In real life, when a family meets around the dinner table, as the family does at the end of this film, there're a million circumstances effecting the outcome of that meal. Not so in this film. Ozu reduces them to types: the nice old couple, the too-busy adults, the selfish wife, the compassionate widow, etc. They do have character. I wouldn't want to undermine that too much. But in real life, they'd be so much more complex and interesting. I suggest that you attend a relative stranger's Christmas dinner, as a ghost, if necessary. It would be infinitely more complex.I do have to give the film credit for the complex issues that it raises. Its main themes have to deal with the callousness of the adult generation, and the disappointment in the elderly generation. It deals with these themes well whenever it gets around to dealing with them. A more brilliant writer would have had more with the grandchildren, but Ozu is content to have just a bit of it at the beginning. But, really, what does he bring out in the film that you didn't know already? I have a feeling that the same people who love this movie are right at the moment as I write this (12/19/2001) apprehensive about their parents or in-laws showing up for Christmas, and will breathe a sigh of relief when they leave. And I bet those same people will watch this movie when they're older and say, "Hey, my kids are just like those a**holes!"There are better movies about aging out there. Check out the Icelandic film Children of Nature, about an old man whose family is so annoyed at his presence in their home that they quickly move him to a nursing home, where he meets his high school sweetheart. They had been forced out of their homes in a more inhospitable part of the island years before, and together they conspire to go back there and die. Tokyo Story fans will certainly hate it, for the mere fact that it is, well, entertaining and fantastical. Another one I like a lot is by the Ozu-enthusiast's greatest enemy - the dreaded Akira Kurosawa, who often delivered amusing quips against Ozu when he was interviewed by the press; he thought Ozu was a bore, too. The film is Rhapsody in August, and I can hear the laughter already from the Ozu sector. I promise you all that that film will become more beloved and important as the years go on. Right now, it is in critical limbo for the silliest reason: Richard Gere is in the movie for about 15 minute. And it's actually one of his best performances, if you'd just give him a chance. That film is much better in dealing with the paradoxes of the three generations's relationships.
This likable film has a simple story of a nice elderly couple who go to visit their daughter and son-in-law in Tokyo, but are made to feel somewhat unwelcome.This cold-shouldering is somewhat laid on with a trowel throughout, as for example when the daughter tells an enquirer that her parents are just some visiting 'friends from the country'. It was also left strangely unclear (to me at least) just why the daughter was so unwelcoming to her parents - strange since this appeared to be the central theme of the film.Nonetheless this was generally a pretty good film, and well-acted, particularly by the charming grandparents.I am however baffled as to why this has gained the reputation of being one of the greatest films ever made, frequently appearing in critics' top 10 favourite movies. After much thought, though, I have a tentative explanation:Firstly, it's a foreign language film, hence clearly an example of High Art.Secondly, it's black-and-white and somewhat flickery - this means it must be vintage, a veritable Classic in fact.And lastly, unlike most flickery black-and-white films, it's reasonably watchable. Hence this must be something quite out of the ordinary - not merely a High Art Classic, but surely a genuine Masterpiece. One of the Greatest Films Ever Made, no less. Yup, that sounds about right.


                
I don't know if it has to do with some of the translation into English, but some of the dialog in this film seems to me to be plainly offensive. For example, when the old woman Tomi Hirayama (Chieko Higashiyama) speaks to her daughter-in-law Noriko (Setsuko Hara), who's husband, the older woman's son, had died, she makes the remark "What a treat to sleep in my dead son's bed". What??!! I thought that was terribly insensitive.Or when the family members discuss the mother's passing, Shige (Haruko Sugimura) states that she wishes the old man had died first. She qualified her statement with a logical reason, but gee, that just sounded so awful bad, but in her case, Shige had already established that she wasn't very politically correct among her family members.And then there's the old man himself, Shukichi (Chishû Ryû), who attempts to convince his daughter-in-law Noriko to remarry. With seeming indifference to the death of his own son a year earlier, he says "Forget about Shoji, he's dead." Do you think Noriko had to be reminded of that depressing fact? I know this, a movie is getting to me when I have to get up and pace around the room in order to force myself to stay with it. I pretty much understand what the director was trying to achieve here by showing the indifference siblings can show toward their elderly parents. How they'd rather not be bothered unless there's something in it for them. And obviously I'm at a disadvantage by not knowing the Japanese culture and it's approach to the concept of dying. But this just didn't strike me as being the noteworthy film it's hailed to be with it's position in the IMDb rating system. Sometimes I find a second viewing of a film to help with my appreciation of the effort, but this one I'll be giving a pass.One final observation - what's the obsession with fanning one's self throughout the picture?
Elderly couple Shukichi and Tomi Hirayama go to Tokyo to visit their children and their families. Their oldest son Koichi has a family of four. Shige is married and runs a hair salon. Both of them are extremely busy and pay for expensive trips for their parents. Their daughter-in-law Noriko is widowed after the war. She is the most caring but mother Tomi notes a loneliness in Noriko's life. However Noriko is not feeling well.There is a quietness and stillness about the camera style. The characters sometimes talk directly into the camera which can be distracting. It's a naturalistic feel. These people feel real and their emotions have depth. It's a slow movie but it doesn't feel boring. It's kind of mesmerizing like watching a real family.


                
Simple, poignant & heartfelt, Tokyo Story is a meditation of old age & parents-children relationship concerning an elderly couple who take a trip to Tokyo to visit their grown-up children, only to find out that they don't have much time for them & it often contrasts with the couple's visit to their widowed daughter-in-law who treats them with kindness & also takes out time from her busy schedule to devote it in their service.Directed by Yasujiro Ozu, the story moves at a slow pace & conveys its message in a very subtle manner about the inevitable drift between parents & children as time passes. Cinematography is absolutely still like a careful observant in the room while editing progresses the story gradually & effectively. Music makes its entrance at key moments, adding more emotional punch and the performances by the entire cast is very honest & carried out with much politeness.On an overall scale, Tokyo Story is mainly about the growing distance between parents & children that subtly portrays the indifference, selfishness & ingratitude of the younger generation who consider the very people who sacrificed so much to nourish them into responsible human beings as a burden, and over the years with every passing generation, its universal theme keeps getting more n more resonant & will continue to do so for a very long time.


                
The usual write-ups about Ozu focus on aesthetics and thematizing, let's try here to find the transcendent flow where these things, themes and aesthetics, are unified in the transitory experience of watching.Ozu sets an unmoving eye, this has been a frequent trope since his time, elaborated in many directions. With Ozu however the idea is simple in its original Buddhist context, capture life without passions, not letting us stray in whirls but creating instead, in the canvas, duration and time. He had already mastered this, more so in other films than here. The mastery is not that the camera occupies a certain position or frames a certain geometry, it is not an aesthetic quality. The most evocative Ozu shots for me are shots of a bar sign against the sky or blinds against a window, the shots are kept just long enough for the blinds to flutter once or the trees in the back of the sign to ripple by a wind. It's a transcendent quality that aims to introduce a span of time. Hollywood was the opposite of this, crisp shots that only allow time and room for narrative motion, never stillness.So he unspools time as a way of creating a canvas for the larger project to play out. In previous films of his mature period this was threaded around marriage, but made to register in a more cosmic way, a farewell from one existence to the next, the larger project being transitions in life. Here he pursues the natural conclusion, mortality.The story is about aging parents who visit their grown kids and grandkids in Tokyo, only to find no one really has time to spare, they're all busy in their narratives, one a neighborhood doctor, the daughter a hairdresser. Ozu tries to maintain an ambivalent stance: the kids are not unhappy to see them, nor very excited at the prospect of having to change their schedules, there is a weariness that hovers around that is not strictly unkindness. The film is set-up so that we live through the transition, so that we're going to finally travel from Tokyo to the village home of childhood for the last night together. Time is unspooled as a tool for realization. This is a simple one, loved ones should not be taken for granted, which has led some people to dismiss the film as empty. Not so. The parents' narrative is one between soulmates who have chiseled out all the emotional excess, the whys and why nots, assured in mutual presence, and there's no better happiness to ask for, no deeper art to cultivate than a shared life.The issue for me is that we're called to live through a transition means we have to shed story as we travel, it's an early appearance of the Cassavetes effect. It's so the aimlessness will be understood in retrospect as pregnant meaning. (this is were themes and aesthetics disappear into one fabric again that is our own transitory watching, if either sticks out you don't inhabit a life)Ozu's idea for shedding story is unconnected asides, here for instance the father's drinking spree with old buddies. It must have been tremendously inspiring at the time, I can't imagine Cassavetes conceiving his cinema without studying this, but I do miss here his visual concentration, his lack of pointing out the understanding. Ozu is once again held back by the need to clarify, to separate the ambiguities.So, quaint now, but you should have this in your life at some point, not because it's on a list of greats or for any moral. It's all in the worldview that is not above suffering nor bogged down by it, melancholy that is not without joy, time without the burden, bonding without attachment.When necessity parts them for one night in Tokyo, there's only the anxiety of not being able to find each other again. Lovely.


                
1001 Movies You Must See Before You Die is the book I found out about this Japanese film that was obviously acclaimed by critics and so forth, so naturally I was very interested to see it as soon as possible, from director Yasujirô Ozu (An Autumn Afternoon). Basically in the small coastal village of Onomichi, Japan, live elderly couple Shukishi (An Autumn Afternoon's Chishû Ryû) and Tomi Hirayama (Chieko Higashiyama) with their young schoolteacher daughter Kyôko (Kyôko Kagawa), their other grown up children are in various places in Tokyo or Osaka. The couple make the decision to travel to Tokyo for an extended visit to see these other adult children and their families: eldest son and paediatrician Koichi Hirayama (Sô Yamamura) and his two sons, eldest daughter and beautician Shige Kaneko (Haruko Sugimura) who runs a hairdressing salon, and they see their other son Keizo Hirayama (Shirô Osaka) with an unexpected stop in Osaka. As each of their children have Shukishi and Tomi hang around they try to adjust and cope with their visits, they are treating them with hardly any care, respect or want for them to be seeing them. They even try to stop spending time with them by trying to send them the inexpensive Atami Hot Springs resort, only daughter-in-law Noriko Hirayama (Setsuko Hara), who was made a widow when her husband Shoji killed eight years ago in the war, is making any effort and treating them nicely during their trip. As Shukishi and Tomi realise that their grown up children are not very fond of having them around, each of their offspring are realising the effects of their actions, and it may be too late to make up for their general behaviour both from the past and during the trip time, especially when Tomi dies, and Shukishi has to try to connect with them after the loss. Also starring Kuniko Miyake as Fumiko Hirayama – Koichi's wife. The performances are all fine, especially by the older two leading stars and by the actress playing the sweet daughter-in-law, it is a simple story about family who do not connect as well as they should, I will confess it was a little hard to follow what was going while having the read the subtitles as well, but what I gathered made a watchable drama. Very good!
There are different reasons films become classics. Some because their imagery is burned into the memory's eye indelibly, others because the characters are unforgettable, still others because they blazed a new trail in the art form. Tokyo Story claims its distinction among lovers of world cinema largely due to its quietly revolutionary social material, as well as some indelible images: the view of the hill with the little figures of the grandmother and her grandson playing for example, like an animated version of one of those classic tiny bamboo sculptures encased in glass. To name only one beautifully framed shot. At the time it was made, 1953, to depict wilful and disrespectful behaviour by the grandchildren as shown here would have been shocking to traditional viewers. Likewise, the indifference bordering on disrespect shown by the old couple's children. Ever so gradually the carefully cultivated mask of social ritual is stripped away to reveal that even the dutiful daughter-in-law admits to being more selfish than she appears. The intense difficulty of family members having any real connection at all with each other is deeply driven home. And the irony that a non-blood relative is actually the one who cares most for the old folks. This, combined with the choice of a storyline that deliberately avoided heroic or mythic overtones as might have been expected in Japanese cinema at the time, accounts for the social impact this film would have made in 1953. (Keep in mind that Kirosawa's early masterpiece The Seven Samurai was released just the next year, sustaining the mythic-heroic tradition of Japanese literature on film.) The breakneck speed at which films are now made provides a glaring contrast to this nearly 60-year-old film, whose rhythm is placidly riverine. Yet even to someone like myself with an appreciation for foreign films, the pace occasionally drags. If anything, Tokyo Story is an anti- heroic film. Still, it's a reminder that current film entertainment—with the exception of films like Terence Malick's Tree of Life—allows the viewer no time whatsoever to meditate on deeper themes. Tokyo Story reminds us that films can be long prayers rather than a constant concussion of thunderclaps. It confronts the most basic issues that confront us all: family and mortality.


                
From irony to despair, TOKYO STORY moves with a carefully measured pace. It takes place, for the most part, in "real time," moving (as does Life itself, from moment to moment) with a gradual inexorability toward The End. Death humbles us all. We're left only with reflections and regrets. Ozu's unflinching manner of movie-making can cause us to squirm uncomfortably in our seats. The old man, left alone in the end, gazing out at the world as it continues on despite his most profound loss, sums it up best when a neighbor stops to look in at him: "Living alone, a day lasts too long." The neighbor moves on, but the look on the old man's face, the trembling of his Adam's apple as he fights back the tears, speaks volumes. Slow fade to black.
I give this film a 9 rating only due to its vintage and somewhat imperfect fit with todays fast paced life and diluted family values. This film is a really good example of how one can take a simple concept from our day to day lives and turn it into such a thought provoking film. To really appreciate this movie one must put into perspective the value of family, especially one's elders, in eastern cultures. Even today it is so different from our Western views and approaches in dealing with our elders.The basic principle there is respect for elders, or even reverence for one's parents as they get on with age. Many families continue to live with their parents and care for them through their old age. These are the choices they make in their life and value. And, not to forget, many of these people are professionals and skilled laborers who continue to work full-time and still care for their extended families. Rarely will you find a retirement village ;) there.Remember these simple concepts next time you watch this movie and you might get a poignant view of the pain that is conveyed in this fantastic film.Enjoy.....


                
My title may sound like an oxymoron, yet I can think of no more fitting way to describe Tokyo Story. The weighted themes on death and the separation of children from parents, and the clearly fractured relationships between characters, are ripe for the screens of your next soap opera; yet it is handled so delicately, so subtly, that for a large portion many may complain there isn't drama enough.Parents take a long train journey to visit their adult children in Tokyo. Their children are for the most part polite and accommodating, yet so busy with employment they are unable to spend any quality time together, and privately view their parents presence as a burden. The pace is unhurried, and to the detriment of entertainment, conversations are carried out with a realistic mundane-ness. As the selfishness behind the facade of mannered conversation is slowly revealed, this approach becomes a powerful tool to reflect on the sadder aspects of family relations. And where typical melodramas may rush to have characters verbalise their upset, and make a mockery of it in the process, Tokyo Story manages to reveal that upset in a manner largely unspoken, and far more evocative because of it. With the films title, and many location cutaways, the younger generations busyness and neglect of their elders in a large city may also be seen as a metaphor for modern life's alienation and neglect of values. They do not mean harm, but Tokyo Story shows its heart by being a melancholy display on what is lost.All things considered, Tokyo Story is an ode to cherish human relationships, and a critique on human frailty and modern life. It is a sad and touching film, but meanders very slowly, particularly at the beginning.
