Tokyo monogatari (or Tokyo Story) is a very human story. It contains a lot of everyday life which at times can make it difficult to follow since it may feel a little bit slow.However who is patient gets rewarded. And Ozus way of telling this story is very quiet but effective. The images he produces and the very minimalist camera work creates a rhythm that sucks the viewer in and slowly opens him/her up for the sad but essential ending of this movie.Ozu never tries to impose his story to the viewer. It looks like he follows his actors very disciplined and calm. This very structured and clear camera-work will alienate many modern moviegoers who are used to much more dynamic images. However lovers of purist cinema and fans of Aki Kaurismaki will probably love it.Impressing also to see how close the everyday life of Japan in the mid 50s is to the western way of life.


                
Mathematicians have a saying, "Happiness is proving the same theorem over and over again," by which is meant that proving a significant result early on allows for embellishing, extending, and recasting the result in different contexts for almost a whole career. If Ozu had been a mathematician, I suspect he would have understood this idea. I have seen five Ozu movies and they all seem to be variations on a theme, that theme being an examination of the family dynamics of a particular Japanese family, frequently highlighting the frictions between generations and concerns about parents marrying off their daughters."Tokyo Story" is my favorite of the Ozu movies I have seen and it is prototypical. All the techniques are here: meticulously framing each shot, shooting from a low level, using only direct cuts, minimizing camera movement, jumping ahead in time. The story has an aging Japanese couple traveling from Onomichi to Tokyo to visit their children, after a lapse of eighteen years. When in Tokyo the parents find that their children are busy with their own lives and are not terribly excited about the visit. The only person to receive them with much affection is the widow of a son lost in the war. This movie could easily be updated to the current time.The story is simply told, but it did require my attention. It took me a while to sort out the relationships between the son and daughter in Tokyo and their spouses and the single daughter-in-law. And sometimes the jumps in time were a little disorienting. For example, when the parents arrive in Tokyo a visit to a son in Osaka along the way is referenced, but scenes from that visit were not shown.I would have thought that the movie's having been made only eight years after the war, and only a year or two after the allied occupation of Japan, that there would have been more references to the war, but clearly Ozu was not out to provide much direct post-war analysis in this movie. He did treat the audience to a brief bus trip through Tokyo. The city then seemed already well on its way to becoming the modern city it is today.This movie is so skillfully shot in black and white that I was surprised to see in some of the later Ozu movies that he has an artist's eye for color.Some of the scenes in "Tokyo Story" will stay with me, like the scene of the parents sitting on the sea wall and discussing their decision to go home, basically admitting that the trip had been somewhat of a failure.Know that if you like this movie, there are a lot more Ozus like it.
Yasujiro Ozu's Tokyo Story is one of the all time favorites chosen by fellow directors, and it is easy to see why. It does not have a spectacular story, and instead it focuses on being relatable in a way that can literally be compared to average people from everywhere. The most important aspect i think that Ozu has done to create this emotional piece of art that lives and breathes is the fact that he creates such an immersion to the story that you feel like you are an actual part of it. He seemingly creates this immersion by using a lot of extremely low camera angles which are apparantly called 'tatami-shots', in which it seems as though the viewer is sitting on a mat right next to our characters ( Or, shall we say, in the next room as Ozu also has a habit of having these kind of shots positioned in another room so that we can still have a clear overview of our characters. ). Furthermore, we notice a lot of shot reverse-shot techniques in which it looks as though the characters are speaking to the camera, which also increases immersion as this is a beautiful way by Ozu of making clear they are speaking to the audience too. These pure filmmaking techniques by Ozu is a perfect way to increase the immersion in his world, and it works perfectly.The acting performances are all very good, but especially Noriko ( Setsuko Hara ) gives off an exceptional performance as the outwardly cheerful yet innerly quite troubled widow of the elderly couple's son. All of the other characters are quite selfish and after a certain tragic event later in the film their indifference is such a powerful statement from Ozu to the audience to subtly point out the flaws in the average human being. It is, in a way, also a story about old people in a young city that seemingly does not have a place for them ( Similar to the way released long time convicts are portrayed in The Shawshank Redemption, who feel as though they have no place in this world ) which brings up the inability of modern society to care about our elders.It is also further enhanced by fantastic cinematography and great shots of the scenery of Tokyo, Osaka & Onomichi which shows us that we are but little people in such a big place, and that life has to go on. The before stated low camera angles and beautiful japanese cultural indoor scenery also take part in creating a visually beautiful experience. The music by Takanobu Saito also uses fantastic violins to enhance the emotional attachment to the film.In the end this is a simple story that could happen to every average person, which is also primarily what makes it so relatable. Yet also visually impressive with great acting, a great soundtrack and all the while observing an ages long moral human dilemma about connecting with our elders, it is a film that transcends its 'simple' story bounds by a long shot.


                
It surprises me to find Tokyo Story regarded as one of the greatest Films of all time. I doubt many of today's audiences, both the young and not so young, would know how to watch a film like this. At first it deceptively seems more like a simplistic documentary - one with very little shape or substance, about the distances between families - then, as it moves slowly forward it begins to unnerve the patient viewer by introducing undertones - feelings and thoughts that each of us may (should) experience at some time in our lives. I'm also sure many who attempt to watch this film won't even get past the first 15-20mins. And, it will be these folk who will die without ever allowing themselves to fully experience the real-life family emotions that motivate this fine work. So, it's with great pleasure I find this curiously simple (yet complex) movie being so highly regarded between differing cultures. In some ways, it made me think of the Michael Powell/Emeric Pressburger British classic "A Canterbury Tale". While it's true there may be little to compare between the two, they each brought a rich reward to the thoughtful viewer who stayed to the end. Sensitivity is a gift many lack. The remastered (Criterion) DVD releases are to be commended for quality; the one I screened was the Madman release. Now to find the 1937 American film this Japanese story was inspired by; "Make Way for Tomorrow".


                
This is a marvelous movie with exceptional acting throughout. However, it is also INCREDIBLY bleak and sad, so be forewarned!!! The story begins with an older Japanese couple (grandma and grandpa) packing to go to Tokyo to see their grown son, daughter and daughter-in-law (whose husband, their 2nd son, was killed in the war). However, despite their letting everyone know they were coming, they are treated as inconveniences. The only one who showed them any consideration was the daughter-in-law. Particularly disgusting was their daughter, who ALWAYS told her husband to spend LESS on her parents, as they wouldn't know any better. Lovely kids, huh?! Anyways, after spending their time in Tokyo, they return to their hometown and grandma becomes deathly ill. You can probably guess where this is going. Despite all this, the grandparents continually say they've got good kids, even though they seem like selfish jerks.


                
Of course that is just my opinion. Tokyo Monogatari is a marvel of the dailiness of life and the disappointment parents face. It raises relevant issues on children growing apart from their parents and a departure of values to modern times. The film is featured in many a top 10 list, its the number one film on the latest Halliwells top 1000 list. Its hard to fault.The story is about two parents who go to visit their children in Tokyo. Though things aren't as sweet as they had imagined and the trip basically ends up being a big disappointment. The story is told in an interesting manner, often eclipsing certain events and moving on. To keep the story moving I suppose. An example of this being that the old couple are meeting their son, Keizo, before they go to see their daughter. The film goes straight to arriving at the daughters house. We do not see their visiting of their son Keizo, only hear the characters talking about it and know that it has happened.One of the daughters, Shige is quite cold towards her parents. She doesn't pay much attention to them and is frequently cruel. Small things like her not giving them nice cake and saying the crackers are good enough for them. The parents slowly realise that their children aren't as successful as they had thought. Just another subtle way of indicating that they have not seen their children for some time. Also their daughters children not being familiar with their grandparents, another indicator.Eventually the old folks are shipped out to a health spa. At first they feel guilty that they are inconveniencing their children further, they don't realise that they aren't very wanted. The person most kind to the couple is Noriko, the wife of one of their sons who died in the war. It is ironic how she is the kindest, yet is no blood relation.The characters in Tokyo story are very well developed. Different assumptions can be made towards the children's indifference. Maybe times have simply changed. This is displayed well in the film through shots of modernity, trains and boats. Mod cons if you will. The camera movement in this film is also intriguing. Ozu often explores the space within a room. Maybe by following somebody around. The compositions are interesting. A lot of the camera decisions have meaning. Such as a couple sitting side by side so as not to appear confrontational. Pattern is also kept up well, people are fanning themselves in linked shots, constantly reminding the viewer that it is a hot day (common for an Ozu film) Another interesting point about the camera movement is that Ozu breaks the continuity by changing the side from which scenes are shot. A unique thing.Overall I definitely recommend you see Tokyo story, it is a very impressive, at times heartrending piece of cinema. It shows the coldness that comes with modern times and how life may not have place for elderly people. Technically, it is at a high level. The story is told in a neat way and the whole experience is generally engaging. My only complaint is that the film at time becomes a little slow and may not always be enjoyable. But overall, its an important one. Do see it if you have a big interest in film.


                
An old couple visit their children and grandchildren in the city; but the children have little time for them.Like all of Ozu's sound films, "Tokyo Story" has a pacing that is slow, yet has a rhythm which made Ozu's film a popular entertainment in Japan. Important events are often not shown on screen, only being revealed later through dialogue. For example, the train journeys to and from Tokyo are not depicted. A distinctive camera style is used, in which the camera height is low and almost never moves; film critic Roger Ebert notes that the camera moves once in the film, which is "more than usual" for an Ozu film.This is a very beautiful film, and the title is perfect, as it captures the city of Tokyo in all its 1950s beauty. From the point of view of Americans, this is especially fascinating, as it is less than a decade after Japan was our primary target. Look at all the beauty we could have destroyed.


                
Tokyo Story won't appeal to movie-goers of all kinds but will definitely attract those who enjoy slow-paced character studies with relatable themes that make us think about ourselves and those we love. This 1953 masterpiece depicts an older couple living in country side Japan visiting their children in Tokyo. As they visit their family they receive colder welcomes than expected with the exception of an exceptional, widowed daughter in law. Yasujiro Ozu manages to paint a rather unsettling portrait of post-war life in Tokyo with a strong disconnect from family and a hopeless feeling of loneliness as the couple drifts in the overwhelming landscape of Tokyo. It's obvious great care was taken into the script by the authentic dialogue and humanistic tone of the scenes. The film beautifully explores themes like younger vs older generation gaps, meaning of life in contrast of war, loneliness, and the roles of children and parents.It's not easy examining a clear cut story structure but the story seems to be the daughter in law's story as she fills the slot of the audience as an observer watching the family treat each other. Yet, enough character payoff happens to allow some catharsis. While the structure is hard to examine, Tokyo Story feels as complete and thorough as any film can be. Anyone looking for a deeper and methodical character piece, Tokyo Story is not only highly recommended, it's an incredible study that gets better as each viewing passes and more time passes to mentally digest the film's depth. While it may not appeal to everyone, it most certainly is study reference material for any would be filmmaker on several narrative levels.


                
SYNOPSIS: An aging husband and wife visit their children in 1950s Tokyo. While all are well meaning and polite, the years and the miles between them have taken them all on different paths and they struggle to come to terms with their memories and their expectations.CONCEPT IN RELATION TO THE VIEWER: Intimacy and how things change. A character study of the the differences between generations, their expectations (both young and old) and how the modern world has fractured the extended family.PROS AND CONS: This is a slice of life / contemplation film as opposed to the fantasy / escapism film genre that is marketed to the youth of today. While many newer films have choreographed violence and action as the mainstay of their cinema experience, this film is the opposite. While film is a 'visual' medium, it can be a subtle medium as well, without all the 'eye-candy' and special effects that are so prominent today.This film is long, over 2 hours, and it took me a while to get all the way through it. By the end of the film, I felt as though I was a part of this family and could sense their pain and grief . This film may not appeal to younger generations, but as we age, this type of cinema becomes more and more endearing to those of us that have experienced more than we allow ourselves to remember.There are some interesting oddities in the film that stem from the culture in which it was made. All the camera angles are very low, usually less than 3 feet from the floor. Since there were few chairs in 1950s Japan, most of the characters sit on the floor. This is their living space, hence the lower camera angle. Almost everyone in the film has a hand fan, which they are constantly fanning themselves with. In a time before air-conditioning, this was the only way to keep cool in the summer. There is almost no panning on scanning with the camera. Most of the scenes are done with a static camera location with minimal scene editing. Finally, there are a lot of 'lingering' scenes, in which actors leave the frame or exit a room, but the camera keeps rolling for up to 10 seconds before fading to the next scene or editing to a different location. This appears intentional, as though the director wants to let us linger on what has just transpired.In the end this is a film that makes you think. I love films that do that.


                
The daughter says "Sho-ga-nai wane" when she is making the bed for her drunk ota-san. I don't think anyone says the more formal and more despairing "Shikata-ganai". That says a lot, and it means that the reviews that take Tokyo Story as damnation of the ungrateful devils in the younger generation or as damnation of a "western society" (as one reviewer fantasizes) are off base. "Sho-ga-nai wane" simply means "that's the way it is". My wife says it fairly often. "Shikata-ganai" seem to be more like "life sux and then you die". My wife doesn't say that and nobody says that in Tokyo Story. This movie is a dilemma, sort of like the dilemma discussed while they're drinking ... how it is tough to live with your kid but tough for them to be gone. This movie? As oka-san says about her kids "certainly better than average". And in Lake IMDBgone, average is about a 6.5, so I give this an 8. The problem? Tokyo Story is both literally and figuratively BLACK & WHITE. It is a simple movie. Even the dialogue is simple. How simple? I speak Japanese worse than kindergarten level, but I could understand most of what the older generation said. They talked slowly. They used simple grammar, polite forms, and simple words. So, I empathize with the commentator who panned it. Yeah, I also knew everything that would happen after 20 minutes of viewing. If I hadn't spent a lot of time in Japan and have Japanese in-laws, i.e. if I had little to no interest in Japan, I might feel similar and not even have watched the whole thing. (In this way, it is almost like Lost in Translation.) I mean, if you have little to no interest in Japan, it is neither very entertaining nor very revealing. Come on, you have to be pretty baka to not understand generational gaps and the damage done to family life by modern society. Well, duh! Having said all that, the message is well-done, it is universal, and who knows, maybe seeing it in a different time and place will add something for you even if all you know about Japan is Sony and Toyota. If it weren't set in Japan, I'd probably give it a 6.


                
Yasujiro Ozu's TOKYO STORY, while unappreciated by Western viewers during the time of its birth, is today viewed as an influential masterpiece. Taking from the gendai-geki, or "modern story" tradition in Japanese film, Ozu aims to emphasize the mini-actions of daily life, absent from drama, emotional complexity, and spectacle, conventions most intrinsic to Hollywood. With deceiving simplicity and genius technicality, TOKYO STORY is a timelessly important film, especially within the realm of cinematic style.Most interesting is Ozu's treatment of narrative time in TOKYO STORY. The display of several dramatic events are withheld from the viewer and replaced with mundane, everyday activity. David Desser refers to this elision in "The Space of Ambivalence"* as a sort of "dailiness" that serves as the preeminent force in moving the film. Desser notes that Ozu systematically elides everything except dailiness, forcing the viewer to fill in the gaps, or the drama, taking place between what is seen, a process calling for an active part on the audience versus the spoon-fed phenomenon seen all to often in classic Hollywood cinema. Ozu's simple approach to cinematic storytelling has cut deeply, clearing the way for the implementation of new possibilities on the global film scene. Today, many filmmakers use dailiness to emphasize importance, bridge moments in the narrative, or, simply, to give a sense of authenticity.Ozu couples his elision of dramatic narrative action with his usage of 360-degree space by ignoring the looming 180-degree rule that forces the camera to remain on one hemisphere of an imaginary circle dictated by the placement of the actors -- if the camera ventured to the other hemisphere the characters would appear to "flip" (and, to the horror of Hollywood, confuse the audience!). By ignoring this rule, Ozu continues in his rejection of traditional cinematic practices. He strives to move away from the Hollywood aesthetic and give viewers something fresh and interesting to look at. Desser, regarding Ozu's 360-degree space in TOKYO STORY, writes: "Space, then, is not reducible to narrative needs, but exists as a playful and attention-grabbing component." Ozu wants these flips to stand out and does so with seamless blatancy unencumbered by a need for spatial continuity.TOKYO STORY is an important addition to the kaleidoscopic understanding cinematic style. Ozu's far-reaching resonance has touched the creativity of many contemporary filmmakers and is a fundamental piece of film history.*Desser, David. "The Space of Ambivalence." Geiger, Jeffery and Rutsky, R.L. Film Analysis: A Norton Reader. New York, New York: W.W. Norton & Company, 2005.


                
This is not the best film ever made.This is not the best Japanese film ever made.This is not the best film directed by Ozu.Style : both Banshun and TM have similar style in cinematography and costumesPlot: TM is a copy of the American film "Make Way For Tomorrow" while Banshun is more Original.Acting: TM has melodramatic acting and overacting while Banshun is less melodramatic.Duration :TM is 137 minutes which is unnecessary for its content and it gets boring and dragged while Banshun is 110 minutes which is perfect for its content and not even a minute is wastedTherefore...Banshun is the best film directed by Ozu.But still it's not the best Japanese film ever made


                
In my humble opinion:This is not the best film ever made.This is not the best Japanese film ever made.This is not the best film directed by Ozu.Style : both Banshun and TM have great style thanks to the master Ozu.Plot: TM is a copy of the American film "Make Way For Tomorrow" while Banshun is more Original.Acting: TM has melodramatic acting and overacting while Banshun is less melodramatic.Duration :TM is 137 minutes which is unnecessary for its content and it gets boring and dragged while Banshun is 110 minutes which is perfect for its content and not even a minute is wasted.Therefore...Banshun is the best film directed by Ozu.But still it's not the best Japanese film ever made.


                
First InThis Film Camera Working Very Good, In Start You Can See Three People Sitting In The Room In Different Situation In One Shut, The Old Woman Is Talking His Husband Is Listening & Thinking And The Young Girl Is Packing Own Food For Her Work, I Can See A Lot Good Depth Of Field In Tokyo Story, And I like Another Scenes When Three Old Friend Sit In Bar And Talking About Own Children's And They Just Complained About It ,One Of Them Lost Two Boys In War Another One Not Happy With His Son But The Oldest Lost His Boy In War Too & Not Happy Too And They Talk And Drink To Forget They Miserable Life , This Film Is About Real Respect To What We Have And We Don,t Even See, Parents , Family . In One View Father And Mother Sit Next The Big Door House And Talking About Come Back To Own City Or Village With Train, And I Think Ozu This View Meaning The Reall Place For Them Is Something Big Like This Door That They Can Live There And They Need Company For Rest Of Life, Just Respect Them , Our Parents.


                
An elderly couple head to Tokyo to spend a few days with their children and grandchildren. While their children are initially glad to see them, and the parents are models of patience and pleasantness, the novelty wears off pretty quickly for the children and they soon view the parents as a hindrance more than anything else. Then an event highlights the divide between the two generations...Engaging and emotional drama from famed Japanese director Yasujiro Ozu. It wasn't always looking like it was going to be that great though. While always engaging, the pace is very slow at the beginning. The first 60% or so is all scene-setting - Act 1 essentially. Things ramp up once the aforementioned event occurs, and this makes the wait worth while.Quite emotional, ultimately, and quite balanced in its views. It looked like it was going to be fairly judgmental in its observations, but the final few scenes add a different perspective. Having a character that was able to see both sides of the issue helped a lot.Not quite the masterpiece it is made out to be, but very good nevertheless.


                
An elderly Japanese couple who live with their youngest daughter in a small town far from Tokyo decides to travel to the capital to visit their children and grandchildren who live there and they haven't seen for some years. This visit reveals several aspects of human relations within the family from the good sentimental ones to some displays of indifference, selfishness and self-indulgence. Several moving scenes and dialogues ensue in the typical Japanese social atmosphere of delicacy, politeness and courtesy very well depicted. Although there are not particularly dramatic scenes the atmosphere is realistic enough in psychological terms to allow us to be aware of the real feelings of the characters with great depth. And the story has also to do with such deep themes as life and death, young age and old age and the generation disparities It's a very humane, moving and even pathetic movie indeed.


                
