While I can think of plenty of WWII comedies, comedies about WWI are few and far between.  Okay, there is Chaplin's Shoulder Arms, but then I fail to think of anything - apart from these glorious 6 half-hour long pieces of British Comedy.  There are reasons for this scarcity, most notably that hardly anything happened during the war, except that millions of soldiers died in their muddy trenches.  Not much room for a comedy writer to get his teeth into, is there?Well, watch this and you'd be surprised how much one can squeeze out of that setting.  The main angle is the absurdity of it all, which our hero, Edmund Blackadder, is fully aware of.  Alas, he's the only one and so his cynicisms and sarcasms remain undetected by the other characters.  The highlights of the series are thus Blackadder's one-liners (well, often a bit longer than one line).If you have grown up watching TV comedy US style only then you may find the conclusion of the series rather disturbing.


                
My first real introduction to WW1, began in 1964. That year the BBC broadcast a 26-part documentary detailing the outbreak and progress of this, 'The Great War'. As a teenager, I sat mesmerised, as the voice of Sir Ralph Richardson narrated in harrowing tones, failure upon failure in tactics and strategy with no other result than monumental casualty figures. Ever since then I have been 'hooked'. Here are some figures: just the first day's 'Battle of The Somme' resulted in a loss of almost 60,000 British soldiers. Some 20,000 were dead. That is one third of the number of Americans who died throughout the entire Vietnam campaign (and just look how many movies have been made about that). The 'Menin Gate' at Ypres commemorates the loss of 56,000 men. But they didn't just die; they vanished. The population of a small town were completely swallowed-up by the fury. And this is only one of many such monuments. Numbers like these compel you to stop - and think.The multinational disaster that was WW1 has been shunned by politicians and media alike. The only good thing to be said of the conflict is that it stopped. And it had to; the nations were completely drained of money and men. Ever since, it has been a military bete-noir of history. Nothing was accomplished but failure and nothing created but innumerable corpses. There was no victory, no triumph of good over evil. Even the enemy was obscure. It was a holocaust of good intentions. The war became a machine that simply ground youth into the mud. Appalling bloody battles like those of WW2 at least had a positive outcome. D-day, Iwo-Jima, Monte-Cassino, all eventually led to unequivocal victory. Each presented an opportunity for national pride and manly courage to be heroically presented on film. But not 'The Great War'. Apart from 'All Quiet On The Western Front', it has been left well alone. 'Blackadder Goes Forth' then is not only one of the most hilarious comedies written - better than 'Mash' if you consider the contrast between its scope and its brevity - but it is also a fitting tribute to all those poor souls who toiled and died and were lost. 'The team' handle their subject perfectly. Rowan Atkinson plays the knowledgeable and cynical middle-ranking officer. He is not a coward; he can see what's happening and just wants out. Tony Robinson, as Private Baldrick, embodies the millions of 'Tommies' who struggled in ignorance. Hugh Laurie plays the lieutenant with unquenchably boyish faith in his high-command. Stephen Fry - literally - is General Melchett, the remote, pompous, arrogant buffoon, touched with insanity. Tim McInnerny plays the role of a staff-officer, aware of, but indifferent too, the consequence of futile strategies. Until he is ultimately forced to confront them in the last episode: 'Goodbyeee'. Richard Curtis and Ben Elton's script is everything you could wish for. Their jokes touch upon all of the horrors to which soldiers eventually became innured: cold, wet, shortages, rats and death. And it is that last episode which raises the series beyond the level of simple comedy. In a brief twist at the end, we see 'the team' go over the top to face their own belated death. In slow-motion, their figures become engulfed by a hail of enemy ordnance as the theme plays haltingly on a single ill-tuned piano. Moments later, the scene segues into the poppy-reddened fields of their epitaph. I have the series on DVD and it reminds me as much as my photographs of the many hours spent wandering along the Western Front. Its characters seem to speak for the millions who can't.
I am in complete agreement with most of the reviews posted and do not want to add anything else but to cast my vote for the final scene in "Goodbyee" as being the finest in television drama or comedy. I say comedy or drama because the scene seamlessly combines the two so that you are almost incapable of knowing exactly how to respond. The scene is prefaced by the scene in which the chillingly true nature of General Melchett is revealed. Melchett orders his obsequious clerk, Darling, to the front for the suicidal big push the next morning. Melchett is revealed as being a deadly dangerous buffoon. Read Sigfried Sassoon's poem "The General" for a similar depiction of an old duffer whose incompetent planning "does for" his men who are ironically aware but strangely accepting of his eccentrically bumbling nature. This scene reveals Melchett as being something far more sinister than is evident in the preceding episodes. The shadow of the driver falling over Darling who is on his knees begging Melchett not to send him is as chilling as anything I have seen. As the reality of going over the top dawns on the mindlessly jingoistic George and then even on the endearingly gormless Baldrick, the true horror of war is evoked. The hopes and dreams of ordinary young men are about to be brutally dashed. The final stroke of genius is to have Darling, a man for whom we and Blackadder have had contempt, poignantly confide the plans he had for his future after surviving the war. "Marry Dorris ...keep wicket for the gentleman's eleven." Do you laugh or cry at this? I think most of us feel at a loss to know how to respond just as Wilfred Owen in his poem "Futility" as he witnesses his men's futile attempt to revive a dying comrade by putting him out to lie in the sun. The final freeze frame and dissolve into the poppy fields of Flanders has been well documented. What more can anyone say about mankind's greatest folly - war.


                
Stunning, I must say. I can't quite give it that 10, but it's brilliant. Best of the four by far. Lots of Blackadder humour, nice and British. Great to see what I consider the entire series main cast all the main cast in this series. My favourites have all had such big roles, and I don't have to get to know any actors playing a character either. We have Rowan Atkinson as Edmund Blackadder and Tony Robinson as Baldrick, the two entire series protagonists, Stephen Fry as Melchett, Hugh Laurie as George and Tim McInnerny as Kevin Darling. I loved the ending to this series also, as it is sad and not the usual humorous ending.I must say, Blackadder as a whole wasn't what I expected. It was certainly much better. Throughout series one I believed that I'd give up because I found it too boring. It was funny, but not anything I'd stick to over time. Series two, however, was much better with a new, genius Blackadder and new, brilliant humour. Series three maintained this and I think I may have just preferred it to series two. This series tops the other by far, though. Everything about it shone. No wonder it is known as one of Britain's greatest TV achievements. I was not expecting a sad ending.I still have Back & Forth to review, but I thought that this is the end of the main series; and what an end it was.


                
BAFTA winning Rowan Atkinson returns as the nasty and very cunning Edmund Blackadder, this is the last series in the popular sitcom. But don't worry, there's Back and Forth! This time we are in the trenches of World War 1 with Captain Blackadder, Leiutenant George (Hugh Laurie) and Private Baldrick (Tony Robinson). Blackadder is always trying to get out of the war in any way possible with the (useless) help of his thick friends. General Melchett (Stephen Fry) and Captain Kevin Darling (Tim McInnerny) are making sure he stays there for the big push. The series concludes with the teary 'big push', it was number 13 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers. Throughout the series there are some stars to look out for including: Rik Mayall as Lord Flasheart (who appeared in series 2, Adrian Edmondson as Baron Von Richtoven, Gabrielle Glaister as Driver Bob Parker (Bob also appeared in series 2, Miranda Richardson as Nurse Mary (appeared in series 2 and 3) and Geoffrey Palmer in a special appearance as Field Marshal Haig (in the last episode). It won the BAFTA for Best Comedy Series. Rowan Atkinson was number 18 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, he was number 24 on The Comedians' Comedian, and he was number 8 on Britain's Favourite Comedian, Edmund Blackadder was number 3 on The 100 Greatest TV Characters, and he was number 3 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters, and Blackadder (all four series) was number 2 on Britain's Best Sitcom, and this series was number 16 on The 100 Greatest TV Programmes. Outstanding!
Put simply, this is the best series of the best comedy show ever. The constraints encountered by the writers/producers around cost following season 1 only served to make the show more tightly scripted and funny.You can be picky and say there are one or two clunky lines of dialogue across the entire four seasons. You can complain that the show came out before HD 1080p. But these are minor things.There are a few shows/movies that I have seen so many times that I can stick them on and just *listen* to them and get almost the same level of enjoyment. This is one such show. The cast are great, the jokes are great, the plots are great. Very little to dislike here really. Season Four has an over-arching anti-war subtext which seems to give it more depth and poignancy than other seasons (which are also excellent by the way).This the standard to which I think all other UK comedies, specifically sit-coms, should be judged in my opinion.


                
It's just the best comedy ever written.This will be studied 100 years from now.Just like the source material. Amazing show.


                
You've got to have no sense of humour not to laugh here, this show is a classic.Hilarious show, loaded with none stop razor sharp wit and great lines. The characters compliment each other superbly and are very well portrayed.This show keeps the comedy flowing, yet maintains the very real horror and despair that was World War One. The finale is utterly tear jerking.Watch it, this is comedy at its finest.
Of all the Blackadder series this was in my opinion the best.I just watched that famous final episode, repeated to mark 100 years since the end of the First World War. Even though I've watched it loads of times, it really moved me with its fantastic comedy that brought tears of laughter to my eyes and in the last few minutes, intense drama that equally brought tears of sadness to my eyes.There was one lesser mentioned poignant moment though, where Darling (the joke never palls!) is told by the idiot General Melchett that he won't miss out on The Great Push after all. It's an incredible performance by Tim McInnerny, because you can literally feel the terror building inside of him. And then there's the fabulous production/direction when his driver arrives and the icy cold light with the long shadow of his driver falls across him like the shadow of death.Blackadder Goes Forth is probably the best comedy drama ever produced and it is a testament to the sheer genius of all the team, but in particular to the writers, Ben Elton and Richard Curtis. Why can't the BBC wake up and produce great stuff like this again!?


                
Still hilariously funny, but also the darkest of the Blackadders.After the first three seasons saw Black Adder in the courts of Richard III, Elizabeth I and Mad King George (though with varying levels of station), the fourth season finds us in World War 1. Black Adder is a Captain in the British Army in the trenches on the Western Front. With him we have Tony Robinson as Private Baldrick, Hugh Laurie as Lieutenant George, Stephen Fry as General Melchett and Tim McInnerny as Captain Darling.This season follows the same successful formula used in Black Adder II and III: intelligent plot and dialogue, clever use of actual historic events and characters, incredibly funny skits and situations. However, this time there is a darker edge to the proceedings. The fact that they are in the trenches on the Western Front adds the threats of danger and death. While most of the dialogue is funny and light-hearted, there is a hint of sombreness about some of it. The final scene of the season, and of the entire show, is incredibly emotional and brings home the dark hints we had before.I regard Black Adder III as the best of the four series, as it is the cleverest and funniest of the four, but BA4 is the most multi- faceted, for the reasons mentioned above.


                
With most televisions series the quality often declines and the British tradition is to end a series after 2 or 3 seasons. Not so with Blackadder Goes Forth, the best of the Blackadder television comedy.Set during the First World War in 1917, this version of Edmund Blackadder (Rowan Atkinson) is now a Captain of the British Army on the Western Front. He is joined with his trusty moron sidekicks Lieutenant George (Hugh Laurie) and Private Baldrick (Tony Robinson). In the Army headquarters are the idiotic General Melchett (Stephen Fry) and scheming Captain Darling (Tim McInnerny). Throughout the series Blackadder tries his best to avoid being sent over the top, he made it that far. This series looks at many aspects of the war, the growth of popular and army culture, the growth of the air force, the lost of Russia, the use of court-martials, etc...The First World War is an usual subject for comedy, especially because of the massive lost of life and the first time many countries suffers the affects of total war. What the writers Richard Curtis and Ben Elton do is turn the series in a dark comedy, a satire of the affect of the war the lost of live and the leadership of the British army; similar to Stanley Kubrick's masterpiece Dr. Strangelove. Both writers are famous for left-wing, anti-war opinions. The show also tries the mick of the British upper class attitude. The series doesn't dishonest the memory of the soldiers who sufficed their lives for their nation. But the series does poke fun at some historical events and people, like war poetry, the Christmas Truce, the Red Baron and Field Marshall Douglas Haig. The writing is top notch and extremely funny.The actors were on the top of their game. Blackadder and Baldrick are the best characters Atkinson and Robinson had played and are an amazing double act. Blackadder is fantastic as a schemer, whilst Baldrick is excellent as the fool. Hugh Laurie is also a very good comedic actor and his is delightfully naive as George who just sees the war as an adventure. Stephen Fry is also a talented comedian, and is great at satirising the leadership of the British army. Tim McInnerny is excellent as the protagonist of the series. There are great guest stars in the series, such as Rik Mayal, Adrian Edmundson and Miranda Richardson.Blackadder Goes Forth is a classic series with a number of great episodes. The last episode is a much see. This series is essential viewing.
I really enjoyed Blackadder. I thought it was funny, interesting and at the same time meaningful - about soldiers being sent to their deaths by incompetent fools, which was commonplace in those days. The episode plots also had their relevance in war, and there were also some good settings, even though there were certain anachronisms. I would say that Blackadder Goes Forth is the best out of all four Blackadder series, and I think it deserves its rating of 9.0/10 on average. A very enjoyable view indeed. Blackadder should be seen by everyone, as it is a comedy of many colours. There are certain characters that I don't like (e.g Captain Darling), but I especially like stupid Baldrick and Blackadder himself. This is the best war/comedy ever made by far. Better than Dad's Army. *****/*****


                
Blackadder series 1 was ok, 2 was very good, 3 was pretty good, but this, series 4 is an absolute masterpiece.It is so side splittingly funny, even 10 years & countless repeats later, that you hurt laughing while watching it.The hilarious gags are just constant & the characters sensational. The final episode (6) should be shown once a month as it is the greatest half hour of television ever.This series is TV at it's best, it's humour at it's best, it's just everything at it's best.It's an absolute privillege to have watched 3 hours of comedy, excitement, sadness & a quite brilliant portrayal of WW1, that is Blackadder series 4.If you've never seen it, make the effort. You lucky sods! You'll never see anything better. Alongside Fawlty Towers, the greatest piece of TV ever.


                
This is the best UK series according to me even above fawlty towers and Monty python. The 1st season was not so so good but when they reversed the baldric-blackadder personalities in the 2nd season they hit comedy gold. The 4th is of course the best with its last scene (the only scene i've cried for in any series i've watched). Absolute comedy gold with some awesome appearances by Stephen fry and Hugh Laurie in their good comedy years (before Hugh lost his head and started doing 'House'). The extra episodes are also very funny. This is Rowan Atkinson's best role ever way ahead of bean and thin blue line( I have not yet watched his not the 9 o'clock news yet).
And I say that as one of its greatest fans.It would've been almost impossible to improve on what came before ... and how do you top that final scene? Shot in 45 minutes (and one take), when the set was about to close forever; what they managed in the editing room ranks as one of the finest two minutes on television, and a fitting way to remember a great series.For other aficionados, there are the one-hour specials they did later (especially "Blackadder's Christmas Carol", which hardly misses a beat), but by the time of "Blackadder - Back and Forth" it was running out of steam, even for me.As a whole, I'd say the series ranks just a smidge behind number 2 for consistency - but only just - and "Goodbyeee" is arguably the best episode of the entire 4 seasons. Having two writers who are both students of history helps a lot, and it's clear they wanted to have lots of fun with the madness of war, without ever denigrating the bravery of the soldiers who fought it.Intelligent, insane, poignant and, above all, nose-clearingly funny - What more can you say? 10/10. Next please.


                
There are few shows that keep me coming back for more, or that I would pine for to see a new version of, but Blackadder is one of those shows. You need only look at the great writing and great acting to see a show that will forever stand the test of time.Blackadder goes Forth is pure genius, tinged with sadness- on this occasion Blackadder is yet again obnoxious, ruthless and selfish, but in the aim of doing something we can understand- escaping the trenches of WWI. Desperation underpins everything he does. The real 'bad guy' is General Melchiot, with his hare-brained schemes, which, as Blackadder puts it, feels like 'pushing Field Marshall Hague's drinks cabinet another few inches closer to Berlin'.Such lines as 'I'm as British as Queen Victoria' 'So you're father's German, you're brothers are German and you're cousins are German?' are rattled off with accomplished acting skill and timing. Like I said, this show is pure genius.The ending just serves to highlight the tragic nature of WWI, and the futility faced by all in the trenches. It's a touching moment, that makes you stop and think.
I think out of all the Black Adder series, all of which are comedy gold, this is my personal favourite. It is still hilarious with even more scathing wit than before, but there is always room for a stirring and poignant finale, which was exactly what this series had. The first world war detail is wonderful to look at, and the sound effects are also well done. The opening credits once again are an absolute delight, and the writing is cynical, crude yet it is also hilarious with a touch of sophistication as well, especially seen in the classic coffee scene, the court-martial episode and the one with "Georgina". The acting also helps really drive this series, Rowan Atkinson's cynical and intelligent Black Adder, whose insults here are priceless, could well be the pinnacle of Atkinson's comedy career. Don't get me wrong, I love him as Mr Bean too, but Black Adder is my personal favourite of the two, mainly because of his insults which are as frequent as Baldrick's dandruff. Speaking of Baldrick, he still has the stupid yet sweet persona we have come to love him by and Tony Robinson is perfect. I especially liked Baldrick's poem in one episode, Boom, Boom, Boom repeated over and over but louder each time, yet in the final episode Baldrick becomes the voice of reason and it was this that made the finale as poignant as it was. Hugh Laurie is stellar as naive George, Stephen Fry is great as the robust Melchett and Tim McInnery is somewhat adorable as Darling. Overall, when the series finished the first thing that came into my head was whoever thought the first world war could be so funny? Well, there you have it, Black Adder style, and superbly might I add? 10/10 Bethany Cox


                
Oh yeah, cool(and terribly British) comedy. Basically jokes everywhere of how badly the war was going in 1917.Involving the cunning Captain Edmund Blackadder. The not so cunning Private Baldrick. The silly Leutenant(that's pronounced Leftenant in Briatin, don't ask me why)Geroge. Their commanding officer:General Sir Anthony Cecil Hogmany Melchett(what a mouthful). And his second in command:Captain Kevin Darling.Captain Blackadder is simply trying has best to get out of this silly war with the Germans. But the idiot, General Melchett, keeps him there. Captain Darling's name is a great centre for comedy as the characters constantly address him is 'darling'(damn i've given it away) Overall, my favourite comedy. What more can I say.


                
