BlackadderCurtis and Atkinson's passionate project of upsetting your expectation on both literature and history, is one of the rare art that inspires us even after decades. The writing still holds for both its maturity and pettiness, never has been before, a sketchy act so witty and truthful to its theme. It starts from the scratch on the infamous royal history of Britain and ends on a dramatic World War note, where both the humor and drama is given sincere respect on writing and performance. Despite of depicting various different stages of history with new characters, the themes often dwells on the chemistry of a master and a squire.And with equations shuffling like cards, where either there is envy, honesty and vacuous-ness between their relationship, the close calls that is the ignition of the chaotic humor is something that stays with us throughout the series. It often tilts towards satirical where politics, democracy, monarchy and even humanity is put to trial and being laughed at. Atkinson, as the soul and the title of the series, challenges himself on all sorts of personas, from gullible to being cunning as a fox, his necessity on greed and humility is the fabrication of the history itself.Robinson is the apt supporter of his, on every literal sense where every now and then brilliant actors like Laurie and Fry invests their talent in, to raise the bar. The world built by Curtis and Atkinson is a mirror to our own only with a slight change of post or title or references, the emotions and circumstances it goes through, still can easily be seen around us and it is that nakedness of the game that we are curious to dazzle with. Blackadder is much more than a mere series or a period sitcom, it has memories of ours and theirs childhood that makes it long last.


                
The final series of Blackadder was undoubtedly the best. Set during WWI the storyline was fantastic and the acting brilliant.Here Tim McInnerny returns to Blackadder, however where every other actor retained thier character's name from one series to the next, McInnerny's character changed from 'Percy Percy' to 'Keven Darling'.
McInnerny's character also behaved differently to his characters in the other series' but this was a big improvement.Tim McInnerny serves as the office secretary to the General, Lord Melchett. Blackadder meanwhile was a Captain in the trenches alongside Lieutenant George and Private Baldrick.The final episode saw Blackadder, George and Baldrick joined by Kevin Darling, as they went 'over the top' into no mans land in an inspirational and emotional ending.
The final series, this time focusing on WWI. Part of what makes this one work so well is that they point out the negatives of war, especially the more traditional battles, so marvelously; the officers are devoid of a sense of reality beyond their comfy chair and desk, the assignments all contain the unwelcome promise of certain and meaningless death, boredom is rampant during a lot of the waiting, and the front runs out of supplies and the substitutions... you don't want to know(not sure why they felt the need to go into such detail about it, much less have so many of that type of jokes, but I digress). Melchett returns, as a stark raving mad superior, adopting the obnoxious, loud behavior of Laurie, and the two, individually or, better yet, together, lead to many an eye-rolling, funny and memorable moment. McInnerny is back, and going by his wish to avoid being typecast as the innocent, and remarkably stupid, Percy, he instead is cast as a slimy rival to Edmund, with the unbelievably(though based on an actual poor bugger) unfortunate surname of "Darling", creating an utterly hilarious running gag. This has a fantastic main group. The verbal, clever, British material is still going strong, immensely so, and this holds numerous of the greatest lines of the franchise. Satire is also magnificent in this, and it comments on more or less every aspect one could think of, relating to the period and situation. The plots are interesting, well-written(as really everything in this) well-thought out, and rather surprising. Acting is all great, and the guests are impeccable, including the always spot-on Richardson. Blackadder himself isn't downright depressing as he was in the third, which is not to say that the bite and snark that we do love so are gone, not by a long shot. Every episode is excellent, and the ending of the final one is beautiful. The comedic timing is flawless. There is silly stuff, in-between the wit. Almost all of it garners deserved laughs. I recommend this warmly to any fan of these shows, Atkinson and this type of humor. 8/10


                
Black Adder has got an interesting run. The first season was utter crap, then the quality of the show increased in between 1 & 2 and since the second, Black Adder has been the ultimate lovable bastard.Okay, first off, love or hate it, you have to admire the fact that Curtis and Elton pulled this off. Back then veterans of WWI were still alive and to make a show joking about it must have been a consistent "dash through the mine field"...I swear that wasn't on purpose!This show has a style that is a little different to the others. The others its "Black Adder says something rude to Melchett, we all laugh" whereas the core of the jokes here are as BLACK as can be. Take this scenario, talking about the big push of 1917, would anyone see that as being funny? These guys manage to pull it off. The most famous of which is:"I want you to know that Captain Darling and I are behind you""About thirty-five miles behind you"The last episode "Goodbyee" is surprisingly suitable for any holiday involving WWI or WWII. I watch "Goodbyee" every ANZAC day and Remembrance Day, however I think that that in particular episode was "Okay, we have to do something to also show the horrors for those who were alive back then." The acting is great. I love the fact that they brought back most of the old actors. Tim McInnery, Miranda Richardson, Rik Mayall etc.Overall this isn't quite the same old Black Adder but it is still a good show.


                
Black Adder 1 Is A Show That Most Fans Of The Show Would Rather Forget And In My Opinion I Can See Why. Black Adder 2 Is A Great Kick Off Into The Black Adder That Became So Popular And I Like It. Black Adder 3 Is My Personal Favourite. Black Adder 4 Is Somewhat Different From All 3 Of The Other Seasons.CAPTAIN COOK 5/10. I Didn't Particularly Like This First Entry To The Black Adder's Final Season But It Does A Good Job Of Introducing The Characters And Amplifying That Baldrick Has Just Got Dumber And Dumber Throughout The Ages. Besides That There's Not Much To Say About This Episode Unfortunately.CORPORAL PUNISHMENT 8/10. I Like This Episode, My Favourite Part Is When Black Affer Finds Out That General Melchett Is The Judge At His Trial, He Just Knows That The Combination Of Melchett On The Judge's Chair And George As His Defense Lawyer He Just Says Aloud "I'm Dead" Its A Really Funny Moment.MAJOR STAR 10/10. This Episode Is A Really Disturbed Episode, Especially When Melchett Declairs His Love For Georgina(AKA Hugh Laurie In Drag), The Funniest Part Is When He Reveals To Black Adder That Melchett's Nickname For Him Is "Chimpmunk", Thats Just Pulled Of Hysterically.PRIVATE PLANE 1/10. I Remember Seeing This Episode Once And I Was Not Impressed, Flashheart Was A Tempoary Character Only In The Episode "Bells" Of Black Adder 2 And The Fact That Bob And Flashheart Are By No Means Related This Episode Screws Up The Black Adder Anthology Because Bob Fell In Love With Flashheart, The Episode Is Also Really Boring On All Other Accounts That Its Nearly As Bad As "The Archbishop" From Season 1.GENERAL HOSPITAL 9/10. This Was An Episode That Gave Me A Lot Of Laughs Compared To The Others. I Like The "Oh Sh#it" Moment When Black Adder Finds Out He Sent A Woman He Loves To Be Executed And The Spy Is His Lieutennant George. The Best Part Is When He Glorifies Himself To Nurse Mary.GOODBYEEE 6/10. This Is An Episode That Showed The Horrors Of War To The Black Adder Fans Who May Have Had Relatives That Served In WWI. In My Opinion This Is A Good Way To Spread The Message That War Is Sh#it But I Prefer "The Winter War", Onto The Episode I Can Understand Why This Is Highly Rated But In My Opinion Its Overrated.OVERALL: This Last Season Of Black Adder Was Hard To Get Through For Me Because I Didn't Want To End It But As Poets Of The Fall Say "If There's No End There Can Be No Beginning" Which Made Me Realize I Had To Watch This, Then I Discovered The Other Specials Like "Black Adder A Christmas Carol" & "Black Adder Back And Forth" Which Were Good 1/2 Hours Of TV.


                
I liked this episode, not primarily because of the jokes (although they were very successful in some places), but precisely because it really shows the position of troops on the Western Front of WWI. No wonder he is assigned to the genre of "history" here, really, everything just the way it really is. Honestly, when I watch the show, I have a feeling that I read the story of the events of the First World on the Western Front. All shown exactly as it was for the British, who can not will move forward seriously, happy every meter of land seized, brochures propaganda page which they use in carrying out their natural needs, unbridled moral position among the soldiers of Great Britain ... In general, all so realistic and believable that joke just give a special interest in watching.All the main characters of their natural behavior of soldiers on the Western Front and some "army" humor attracts the eye. Each episode is filled with jokes and a certain degree of presence is sometimes enough not believable stories, designed to bring a smile to the viewer.In the end I want to say that actors are chosen very well fit into their roles and were able to convey the true atmosphere of the events of the First World on the Western Front.


                
