Dragon Ball... what can i say about this great show...? Is there really someone in the world who hasn't seen or heard about dragon ball..? This show is about the humorous adventures of a boy named Goku, who goes on a journey with a young girl named Bulma in the look for the 7 Dragon Balls.This show is simply a classic.! It's very creative, it has lots of action and great characters, and the animation is great for the time it was made. The show starts as kind of a comedy with martial arts but as the adventure goes on it turns into a more serious thing. During Goku's journey he meets with all kinds of characters, and i really mean it ALL KINDS. Dragon Ball is that kind of show where everything can just happen.!Dragon Ball also has a great martial arts concept, the characters strength grow up as they train and fight, and they get all kind of techniques and abilities that make them even stronger.The adventure goes from the race after the dragon balls against a little blue guy, to some fantastic martial arts tournaments, and it has also some legendary villains, it simply has everything.! If you haven't seen this great show -if that's even possible- don't waste time.! download it, watch it on toonami, buy it, do as you can but watch it.! you won't be disappointed this show is really a classic.!
I have to say that Dragonball is by far my Favorite series of all time. Its the show that got me into anime and I cant wait to buy all the seasons remastered when they come out.The Dragonball story is goofy, fun, and all around brilliant! It throws great humor with huge action and you cant beat it. I started Dragonball by reading the manga when I was younger and still love them and the show is just as good if not better! Sure, some stuff form the manga has been taken out of the show but thats because some of that is more mature(nudity) then would be for the audience.All in all, Dragonball is one show you need to see in it entirety to feel its greatness. I recommend it to everyone because its that good and every age can enjoy it. From the silly monkey boy to the perverted Turtle Hermit, its all out fun.10-10


                
There are no fights with people staring at each other for an entire episode, & 10 minutes turns into half of a saga as in the last half of the Frieza series. nor are there any ridiculous power levels.. No huge inaccuracies in the plot-lines, & lame filler that has you scratching your head.Since when was Mercenary Tao a General? Since when did Dr. Gero lead the red ribbon army? He didn't.. It was Commander Red. Goku never met Dr.Gero, because he never existed.I think the whole power level thing is great for video games, but makes for a "yaaawn" of a series.Dragonball is actually believable, but fantastical all at once. You are never sitting & waiting & waiting for what you know is going to happen, because you simply don't know.Always new characters, adventures, & twists in the stories that actually make for a fun series. Awesome humor, & magical places. Tests of strength & purity of character, & friendships built on realistic type events.You see how Goku wins over the most evil of hearts & minds, From Yamacha, to Tien to Piccolo. All the characters are involved & help to solve the crisis at hand.Do yourself a big favor if you're a fan of Goku & the crew, & make sure you watch this series from the very beginning. Don't just pick it up in the middle from seeing one episode & say yuck!!!I did exactly that. Then when i saw how god-awful GT was, I decided to start here instead. Was well worth it. It really is so much better than Z hands down..


                
I just finished watching this series, and I have to say this is one of the best shows on television.Dragon Ball is considered a prequel of the more famous Dragon Ball Z, but I have to say that after watching it, Dragon Ball stands as a legitimate show on its own. It is a much better counterpart to DBZ than GT is. It may seem a bit childish at the beginning, but the show matures as the characters do as well. The show is funny too.Compared with Z, Dragon Ball is more about the basics of fighting while Z harnesses advanced techniques. Overall I would say the fighting in Dragon Ball is actually better than Z while the plot in Z is better than Dragon Ball (though this is not to say that either are bad in anyway)I highly recommend watching it and see the excitement of Goku's journey.Take a look!


                
Well I just have to say this is at least one of the best anime I've ever seen. I still like DBZ and DBGT but not as near as much as Dragon Ball. First of all all, the characters in this series are not godlike, like in DBZ and DBGT. It's not quite as readiculus as the others. The characters actually have real problems besides just fighting another guy from outer space. They try to actually find the dragonballs. They show the Tournaments a lot more often. It was more magical and involved spirits, and now they mostly feature science fiction instead. Dragon Ball doesn't have a billion transformations like the others. They even fought armies of brutal fighters as well instead of just fighting a few guys. And last but not least, every character is useful. Even Yajerobe and Tien! All of the characters power levels are more closer to each other, but now one of them is way farther than the other, making the other character almost useless.For example, Goku far surpasses the other fighters with ease because of his Super Saiyan Transformations making other weaker fighters like Tien and Yamcha almost useless. It makes you think" Hey if they don't fight, why are they even there? It's almost pointless. And even though Dragon Ball doesn't quite have as much action as DBZ or DBGT, it still surpassess it with it's realistic problems, the other fighters being useful and even humor! It also doesn't quite have as much violence or cussing, but it sures have a lot more nudity, and more girl nudity, too, intead of just seeing Goku and Gohan's butt. I hope more people check out this anime and not be a jerk, by seeing a few episodes and immediately assumming it's not good. I don't see how this could be hated by a couple of others. I really don't. Guess they don't have a sense of humor.
First off, I'm surprised there aren't many reviews or messages for DragonBall. This is the first review in 2 years. Now, to talk about the DragonBall franchise, clearly it has been a successful franchise worldwide. However, when we think about the franchise, most of us think about DragonBall Z. I even prefer DragonBall Z over DragonBall, and both of them are a lot better than DragonBall GT. Let's face it, Toriyama is the only one who can write the DragonBall series, they can have filler like they do throughout the series with even good sagas like the Garlic Jr. Saga, but if somebody else tries to come up with their own stories, it will fail.As we know, DragonBall Z came out in America before DragonBall even though DragonBall is the earlier series, and again it seems like Z is more popular. From what I heard, the reason the companies started with Z in America before DragonBall is because they thought DragonBall Z would attract more viewers, which it probably did. Even in DragonBall Z, sometimes they show earlier scenes from DragonBall, and talked about what happened earlier, enough where you don't need to watch the earlier series to get the latter series. DragonBall didn't come on TV in America, on Toonami until 2001. The company also didn't do as good of a job editing the episodes, I mean in Z they have totally different music from Bruce Faulconer. In this series, the main difference is just the dub.Now, when we think of the DragonBall series, one of the first things that comes to our mind is a Super Saiyan. Super Saiyans are big from the Frieza Saga on. In DragonBall, there are no Super Saiyans. We see Goku with his tail and transform into a Great Ape a couple of times. The Saiyan tails and Great Apes almost seemed forgotten in DragonBall Z after the Saiyan Saga. Also, considering we don't know what a Saiyan is yet we also don't get to know one of the main characters through the rest of the series, Vegeta. He isn't in DragonBall. Despite not getting to know one of our favorite characters Vegeta, or even any other Saiyan or Half-Saiyan, as Half-Saiyans weren't born in DragonBall, we get to know Goku as a kid. We also get to know most of the human characters we know in DragonBall Z, and they play a bigger role in the series. As we know, that how in a lot of DragonBall Z, only the Saiyans stood a chance against the villains. What else differs in this series, well the series is called DragonBall, and the latter series is DragonBall Z. When we think of the series, we mostly think about the action even when it is called DragonBall. In this earlier series, they seem to show more of their hunting for DragonBalls, which can make it more adventurous. So, that makes it more fun. They also seem to have more World Martial Arts Tournaments, as those weren't big in DragonBall Z until the Majin Buu Saga. We have interesting World Martial Arts Matches where Master Roshi, who is almost of no use in DragonBall Z is Jackie Chun and one of the top competitors. We also don't get to know Mr. Satan who was the main World Martial Arts Competitor in Z.The fighting in this series is also more simple, because in DragonBall Z even when their power levels kept getting higher, the fighting mostly seemed the same where it would be really fast that normal people couldn't see. Where the fighting and power would shake the entire planet. Characters powering up screaming to their fullest power by going Super Saiyan and killing them with an energy attack known as Ki. Power Level is hardly mentioned in DragonBall. Also, in DragonBall it seems like the villains want World Domination, in Z they want universal domination, so in terms of fighting a more simple series. If you're at all a fan of DragonBall Z, then this series is for you. It will be almost as enjoyable, if not more enjoyable than DragonBall Z. I don't know see how you could not like it, and it's nice to see the continuous storyline and the earlier parts when Goku and Krillin were cute kids. I give this series a 10/10.


                
I remember, coming home from school when i was about 10 or 11 years old, and sitting in front of the TV and laugh. Goku, Bulma and much much more incredible and funny characters, entertained me for 2 years, then it was canceled. But i remembered them and now even after 10 years, i still love the show. The story, the fights, and of course the sex. I only wish that people would see that, kids wont go out and start killing people, if the show wasn't censored, the Japanese version had soul it had heart, Americans ruined it. Dragon Ball Z was crap. I know that Goku is now older, married, has a kid, but the show sucked. The show has to return on TV uncensored. MY VOTE 10/10


                
A classic title excellent animation for the time made. In the series Goku the main character looks for the seven magical dragon ball's with Bulma and others. Whoever gathers the dragon ball's will be granted one wish by the dragon God dragon shenlong. Dragon Ball focuses on the adventures of Goku , a 10 year old boy who through out the series fights different evil enemy's for the good of others or the entire earth. From the very beginning Goku shows amazing super human strength and strange features like a monkey tail. later in the show we find out that the tail is not just some weird mutation and Goku progresses to get stronger and stronger to unbelievable ends. The amazing magical story of dragon ball is followed by further incredible developments in Dragon Ball Z. A really good anime one of the best, very funny and interesting from the beginning same as dragon ball z the anime is one if not the most famous world wide. Worth watching and a must if your into anime.
Dragon Ball franchise is probably the biggest anime franchise ever. The art style is unique compared to other anime. This is the first mainstream anime and many anime still copy some aspects from Dragon Ball. Most of the anime writers were inspired by Dragon Ball and Dragon Ball Z. Even though there are more Dragon Ball Z fans than Dragon Ball fans, I still think Dragon Ball is a better overall anime. I love Goku from this series way more than him in Z, and I do not know why. Unlike DBZ, the characters in this anime are not planet busters. The action style in this anime focuses more on Martial Arts and I love it. Krillin, Yamcha, and Tien have a huge role in Dragon Ball and all of these individuals are considered strong, but in Dragon Ball Z, they become kind of useless. By the end of Z, Krillin, Yamcha, and Tien are not even close to how powerful Goku is. My favorite Dragon Ball character is Krillin, but my favorite Dragon Ball Z character is Vegeta. Even though I think Dragon Ball is better, Dragon Ball Z has better character improvements. Example: Vegeta use to be a really cruel and dark Prince of Planet Vegeta, who did not even care about killing his partners (NAPPA). He ends up becoming a good hearted, but really prideful father. Piccolo is a great example of character development too. He is the son of a Demon Namekian, King Piccolo. But, he ends up teaming with the Z Fighters to kill the evil or 'bad' guys. I would rate Dragon Ball Z 9.3/10 because it could have better. They take great steps till the end of the saga, where the person you always want to become the hero, never ends up killing the villain. My favorite Saga is the "Cell" Saga, because we get to see a different hero a.k.a Gohan. If you don't like this review is because, I'm just a 13 year old Dragon Ball fan, who when got into watching this anime, didn't know that this was an anime. Thanks for reading my review and also Dragon Ball Super is 5.5 out of 10 for me.
It isn't just filled with sex jokes or Dragon Ball hunts. Only idiots will think of that without watching the rest of the series. It has comedy, drama and action all rolled into one. And it pulls it off effectively. At first there weren't that many villains. They had Emperor Pilaf, but he wasn't nearly as threatening as the others that would come. Goku really had to test himself against the Red Ribbon Army. Then he REALLY had to test himself by fighting the all powerful King Piccolo. Mostly they had to go through tournaments, which don't appear very often in DBZ. This is basically a much tamer version of DBZ.In some ways it is better than DBZ. While not having as much action, it's much funnier. They are also not insanely powerful as they are on DBZ, and everyone is useful in this series. Even Chouzu and Yajirobe. That's because everyone's power level was kind of similar. In DBZ, some characters are WAY stronger than some other characters, and that makes the other character almost useless. Still it was enjoyable, like this series. It doesn't waste too much time with transformations or power ups, so if you don't like that kind of thing, go ahead and watch this series.
Dragon Ball is the beginning of the long running series that has become insanely popular in America. In the beginning it's a campy, funny adventure with Goku, a happy boy that's has amazing power for not only a child his age, but for most normal people. Of course no one's normal in this show. He first meets Bulma, a pretty blue haired teenager. Bulma explains to Goku (And us) about the legendary Dragon Balls which have the power to grant you one wish. Any wish you desire. The story takes off from there. As the story progresses though, the story losses it's campy feel and turns into a rather dark telling of Goku's travels. Towards the end he's friends actually die which is sort of strange because when I first started watching it I thought it was kids show. It was for awhile. But the show obviously is preparing you for the next series Dragon Ball Z, a much darker telling of Goku's travels. But Dragon Ball is great show and has a hero that pretty simple. Goku is pure of heart and will always be, no matter what.
Just about everybody seemed to love Dragon Ball Z as a kid, but I never saw the appeal. From what I could tell, the show consisted of nothing more than people yelling and then fighting so fast it barely looks like they moved. Plus, I never understood why Krillin had six dots on his head but no nose. As the years went by, I heard a few times that I should watch Dragon Ball, since it's like DBZ but it takes place before and the characters weren't super-powered yet. So one day this summer I randomly decided to watch Dragon Ball from the beginning and see how it actually is.Turns out the characters still are somewhat super-powered, but this is still a very enjoyable, albeit flawed anime series. The story begins with a child named Goku searching for fish, while a blue-haired girl named Bulma finds him on her search for the Dragon Balls, which if you bring all 7 together, will grant you any wish. Goku is also seen to be extraordinarily strong, lifting Bulma's car on the first episode. With a premise as simple as this, there's a lot of room for different styles of episodes, and the series seems to take advantage of this. Some story arcs in the series will revolve around gathering the Dragon Balls, some revolve around martial arts tournaments, and some just revolve around fighting a variety of villains.The series starts off as more of a light-hearted action/adventure style show with lots of comedy elements, but eventually evolves into more of a serious, action-based series, and even more so in the sequel series, Dragon Ball Z, which is almost purely about the action. However, Dragon Ball is mostly Goku traveling to different locations, searching for the Dragon Balls, meeting a variety of characters along the way that either aid or hinder his journeys. There are a few martial arts tournaments along the way that provide a nice change of pace.This leads me to one of the main complaints about the series, the pacing. the Red Ribbon Army saga lasts way too long, and often fights are dragged out over a number of episodes, with the longest battle scene lasting a total of 6 episodes. Unfortunately, this problem becomes much worse in Z, where one attack can last multiple episodes. There are also some instances of filler, although aside from the last few episodes (which feel completely pointless and tacked on), I felt they were a welcome addition, adding for some nice episodic side-adventures in-between some of the longer story arcs, which gives a bit of breathing room.All in all, this is a great series, with a few problems, though those problems aren't all that much of a problem in the grand scheme of things. This is one of the most entertaining shows i've ever seen. I watched through all 153 episodes and never got bored of the series (though I did get annoyed when a certain villain's part of the story dragged on for too long). This says a lot, considering how quickly I get bored of series from time to time. If you want a fun, adventurous series with a lot of humor and great action, this is a great choice.


                
The series of the Dragon Ball saga is amazing and inspirational. Never have I seen such a perfect tale of superhuman awesomeness. Above all else, this series has engineered quite an amazing character named Goku. This character is the epitome of what a true good person should be. Goku is a boy of ultimate strength and a pure heart, who proves through his battles that being pure is the strongest thing a person can do. He defeats all opponents, through many hardships, and the thing that drives him the most is that his will to help others and defeat evil is strong and rivals no other. What an inspirational character to me as a martial artist and as a human being. Akira Toriyama has not just thrown together a random amount of plot lines, however he has created a true work of art, portraying the utmost pure and ultimate display of heroism and unbeatable character that is Goku. The series displays a message to all others that as long as you are true to yourself and others, without any negative thoughts, that you will triumph over all obstacles. The series has changed my personality unlike any other, as I consider Goku, the character created by Akira, to be the most inspirational and most incredible character ever conceived. Goku is simple awesome, from his life as a child in dragon ball, to an adult in dragon ball z, when he becomes the ultimate savior of all of existence.


                
Now I am a big fan of the Dragon Ball series. Like most people in North America I saw Dragon Ball Z first, however Dragon Ball is actually a little better than Dragon Ball Z.This is a modern adaptation of Journey to the West. Now I like DBZ, but Dragon Ball have very fun stories that we barely saw in Dragon Ball. While DBZ was more action, Dragon Ball was more about the comedy. Like in DBZ you saw a lot of violent scenes, with Dragon Ball they were more perverted. Now this is a classic in anime history such as Astro Boy or Robotech. I love this series, it has fun stories and characters. Now the review I've posted may sound like I don't like DBZ, but I love DBZ. It's what got me into Dragon Ball. Overall this is an awesome series and it should be remastered like Dragon Ball Z Kai.


                
One of my favorite shows ever PERIOD! Nostalgia fills me up now, whenever I watch Dragonball now, it was a huge part of my childhood! The characters were so likable and relatable, Goku (AKA Greatest Animated character of all time) was like my best friend, watching him go through all these adventures, made me feel like I was there with him. Dragonball shouldn't be compared to DBZ, they're both amazing shows, but they're unique in their own individual ways, you simply can't compare them. What an amazing beginning to the Dragonball Saga, I've always said, a Show lives and dies by its characters, and Dragonball has simply fantastic characters! When I have children, I will definitely show Dragonball and DBZ to them. Hoping that they'll have the same amazing experience, I had when watching this show!


                
