At first he was funny. Original as no one else did stuff like this and it's admirable for him to get to where he is thanks to youtube. But but now that he has begged what is left of his fans to kick start (donate money) to support his wet dream of making a crappy Hollywood movie independently he's lost anything I enjoyed about his videos in the past as when I started watching him top gun or something along those lines JUST came out so this is almost 10 years ago. I know it's extremely tedious to make a 2 hour movie but hire writers or submit what you're proud of. Quality over quantity. He's nothing but a pretentious parasite.To be fair after 100+ videos whatever he's up to he's practically running on fumes for bad games. It's to the point he has to talk about spooky books and all his horror movie garbage to get some youtube money in his wallet to stay from starving and moving back in with his parents.He's very talented at video editing like the NES accessories video was a personal favorite but the anger is put on and not legitimate. It's the same old choice of words "i mean i mean i mean"... conjugation of "crud" as I can't swear on here. Look at the background of this stage it looks like "crud".. heh .. the bricks in Mario look like crud too. COME ON WHY CANT THIS GAME BE LIKE SUPER MARIO 3!! and then he drinks water out of a beer bottle when he pretends to be angry. At least he's insightful not like iRate gamer and beat a few difficult games. Where as... you've got rooster teeth gamer Michael who legitimately gets angry and frustrated what he says is funnier and I'm sure there are other youtubers playing games but who has the time. The surgeon simulator one I actually burst out laughing watching the steam version.the only way for AVGN to stay relevant is if he FINALLY invest in some more N64 games and of course venture into the strong hold of sony PS1, PS2 and regular Xbox to Gamecube games so it's still somewhat nostalgic and he can make money. But if he doesn't I'm staying unsubscribed. The only reason I came across this looking for new shows to watch and he doesn't even deserve a 6 / 10. Re-runs of the simpsons are more entertaining.


                
