Well there's no real point in saying what has been said over and over again about the series but it can't simply be ignored either. I'll put it to you like this... I made mention of the show to a friend of mine who is overly critical about a lot of things in general. He told me he didn't like watching almost any web shows as he prefers his entertainment to have some sort of production value to it. That's fair I suppose, anyone can get in front of a camera these days and throw it online. Several weeks later he was over at my place and I threw it on for some background noise and my friend couldn't keep his eyes off my TV. I think that's a good example of how a lot of us felt during one of our first AVGN experiences. We couldn't stop and we haven't let AVGN stop since either. He is very entertaining as he is extremely creative. He has friends work with him on reviews who also do a great job in adding to the +1 stuff that gives you more than just a standard video game review and hey are 'recyled' well throughout the series. That being said, the reviews will often do well to provide a history and back story to not just the game that being reviewed but almost anything applicable to it as well. What I really appreciate about AVGN is that he plays well on his strengths and while turning his weakness into positives as well. He is quick to make running jokes about simple props and makes great use everything available to him. This obviously has a lot to do with his cinematic background and education. Overall he is very entertaining and any flaws can be easily overlooked or spoken to. He has turn what seemed to be a weekend project of reviewing a select few games he wanted to speak out about from his childhood into one of the most successful web shows today. So successful that a movie is well on its way to the public as I type. That says a lot right there. So whether its a game, console or concept review I can safely say that AVGN will always hold a special spot in my heart as one of my favourite shows ever.
Out of the Nostalgia Critic, Smosh, Annoying Orange, and more. This show kicks all of their butts. I liked how much visual art was added to each episode! Go James Rolfe you are the best and don't let anybody tell you otherwise. It's arguable whether it's still the best Youtube series nowadays but I still prefer it over Nostalgia Critic because Nostalgia Critic is basically one guy who copies some lines from movies and just adding it into a video. AVGN is about a guy who reviews games from his past in a fun and different way each time he shows how much they frustrated him in each episode. Sadly I couldn't say the same for this show now a days because he lacks his true anger. Most of the reviews he doesn't even seem like a character anymore. It's a solid 8.5 out of 10.


                
