I first discovered The Angry Video Game Nerd when my brother showed me an episode. I believe he was talking about the Sega CD. At first, I wasn't quite interested in watching it because I don't really play video games that much. But later on, I gave the show a chance, and I found that I really enjoyed it. The show is funny with the running gags and all, but it is also something we can all relate to. The idea of a foul-mouthed, angry gamer who has to drink beer when he plays games (because they are either really badly designed or frustratingly difficult) is really funny because people do get frustrated over video games, especially ones that are unplayable. Of course, that anger is more extreme in people who are very passionate about video games (like the Nerd) and take them seriously. However, although I do enjoy the comedy, I wish to talk about what I personally think is the best part of the show. For me, what really makes the show work is James Rolfe's ability to make the show enjoyable for non-gamers. James does a great job of reviewing the games in that when he plays the games, you feel his anger and frustration. He backs up his criticisms very well, whether the criticism is for the bad control scheme or the frustrating level design. Criticisms like these, when they're not done right, can come off as a gamer just complaining because he is actually incompetent. When this happens, the character/reviewer does not create an impact on you because you don't feel his emotions; instead, you just feel annoyed by the character/reviewer. Fortunately, James does not have this problem; his criticisms feel genuine and reasonable, which allow the viewers to feel the Nerd's emotions, making the character someone we can identify with. Also, James does a great job of setting up the context of the time period when the games (or consoles) came out. In this way, he allows those of us who didn't grow up in that time period (and non-gamers, like me) to understand and feel the disappointment and anger that people felt when the game designers failed to do do a good job on the game or when the console didn't live up to people's expectations. Setting up the context also allows the Angry Video Game Nerd to be a representation of how people felt at that time. It's almost like a person from that time period is communicating with us. For me, someone who can review video games and make the show enjoyable for even non-gamers like me is the sign of true talent. So, with all my praise, why not a perfect score of 10/10? Well, sometimes the jokes with feces can get a bit too much, and I never really liked the moments when the feces is actually shown. Those parts were always a little too gross for me. Also, there have been a few jokes that didn't quite work. I understand though that it is a comedy show, so not every bit of it is going to be perfect, especially considering that there are now over one hundred episodes. But overall, this is a great show. So James Rolfe, thank you for all the laughs and for educating me more about video games.
The nerd is one of the first reviewers that ever launched on YouTube and more well known with his foul mouth.


                
Jasper102011 here to review AVGN show My favourite web show ever staring James the nerd, the show is basically about him reviewing older games instead of newer ones.I like the swearing and the the humour is on a whole new level. The theme song is very catchy gives you a smile on your face.He's even making a movie! He shows his wasted childhood playing these shitty games and shows everyone the nightmares of these life-changing games.over-all, you have to check the nerd out, THE ANGRY VIDEO GAME NERD!


                
There's a ton of internet shows in this day in age cause anyone can make their own show if they have a web cam and have a good idea that will draw in an audience. This show was one of the earlier made for internet shows dating as far back as when Youtube was first established. I never heard of it until five years after it was released to the public. My earliest exposure was from watching another show called Nostalgia Critic and after his rants of this show also being about an angry reviewer I decided to give it a shot. And man I tell ya, after watching episode 1 I can't get enough of it.The show is about an obsess gamer who owns almost every single game known to man including every single game system from the popular ones to the more obscure ones. He's only known as "The Nerd" cause he wears glasses, has a pocket protector, and a white button shirt all the needed material to make him resemble a typical nerd. The earlier episodes he was known as the Angry Nintendo Nerd, but later on the title was changed to Video Game so that way he won't receive any possible lawsuit and to not limit himself to just Nintendo.The plot in each episode involves the Nerd reviewing games that are either hard, unusual, or just plain bad. To make playing the games more tolerable he would either make fun of the games or blurt out harsh profanity. This is one of the reasons I find this show amusing cause I can relate to the Nerd's situation cause even I have had my fair share of playing frustrating games. The earlier episodes are simple but also funny, the series picks up by the time he does his first Halloween related episodes which is when the series starts to resemble the way it does into the later episodes.The best episodes in my opinion are the ones where the Nerd reviews the very obscure game systems, the unlicensed games, and games you wouldn't think exist. There's also occasions when he has a certain guest star involved with his reviews. Sometimes its a friend of his other times it be other celebrities whether their famous from the internet or something else. After being exposed to this series I find myself quoting the Nerd almost every time I talk about video games.So in short, if you're a video game fan this series is a must see. Cause if you don't care much for video games, then I can't say you'll enjoy it cause 90% of the series talks about video games. You may of read some harsh comments about the show or the actor of play the Nerd. But all I can say is ignore them like I do cause this is an awesome show. Plus James Rolfe who plays the Nerd is really cool, after watching the other shows, shorts, & videos he's done on his official website. If I had to choose a personal favorite series on the internet, this is it.


                
