What is with the Japanese and their obsession with gigantic human-like robots? OK, so Attack on Titan doesn't have robots; they scrapped that. Yay! But they still have the giants. The Japanese just love their giants. First there was Godzilla, a giant fire-breathing dinosaur stomping around and causing mayhem destroying civilization/protecting mankind from other giant monsters wanting to destroy the human race. Then came giant robots like Gundam and such, where humanity created gigantic robots that stomped around and cause mayhem. At least they had space and stuff. Now we've scrapped that and just have naked human-like giants walking around and causing mayhem on medieval earth. Oh and they eat humans. So original.OK, so the story is not that great. You have no idea where the Titans (that's what their called) came from, why they love to eat humans (no it's not because they're hungry, and why the main character harbors some "dark secret". I'm pretty sure he was experimented on that will play some pivotal point late in the series. So original.The Titans suck at fighting. Most of them just hobble around like zombies. And somehow, humanity just can't invent the weapons to kill them, even though the Titans had been around for a hundred years, and the humans were able to erect giant walls to keep them out. But NNNOOOO!!! You can't invent a weapon in a friggin 100 years to kill them! It's just stupid.Speaking of the Titans, I can see it now. I'll bet anything that the Titans were created by the evil, corrupt, government to control the masses and have the people build giant walls so they can rule over them and such. So original.Well, maybe that last part was made up. But you get the picture. The story is garbage. It's not interesting. And it doesn't change. The main character vows to destroy every Titan, and you watch his crusade through the episodes as he and his hodge-podge of awesome teenager team of super heroes fight giant naked humans and try not to get eaten. So original.The only thing that's good is the animation and the music. The animation is top-notch. Same goes for the music. I have some of the soundtrack pieces on my MP3 player (and believe me, it takes a lot to get on my mp3 player). The rest sucks. Just plain boring.Oh yeah, and if you don't like gore, don't watch.


                
An interesting premise that loses intensity as we know more data about the nature of creatures called "titans" similar to the human that are the central axis of history and do not contribute anything beyond the predatory threat of swallowing humans. The only incentive of the work is to know the origin and reason of these beings (where do they come from, why exist?) While distracting our attention with battles and some personal subplots.The key point is to discover to the few chapters that one of the human beings has the capacity to become titan and to return to being human when he's want, which removes the realism until that obtained point on the fantasy of existence of this race , And in fact this dissonance is only consistent with a disappointing ending (without spoilers), which is devoid of originality and threshed by the remains, where we will discover the simplicity of the existence of these beings and reduce the series to an anecdote.Starting from the base of its blatant resemblance to other works previously made as in particular Claymore, which has the same plot axis, they offer us a vague history to distract teen minds, a function that has certainly met with great success.
With a beautiful setting, incredible animation, and terrifying monsters, you would assume this show would be an easy home run. One-note characters, predictable plot twists, lack of character interaction, and slow pacing make watching this show like trying to play a glitched out video game. Every episode seems to include insufferably long minutes of self-doubting monologues and crying, or characters trying to think through a situation the viewer has already solved. With no character development, you have to watch the show for the action set pieces, which are few and far between and seem to never resolve.


                
