I hope I'm not one of these people who's watched something with high expectation only leading to disappointment. That said, I'm more than disappointed: I was so irritated watching this crap I'm probably going to have to boycott all new animes coming out. I just recently finished watching Monster and found that quite disappointing too. Attack on Titan seemed like a fresher, faster paced action packed alternative to the pedestrian paced Monster anime.However, I was able to watch all 74 episodes of Monster. I couldn't tolerate the dialogue in Attack on Titan any longer than episode 11.I should've relied on my gut instinct how cliché this was all going to be when seeing the typical anime intro. The idea is very good and fascinating at first. Big giant humanoids wiping out mankind. I love the concept. However, the last three episodes just had me cursing at my laptop with "FFS will you get on with it?" or "Oh shut up with the screaming." I started off watching with subtitles but soon found dubbing. Both are painful to listen to.Sigh.... I miss the gritty mature atmosphere from mid 80s early 90's cyberpunk era anime films and series.


                
It's pretty bad. At first I just didn't like it but after more episodes I realized it is objectively bad. Almost all the characters are unlikable. The scenes are mostly static, framing almost non-existent, storyline jumbled and out of sequence. Instead of Attack on Titan it should be called "Talking on Titan", as it's scene after scene of dialog the sum of which is as original as an 80's sitcom. And the dialog is extremely repetitive. So many characters have similar spoken voices, identical delivery and presentation, similar faces, similar character traits, it's a big bowl of bland mush. Oh and the whining and crying is almost nonstop. Basically this is a show about emotional teenagers expressing their self doubts, self loathing, jealousies, fears, and grief; over and over and over and over and over in nearly static images. There is very little action, maybe 1-2 minutes in each episode.


                
This anime doesn't REALLY have 9/10 stars as it says on IMDb, in fact its much lower because most people who rated this gave it a perfect score while they were watching the first half of the series, if you read some of there reviews they even say "I watched the first 9 episodes!" Heres the thing, based on the first 9 or 10 episodes I actually thought it was pretty amazing too, but I don't review a series unless I've actually seen a complete season or the entire show.Me and two other friends decided to watch AOT because we heard this incredible hype about it, and I have to say we couldn't stop watching it! In one sitting we got up to episode 10 (I believe) and the only reason we had to stop was because it was getting late.The next time we watched it my friends clearly started to lose interest and even I noticed a sudden random decline in the show, it took months after to even watch up to episode 17, and by then my friends were falling asleep and not seeming to care! I like to finish everything I start so I decided to finish it hoping the ending would make up for it, but... IT DIDN'T. Around episode 11 or 12 the show gets VERY slow and starts to suffer mainly because everything takes so damn long to do, it honestly didn't even feel like the same show anymore, it was so bad that after each episode we cared less and less. Its not a matter of me having a short attention span or being patient because it will build up to something, its purely just a big waste of time when you finish the series, It was not worth it at all IMO and I will never watch it again.Will the 2nd season make up for it all? Who knows, if it does I really don't care because the first season killed it for me in the same way that Naruto killed Shippuden with all that 40 something long filler episodes at the end of the series, I didn't even care to check out Shippuden.No one likes filler and dragging out there favorite animes but honestly I think part of the reason we have this problem with basically every anime is because US FANS ALLOW IT, by supporting it we tell the animation studios that we don't care about the filler and the long dragged out parts and they will continue to do this because it saves them TONS of money and we keep on supporting it. I know hardcore fans will defend there animes and say "Its so they don't catch up to the manga!" but thats a joke! There are PLENTY of other things they can do to fix that, how about not starting the anime so soon if you know you will have a problem with catching up to the manga? How about shortening your seasons out from 25 episodes to 12 episodes so you can take a break in between seasons? Or they can simply just PUT OUT THE MANGA and ANIME AT THE SAME SPEED so the anime would never catch up to the manga!!!!-THE GOOD- That 3 out of 10 was because the Animation and style was absolutely awesome, It was honestly probably the best style I have ever seen in any anime and its definitely up there for animation.I also want to talk about the first half of the series. I really did enjoy the beginning and it did do a lot of new things that I never seen any other anime do but like I've been talking about the half way point until the end just ruined it all which really is a shame.Overall, I wish I could have spent my time on another anime and I would not recommend this to anyone, but at the same time I know I would have ended up watching it no matter what because of all the annoying hype I kept on hearing all around, and that spark of hype was probably just because they haven't seen further than episode 9 or 10...


                
It's 2017 and I've just gotten to watch season 1 of this "amazing" show as everyone says it is. So far I have finished season 1 and concluded that it's just bad. Horrible. I was very disappointed when watching the anime because I was expecting an amazing thing, for crying out loud it was deemed the most anticipated anime of that year! Honestly though, for the life of me I can't find out why. The story had potential, but then honestly got repetitive and boring. The whole time I was watching it I already could predict pretty accurately what, who or when. The main three have massive plot armor, the rest either will nearly example death or die. And then there's the mikasa issue. The issue of the lovey dovey relationship they share every time Arron gets hurt. It's just a horrible love story and just... horrible writing.
Attack on titan gets very boring fast, you wait a week for a new episode and then you watch it and the entire episode is just boring useless talking. There is 16 episodes released so far and already it feels like the author is just making so called "filler" episodes meaning only talk about some random stuff. This series reminds a lot of bleach,one episode full action then suddenly next is just some random that makes no sense. its a boring and stupid series that i hope ends fast. don't waste your time on this. go and watch fairy tail instead, much better.
The visual style and music is good. It's a cool concept, but nothing more. There's practically no story, as nothing ever resolves and no questions are ever answered. Characters are annoying af, some scenes take multiple episodes (and still never resolve). Really don't understand the 10/10 reviews.


                
