I'm not even sure how to start this review, I'm just stunned at the amount of people giving this show 9 and 10/10.It's a really bad show.The animation is great, no argument there, and the basic concept is genius, the titans look fantastic and are truly terrifying.But then we get to the story and the character and the pacing and the show just all falls apart. The main character Eren is just a moody teenager who only ever talks through gritted teeth in an over-dramatic tone. his best-friend Armin is just a terrible character, he's the cliché nerd but his character design is just awful, he looks like a girl and I can't find anything likable about him, he just whines and whines. which bring us to ALL THE OTHER CHARACTERS!Almost every character in this show is a teenager, WHY? all they do is whine and complain about how useless it is to fight, and countless episodes are taken up with each character sitting down depressed, talking about how useless they are THEN reaching a conclusion where they feel they can fight again, THEN moments later they're knocked back on their arse whining again. and this happens with EVERY SINGLE CHARACTER!The story of the show (NOT THE CONCEPT) is just terrible and predictable, every move the military makes is just fail and no-one has any clue what they're doing, probably because the entire military is made up of teenagers.The pacing is terrible "Battle Arcs" in the story are many episodes too long and I blame this once again on the characters, since as I said, they just sit around moping for large chunks of the episodes.I just don't understand why this show is so highly rated? I don't mean to offend, but are the people writing the reviews too young to know there are much better animes out there so they have nothing to compare it to?Terrible terrible show, great concept, really disappointed after all the hype.


                
Imagine a show that's visually fantastic, great score, with a storyline that's fresh and original. Especially since the first 7-9 episodes raise awesome questions, and introduce you to a well thought, exciting story.Now take that storyline, answer 16% of the questions raised in the current season.CONGRATS! YOU JUST WATCHED ATTACK ON TITAN!Tepid is the only word that can describe season 1.It has so much potential, and is so awesome at times, but it's just too inconsistent. The characters feel one way, then 5 minutes later, feel a different way. The storyline changes direction in such a subtle way,that when the show is over, you realize that all these awesome payoffs you were excited about, never even happened. What's worse is that all of the characters seem completely fine with it. It's truthfully insulting, and you feel kind of mad when it's over. I know there's more to the story, and I imagine season 2 is coming, but Don't END A SEASON WITH LITERALLY NO RESOLVE!This show is Gurren Lagann mixed with Berserk, minus the balls
PRO The starting concept is good, the animation is good, the soundtrack is outstanding, the drawing and the effect are very well done, the titan are disturbingly terrifying with their smile-joker face. CON This show is 95% discussion or self thinking about what we gonna do what we should do, what we could have done. So much over explanation. Overuse of the words: sacrifice, trust, willing, honor, friendship. Every details is a matter of discussion of life and death. Every action are way over-thought in ''elaborate and over complicated plan'', which failed, most of the time. And the worst is, beside all of the dialogs and explanation, we are still clueless about all the major questions the show introduce. I feel like the writer decide on the spot each week and don't have a long therm plan. This show had the potential to be very good but in the end is huge let down for me. I know it an anime. But they don't have be so much cliché, explain everything so much, over dramatise every things.


                
Attack on Titan sounds amazing at first, humanity is fighting to survive from a strange unknown threat. We follow a few characters which means there must be hope that human kind will survive, and, as is popular these days, the author is quite willing to introduce and kill characters quite frequently. All this should add up to a bit of an epic series, eh? Sadly not. I must admit, I was pulled into this series by it's amazing visuals, and kept watching until about halfway into the second season before losing interest. I must admit there were some pretty cool moments, especially near the end of the first season, which made me hopeful the second season would be faster paced and contain character development, but it just didn't happen. This is the main reason I lost interest; the pacing. Each season stretches 3-4 episodes worth of material into 13. This is accomplished with incredibly drawn out fight and chase scenes, I believe they were trying to impart the horror of the titan treat but it just didn't work. Also, the constant mood of the show is very depressing, where all the people are virtually without hope.In summary: I did not enjoy this but if you have nothing better to do and enjoy character lifespans that are shorter than those in game of thrones, maybe this show will be for you. If you are still looking for something epic, fun and where you don't feel depressed while watching it, try something like sword art online or Avatar: The last air bender.


                
First few episodes made the show interesting however after that it got very boring and slow paced very quickly. The story has potential but became boring and stale. It lacks action and the characters are meh. I really wanted to be into this anime because of all the hype but unfortunately it doesn't appeal to my taste in anime. I don't understand how it got the same high rating as fullmetal alchemist brotherhood and don't understand why it's compared to game of thrones. Rather watch both these great shows which deserves the praise they get than this disappointing anime.


                
Every time it appears something is about to happen - flashback. When it's not a flashback, it's a flashforward.The pacing is slow, the action is mostly closeups of people flying around with their harness contraptions. Good grief, get on with it. How many times do we have to see someone's eyes bugging out and shaking? How many times do we have to see a flashback to someone's back story? This is like trying to drive to work while behind a donkey cart. The more you try to get the donkey to move faster, the slower it goes.I don't know what people are talking about with all the great reviews. Character development is non existent. It involves finding out this character or that character copes with, most often, seeing a family member killed.OK, we get it. War is bad. Just say it.
The character's were memorable and some were even likable but there is just so much crying, screaming and psychotic break downs in the series that it's unbearable at times. I understand this is an apocalyptic event and the creator's are trying to portray how young adults would react to a situation like they are put in but it's still extremely excessive. There's also a lot of events that happen that are never explained fully or not at all leaving it open for interpretation or another season to play out. I feel like this series is ridiculously over hyped compared to most anime I have watched and shouldn't receive the praise it has got.


                
Didn't like the show. The idea of the story is kind of good, the animation is good, but there is way too much mystery and it leaves way too many blanks. All I liked about the story is the personal choices that each character had to make, confronting fear or resigning to it, choosing to take part in something greater than himself/herself or choosing to ignore everything but his/her own interests. The parts I didn't like - everything else, including way too much tears, really, when the story is about the world of humanity coming to an end I don't want to see that much personal drama. The scenario focuses mainly on people crying and being eaten, crushed or both. There was no sane strategy or tactics in any of the battles, just lots of mindless deaths and a lot of insubordination too - not really typical for an army, let alone humanity's last hope. I mean if you're at the brink of total extinction you'd throw every available resource you have to prevent it. I gave it 4/10 and as I'm writing this I think I was too generous. Honestly I didn't really see anything worthy of even an average score.
Basically, the only interesting part of this show is when the main character transforms into a Titan and fights back. The rest of the time the show mostly consists of 'flat' banter or backstory coupled with 'so-so' dialogue. I'm a few episodes into the second season and technology still does not really make any sense or have much consistency, and the characters seem to only be introduced to die in some overly graphic way that involves them pleading while suffering immensely. It's a dark show (which i usually don't mind) but the dialogue and the overall 'torture porn' narrative leaves me unsatisfied and kinda bored. Additionally, most of the time characters are behaving so stupid or slow i find myself rooting for them to be eating so the scene gets over with quicker.4 stars for the quality of the animation.


                
Season 1: Why do people like this show?
Attack on Titan is one the most disappointing shows I've ever seen. This show is the definition of wasted potential. The premise feels incredibly wasted on the awful storytelling and pacing. The show also contains some of the most unlikable and unrelatable characters I've had the displeasure of watching. For example, during the first season of the show we find out that the two main characters of the show (Eren and Mikasa) are murderers. The show does a flashback to their childhood where we see a young Eren murder some kidnappers to save Mikasa who also kills a person in this scene. Obviously the point of the flashback is to show how close these two characters are, but to me it just made them more unlikable. How is the audience supposed to relate these characters after knowing they're killers. The show also has very flawed logic like how in some scenes you can hear the titans footsteps as they were approaching yet they constantly sneak up on people. Personal gripes I have with the show is that the gore feels undeserved and also the art-style, I never felt like the art-style matched the setting. I also hated how Eren could turn into a titan himself into a titan, that forces you to suspend your disbelief from reasonable to over the top.
4/10Season 2: A slight improvement.
After coming back to this show after witnessing some more anime bulls**t, I have managed to look past the slight absurdity that is a little boy Suddenly turning into a much much bigger boy after hurting himself. That said, the show still fails at creating any likable characters. Armin still remains the most likable character, and that's partly because we know the least about him. I didn't feel anything when Hannes or any of the supporting characters died. The shows attempt at making Ymir sympathetic through her backstory did not work on me at all and only really worked as a lore segment. speaking of backstories, the flashbacks are still illogically stupid and contain noticeable continuity inconsistencies such as: Eren struggling to fight bullies after murdering several grown men (in season 1 flashback), Mikasa being a master at fighting after fighting for the first time what seems like not to long ago (same season 1 flashback). The reveal of the colossal and armored titans identities as Bertholdt an Reiner has to be the worst reveal I've ever seen, not only are they being talked over while they reveal this to Eren, The characters of Bertholdt and Reiner act so "vulnerable" afterwards which kind of ruins the menacing image of the armored and colossal titan, similar to how young Anakin in the Star Wars prequel ruins Darth Vader. I laughed at Mikasa's confession. While the scene as a whole is pretty cool with all the background imagery, If you actually stop to think about what's happening around them in combination with Eren and Mikasa's comments about the scarf is just to funny. My least favorite part about this season is Eren's new out of nowhere superpower of controlling titans. Since I had a hard time overlooking the titan shifter ability from season 1, this really took me out of it. I liked how it was revealed that there were more titan shifters that Eren since that made him feel less special and also added an intriguing mystery to the season 2. That mystery/conspiracy is probably this shows redeeming quality at this point. As a whole, season 2's shorter length, more consistent action and mystery make it a way more enjoyable watch than season 1.
6/10
I absolutely am in awe over the art of this anime-it's what drew me into this show. I was hooked in the beginning, however, the show becomes way predictable. I don't know about you-but for me there has to be positivity, moral ambitions, and characters who stay constant in a show for me to keep watching. By that I mean: There is too much negativity. Everyone dies. All the characters are similar in their hopelessness. There aren't enough successes and I know it's war but when there's all bad and no good it gets a bit boring. There are moral ambitions of the main character-to avenge his mother and save humanity, however, the show loses that purpose throughout. My heart strings don't feel tugged at anymore. The characters aren't constant really. Erin loses his bravery and is too much of a follower when basing all of his decisions on Levi that he becomes less of a main character. Mikasa was so bad a$$ at first, but they changed her hair and made her look less fierce. Her character becomes soft. They could have done so much with her character, but they dimmed her down much like Erin. Erin becomes more like Armin. I do think Armin stayed constant-him being a bit of a coward-although he did grow some balls after a bit. Chritsta/Historia brings a bit of light and humor (that I thought the show reeallyyy needed), because everyone wants to marry her-but then her character becomes less likable too. Alot of other characters fade into just a sea of not unlikableness and not even knowing who the character is because when one dies another pops up and so on making it hard to get attached to a character. In conclusion, there's just too much I would change. Its such a shame, because the art is so derpy, dark, and beautiful and the concept could have made a great story.
People are hyped up about series three while I can't even get through episode one. This show is so mindblowingly boring the initial hype must've been insane. I hope that after episode one this show is genius or something because otherwise the popularity of it is just sad. If you could get through the bland mediocrity of episode one, good for you, but I couldn't do that.


                
