Someone online continuously claimed that this anime was garbage and that "Yo-Kai Watch" deserved more of the praise. Well, I tried to watch both shows and I feel like that person needs to watch better anime...or maybe grow up.In any case, while imperfect, "Attack on Titan" is a great anime series and the new go- to anime to help people get into anime. With its great animation, memorable characters, epic music, and outstanding action scenes, "Attack on Titan" I would recommend to people who want to get into anime!This anime also contains Mikasa Ackerman, for once a female anime character that's NOT mere eye candy, but a legitimately cool character with great scenes and character development!


                
Lets Stop and Talk About Our Feelings<U+0085> Attack on Titan Season 1 ReviewLet me start off by saying the first time I watched Attack on Titan Season 1 I was hooked right from the get go. The plot was interesting and original and the Titans were terrifying. I'm not kidding. They truly freaked me out. It's horrifying enough they're gigantic and they eat people but the cherry on the pants crapping terror cake is their otherworldly demeanor. Their Joker smiles. The way some of them run like it's a fun frolic through a flower field. And their inexplicable, insatiable appetite for human flesh. They really like eating people. And If I saw a Titan in real life I'd be like James Wood off of Scary Movie when he sees that girl rotate her head 360 degrees a la The Exorcism. "Funk that!" And run off. Now that stuff was great and all but upon watching the first season again I gotta tell yea I was starting to lose my patience in a very big way. I cant tell you how many times during intense action scenes where they'd pause it so that the characters can express their thoughts and feelings. For example, the three main characters have to make a split second decision before a cannon blows them to kingdom come but they spend half the f-ing episode talking about the right thing to do! They did the same thing in a scene where an intelligent female Titan is chasing them through the giant tree forest. That Titan is right on their butts and they got time to stop and reflect not once, not twice but three MF-ing times! She's right behind them! There's no time to think stupids. I was getting so upset I'd yell at the screen, "Shut the F up and get on with it already! Jesus Christ!" Can you see how annoying that would get? It'd be like watching an Arnold Schwarzenegger action flick where they'd stop right in the middle of every firefight, 15 minutes at a time, so we can hear every person's thoughts on what's happening. Good Lord! If you'd cut out all that damn exposition in an Attack on Titan episode it'd probably be 7 minutes long. Seriously, that's too much. Shakespeare said, "Brevity is the soul of wit." Obviously the guys who write for Attack on Titan didn't get that memo.Another thing that annoyed me was how the characters dramatize everything it that over-the-top anime way. You know what I'm talking about. Everything is a big deal and every sentence has the force of a nuclear blast. Eren, the main character, is particularly bad about this. Always screaming and whining about something. Dude you gotta take a chill pill and stop yelling like that or you're going to blow out your hemorrhoids. I should know. Now don't get me wrong, I still like Attack on Titan even though I just took a huge steaming poopy on it. It's just very frustrating, to me, that an awesome battle scene is constantly interrupted by, "Lets stop and talk about our feelings" bull crap. The first time it didn't bother me too much but the second time it drove me up the walls. If they come out with a second season I will watch it but for the love of God I hope they cut down on all that needless expositional garbage.
I found the show to be average at best. Characters really doesn't have any depth to them. Half of the run time is characters looking to the camera talking to themselves with their inner voice. Everybody is a bad ass when in safety and everybody is a coward when faced with danger. Characters also behave completely unrelated to their portrayed personalities. Every episode someone has to give a cringing motivational talk that is just unbearable to listen to. For about 30 seconds everybody is cool and motivated than it all goes back to the regular. No one can move a muscle as their friends die. Characters changes mood without any explanation. The show is trying desperately to make you believe that it has emotional depth but it fails miserably. Other than the general concept everything about it is unoriginal. The pacing is terrible as action sequences are short and far few between. In many ways the show talks a big game but it fails to deliver when it comes to the actual play.First few episodes was decent and gave me the impression that this series would be awesome. It probably also triggered the very high initial rating this show had. After that people just went with the flow when rating the show. People see the rating and then form their opinions about it. It is currently sitting with a rating of 9,0. That's on level with Death Note. And even though the styles are completely different, this rating is an insult to Death Note's clever and sophisticated characters and writing. On a side note all of the episodes have ratings around 6. (Except for 2). How can the rating for an average episode be 6-6,5 and the full series can be 9 is really beyond my comprehension. It's a good indication for the over-hyped nature of this show.I know for most of this review I just ranted about the show. That's because I was very excited to find such a promising anime and then I watched it as it went from promising to mediocre which really left me in an unpleasant mood. At the end of the day it isn't a terrible show, but it certainly doesn't live up to it's reputation. After 7 episodes I've finally gave up on waiting for the moment when this show will turn things around. I suggest you check out some of the other popular anime's before this. This really isn't up to other good anime's standards.


                
There is a lot to love about Attack on Titan. The story is weird but interesting, and the animation is great. It took a few episodes for me to really get into it, but once it caught my interest, I enjoyed it quite a bit. A few problems got on my nerves, but none of them enough to make me stop watching. I'll definitely watch the upcoming third season, but I won't cry if they never finish it. Here's what I like about it: The visual presentation is very good. I love the Titans; they're the reason I almost stopped watching, but also one of my favorite aspects of the series once I got into it. I love the creepy smiles and bizarre body shapes. The kid-stuff is minimal. One of the most annoying things in anime to me is that series made for adults have far too much loony tunes goofiness in them. Anime lovers get angry when you call their favorite series cartoons, but if the shoe fits . . . This series has a comic moment occasionally, but they're subtle and rare. I wish more adult anime creators would treat their audiences like adults. Women and young women are not depicted as overgrown toddlers. This goes with the previous item: too many anime writers/producers apparently have never met a female human over the age of four, and their female characters are annoying to the extreme because of it. This is exactly the reason I couldn't keep watching Death Note, one of my favorites until this very problem ruined it. The women and teenage girls in Attack on Titan are age-realistic and are neither sexualized nor infantilized. Here's what bothered me about it: The characters are too simplistic. I can't speak for the manga version because I've only watched the show, but the characters are flat and nondescript. I found myself constantly confused by the numerous blond guys with indistinguishable personalities and only slightly different physical looks, most of which would show up for a few minutes every four or five episodes. I found myself constantly wondering, wait, which blond dude is this? The plot makes frequent, ridiculous, inexplicable leaps. This contributes to some of the problems with the characters. Their choices often have no clear motivation, contradict choices made just a few moments before, or contradict character information underscored by a foundation of previous actions and dialog. Furthermore, quite a few of the big reveals come out of nowhere, without context or without a proper set up in pacing. By the end of the second season, believability has been stretched so far, I needed a break before watching the next season. The dialog is too screamy. So much of the dialog involves characters screaming at each other, often over petty disagreements, that when the intensity of a battle or fight scene warrants it, the screaming feels unremarkable. Like the badly placed plot turns, this causes serious problems with the tone of the series. Better ratios of quiet moments and dialog to the fast paced, loud ones would enhance the intensity of the actually intense moments. Still, with all its problems, I would have to say this is one of my favorite recent anime series.
This anime is in my top 10 out of like over 70 i have seen. The story line of this is very good with interesting characters such as Eren i found him more interesting then the others (you'll understand why when you watch it.) i also like what they did with the titans as i'm pretty sure they got the idea from like zombies but zombies can get boring as they are easy to kill but with titans there harder to kill and people are more feared of them then anything. I'm still waiting for season two of this but its taking quite a while and have been putting it off for some time (if you have already seen this you will understand the pain of waiting lol) there's not really anything else i can say about this as its hard to describe without spoiling it but i do highly recommend you watch this!


                
This will be a brief review because I haven't watched season 1 since 2013 when it aired.However, despite this I still remember a lot of the things that made attack on titan so great as well as the problems that I feel many people would all agree with.Having said that season 2 seems to have significantly addressed many of these issues, and has encaptured the best parts of season 1 whilst also removing the unnecessary moments.Attack on Titan which I am pretty sure many of you reading this will already know is the fight of humanity against Titan like creatures. Thus a post-apocalyptic world is created and the question as to whether humanity will survive is unknown.Season 1: Season 1 starts off incredibly strong, is emotionally impacting with a unique set of characters, which people may not entirely love addressing the fact that these are just normal people, who have been forced into heroism. All of this is sustained throughout despite what I have explained in the next few paragraphs. Attack on Titan is still an amazing series but unfortunately falls at times because episodes are unnecessarily dragged out, are filled with a lot of pointless filler which deters from the overall amazing show.The potential problems that many watching Attack on Titan will experience is, what seems to be a good plot is wasted throughout the series. Particularly, in the use of the action scenes, where any build up especially later on in the season, is either drawn out way too long through unnecessary planning potentially taking over 3-5 episodes. Watching this back at the time when you had to wait weeks between episodes for anything to happen was incredibly frustrating.Furthermore, along with unnecessary planning, the unnecessary monologues were infuriating. Often we waited 10mins with someone in the clutch of a titan to die or actually make a move because they have to have some sort of monologue. This might have worked if done once or twice throughout the season. But the creators obviously thought that this approach would be interesting and unique. In the later half of the season this was present in most of the action scenes. What is annoying is often these monologues are literally just there for a emotional outburst. They never normally tell you stuff that is useful to know regarding plot and understanding making them almost worthless. Many people will watch not wanting to skip because they believe they might miss some important information when in reality skipping these monologues would not be a issue. Often dragging out an episode just for the sake of it.The overall viewing for season 1 is therefore very sporadic, many episodes being absolutely amazing and achieving between 8's and 10's. Yet with many episodes, particularly if they featured 1 or more of the problems mentioned above would more be regarded as annoying. Potential epic action sequences could have been amazing yet were really lackluster due to the issues displayed above.Season 2: Season 2 seems to be a different story, many issues that were seen in season 1 have not been present in season 2. The story is much more tight, everything starting to link together, with no present monologue scenes or unnecessary parts to the build up. Everything has been playing out very well. I hope they are able to sustain this throughout the rest of the season, because this will allow for a solid series overall. Regarding the potential issues season 2 has been a bit lackluster in terms of action, however, as of episode 6 this might in fact change and thus the correct pacing has been achieved.Season 1: I would therefore give 6.5 stars overall, with moments of genius being just as frequent as moments that were considerably lackluster.Season2: So far I would give it a strong 8 which is potentially going to rise as the season progresses, as the excitement has just begun.
Epic but overwrought adaptation of the popular manga series deals with humanity's attempts to ward off an onslaught on massive titans bent on consuming the human population of a large city. Exhilarating action scenes and some very effective moments are undermined constantly by grade-school dramatics, repetition, and annoying characters (save the ass-kicking female, Mikasa). The English adaptation is okay, but at times over-the-top. Another anime that could have been so much more had it not focused entirely on a weak cast of prepubescent teens. Thunderous music score by Hiroyuki Sawano.


                
Like many I only recently broke into the whole anime scene shortly after hearing the buzz around Attack on Titan. This is the very first anime series I've experienced so I judged it with the standards I would hold for any other none-anime TV series or movie.The series has a fantastic start. The first 5 or 6 episodes completely exceeded my expectations - The music was great, the pacing, writing and directing was all near perfect, and the animation was well done. There were moments in this series that made me so shocked and amazed that I thought I was watching Game Of Thrones again. It also doesn't shy away from gore or sad themes, which is a plus. The actual concept of the story is extremely well realised, so I applaud the original manga for that.Now, for the downsides. I am going to write more about this since everyone seems to be avoiding it. I'm not sure who said this anime has "excellent characters" but this is not right. The characters are VERY average. The main characters have SOME development, but generally remain the same throughout. The minor characters all seem to be 2D cutouts of your average teen drama with some exceptions. Character development, for the most part, seems to be exclusively limited to characters dropping on their knees, crying and doing an extensive monologue of past events, or what is to come. It may have worked well if it was used occasionally, but this technique is used multiple times every episode. There are some episodes which really seem to be fillers - one episode seemed to reuse a little too much footage from previous episodes, and another episode seemed to be jam-packed with voiced over none animated scenes. I felt like the last half of the series started dropping in and out of quality. You'll often find yourself - in later episodes - sitting through 13 minutes of stupid monologue only to get to the fully animated treats.In conclusion, this is well worth watching. Plenty of "WTF" moments, emotional scenes and action in a well realised world. If you can look past the flaws I mentioned, you'll find a truly special experience.


                
Spoiler Alert:If you have not read the synopsis for this anime, I shall attempt to summarise the premise for this anime. Mankind has almost been exterminated by titans (savage humanoid beings that prey on humans). The few humans that have survived sought refuge behind 50 meter tall concentric walls which span an impressive area. The concentric walls that confine the various habitants provide a mechanism of isolation. If one of the 'walls' were to be breached by titans, only a portion of humanity will be lost. Subsequent walls provide an extra layer of safeguard for the innermost residents. Genres that fit this anime are apocalyptic, action and suspense. The viewer will be hooked due to the plot potential for this anime. Some of the questions that may crop up are: where did the titans come from?; do they have a motive?; how did humanity manage to erect these colossal walls; What future awaits mankind... etc The protagonist of the story is a teenager named Eren Jaeger. He is tired of cowering behind the walls and draws the analogy of living the life of a prisoner. He wants to go out there and see the vast expanse of the World for himself. Furthermore, he admires the Survey Corps - a military division that goes on dangerous expeditions outside the walls to learn about titans. However, the life of the Survey Corps is full of misery and hardship. They suffer great casualties and are unable to learn much, if anything about the savage titans. Despite this, Eren strongly believes that it is a noble cause to join the Survey Corps and live a purposeful life rather than being enshrouded in fear and living inside an illusory haven. Eren's two friends are Armin Arlert and Mikasa Ackerman who form the main trio in Attack on Titan (AoT). Armin is the strategist brain of the three "musketeers" and Mikasa (the main female lead) is a prodigy fighter. Based on circumstance ( after the walls are breached one day by a mysterious 50 m class titan and an armoured titan), I do not want to spoil too much... the three protagonists join a military division. The story is novel and the action is enticing. Battle soundtracks compliment the jaw dropping fight sequences really well and the opening song is also good ( for some it may time to get used to the opening theme). The art style is interesting, in particular the way the titans are drawn. They are drawn in a sketch-like manner and stand out from the humans. However, although the plot, visuals and soundtrack are above average, the main characters are nothing special, dare I say a bit boring. Eren is a bit deranged, constantly expressing desire for inflicting great pain to titans. Mikasa is a bit of a Mary Sue, i.e. flawless to the point of annoyance. She is portrayed as beautiful, possesses genius fighting prowess and on top of that is intelligent. Her flawless existence is an insult to characters such as Armin and Annie who pride themselves in intelligence and combat respectively. The only potential flaw with her is that she is over protective of Eren since she harbours great emotions for him. This overprotection may cloud her judgement during warfare and risk the lives of others and her own. However, this is not so much of a flaw either because it gives her strength and only shows that she cares a lot for her brother-like/boyfriend. I have seen many anime with more interesting female leads such as Holo from Spice and Wolf. Armin is the most realistic out of the three characters. He is a coward but intelligent and does not ramble violent nonsense like Eren.Overall, the character development of at least 2/3 of the main characters is poor. Other characters such as Commander Erwin from the Survey Corps, Levi and Annie are very interesting for various reasons and we want to learn more about them. This does not apply to the protagonists. If Levi were to die, it would be more tragic than Eren's death. Eren's death would only be silly due to his pivotal role in the anime later on but apart from that he fails to grab attention. His father is far more interesting... The anime finishes with a lot of things unanswered. There will be a sequel given the success of the anime and manga (the anime is largely responsible for manga sales going up). However, it seems unlikely that all the mysterious aspects of the storyline will be answered. The plot can potentially be as intricate as FMA Brotherhood or Neon Genesis Evangelion but we will have to wait and see. Overall, due to lack of character development and many things being left unanswered, this anime deserves a 7/10. I do not see why it should deserve a 9 point average when there are greater anime out there which scored less. Perhaps it is the hype of seeing well animated action and a novel plot that has clouded people's visions. Imagine how much better AoT would have been with more interesting/realistic main characters (Eren-Mikasa duo is weak). I have seen many highly acclaimed anime and most of them had amazing characters. Most of the characters were refreshing. FMA Brotherhood, GTO, Psycho Pass, Clannad, Clannad After story, Hajime no Ippo (all 3 seasons), Monster, Death Note, Elfen Lied , Madoka, Code Geass etc. GTO for example has much more interesting characters. Final score 7/10. Once the hype has died down, any anime fan/critic will see that AoT was great, but not out of the World. Regardless, the mangaka of AoT, Hajime Isayama is enjoying the spotlight and the sudden rise to fame.
So "Attack on titan" has been recommended by a friend of mine who has great taste for TV series and naturally I have given it a try. I really loved how the first scenes set the tone for a more "mature" and less chlichéed picture of women I so came to hate about anime (you know .. those animes in which women have so unrealistic huge breats it hurts and they always wear awfully short stuff to show every viewer how desperately lonely the creator of the manga must have felt). The pacing felt right at first and it sure knows how to make you feel excited for some twist which reveals what happened, where the titans come from and so on. Sadly like 6 episodes in you start to realize that while an episode is 24 minutes long roughly 18 of those are wasted on flat emotional melodramtic talking I start to feel Japanese are addicted to. To make things even worse they started adding some unlikeable characters that are not just "unlikeable" for the audience in a clever way but are designed to be unlikeable in a shameful way (yeah, we get it, rich people try to save their goods and sacrifice every normal citizen who comes in their way, the church is evil and there always is a commander who is like insane and needs a psychiatrist right now bla bla). Despite all of those flaws (and I admit that I'm really judging this series a little hard) "Attack on Titan" looks really good and has a imo catching opening music which features the opening line in my own language (german) ... sadly Japanese are no pronouncing experts and so I never got it until I looked it up on the internet ;-P


                
Here's an interesting premise: it's the Middle Ages and gigantic, grotesque, naked creatures known as Titans are roaming around, gulping down humans with ease. As a result, humans have created larger-than-life walls to block off Titans from the humans. The 'scouts', the bravest of soldiers, are assigned to venture beyond the walls to slay the Titans. My New Year's Day was consumed by the first two volumes of Attack on Titan, and watching this anime was worth my time.I was hooked from the first episode. In one emotional scene, an elderly woman asks a scout how her son is doing. The scout replies, "I wish I had better news," before handing her the son's severed arm and the woman breaks down in tears. Eren Yeager, the series' protagonist, serves as the narrator and immediately stands out as a brash, hotheaded little boy with a bone to pick. Eren is accompanied by (my favorite character) Mikasa, his overprotective adopted sister who (for you FMA fans out there) is the Hawkeye to Eren's Edward Elric, and Armin, a hyperintelligent blond-haired boy with serious self-confidence issues. In the first episode, Titans invade Eren's village and one of them, a particularly frightening Titan, devours Eren's mother. At the end of Episode 1, as a severely traumatized Eren escapes with his friends via boat, he promises to kill the Titans. "Every - last - one," Eren says with burning anger and determination in his eyes, and that's where Attack on Titan takes off.Eren Yeager is a character I despised since the beginning. An unbearably annoying, egocentric brat with anger problems, Eren personifies Attack on Titan's biggest flaw. The show has more than a few distinct features, like its abnormally sharp animation (which might take some time to adjust to) and its excessive use of speeches, but Attack on Titan's most persistent problem is its extreme intensity. I'm a huge fan of anime with intensity but, after the first two episodes, the amount of it became over-the-top and was in desperate need for balance, a few laid-back moments to complement the more serious scenes. This is what I hated most about Eren; he's an eternally intense child who's always viewing life from a pessimistic perspective, and it's because of him that I almost stopped watching Attack on Titan. In the third episode, Eren, Mikasa, and Armin (teenagers at this point) enter training camp, where a ton of new characters are introduced, Jean (Eren's rival), Connie, Krista, and Sasha. It's the days in training camp (and Sasha in particular) that help lighten this abnormally dark anime, but that period isn't enough because the trainees quickly head to battle, against the Titans.It is in this battle, The Struggle for Trost, that new aspects jumble out in the open (there are usually agile titans dubbed 'Abnormals', the humans have a wealthy and selfish coward for a king, preferring to live lavishly in his beautifully constructed castle than to support the people, and Mikasa is lethal with a sword in her hand), but the biggest twist of all occurs when a Titan swallows Eren. In the belly of the beast, surrounded by screaming corpses, engulfed in blood, Eren reminds himself of the promise he made, to kill the Titans, ("Every - last - one," Eren says, his hand grasping above) before biting his thumb and bursting out of the beast a Titan himself. This is where Eren's promise morphs into a disturbingly psychotic obsession, as the newborn Titan defeats, destroys, and devours the monsters that traumatized him. Eren reverts to his human form and his comrades, at first fearful of him, begin to trust Eren with the help of Mikasa and Armin, who finally gains self-confidence. Eren saves the day via his Titan form but Volume One ends with Eren discovering that more than a few people still don't accept him.In Volume Two, the three main characters (along with Jean, Connie, Sasha, and Krista) become scouts, the bravest of soldiers, and Eren is assigned to the Special Operations Squad, where the show applies attention to people seen in Volume One, like Captain Levi (another favorite character), a one-man killing machine with a mysterious past, and Zoe, the extremely eccentric 'Titanologist'. The focus of Volume Two is on a fellow scout who transforms into a Titan at will and slaughters humans with ease (I'm not going to name names, but the human/Titan is really obvious, a certain blond-haired girl Eren encountered in training camp). I think Volume Two is much better than Volume One; it has that aforementioned balance Volume One was lacking and Eren is a much more tolerable character (though he does have moments where he reverts to his Volume One self).Overall, I think Attack on Titan is a must-watch anime, flaws and all. Attack on Titan is a show with dramatically developed characters, tons of cliff-hangers, and an overflowing amount of intensity. It's certainly not among the best anime I've ever seen, but it's still an excellent show.
I'll be the first to admit that I'm not very well versed in anime, at all. The only anime I'd watched thoroughly before Attack on Titan would be Pokémon back in my younger days and, more recently, Cowboy Bebop, purely because of the glowing praise it received whenever it was brought up.So Attack on Titan does have the advantage for my part that I don't yet have been exposed to a lot of anime's clichés, but with that said, I still find that the show has several problems that keep it from becoming a staple of the medium.1) It's very over the top in its delivery. Pretty much all the time there's someone on screen either yelling, acting as if they've just witnessed an earth-shattering revelation or crying their guts out. The main character, Erin Jaeger, is especially bad at this: he only has one emotional setting: he's pi**ed off, and he's nearly always screaming at the top of his lungs. This doesn't make for good storytelling, it's just tiring and sigh-inducing to watch.2) The heavy-handed-ness. In addition to being very over the top, the show also has a bad habit of taking itself far too seriously a lot of the time, especially when it comes to the characters. This doesn't mesh well with the generally ridiculous action scenes, and makes me almost feel like I'm watching two different shows. When they're not fighting, they're talking, and they talk a LOT. And what they talk about is generally just the same basic issues over and over again: the pointlessness of their fight, humanity's impending doom, a soldier's duty and the prison behind the walls.These talks tend to either resolve too quickly or go on for too long, getting in the way of enjoying the rest of the show.3) The slowness. When AoT finally starts to move, it does so at a snail's pace. No less than six episodes are devoted to a single event that's supposed to bring forth an important revelation about the main character. You see it end and you think "wait, we're already past the halfway point?". The show is 25 episodes so far, I get the distinct feeling they could have told this story in maybe half that time.With all these things said, however, AoT is still well worth a watch if you can stomach these shortcomings. Because the animation and music is absolutely stellar, the action scenes are well choreographed, the world is interesting and the villains genuinely unnerving and terrifying.7/10
I just finished watching the entire 1st season (in only one day), so that can say a great deal about the script behind this anime. Yeah... the script is very interesting, well written. It has that "touch" of curiosity required by any decent anime. But... when it comes to graphics... it's an entire other story. For a 2013 production... I was expecting a much much higher quality of the scenes, of the special effects, of the face details... and especially of the monsters... Common people... is this for real? When I look the giants I'm remembering my anatomy classes from high school... Most of them look like they were painted by 10 y.o. children... and in some fight scenes, their graphics is in total contrast with the background... The generic... is too long, but the music is very catchy.


                
Just because every one says it's great doesn't mean it's good. Attack on titan has general anime flaws that prevent it from beaning a masterpiece that everyone thinks it is. The main problem is that Attack on titan feels like 2 movies chopped up into 25 episodes. Most episodes don't stand up on their own because it feels like your just watching a random chunk out of a movie which results in the episodes feeling out of context. Character wise, Attack on titan only develops the main characters. Everyone else is bland and forgettable. This Anime isn't all bad however. Attack on titan is good at building tension. it's about the same level of tension as shown in the hunger games movies. Attack on titan also has very little fan- service moments which makes it less pandering and unwatchable. Attack on titan is generally good but it's very forgettable.


                
Like in my My Hero Academia review, since the show will have a lot of seasons, I will have small reviews until the show finishes completelySeason 1:
The animation and music is on point, but both the characters and story suffers a lot
6/10Season 2:
Like in the first season, the animation and music are both still great. But what surprised me was how much the stry improved. It got so much more memorable and interesting. The characters might've not gotten that much better, but it was so much more fun since the story helps everything move faster.
8/10


                
