I don't think I can add anything to the previous 10 out of 10 comments, other than that I'd give it a full 11 out of 10 if this were possible. I have seen my share of nature documentaries, but this takes the cake. Utterly awe-inspiring, mesmerizing and brilliant. I own an extensive DVD-collection, but if I had to choose 1 title and had to throw away everything else I had, this would be the one I'd keep. I have no better DVD-title in my collection. Period.David Attenborough is my personal hero. Although he merely provides the commentary for this series (as he did with the also terrific Blue Planet), but his work for the BBC's Natural History division (setting it up and making several brilliant series himself) and his inspiring personality make him one of the true greats.Miss this at your peril.


                
The camera work is truly breathtaking. Such amazing wonders captured on film, areas of the planet unspoiled by human domination. DIfferences in culture seem to play a big part in the reviews of this documentary; some choosing to review based on "Disney" like criteria. Criticisms for the apparent emphasis on the viscous and dark side of animals and nature. I guess some people would prefer a nice talking lion and perhaps an Elton john song thrown in.Cutting slack on the sarcasm and returning to the point; This is a must watch documentary for anybody with a sincere appreciation for life and the planet in which we live.An achievement for all those involved in the making to be proud of.


                
Thankfully, I caught a couple of these episodes on American television, which led me to this 11-part series on Blu-Ray DVDs and over five hours of outstanding entertaining and education. Looking back, I still shake my head in amazement at the things I saw on these discs.Obviously, the incredible photography and sharpness/color (please see this on high-def, if you can) is the first thing that captures the viewer's eye, but as the series went on I appreciated the objectivity in here ("aw, cute" shots mixed in with the brutality of existence) and the lack of environmental propaganda, which one usually gets in boatloads in these "nature" films. Here, the writers and narrator David Attenborough just present the world as it is. Only at the very end do you get a short environmental message. It isn't needed: the beauty of this earth says it all, and the writers were smart enough to figure that out during this series.After viewing 11 discs, you come to the obvious conclusions that in the Earth's world of animals, birds and fish come only a few objectives: where to find food, water, a mate, and escape being devoured by a predator. That's it, except for pets or zoo animals. On land or in water, it's simply a matter of survival, as this BBC series shows us.What makes this so special is that, thanks to incredible work by cameramen, we are privy to many extraordinary sights we would never see, if left on our own, and never imagined existed on this planet. Much of this series is simply mind-boggling to view, especially all the overhead shots, which were stunning.There are too many positive adjectives I could use to even begin, in recommending you watch this. Just give it a try - any of the 11 segments - and see if you don't want to then watch all of them.


                
The subtitle of the series is not an exaggeration; it has a literal meaning: This is indeed our planet as "never seen before". Right from the outset you are witnessing the most amazing pictures modern technology has ever produced: Views from space, but close enough so we may see the glorious beauty of specific regions of our home planet. Birds of paradise of such beauty that can convince you this is the real paradise and you need not ask for anything more; All the creatures are filmed in unique settings and situations (a polar bear with two cubs emerging from their den as spring comes and gliding down a snow covered slope, the strategic genius of wild dogs encircling a herd of impalas, rare views of a snow leopard and her cub, a white shark in chase of a seal bursting completely out of the sea and hanging in the air for a second and hundreds of other breath-taking shots. Feeling happy for the gift you are given and the next moment plunged in bitter thoughts about how unbelievably brutally has mankind treated it. My rating: Definitely 10/10.


                
I have seen many nature documentaries in my life and none have left me in such amazement of our planet as this series. The sheer work that went into its making alone is impressive. The shots that are captured on film are like none ever seen and remind us of both the power of mother nature and her fragility. I highly recommend this series to people of all ages as there is something for everyone. If you do watch any of the episodes, do watch "Pole to Pole". It is a great all-encompassing view of many animals and their habitats. David Attenborough does a great job as narrator. If you enjoy this series also check out "The Blue Planet", a series by the BBC on oceans (also narrated by Attenborough).


                
I have never, ever given any title a perfect ten. Mainly because I never thought that there will ever be something that truly deserves the praise. I was so wrong. Watching this amazing display of planet earth's resources in high definition is just simply breath taking. In addition David Attenboroughs commentary is spot on. Calm, informative and quiet in just the right places. Sometimes the picture is so beautiful, that one just simply forgets the commentary and just starer in awe on the beauty of the landscapes and other details. Sometimes the director feeds the viewer with juicy bits of slow motion scenes to add to the effect of the moment. I simply can't recommend this title enough to everyone. Just pick it up anywhere you can find it. Spectacular.


                
I'm just laughing at all these negative comments. I know it's hard for you PETA freaks to believe but, in the circle of life your precious animals actually kill each other. This movie is not a statement, it just shows the "Planet Earth". Kind of simple, don't you think? It's not an Al Gore "made up" movie. It just show images of our planet and what happens in the animal world. It's not a "made up" Micheal Moore film. It's just shows beautiful images of our planet. I mean my goodness, just watch it for what it is instead of making a big deal out of everything. I definitely recommend this film to anyone who is interested to see what goes on in nature.


                
OK, I'm writing this to explain few things to people who wrote their reviews and gave this documentary 1 or 3 point with argument that there were too much killing and gallons of blood were shed or something like that.I've read where these guys are from, one from NYC and one from Toronto etc... it's pretty easy to forget what real life is about when you have full fridge in the kitchen, Wallmart next to your house and McDonald on your way to work, isn't it? It's pretty easy to forget when all you have to do to feed yourself is PUT THAT BURGER in your mouth. You guys forgetting what is wild reality about? To survive! In fact, animals spend most of the time (I think I've heard somewhere it's actually 16 hours of day!) searching for food or potential prey. So WAKE UP! What the hell did you wanted to see in the documentary?! How lion changing channels on his TV and playing computer games? Oh no, that's what YOU do all day instead of killing your future dinner! If you were thrown to savanna, or forest or anywhere else, you would probably die actually, but if not, you would spend your whole day looking for food. Believe me.Yes, this documentary is sometimes brutal, it's no cute Lion King story. Nothing for kids. But it shows reality. It's probably best documentary ever made and I can't wait to see it on Full HD TV. Thanks everyone who created this masterpiece.P.S.: Planet Earth: Diaries (2 episodes in the "Making of" style) is highly recommend to watch!


                
Simply put, I have never seen a better series, or film for that matter. After re-watching the entire series for the 5th or 6th time this past week, I continue to be in awe. From the deepest oceans to the highest peaks, the coldest winters to the hottest deserts, Planet Earth makes you feel like you are there, experiencing the most incredible things are planet has to offer. From rare animals rarely spotted in the wild to incredible time lapses to beautiful panoramic shots from space, the film provides some of the most humbling images I have ever seen. Coupled with an AMAZING score and humble, sincere, and informative narration by David Attenborough, this epic piece of film making is Perfect in every way. Everyone I have ever shown it to is at the very least impressed, and usually in Awe. From nature lovers to computer nerds and jocks, the humbling images shown in Planet Earth makes everyone a believer in the power of nature once again. An Incredible series that should be included in all talks for the "Greatest of All Time".


                
You don't have to be a nature film-buff to love this series. That's what all the HD hype is about - striking BIG, sharp images with beautiful music and unobtrusive narration by David Attenborough make this an experience worth repeating. From sharp close-up the camera zooms out, out... Every detail of the landscape is carved out. Patterns in large animal migrations otherwise unnoticeable reveal themselves, demonstrating the perspective of the individual amidst the immensity of its environment like never before.It is the first documentary shot entirely in High Definition, and comparisons to you-know-who are inevitable. The influence of the IMAX pioneers is evident in the slow, careful camera pans. The "British" approach is less bombastic and much more informative. Each episode explores one habitat and its inhabitants. The themes don't need super-elevation beyond the accompanying images, and the background info explains just enough - due to play times of just under 50 minutes per episode. But the zig-zagging across the planet to the next highlight has its advantages - not a minute of boredom. While we follow some animals' journey over several key stations, most feature in just one event, but it's always a memorable one. Only the Making-of ("Diaries") reveal how unique and difficult many of these seemingly effortless shots were, and what technical achievements it took - like the gyroscopic camera filming these rock-steady zooms hanging beneath a pounding helicopter! The success of the series will surely break new ground for follow-ups and strengthen demand for "native" HDTV filming, with images as clear and exciting as never before.


                
I doubt any oil execs will see this amazing footage, nor do I think it would faze them...and that's morally and ethically criminal, as is what the almighty dollar is capable of doing to people that can sell off 'our world' as if they actually own it...All it takes is one look at a NASA image of earth, seeing that thin film of atmosphere and then think of the daily onslaught of pollution humans put in it, to realize we have an impact on the very survival of this place and its creatures.I would often pick up a serpent starfish from one of the display tanks in and 'marvel that this creature in my hand has survived through many extinctions and remain (unchanged) in the fossil record for approx 600 million years!'... Then to think that 'we' are responsible for destroying 'their' habitat at an unprecedented rate...It's simply criminal...Even these animals are dealing with toxins and contaminants that (because they are man made) have never had do face before now.I hope these images serve to bring 'some awareness' to the diversity left on this planet and how important our actions are as we share it with the other inhabitants currently here.If these other lifeforms could speak, I'm sure they'd say they feel like the American Native Indians...'Fighting terrorism since 1492'...Regardless of anyone's personal opinion on the matters of 'Global Warming' or 'man's effects on the planet', IT'S A FACT THAT CO2 LEVELS HAVEN'T GONE OVER 300PPM (parts per million) IN OVER 1 MILLION YEARS HOWEVER, WITHIN THE LAST FEW DECADES THEY HAVE GROWN TO 383PPM...! DID YOU GET THAT???...ALMOST 1/3 HIGHER CO2 IN THE ATMOSPHERE AS A DIRECT CAUSE OF HUMANKIND'S ACTIVITIES (NOT TO MENTION THE POLLUTION OF OUR LAND MASSES, RIVERS, ETC...AFTER 1 MILLION YEARS OF MINIMAL NATURAL CHANGES(THROUGH MANY EXTINCTIONS WITHOUT THE EFFECTS OF MANKIND)...WHAT ARE YOU GONNA TELL YOUR KIDS / GRAND-KIDS?It's widely known (albeit too late for most) that our own government has made untold efforts to protect the economic interests of corporations dependent on fossil fuel profits and controlled supplies over the more important and immediate environmental issues facing us (It's as if the vast majority of the super-rich...many of which maintain that designation at the peril of some natural resource...have somehow convinced themselves that money makes them and their children, grandchildren, etc., 'impervious to anything'...including Mother Nature's Wrath)...Thanks...and my admiration (& appreciation) to the BBC and the makers of this outstanding work...


                
There are plenty of other reviews for you to get the gist of this series, so I won't add my 10 pence worth (except to say that if you like nature documentaries, great camera work, beautiful scenery, accompanied by just the right level of information for this type of series, then I can almost guarantee that this series will be truly satisfying, and in all likelihood become the benchmark by which you measure all other nature documentaries, or even all documentaries of every genre - yes, it really is that good!).As usual with the 'human condition' there are dissenters, which is a good thing in general as it helps drive healthy debate, but from reading some of the negative posts on this website, I suspect that they are dissenting for the sake of dissenting (and appearing intellectual and/or non-conformative), pedancy, or for assuming that the series misses it's own objectives and the 'point' it's trying to make in some way. (I personally don't think the series has an agenda beyond presenting the world with probably the greatest all-round nature programme to have been made!).Some of the negative points posted are to the effect that;The series exposes the viewer to too much death, violence between animals etc.Well, isn't that what nature is largely about - survival!? (as well as reproduction and co-habitation which are equally as well covered). I suspect that the people who make these points are a bit squeamish and don't want to witness death (especially of 'cute' animals) in the comfort of their own homes. Some reviewer even put forward the ridiculously weak analogy on the series supposedly overdoing the violence aspect that 'if aliens made a documentary about humans, then we'd be unhappy that they only focused on killing and not art and study'. Humans have advanced far beyond the 'hunter-gatherer' status which was widespread tens of thousands of years ago, and if aliens made a documentary back then which happened to include humans, then i think it would have focused largely on the way in which we hunt, co-habitate and reproduce. A series devoted solely to humans would of course look more in depth at our primitive technologies, ability to communicate, social aspects etc....but this series has a much broader spectrum to cover - many of the species on the planet today!, so it's fairly obvious that it should focus on the primary functions of the world's non-human animals - that of hunting, co-habitating and reproduction!The series lacks in-depth information. What kind of information where they hoping to gain!? Should the series have gone into the embryology,molecular biology, genetic coding, evolution and ancestry, DNA structure of each individual species!? - it would take far too long, or would limit the series to about 10 different species!...or should the series have gone into ocean currents, plate tectonic movement amongst other things, in order to explain why animals inhabit the places they do!? - of course not!. This is a nature series, not material for a biology or geology or anything else degree. It's purpose (as with almost all nature programmes) is partly to inform and partly to entertain and inspire - and for me, this series gets the balance just about spot on!Humans are not included and not enough info is given to help combat climate change. I'm not sure it ever claimed to fulfil either wish. The very essence of a nature programme is about humans observing nature, certainly not observing ourselves - that would be called an 'anthropology programme' - humans are far too complex in societal nature (plus there are far too many sub-divisions of the human nature for this series to touch on - science, art, religion, politics, war...ad nauseum) to be included in a nature programme - a brief mention of how we effect nature might be justified, but things like climate change are still very much controversial, and if the series took a side on the issue, then people would have complained that the series had some sort of political agenda - which would undermine the entire series to quite a large extent!.The claim that 'not enough info is given to combat climate change' is a truism as, again, quite simply because this is not a series on climate change, and climate change is complex and controversial, so a series devoted to climate change would be necessary, and this series should be applauded for not pushing any political agenda down the viewer's throat.In short, by all means listen to what the people who gave the series negative views have to say. But any reasonably intelligent person who watches this absolute triumph of a piece of film making, should be able to make their own decisions, and, I think, will see it for what it is - a fantastic introduction to nature and the many of the Earth's current inhabitants!


                
I really admire what BBC did all over the years for the sake of education and entertaining the world of useful programs and TV series.Earth Planet is one of my best programs for me and my family. 40 Million pounds budget for this series, no one can do it for commercial purposes. But BBC did it to educate the world about the beauty of our planet and how to save it.channels like Discovery, animal planet and national geographic are my favorites and recommend everyone to see them Thank you BBC and Celebrating the Green EarthYasser


                
Planet Earth is without a doubt one of the greatest television series ever put together. The images they have captured and effort the film makers have put in is note-worthy on every level. More than enough comments have been written about how incredible this series is, the only reason I am writing is in a response to a lot of the people who have missed the point of what they have done. A lot of the people who have written reviews have complained that the show has not been more political or that it will not reach the people who really matter. The people who made this show are not conservationists, they are film makers. Whoever dares to fault them for not making this series with more of an agenda should be ashamed. The point of this series was to show people how truly unbelievable our planet is. These filmmakers have given the viewer the decision to decide whether or not they want to react to our current situation, and this is the most powerful way to do it. They claim to have no real agenda, but at the same time, nobody who watches this series views it without feeling something. These filmmakers have accomplished something very impressive. Nobody who has watched Planet Earth has accused the filmmakers of being preachers, yet everyone who has watched it has been deeply affected. The filmmakers have accomplished something truly unbelievable: getting an extremely important message across to all viewers without smothering or hitting anyone in the face with it.


                
10 on 10 from my side, echoing the view of so many others who have felt the same. I think the team didn't waste a single penny of their enormous budget and captured spellbinding footage for eternity. Almost every episode is truly remarkable and capture enormous diversity and beauty of living things around us. Serious attention has to be paid to conserving our fish stocks, rainforests and mitigating the effects of global warming. I was brought to tears at the mention of polar bears plight, blue whale's dwindling numbers, Amur and snow leopard's measly numbers and Panda's heroic efforts at raising its young. We humans have blood on our hands at having reduced such magnificent creatures to a pale shadow of former glory. David attenborough is an apt choice for the narration lending his understated but perfect voice to the documentary, speaking only when necessary to make apposite comments and remaining silent at other times to let us marvel at the beauty of these creatures. In India this will cost more than 200 USD, a touch expensive by Indian standards where pirated DVD's are rampant. But without question this DVD is a collectors item. A must have.


                
The production value is absolutely amazing and is so informative. You honestly can't believe what your watching because it doesn't seem possible. The shots they do are so creative and is well worth the time. A must watch for everyone.


                
What do I consider when I rate an episode of "Planet Earth"? The narration (David Attenborough may as well be God), the quality of the cinematography or scenery captured (11/10), the musical composition that gives John Williams a run for his money, or the truly intriguing glimpses into the lives of other animals? If so, "Planet Earth" is pure magic on all fronts. I'm pretty sure I cried during the first episode. I love watching "Planet Earth". I've seen the series maybe half a dozen times from start to finish. I especially love watching it in a library when everyone else is supposed to be studying because at least then people consider it to be entertainment, when otherwise they might ask me why I watch a nature documentary series in my free time (certainly not the sentiment in the United Kingdom, where we religiously watch Attenborough's nature shows, but elsewhere I have encountered inquisition over my watching of documentary programs). Anyway, the show is amazing. Truly. I have only great things to say about the show as a whole, so watch it.


                
The whole thing is remarkable. It is by far one of the best documentarie I have ever seen. The big question is: is it all real? Did they use CGI in any of that? They were able to shoot amazing things which are very unlikely to happen in front of a camera. A lizard running above the water? A spider inside a plant in the equatorial forest? An electrical creature at more than 300atm down below? I wish it is all true and we are actually experiencing miracles of nature. Is that so? I ask my friends of BBC to tell me the extent of greatness which is actually provided by facts and what is the fruit of our imagination (regardless of its beauty). In any way, it's a must see. Beauty is universal. Alfeu
According to IMDb trivia: "The project took 40 camera teams shooting at over 200 different locations all over the world for more than five years." I really think this says it all. After all, instead of the usual documentary where one or two cameramen shoot some nice animal footage, this one goes way, way beyond. In addition to the best footage you'll ever see in a documentary, you are also treated with terrific time-lapse footage, video from airplanes and it's all in glorious HD. Add to this the wonderful narration by David Attenborough and you have the very best nature series ever. In fact, other shows just don't even come close. A visual treat not to be missed--chocked full of so many WOW moments!


                
Naica mine in Chihuahua, Mexico isn't the only place where there is to be found a crystal cave...Not based on gypsum, there is another cave in Romania, Polaris Cave(Pestera Polaris), near Moneasa,Romania, that has rich crystal formations. Why didn't anyone talk about that? I think that there sadly is a Pro-Americanish politics about this documentary, but besides that, it is the best documentary ever... It has the best camera sets, and the best cameramen...jolly good job, mates!! keep on doing the good work!!!Alexandru,Romania


                
Planet Earth is one of the best documentaries narrated by David Attenborough. Any program produced by BBC that is related to Nature will always be Good.But, Planet Earth shows the power of Nature to fullest extent.Forests, Deserts and Oceans shown from higher angle, the clear sound of animals crying, it's just wonderful.Im working hard and collecting more money to spend my time traveling to places like these.Thank You David Attenborough for your continued effort on creating Documentaries related to Nature.


                
I do not usually review shows or documentaries, but this show deserves it. Every episode is PHENOMENAL! The photography and cinematography are perfect! We get to see how beautiful our planet Earth is, and how sometimes we forget that. Learning about all these creatures and how they survive and inhabit all these different regions is truly wonderful.This is a perfect documentary series, and also very entertaining! I feel like every episode I am watching a Motion Picture, and I even connect with all the animals shown and what happens to them! This show is truly something different than all of the other nature shows and documentaries! We are absorbed into this show, almost like we are absorbed into another planet, even though it is OUR planet.


                
What is this something you can see the Moscow Circus under the Moscow Russia and the Moscow Circus Tickets in the Moscow you
'Planet Earth' is one of the most awesome nature documentaries. They show stunning videos of Arctic, Mountains, Caves, Deserts, Plains, Jungles, Forests, Seas, Ocean deep etc etc. This superb documentary has the superb narrator David Attenborough !!


                
