For all my life (since I was a very wee toddler anyway) I have loved David Attenborough. Well <U+0096> not kissed loved, but I really liked him on TV and what he did.Though you never see him up on screen in this series (as he is only the narrator), he does an excellent job. Not only is HE good, but the photographers who risked their lives to film animals and planet earth from all four corners of the globe definitely deserve praise.Each episode explains how the animals live in particular habitats. It shows captivating (often ugly) descriptions of this habitat and the animals there in a breathtaking way<U+0085>I recommend this series to animal lovers, fans of David Attenborough, naturalists and for people who would like to watch an educational series!


                
I have watched 3 or 4 episodes and the photography is the best I have ever seen on television. But I think in general it lacks depth of understanding on the plants/animals and their ecosystem, for a "documentary" series. For example, the episode on fungi that produces horrific tubers out of the heads of ants was amazing visually, but - anything on the ants' social structure? Which other plants/insects depend on them? Their role in the forest habitat? Anything else children should learn about their fascinating ecosystem? Nope. But the tubers sure were icky. Also the thrust of the series seems to be on how wonderful and breathtaking the planet is, without delving into questions about how humans are impacting these ecosystems (the episode on polar bears was an exception - but even this didn't dig into too much detail). In Canada like many others I grew up with "The Nature of Things" with David Suzuki, which really delved deeply into the science and human issues. This series seems to concentrate mostly on great photography, jumping from one area of the globe to another without pausing for too long to get into any real "details".A 10 for photography, 6 for content, so I averaged it to 8/10.


                
There aren't many earth/animal documentaries that keep the interest at that high level! This is a top production that can be considered as part of earth's inheritance for the next centuries to come. The quality of images and camerawork is amazing. Drones must have come in handy for that reason, too. As the earth progresses, depletion of the natural resources is a fact (bear in mind the imminent Blade Runner dystopia!) which threatens survival of most species, even humanity. For that reason, this documentary gets more added value since it shows the abundance of flora and fauna at the peak level of earth's evolution.We see in action some species that really rely on others to survive. The "big fish eats the small" gets a literal meaning here. If the latter distinct, the former follow suit, too! Also, it's impressive how long some animals can stay alive until they find water or their next food (a living creature for that matter, mostly). The evolution ideas hold strong here making the animals adapt to their environment nicely.The tricks some species like the cave worms devise to find food are extraordinary. It's difficult to believe they have the ability and the instincts to setup such traps for the insects to fall into and become their prey. This is the case with the sticky strings and the glowing light to attract the insects.The narration is well written and executed. It is the cohesive substance between the audience and the content of the documentary, actually an integral part of it. It keeps the audience in a state of curiosity and triggers the interest about what's next. There are also some minor issues. The script is not delving deeper into some explanations. I guess it's difficult to find the right balance between the scientific content and the understanding ability of the main target audience.08/10 is nice.


                
It was really disappointing to watch them call the Persian gulf, the "Arabian" gulf instead in the shallow seas episode.. but before that I was really enjoying it. Now I wonder how many other mistakes were included in the series that I didn't notice


                
The original TV show consists of 11 hour long episodes of some of the most stunning nature cinematography and harrowing real life-and-death struggles. One should definitely get the British version with David Attenborough narrating to get that old nature documentary feel. The scope is global and the visuals are cinematic. It is a thing of utter beauty. There are 3 additional episodes called Planet Earth: The Future and it's best to avoid those. It's a lot of talking heads saying the same thing from slightly different angles. I understand the motive to push for nature conservation but pushing too hard comes off as being preachy. There is greater power to show the beauty of nature. One can always insert the ugliness of human destruction without having talking heads drone on about it. The original 11 episodes are as close to perfection as TV nature documentaries can get.


                
Fjfjjfjhjjjjdjfjcjc xncjxjckkc lwlslzlxkckNzjxjdjxjxj
