My goodness. What an awful ending. It was as if they got too deep into all their twists and turns that, instead of attempting to untie the knots and resolve the plot, they just decided to end it and be done with it as abruptly as possible. It also felt like it was a sequel to another movie that actually had something to do with or at least used the subject of Chinatown for more than a couple ominous and vague one-liners. It honestly felt like this was Chinatown 2 and I missed the far superior, more exciting Chinatown 1. It was as if the writers knew they liked the line "Forget it, Jake. That's Chinatown" but were so eager to end the movie with it that didn't bother to explain to the audience the significance of the line. It was like a callback that didn't have an initial call. A comparable example is the line TIA (This Is Africa) in Blood Diamond. It's used early on and you get a sense of its many different meanings and it's supposed familiarity amongst Africans and then the line is called back in a very moving way at the end. That's what the Chinatown line at the end should have been, but wasn't. I am just in awe as to the lengths people in the film community will go to to fall in line with the status quo on things like this. I cannot imagine anyone has ever seen Chinatown and been moved or enthralled to the point of wanting to watch it again. It seems to me that, much like the contemporary art community, film critics put on kid gloves when it comes to the so-called noir genre and are absolutely ready and willing to write off any lack of depth, lack of character development, and terrible endings as insightful and artistic noir touches. Why even name the movie Chinatown if there are only going to be 4 lines in the whole movie having to do with Chinatown? So many roads to nowhere in that movie. And then in the end, the whole movie is a road to nowhere. Chinatown could be summed up as: a private detective spends two hours unfurling an intricate web of conspiracy and corruption and then it just ends.
Maybe its just that times have changed, but I don't think so. Some find this a newish film noir classic but I found it a poor attempt at being a film anything. The cinema photography is uninspired, the costuming cheesy, the art direction uninspired and then there's the lumbering script. My god, I was disappointed. I had heard so much about this movie through the years and it not only fell short, it collapsed. And how do you screw up a movie with Jack Nicholson and Faye Dunaway? I don't know, but Roman Polanski sure did a job of it. What a mucked up movie. And how about that embarrassing cameo by Polanski. My goodness, I almost laughed out loud. And then poor John Huston...My, my, my. I guess one thing that really put me off is this movie lacks ANY of the grittiness you expect in a film noir classic. Comparing a real film noir classic like Double Indemnity to this mess is painful. Everything is over done to the point of being contrived. Its like the difference between visiting Newschwanstein Castle in Bavaria and the castle at Disneyland. Watch The Usual Suspects or LA Confidential instead. This ones a dog.


                
What a horrible film!1. This film insinuates that Chinese people are corrupt even though they have almost no involvement in the plot.2. Zero criminal consequences for corruption in this film3. Roman Polanski, the director, predicts his sexual perversions with a 13-year-old girl via this film; one of the main characters is an evil, powerful man who impregnates his own daughter also with zero criminal consequences.The only redeeming quality--the film recreates the 1930s setting wonderfully.
I don't know why films like this garner so much attention. I will allow that the film is set against a dark and slightly horrific background and that some people find that type of movie compelling. But so far I've sat through Five Easy Pieces, Klute, Chinatown and Midnight Cowboy and I cannot even begin to understand the fascination with these movies - the dialog in these movies is HORRIBLE and TOTALLY UNREALISTIC - and in some cases not even logical. The story-lines unrealistic, if they exist at all. I found myself falling asleep at 1:00 in the afternoon. I actually commented to my wife "Does This Thing Ever End?". Slow-paced, tacky, outdated, boring. JaAt 1:50 of the movie I said "I hope this movie ends with someone dropping a bomb on all of them". I can't believe this piece of garbage was on my Bucket List!!
