OK I am going to be honest, the movie was made with skill and the actors was good, but the whole movie is extremely dull and moves very slowly. I remember I saw this for the first time when I was 17 and thought is was bad. That was more than 10 years ago, and when they showed it on TV again, in 1999, I tried to watch it once again with a more mature mind, but I still thought it was very dull and un-appealing. The beginning of the movie was promising, but after 1 hour I really lost interest.I can't understand why Chinatown have over 8 in average vote. I gave it 3.


                
A nicely executed movie with a couple of ups and downs that will get you feeling a little giddy at times.. and then leaves you with filler content that doesn't relate to the main plot..Waiting for that promised mystery to unveil itself.. you'll be surprised that the solution for that awaited mystery had just passed as one of those short giddy moments..The movie tries hard to keep the suspense on by throwing in some nice change of events.. but those events only climb up to a cliché and utterly unsatisfying ending..The main plot deviated from the main conspiracy and moved on to personal affairs and bad blood.. not saying it wasn't a good change of pace, but you can't just give too much back story on a topic then simply ditch it half way through the movie.. This movie had so much potential.. such a shame seeing it end like a generic Steven Seagal movie..


                
It's a movie that builds toward something. It's well acted. It has a great film noir quality about it. But it is incredibly slow getting anywhere and were are times when I had to force myself to keep watching. Not a movie to watch when you're tired or in the mood for anything even resembling action.


                
*NO SPOILER YET* In case you're wondering why the incredibly high ratings, bear in mind this is a Polanski (all the cinema lovers, "intellectuals" and critics' favorite) starring now classic Jack Nicholson in a typical film noir that takes itself so very seriously it's almost telling you you have to love it or else you're not a true cinema purist.To be honest, Nicholson as the other actors put in a good performance. Dunaway is alright but not nearly brilliant, but anyways the point is even incredibly talented actors couldn't make mediocrity into greatness. The script is fine if you're a fanatic of crime films, but if you just so happen not to be particularly this is the slowest 2hrs10min you've seen in a long time. In a long time. The pacing is S-L-O-W, you couldn't quite call this piece exactly "stimulating". The very plot is completely ordinary - big powerful bad guy covers up his horrible crimes and wants more money more power, complicated story about L.A.'s water and who owns it (wow no fascinating) - and has no edge to it whatsoever for the genre. What is considered "superb structure" can just as easily feel like a ton of events that pile up and further sinks the film into a delirium of enduring boredom where instead of being uneventful, it is full of stuff happening, but all of which are dull and typical.What's more, there's nothing else about the film that helps lift the bland quality of the whole: dialog has no particular wit and also subscribes to the typical formula, the humor is corny, there's no real moral or actual greater point, the emotional dimension is fake and cold, the cinematography is flat and linear, and there isn't even that big old ending at the end that could've perhaps given legitimacy to the darn thing.*SPOILER* - the Dunaway mother/sister thing is ridiculous and unnecessary and brings no strength to the plot, the fact she dies in the end right in front of that poor traumatized kid is senseless and also with no worth, how it's strongly implied the grandfather wants to sexually abuse her too and grabs her and takes her away is just insanely unnecessary and anti-climactic. And the clues towards the end are technically ridiculous: so of all places he drowns the guy in his pool in his backyard (conveniently the only place with salt water in the whole entire perimeter), of course drops his glasses in there and in order to read that paper at the end he pulls out and wears the exact same pair...Lots of flaws there. You can like it and all, but the flaws are certainly there.
The film Chinatown was made in 1974 and was directed by Roman Polanksi and written by Robert Towne. This movie was supposed to portray a crime thriller pact with action and adventure. Unfortunately I did not care for this movie all that much for a couple of reasons. One being that I thought that the movie was very drawn out and quite frankly I thought it was a little long. Jack Nicholson plays the main character J.J Gittes who is a private investigator who is usually hired to see if the spouse is cheating on another. I thought that he did fine job acting but I felt as if I knew almost every curve or bend that was around the corner. From the start of the movie you could almost tell it was going to be a Hollywood type movie. It seems like the classic movie where the chump guy falls for the hot girl and believes her little sob story, when all in all it comes back to her in the end. Evelyn Mulwray who was played by Faye Dunaway kept on giving Mr. Gittes false information or would make up another story until she had him believing her in the end. J.J. who is suppose to be a good private eye never really fully comprehends what is going on until Evelyn tells him about her daughter/sister that she has. After being given the run around one to many times Mr. Gittes goes over to the house where Evelyn was holding the child and confronts her. He gets so impatient and frustrated that he slapped Evelyn until she spit out the truth to him. We then come to find out that she was raped as a little girl by her father and have become pregnant and birthed a girl and that girl was the one upstairs in the house. Evelyn was trying to hide her from her dreaded father who wanted to have the child to himself. Out of all the movies that I've see with Jack Nicholson I would have to say that this would rank among one of the weakest thrillers to date. Though I think that it being a classic it is a must see for someone who really wants to get a background of films done in the 70's and how they broke the trend that most movies were being filmed and because of that we have the type of movies we have today.
My opinion is that Mr Roman Polanski is one of the most prominent directors of our time. But "Chinatown" is a flop.One day when it was shown over our local TV I tried hardly to enjoy it, but I could not. The same happened, when I watched "The Ninth Gate". I cannot mention a single thing, which I like about the movie. The movie just goes on and on and on, as if the director has nothing to say. As to me, I have certainly nothing good to say. I agree that it is a dark psychological drama but this film being on the top list is not right.It is also an unpleasant movie (not ultimately though). There exist much worse movies and that's why.. . I give it a weak 3 out of 10, sorry, Mr Roman Polanski. Thanks for attention.


                
Watched several times. Finally figured out the message: big money is made out of corrupt municipal government activities/spending such as water development. Those unfortunate to uncover or stand in the way of the City Hall money tree thugs better watch out! But we knew this already then as today, is L.A. or the failed state of CA any better now? Lack of coherence, abetted by always-vapid Faye Dunaway obscures the kernel of truth here. Will vote against any government spending from now on, even though I in SoCal probably drink some of the water that resulted. As to existential subtexts, read whatever you want into this noir mishmash; we later found out what kind of person Director Polanski is. Happy Exile from LaLa Land, please do not trouble sensible folks' eye/brain coordination again.
