Film Noir has to be the most overrated style of film being made.  'The Maltese Falcon', 'L.A. Confidential', and now 'Chinatown' are film noir films I have seen that are highly overrated pieces of s**t.  Someone has to say how crappy this style of film is.  But perhaps I am the only one using my brain when I watch these over complicated, yet extremely simple, and most of the time non-existent and forgotten about plots. First of all, the plot twists.  There are too many to count in every one of these.  She could be a daughter, then a lover, then a wife, then a man. It doesn't matter, apparently all of you fools will buy into anything they tell you and call it a masterpiece.  You may as well watch 'Days of our Lives'.  I bet they have great plot twists for all of you to sink your teeth into.  There's sure to be double crosses.  And as long as there are ten or eleven of those, contrived as they all are, you seem to love it.Now 'Chinatown' is no better than any of those.  Jack Nicholson was a million times better in 'One Flew Over the Cuckoos Nest', and that had a coherent script.  So I guess thats out.  Plus that had characters that you could have sympathy for, where as in film noir, this film is no exception to the rule, all of the characters are just a tool for the plot twists.  They don't have personalities or souls, they just have surprises, all of which are surprises because they come out of nowhere and don't cohere with the story they initially started telling. And continuity, can I get a little of that, please.  By the end of the movie, the main story element didn't even matter.  All of the plans to move water out of L.A. are forgotten about, and then some contrived soap opera story line takes center stage. I will, however, admit that I did enjoy the scene when Dunaway tell Nicholson her big secret.  It was just so damn contrived and out of nowhere that I found myself laughing a little and with a small smile on my face. All though, that was the only brief amount of enjoyment I got out of it, because the rest was just so slow.  And its built up like we are supposed to be exposed to this great finale, but alas, we are not.  But it was all silly, contrived, out of the blue, and a great plot twist that makes no sense, so I'm sure all of you were breathless when it was all said and done. And I have news for those of you who are so impressed at how good the atmosphere in this film is.  Guess what?  This isn't the only film thats been shot half decently and has atmosphere, all though not much of one.  A lot of films have a great atmosphere.  'The Godfather' has a great atmosphere.  'Das Boot' has a great atmosphere.  But these also have better direction, better stories, and better characters that we can care about. Am I really asking for too much in wanting that.  Those two are great films. This is really more of an attack on the genre on the whole, but this movie is no better than any other ones.  Nicholson was fine, but thats about it.  I'll take a movie with characters I care about from now on, and maybe a cohesive plot and story.  Thats all I ask, and I don't think thats too much.


                
To me Chinatown is a mediocre film noir. I love mistery, I love dark films, and I love tragic endings, but this film contains nothing of these. The only real surprise of the movie is the fact that salt water is not good for grass, all other twists (and there are many) are either hinted at too early in too obvious a way, or they come completely unprepared in a way which is meant to shock, which usually fails. This holds in particular for the daughter-sister-scene - on one hand hand I expect her to say something horrible, on the other hand, I have no clue what exactly she will say. So I am neither surprised, for I had no expectations which could be shaken, nor shocked, because the scene and its aim to shock has been heralded far too early. The ending is logical and would be nice, if Gittes wouldn't have talked to much before. So chinatown was already known as the symbol of "we destroy what we love while trying to protect it", and we can only wait and see how exactly destruction will take place.The film is somewhat saved by the superb acting of whole cast, nice lighting and the nose scene. Alltogether a 4.


                
I don't know why this film is so revered as honestly, I couldn't wait for it to get over- but it never would. Really, this is the longest film I've ever had the displeasure to sit through. Jack Nicholson plays a private detective without the usual Nicholson antics which would have at least made the proceedings more watchable, Faye Dunaway plays a heiress who hires Nicholson, and harbors a dirty secret and John Huston plays her father and head honcho who is the epitome of evil. The story isn't bad and I can see why the film is so revered, especially when you see the ending but man, does it take its time to get going.


                
So, in my journey through the IMDb top 250 I think that outside of planet Ingmar Bergman I have never encountered a less engaging film than this one: it was truly hard to take on this film, which is different than actually hating it: it is just that I think a film should be more driven by audio-visual processes rather than dialogue: 2001: A Space Odyssey, for instance, is one of such films, another is Apocalypse Now, but this is not one of such films: it seems to last forever and the whole film feels like it was made in the 1930's.Indeed, this Neo-Noir style of film making does not appeal to me. My grandma, though, would probably like this film. But young people (people under 35) of the Star Wars generation will probably not like this film very much. I recommend this film to those that love 1930's and 1940's flicks, such as Casablanca (which also did not impress me).


                
I don't know why this film is so revered as honestly, I couldn't wait for it to get over- but it never would. Really, this is the longest film I've ever had the displeasure to sit through. Jack Nicholson plays a private detective without the usual Nicholson antics which would have at least made the proceedings more watchable, Faye Dunaway plays a heiress who hires Nicholson, and harbors a dirty secret and John Huston plays her father and head honcho who is the epitome of evil. The story isn't bad and I can see why the film is so revered, especially when you see the ending but man, does it take its time to get going. 4/10 (Slow paced and languid).


                
I don't know why this film is so revered as honestly, I couldn't wait for it to get over- but it never would. Really, this is the longest film I've ever had the displeasure to sit through. Jack Nicholson plays a private detective without the usual Nicholson antics which would have at least made the proceedings more watchable, Faye Dunaway plays a heiress who hires Nicholson, and harbors a dirty secret and John Huston plays her father and head honcho who is the epitome of evil. The story isn't bad and I can see why the film is so revered, especially when you see the ending but man, does it take its time to get going.


                
