Roman Polanski's Chinatown is definitely one of the best crime thrillers when it comes to both its fantastic structure and complex character study. It's his fascinating take on the corruption, greed and violence that lead people to become inhumane and brutal towards one another. It's like this real, and metaphorical 'Chinatown' in every bigger town in the USA – a place where everything happens on its own rules. Or even better, there aren't actually any rules, just the law of the jungle, one might say. Of course the rule applies as much to a single district, as to a whole city, or even country.J. J. Gittes has to cope with one of the hardest cases that he had ever encountered. Normally, it all comes down to a few pictures of a cheating spouse (that's his business all right) to end a chapter. But this time it's something much bigger and more dangerous. He embarks on a path, which heads toward the discovery of a scheme that concerns the whole city of Los Angeles and its huge water supply. What's more, in all this crazy, dizzying mess Gittes meets a very fascinating and troubled woman, with a difficult mystery attached to herself.After spending time with her Gittes is able to realize how pathological her family really is. And pathology is a right word in this context, as the amount of incest and other closely related themes is enormous. The uncontested brilliance that Polanski has shown in Chinatown is contained in its complicated storyline and great use of symbolism, connected to every thing water-y. Almost everywhere you can sense the impact put on various connotations regarding water, not only in dialogues but also in the aspect of sensual experiences. For example, tapping water in the sink plays great with the overwhelming silence in the scene, where J. J. discovers a dead body on the floor. I really admire Jack Nicholson for his marvelous work in every picture that he stars in, but his role in Chinatown is for me the definition of his career. The way he plays Gittes just makes you want more of his on-screen time (even though he is the main character). He sometimes shows a very serious side of his nature, but he can also come up with a fine amount of great jokes and insults. He is sacrificing his own life to terminate a case, which he wasn't even supposed to be involved in. Nicholson shows a bunch of acting skills that make his act very believable and entertaining. Faye Dunaway gives a decent performance as this classy, but very disturbed woman trying to help herself cope with the peculiar problems of her strange family. Note: Don't miss the very funny cameo by Polanski, who plays this scary, tiny man with a knife. Many laughs assured!Polanski also makes a great use of the plot device known as a MacGuffin. The murder, which occurs in the beginning of the film isn't actually the thing that drives the plot later on. Even though Gittes is trying to find the killer, the picture is more about an insight into the characters and their profiles to provide a definitive explanation of this gruesome story.All in all, I highly recommend Chinatown as one the best avant-garde crime movies ever directed and one of the finest, freshest takes on the pristine noir genre. Great directing, thrilling storyline and many detailed puzzles hidden in it account for a most memorable experience.


                
Fascinating mystery thriller in the Dashiell Hammet-Raymond Chandler style about an eye private who becomes involved into a complex criminal intrigue centering municipal corruption, and uncovering corruption , land sell , incest and murder . 1930 , City of Los Angeles , a private detective named Jake Gittes (Jack Nicholson) is contracted by a woman (Diane Lane , Laura Dern's mother) claiming to be a Mrs. Mulwray to spy on her husband . As Jake investigating an adultery case stumbles on to a scheme of murder that has something to do with water . Shortly after Gittes (Jake Gittes was named after Jack Nicholson's friend, producer Harry Gittes) goes to the Town Hall where he learns about ¨The Van der Lip Dam disaster¨ is a reference to the collapse of the St Francis Dam in 1928, 40 miles northwest of Los Angeles, which had been designed by self-educated engineer William Mulholland , the consequent flooding killed at least 450 people, a loss of life that remains second only to that from the San Francisco earthquake and fire in California's history . Later on , he is hired by the real Mrs. Mulwray (Femme Fatale Faye Dunaway, after Ali MacGraw was discarded as she lost the role when she divorced him for Steve McQueen, producer Robert Evans wanted Jane Fonda for the part of Evelyn Mulwray while Roman Polanski insisted upon Julie Christie ,when Christie passed on the script , then was to Faye) who appears in his office threatening to sue if he doesn't drop the issue immediately. Gittes goes on his mission anyway, slowly uncovering a vast conspiracy centering on water management, corruption , real estate, and involving at least one killing . After that , there appears a hood (Polanski who knifes Nicholson) who slits Jake's nose (it was extremely complex to shot by using a specially-constructed knife with a short hinge that they began to claim Nicholson's nose was actually cut).It is a splendid film in noir tradition and considered to be one of the best film about this genre . This exciting movie packs mystery, tension, nail-biting scenes, strikingly suspense and colorful images . Interesting and thrilling script by Robert Towne who wrote the screenplay with Jack Nicholson in mind and deservedly won Oscar for the best original screenplay . The Chinatown screenplay is now regarded as being one of the most perfect screenplays and is now a main teaching point in screen writing seminars and classes everywhere. This was the first film of a planned trilogy about corruption in the development of Los Angeles. It was set in the 1930s and was about the water department and in the original script, no scenes took place in Chinatown at all. . The second film, The Two Jakes, was directed by Jack Nicholson in 1990 and was set in the 1940s and was about the gas company. The third film of the trilogy was about the building of the massive freeway system and was to be called "Cloverleaf", named after the famous interchange in downtown L.A., but it was never filmed. Awesome acting by Jack Nicholson ,because this film was the first of a planned trilogy, Jack Nicholson turned down all detective roles he was offered so that the only detective he played would be Jake Gittes. At the time of filming, Jack Nicholson had just embarked on his longstanding relationship with Anjelica Huston , this made his scenes with her father, John Huston, rather uncomfortable. Secondary cast is frankly magnificent such as Burt Young , John Huston , Diane Lane , Perry Lopez , James Hong , Bruce Glover , among others . Roman Polanski wanted William A. Fraker as his cinematographer, having successfully collaborated with him on Rosemary's Baby, but this notion was blocked by producer Robert Evans .Cinematographer Stanley Cortez was fired soon after production began because his classical style did not match the naturalistic style Polanski wanted for the film and proved too time consuming , Polanski had to find a replacement in only a few days and chose John A. Alonzo. Emotive as well as sensitive musical score by Jerry Goldsmith , including unforgettable leitmotif ; though Phillip Lambro was originally hired to write the film's music score but it was rejected at the last minute by producer Robert Evans, leaving Jerry Goldsmith only ten days to write and record the new score. The motion picture was stunningly directed by Polanski (Repulsion , Rosemary's baby , The pianist , Bitter moon, Frantic, Dance of vampires) . This is the last movie Roman Polanski filmed in the US and resulted to be the 15th biggest grossing film of 1974. And 2007, the American Film Institute ranked this as the #21 Greatest Movie of All Time. And ranked #2 on the American Film Institute's list of the 10 greatest films in the genre "Mystery" in June 2008 .


                
My Rating : 8/10Roman Polanski's Chinatown is a slow, brooding film-noir reminiscent of the 40's. Jack Nicholson and Faye Dunaway are perfectly cast, the background score is sublime and the dark detective story is consistently engaging and very, very classy.A well-crafted film-noir, albeit a bit slow but if you don't mind the pacing it's rather riveting in places, especially the second half.Thumbs up for this mysterious suspense-drama if you're in the mood for a good slow-burner. Recommended.


                
"I don't want to nail you. I want to find out who put you up to it."A drought-stricken, late 1930's Los Angeles serves as the backdrop to this neo noir starring Jack Nicholson and Faye Dunaway. What starts out as a seemingly routine job for a private detective of shadowing a cheating spouse, balloons into a murky mystery involving murder, greed, and long-hidden secrets.I had to watch this twice, because the first time I was a bit distracted and didn't get the full experience of the movie. These kinds of films require you to pay as close attention to the details as the detective who's the protagonist of the story, in order to fit all the pieces together. The mystery of what's going on has several layers that are slowly revealed as the story unfolds, Dunaway and Nicholson are brilliant playing off one another, and the ending is truly memorable and perfectly reinforces the theme of the movie. This is a flick that almost any fan of the genre will enjoy.


                
Hollywood is one city which often wears more faces than the two it's noted for. Naturally, one face is more acceptable than the other. That face is innocence. Its hardly an innocent place, but to judge by its heavenly celluloid stories, it continues because audiences are suckers for them. Those faces are found in every splendid tale it creates. This movie is one of them. The film is called "Chinatown." It has been seen by many audiences because of is star. Jack Nicholson plays J.J. 'Jake' Gittes, a modest, but serious private eye who's every bit an old style gumshoe. In this episode he is hired by the wife (Faye Dunaway) of a city government employee to find out if her husband is cheating. With the help of his associates, he not only discovers the husband is not cheating, but also learns she is not really the man's wife. The real Mrs. Evelyn Mulray (Faye Dunaway) sues Gittes and promises legal action. Gittes begins to investigate and finds more than he sought, including murder, political corruption and a powerful organization, led by millionaire Noah Cross, (John Huston). His friend on the police force, Lieutenant Lou Escobar (Perry Lopez) warns him of the dangerous elements arrayed against him. One for instance is Roman Polanski who plays a vicious gangster, and is also the movie's director. Dunaway proves fantastic when cross examined and reveals a secret which should have remained undisturbed. In the end, we conclude that innocence is covered in a thin veneer for a reason. You don't really want to know the truth. Now where have we heard that before? ****
Stylish and intriguing.Los Angeles in the early-1930s. A private detective, JJ Gittes (played by Jack Nicholson), is hired by a woman to investigate her husband, as she suspects he is having an affair. Her husband, Hollis Mulwray, is the chief water engineer for the city of Los Angeles. Soon after Gittes delivers the photos that seem to confirm her suspicions, he meets the real wife of the man. Intrigued, Gittes investigates further. Then Mr Mulwray turns up dead...A clever, slow-burning thriller from director Roman Polanski. Information is gained slowly, heightening the intrigue. Many red herrings, and detours. Nothing is obvious. To make things even more complex, there's not just one plot line in play...Very film noir like in its feel. You could easily see Humphrey Bogart as Gittes...Good work by Jack Nicholson and Faye Dunaway in the leading roles. Good support from John Huston.Not perfect though. The movie loses momentum in the last third or so, focusing on a lesser plot and amplifying the detour by an extended wild goosechase. Ultimately this sub-plot is necessary, to an extent, but it needn't have had so much time devoted to it. Just when the movie was ready to kick up a gear, having idled along previously, it went sideways rather than forward.


                
The way this movie was shot was so good. I learned about a few of the ways they took the advancement in technology in the 70's and used it in this movie, it all fit the time period though very well, like nothing to fancy all of it was just right. For example one of the techniques was using a hand-held camera to really get in on tight spots so you could feel as if you were with the characters as they experienced some moment. The acting by Faye Dunaway and Jack Nicholson was really great and the chemistry they had on screen was flawless. And the movie was supposed to take place in the thirties so you'd think they wanted to go artistic and make it black and white, but the color looked really good and suited the movie just fine. A really good movie overall.


                
Roman Polanski directed this complex but fascinating story of corruption that stars Jack Nicholson as private detective J.J. Gittes, who is hired by a woman named Evelyn Mulwray to see if her husband(a water department official) is cheating. It turns out he is, but things take a strange turn when the husband is found dead, and the woman who hired him was an impostor. The real Evelyn Mulwray(played by Faye Dunaway) claims to know nothing of the affair, but Gittes continues to investigate, which leads him to wealthy land owner Noah Cross(played by John Houston) who has shady dealings going on, and also wants to find his granddaughter, which Evelyn knows something about... Superbly directed and acted film is quite uncomfortably cynical and downbeat at times, especially the ending, but remains a fine(updated) throwback to classic film noir.


                
An LA p.i. gets caught up with a spider woman and a land stealing scheme that uses water diversion during a drought.In short, the movie's the best noir since the genre's golden age. From muted colors to shaded performances to uncompromised ending, the movie's a worthy successor to the 40's classics. And that's despite the 130-minute length, twice the average. Plus, director Polanski doesn't have to meet Code requirements that compromised many a 40's feature. Thus, we get an ending that befits the general storyline, no matter how much of a downer it is for the audience.Note that amidst a prevaricating world, Nicholson's J.J. Gittes is no noble truth-seeker in the manner of a Marlowe or a Spade. Instead, he's in it strictly for the money. So when he's trapped in the spider woman's (Dunaway) little web of deceit, it's hard to feel sympathy. In fact, Gittes is neither very likable in personality, methods or ethics. Thus, it's a tribute to screenwriter Towne that we stay involved with the storyline, despite the general absence of anybody to identify with. Then too, the plot is not so much a mystery or whodunit as it is a web of intrigue leading to someone or somewhere. That central referent of 'Chinatown' remains something of a puzzler. I interpret it as a place where bad things are done in the name of the good while everyone ignores the discrepancy. Thus, the ironical ending.Anyhow, the movie's a first-rate noir that makes a lasting impression, and as an LA resident I'm reminded to check my lawn. I think it needs water.


                
ChinatownPolanski's mysterious case is a nail biting chase that makes you sweat and wolfish for it, where being manipulated by the writers is all you will wish for. And the writers does, they do fiddle with you like puppets just as they do with their characters. It redefines the genre thriller with nothing but a single lose thread that keeps you on the hook throughout its more than two hours of journey. Unlike any other mystery drama, it follows a single track only, which has the potential to keep you tangled in this world of cheat and death. The weaving of the structure that builds up to a clue or newer perspective on the case, is how Polanski keeps the audience in awe of its sheer intensity. The narration is not only gripping and adaptive but layered with thought provoking dialogues and pragmatic conversations along with raising sensitive issues. Nicholson's portrayal is smarter and mature than his usual acts are and the credit also goes to the writers that has allotted him a much wider range of persona that easily overpowers others. His hat, his suit, his notions of lighting a cigarette and arranging his hairs, he is calculating and observing on each steps. His methods are brimmed with such cunning intuitions that he fuels the entire feature that drives it into a whole new brighter town. Supporting him thoroughly, Dunaway is fishy enough to keep the uncertainty alive through the sincerity of her performance. Polanski keeps the jagged script on the edge throughout the course and it is that awareness of the hidden Trump card that makes you bleed and sweat. Chinatown is less of the usual mechanical town than the one that bounce on its own rhythm, it is a sharp diagnosis of a complex troubled case to which you ought to be obliged to explore into.


                
This film has attained quite a reputation and rightly so- Chinatown is a slow moving film but it shouldn't deter you from seeing it. The screenplay by Robert Towne is considered the template for all screenplays and it is incredibly rich n everything a script should be. Polanski is a master so there's no point covering that bit and the way he executes each scene is amazing. Nicholson and Dunaway are awesome and make a great pair. The cinematography is amazing and Los Angeles 1930's never looked this good. This is a film that should be taught in film schools on how to make a great film.


                
Chinatown is a slow moving film but it shouldn't deter you from seeing it. The screenplay by Robert Towne is considered the template for all screenplays and it is incredibly rich n everything a script should be. Polanski is a master so there's no point covering that bit and the way he executes each scene is amazing. Nicholson and Dunaway are awesome and make a great pair. The cinematography is amazing and Los Angeles 1930's never looked this good. This is a film that should be taught in film schools on how to make a great film.


                
Renowned for its stylised performances, artful direction and riveting story telling technique, Roman Polanski's Chinatown captures a bygone era of crime drama. Jack Nicholson (in an Academy Award nominated performance) is Jack Gittes, a wisecracking private eye who makes "an honest living" off the murky moral climate of pre-war Los Angeles. Hired by a beautiful socialite (Faye Dunaway) to look into her husband's extramarital affair, Gittes unknowingly stumbles across a web of double-dealings and deceit. What at first appears to be an open-and-shut case unravels right under Gitte's nose to expose a maelstrom of political scandal, widespread corruption and dark family secrets that all come to light, one night in Chinatown.Winner of the Academy Award and BAFTA for Best Original Screenplay, this ground-breaking film also garnered 11 Academy Award nominations in all (including Best Picture, Best Actor, and Best Director). Chinatown is a landmark achievement in the classic film noir tradition, cementing its place as a cornerstone in every movie aficionado's collections.After reading through the blurb and writing down the information, I turn over the DVD case and can't help but thinking that this is one of the best films I've ever seen in a long, long time. Its place amongst the best Noir pictures is well deserved. One would argue that Noir cinema had its time in the 30s or 40s but was later tailed off by the arrival of more market-driven movies. Chinatown meets the criteria of any movie that wants to qualify as Noir: twist and turns, a touch of violence, a solid and rich plot that slowly diverges into several, an inquisitive, witty and cynic detective; someone who Raymond Chandler would be very proud of, characters well outlined whose loyalties slowly but surely are forcing them into witching alliances...and so many more. Yet, what has granted Chinatown a place of its own in cinema history is the changes it brought to the genre. Indeed, here what starts the plot off isn't gambling or a bereaved mistress but a water supply scandal and its cover-up in Los Angeles; there isn't either a femme fatale, although there's romance involved and the ending of the movie is one to remember. It's been rubber-stamped in my memory and It'll never go away. Not that I want it to.


                
There's a certain elegance that grabs you immediately with this movie. The cinematography is incredible but not showy. It follows the action but never chases it. I was endlessly struck with thought that they just don't make movies like this.After finally viewing this film it's not difficult to see the many movies that borrow from it. I immediately thought of Brick and so aspects of the Nice Guys.That aside, it's just a detective tale that is simple on the surface but once he starts scratching, it's ugly underneath. The 2 leads are excellent and seeing Jack Nicholson in his younger days I was reminded how hammy his performances have become. Faye Dunaway was perfect as well and I could easily forget she was in the Bye Bye Man last year.Not really much else to say other than if you haven't seen this movie, watch it asap. It has aged wonderfully, looks fantastic on Blu-ray and quite frankly one of if not the best Polanski movie.


                
Less a gushing homage to noir than part of a wave of 1970s conspiracy thrillers, Roman Polanski's "Chinatown" is one of the best (and few) examples of a film revitalizing and expanding conventions of past Hollywood.The early noirs of the 1940s and 50s used rapid-fire dialogue, claustrophobic sets, shadowy cinematography, canted angles, convoluted plots and various shady characters to construct an impenetrable web of conspiracy and betrayal. Within this web our heroes find themselves trapped, helpless, confused and yanked about like a puppet on a string.The very cinematic language of these films was oppressive, every detail actively scheming against both off-screen audience and on-screen hero (frequently a private investigator or police detective), both attempting to hack their way through the film's conspiratorial universe, often to no avail.Of course these early noir directors didn't know they were making noirs. The term hadn't been invented and these artists were simply responding, intuitively, to the anxieties of the time: the trendiness of existentialism, expressionism, the onset of war, urban sprawl etc.The last of the noirs made in the classic mould was, arguably, "Blast of Silence", a film which anticipates both Antonioni (where space and self disconnect) and Scorsese's "Taxi Driver" (loners in oppressive urban jungles) and provides clues as to which direction the genre was heading. From this point onwards, classical noirs ceased and noir then branched off into two directions, "neo noirs" and a whole mass of films which are noirs but are never classified as such.Neo noir was born under the sway of postmodernism, and so these films tended to be formalist games and vapid exercises in aesthetics. Concurrently with their rise came wave after wave of genuine noirs which, like the noirs of the 1930s and 40s, consciously or unconsciously reflected a changing world. And so whilst early noirs gave us noirs confined to tiny rooms, their characters battling their way from one small sound-stage to the next, these noirs expanded and began to take into account the growing consciousness of its post war audience.So we have such widely divergent films as "The Parallax View", "Marathon Man", "Capricorn One", "Apocalypse Now", "Taxi Driver", "Manchurian Candidate", "Z", "Three Days of the Condor", "The Spy Who Came In From The Cold", "The Conformist", "Cutter's Way", "All The President's Men (In "Perspectves on Film Noir", Raymond Durgnat even calls a science fiction film like "2001: A Space Odyssey" a film noir) etc etc, all films influenced by Vietnam, Watergate, whistle-blowing and a growing suspicion of any and all leaders. The existentialist's web of fate, in which a malevolent universe "naturally" conspires against man ("The Killing", "Wrath of God" etc), thus increasingly gave way to more politically charged plots. The genre remained quiet in the 1980s, aside from a subset of "tech noir" films like "Blade Runner" and "Terminator". Both films are about hunters, noir fate personified as relentless source code (man as machine, his future engineered). The Coens and Lynch then came along, the former neo-noirists largely interested in parlour tricks. Around this time neo noir also intersected with nudity, films like "Basic Instinct", "Body Heat", "Last Seduction", and "Jade" serving up femme fatales as figures to fear and salivate over.The 1990s saw noir seeping into television ("The X-Files", "Twin Peaks" etc). With zeitgeist tapping tag-lines such as "The Truth Is Out There" and "Trust No One", such shows posited a world of vast conspiracies, the common man at the mercy of all manners of ridiculously elaborate forces (religion, genetics, government plots, class, economics, monsters etc). It was now man's duty to trawl through these labyrinths of information, discovering some elusive "truth" that ensured his own freedom. In the mid 1990s the puppet masters then took the form of diseases and genetic disorders. Then with the internet age came the "conspiracy documentary", which proliferate on websites and peer-to-peer networks.Nowadays, noirs have the expansiveness of such shows as "The Wire", their characters at the mercy of a far wider range of forces (politics, science, sex, religion, globalization, capital, mysticism, Hollywood, genetics, technology, screenwriters, family, fate, bureaucracy etc). The best of these take place in a forever un-mappable universe, conflicts never resolved, characters trapped in the global flux, their heroes increasingly rootless, set adrift in a world of influences so vast that the human mind can do nothing but succumb. These noirs are such widely divergent fare as "Ran", "Inland Empire", "Demonlover", "Mulholland Drive", "The Wire", "Code 46", "Boarding Gate", "Platform", "Eyes Wide Shut", "Miami Vice", "Girlfriend Experience" etc etc. Of course nobody thinks of these films as "film noirs". They much rather champion self-consciously emulative fare.In any case, if "Chinatown" doesn't have the scope of later noirs ("Chinatown", unlike modern noirs, firmly believes its conspiracies can be uncovered), it's nevertheless one of cinema's most elegantly written tales. Elsewhere the film is brimming with neat details; consider the way Polanski constantly jumps from arid landscapes to fertile orchards (Chinatown's "conspiracy" revolves around land, water and agricultural property), the "water motifs" inserted into virtually every sequence (ponds, stuffed fish, paintings of lakes, swordfish etc) and the way Polanski aptly casts John Huston as the film's villain, Huston's "Maltese Falcon" being one of the first films to bring together all the tropes that we now commonly associate with "noir".9.5/10 - Masterpiece.
Seminal classic of '70s cinema, with Jack Nicholson excellent as a mostly-ethical former cop-turned-private detective in 1930s Los Angeles who believes he's been hired by the wife of the chief engineer of the Water and Power Department; she thinks her husband's cheating on her but, as it turns out, she's not the real Mrs. at all, and so propels Nicholson's Jake "J.J." Gittes into a tug-of-war between powerful ex-partners, with carnality and family secrets the key to unraveling the mystery. Oscar-winning screenplay by Robert Towne (who also penned the 1990 extension, "The Two Jakes") is filled with complicated story threads and characters with chequered pasts--lots of fun, though it is somewhat unfair the script is always two steps ahead of the audience (it would be nearly impossible for a first-time viewer to solve this case on his own; Towne sets up the game and ends up solving it for the rest of us). However, the picture is so deftly orchestrated by director Roman Polanski, one becomes engrossed in the proceedings even while being bombarded with both clues and extraneous matter. Faye Dunaway's performance, as the breathy, mysterious daughter of water-czar John Huston, walks a fine line between melodramatic and campy--still, she's entirely in the spirit of the piece, and an interesting screen-match for Nicholson. The film is assured and entertaining; it pulls the viewer in without giving out enough information concerning the milieu, though this lack of knowledge for our sake doesn't hurt the returns. A cannier, guessing-game approach to the plot may have made the film more commercial (it was a modest box-office hit); however, this presentation, messy though it may be, is still arresting. Repeat viewings are a must. *** from ****


                
This film has attained quite a reputation and rightly so- Chinatown is a slow moving film but it shouldn't deter you from seeing it. The screenplay by Robert Towne is considered the template for all screenplays and it is incredibly rich n everything a script should be. Polanski is a master so there's no point covering that bit and the way he executes each scene is amazing. Nicholson and Dunaway are awesome and make a great pair. The cinematography is amazing and Los Angeles 1930's never looked this good. This is a film that should be taught in film schools on how to make a great film.


                
This film has attained quite a reputation and rightly so- Chinatown is a slow moving film but it shouldn't deter you from seeing it. The screenplay by Robert Towne is considered the template for all screenplays and it is incredibly rich n everything a script should be. Polanski is a master so there's no point covering that bit and the way he executes each scene is amazing. Nicholson and Dunaway are awesome and make a great pair. The cinematography is amazing and Los Angeles 1930's never looked this good. This is a film that should be taught in film schools on how to make a great film.


                
This is the first film noir movie I've ever watched. The tendency of today's movie is action and sometimes thriller. I hope a lot of movies like this aremade again.


                
Roman Polanski is one of those directors I just don't trust, much like Lars Von Trier. Controversial, reclusive, scary and you never know what kind of freaky surprise element they're about to present in one of their films. I realise this is not entirely fair but Polanski has just always freaked me out like hell--his attitude, his style. Well, Chinatown is his masterpiece and in spite of its initial controversy in the 1970s, I find it to be one of the 'safer' and more enjoyable films he has directed. This has a lot to do with the presence of Jack Nicholson who adds such a light-hearted, humorous tone to his performance, and it helps make Chinatown more colourful than the average film noir.Nicholson is in fact wonderfully cocky--like James Bond without the campy one-liners--in a way that only he can be, and he brings this attitude to his character private detective Jake Gittes. He is hired by a woman claiming to be Mrs. Mulwray to spy on her husband, but there is a misunderstanding and suddenly the real Mrs Mulwray (Faye Dunaway) demands that Gittes drop the case immediately. Going against his better judgement, Gittes decides to pursue the investigation anyway and soon is on his way to unlock conspiracies, corruption and murders in the city of L.A.Chinatown is film noir but it is sprinkled and enriched with colour and some truly spectacularly detailed set designs that capture the elegance of the 1940s America. The cast's performances also enrich the film, in particular Jack Nicholson. The only real flaw in the film is its occasionally extremely slow pace. Normally I wouldn't consider this a flaw, but in Chinatown it almost gets to the point when you stop being involved in the plot because it's moving so slowly. But if you ever get bored, you could always feast your eyes on the gorgeous backgrounds and style.8/10


                
I decided to give this movie a second viewing and thoroughly enjoyed it this time round. Private eye Jake, (Jack Nicholson at his peak), finds himself tangled in a game of ruthless politics and deceit. He goes on the hunt to prove himself worthy of integrity. Instead he becomes a pawn in a game played by the filthy rich Cross family. One of Towne's finest scripts helped by Polanski's direction. The ending itself is a brave one and something you will not see in today's Hollywood gloss.


                
I have to confess I absolutely hate Jack Nicholson as an actor. Everyone has their bête- noire I suppose and he's mine, I just see him overacting in everything instead of acting. That goes for "One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest", "The Shining", "The Departed", you name it, for me he ruins it. All that is, except this. In Roman Polanski's superb revision of the 40's 'tec thriller, Nicholson is, and I really hate to say it, believe me, nothing short of brilliant. His character is a workaday private investigator, small-fry, but smart and persistent and Nicholson has you following in Jake Gittes every step from the first, which of course is director Polanski's methodology here, to draw in the viewer and hand us the problem, almost at first-hand, of trying to solve the labyrinthine plot, which gets deeper and darker as it progresses.Of course there has to be a femme fatale and here Faye Dunaway is entrusted the Mary Astor/Lauren Bacall role. However I wasn't completely convinced by her, for me she lacked the sexy allure and depths of mystery the part demands. Thus it was that at the famous expository "Mother! Sister!" scene, I almost burst out laughing at the fake sincerity (or should that be sincere fakery?) she employs. It was John Huston who got the acting Oscar in the movie, well deserved for his sleazy portrayal of the monstrous megalomaniacal father to Dunaway.Polanski's stylish direction is pace-perfect, unhurriedly but assuredly unfolding and then folding in again the action. The cinematography and depiction of the age couldn't be more accurate at least to these eyes and ears while the rhythmic vernacular of the dialogue is a pleasure to hear. By the time the movie reaches its bloody, tragic, but inevitable climax, you feel like one of the bystanders shooed away by the police at the end, so close have you been to the action.At one point Gittes asks the question "How do you like them apples?" I liked them fine, just fine.


                
Chinatown is a crime mystery psychological drama film; the screenplay in this 1974 classic is one that is way beyond its time and it will take years before another masterful screenplay can match the Academy Award winning screenplay of Chinatown. The screenplay was done by the Robert Towne (who you will know for his writing in the Tom Cruise Movies The Firm in 1993 Mission Impossible in 1996 and Mission Impossible II in 2000) who decide not to adapt the novel The Great Gatsby (1974) handed to him by producer Robert Evans but Towne wrote his own and Chinatown was the result of his writing.The movie had a tragic ending with Robert Evans the producer, intending the screenplay to have a happy ending but Polanski stuck to his gun for a tragic ending, he is quoted to have said "I knew that if Chinatown was to be special, not just another thriller where the good guys triumph in the final reel, Evelyn had to die." Director Roman Polanski (who won the Oscars for Best Director for the 2002 movie The Pianist) won a Golden Globe award for Best Director for this movie, Polanski shut the whole movie from the sight of J.J. Jake Gittes (Jack Nicholson) he was in every scene of the movie and when he was knocked out the who screen went black till he woke up.The movie plot is about a private investigator J.J. Jake Gittes (Jack Nicholson), whose main job is tailing partner's clients who are suspected to be having affairs.He was hired by a woman to help find out if her husband Hollis I. Mulwray is having an affair, he tails him and finds him with another woman, takes pictures of them and releases them to the papers, all to get sued the next day by the woman Mulwary was with, as Gittes found out that the woman who hired him is actually a phony and that the woman he taught was Mulwray's mistress was actually Mulwray's real wife.Polanski also appears in this movie in a cameo as the gangster who cuts Gittes' nose.A sequel to this classic was titled The Two Jakes which was released in 1990. Jack Nicholson reprises his role as J.J. Jake Gittes and also directed the movie, with Robert Towne returning to write the screenplay. The sequel was a total failure though.Chinatown is one of the few mystery films that will keep you on your seat till the very end as you eagerly wait to see where the entire strings tie up, as the movie composes plots and sub plots all leading to a grand and memorable ending.www.lagsreviews.com


                
Having recently watched Mr Polanski's The Ghost Writer (2010), I decided to look back at one of his earlier works. I saw Chinatown many years ago and so it was an interesting experience to re-visit the old classic. Set in, what appears to be, 1930's Los Angeles during a heat wave, private detective J.J. Gittes makes a living investigating adultery cases.One day, a Mrs Evelyn Mulwray walks into Mr Gittes office and hires him to investigate he husband Hollis. She believes he is having an affair and wants evidence. Gittes and his associates get right on the case. Mr Mulwray is followed as he goes about his work as Chief Engineer of the city's water department. There is a meeting about building a new dam to bring more water to the city that Mulwray is against. He also spends time inspecting dry river beds and finishes up spending most of the night on a beach where a large amount of water is dumped very late in the evening. Eventually he is caught out with a young blonde woman and the evidence, in the form of photographs, is obtained. The following day the story is all over the newspapers and Mr Gittes is confronted by the real Mrs Mulwray and her lawyer. Everybody wants to talk to Mr Mulwray but he seems to have disappeared. He is later found dead in a reservoir with salt water in his lungs. Mr Gittes now has another mystery to solve, one involving corruption the city's water department, Evelyn Mulwray and her rich father, Noah Cross.This is a classic movie, no special effects or fancy techniques, just the skill of the director and the art of the actors to convey the story. It's the little things I noticed that made this film a stand out for me, the setting of pocket watches to find out what time Mr Mulwray left the beach or the smashing of a tail-light to make a car easier to follow at night. Great performances from all of the main cast, special mentions go to the immense Jack Nicholson as J.J.Gittes, the fabulous Faye Dunaway as Evelyn Mulwray and the great John Huston as Noah Cross.It's a very slow paced film that, for me, got a little bit too pedestrian towards the middle. The storytelling was spot on and the cinematography and dialogue were great. Over all it's a really compelling detective story with quite a few twists and turns in it. There's quite a different ending that you may not expect. It may have scored higher if it hadn't fallen a bit flat in the middle, but it's most definitely recommended.My score: 8.3/10
A very thrilling and compelling story that starts off a little slow and then picks up. I believe from all the movies and books I've read or seen the climax here is the most surprising. Never saw it coming and it gave me the suspense from that point to the end. In mu opinion, Noah Cross is my favorite villain in any film. He really isn't in every scene, but his presence is felt so strong in this film. He reminds me somewhat of Hannibal Lectur, he's not everywhere throughout the film but he's still there hurting people in a very strange (and nasty) way. Jack Nicholson had the performance of the year (1974)he plays the archetype of a anti-hero well and he always follows that motto, "do as little as possible." All in all, an amazing story.


                
