How happy is the blameless vestal's lot! The world forgetting, by the world forgot. Eternal sunshine of the spotless mind! Each pray'r accepted, and each wish resign'd. -- Alexander Pope==> I confess to being an idealist and a romantic. This type of film appeals to people like me... the ones who believe in love at first sight, soul mates, destiny, yada yada yada. The Charlie Kaufman penned 'Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind' is as fresh and original as some of his other screenplays (Being John Malkovich, Human Nature, Adaptation), but adds a romantic depth that makes this one of the most complete film going experiences I have ever had.There was an exchange during the film between our two leads, Joel and Clementine, played with poignancy and nuance by Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet, that echoed what I was feeling about the film.Clementine: This is it Joel. It's going to be gone soon.Joel: I know.Clementine: What do we do?Joel: Enjoy it.Luckily for me, I knew I was going to be able to revisit the film many times in my life. The depth of the film manifests itself in the fact that the soul mates, Joel and Clem, both know that their time is running out and that they will never be able to meet again.Most films might choose to highlight this type of heartbreak with the death of a loved one or a bittersweet farewell at a train station. But not Charlie Kaufman. He is bored by clichés. Rather, he chooses to dazzle us with the complexities of the human mind and all of its glorious possibilities. He is a master storyteller that is unlike any other I am aware of.Joel (Carrey) is socially inept. He has had girlfriends, but none that really meant anything. It is as if he has never had a significant relationship of any kind. But, one day, he meets Clementine. "Don't make any jokes about my name", she warns him. She is wild and kooky, changing her hair color from red to orange to blue to green depending on her current mood. She seems the polar opposite of Joel, but they click. They click in ways even they can't pinpoint. But from the moment they meet, they know there is something special there.However, after a silly argument breaks up their relationship, Clementine decides to visit Lacuna Inc., a company that specializes in wiping troubling memories away forever. She has decided to erase the memory of Joel. When Joel hears this from some friends, he angrily decides to do the same to Clementine, erasing her completely from his mind.The erasing process involves a mapping of the memories and an all night process of erasure that is "technically brain damage", according to the doctor. The bulk of the film takes place during the process, inside Joel's mind. The most recent memories are first to go and we watch as they slowly disappear into nothingness. Those recent memories are bitter as we witness the arguments and the boredom of their relationship. But as the time rewinds, the memories get better. We travel backwards and watch Joel and Clem during their best moments, loving life and loving each other. As this happens, Joel desperately regrets his decision. He wants the inevitable erasure to stop, but he is completely powerless. Soon she will be gone and he won't even remember that he forgot her. The film focuses on his attempts to foil the process and retain some of her in the recesses of his mind.'Eternal Sunshine' is directed by Michel Gondry who also helmed 'Human Nature'. He has a flare that accompanies Kaufman's words with perfect symmetry. This film bounces around on its timeline almost hysterically, but the director never lets us get lost. We always feel in control of our senses and our emotions. It is a tribute to Carrey and Winslet that they were able to do the same.Jim Carrey has pulled off a rather remarkable transformation that I would have deemed impossible a decade ago. He is becoming a brilliant actor with qualities that resemble Jimmy Stewart and Tom Hanks. He is a fabulous everyman who is sympathetic and knowing, interesting and kind. He deserves tremendous praise for this role. Kate Winslet is consistently brilliant in every film. She is easily one of the very best actresses we have. Here she plays against type, and embodies a fascinating woman who craves attention but needs intimacy. Hers is a beautiful performance that will go overlooked. It is easy to understand why Joel falls in love with Clementine.I think fans of Charlie Kaufman will be thrilled with this brilliant entry in to his collection. I think the film will appeal to those who loved the recent masterpiece 'Lost in Translation' or Tom Tykwer's recent beauty, 'Heaven'. It is a romantic fantasy with real emotions and real characters that will resonate with the viewer who isn't entirely closed to sentiment. When Clementine whispers "Meet me in Montauk" into Joel's ear... it's hard to hold back a tear.This will easily be one of the best films of 2004. It is the antithesis of the typical romantic Hollywood fare. I loved every minute of its refreshing originality. The film has passion and flare and brilliant wit, all framed by an intelligent script that deals in absurdity while managing to maintain an intimate realism. These characters feel real. You root for them. You want them to meet again and give it another chance. It is a film that will only get better over time, as our memory of it waxes and wanes its way into our hearts.TC CANDLER
"How happy is the blameless vestal's lot! The world forgetting, by the world forgot. Eternal sunshine of the spotless mind! Each pray'r accepted, and each wish resign'd." - Alexander PopeMichel Gondry's "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is a bizarre but wonderful movie, a very strange and remarkably tender experience, which I suppose is only to be expected from screenwriter Charlie Kaufman, the man behind "Being John Malkovich."The film was produced by Focus Features ("Lost in Translation," "21 Grams"), a company which strives to offer original, quality films to the true cinema lovers. If the company keeps producing films this good, they may become hugely successful in the future, if not already.The previews portrayed the movie as a bouncy, cheery comedy in the vein of "Adaptation," the last film written for the big screen by Charlie Kaufman, when it is really a tender movie about love and romance. This is Jim Carrey's best performance to date, and may open the eyes of his prejudiced haters who have only imagined him as Ace Ventura and a certain cable guy for his entire career. No snippy quotes, outrageous humor or bizarre antics in "Sunshine" -- Carrey plays a true, realistic, three-dimensional character named Joel Barrish, who plans to have memories of his girlfriend, Clementine (Kate Winslet), erased by a new company called Lacuna, after he discovers that she herself has had the procedure performed only a week before. Joel meets with the company's founder, Dr. Howard Mierzwiak (Tom Wilkinson), and is informed that the procedure -- although "technically" brain damage -- is on par with a heavy night of drinking. "Nothing you'll miss much," he is told, as he plunges into a bizarre world of long forgotten memories.The entire process of the operation is quite fascinating, really, if a bit reminiscent of an idea founded by none other than one of Kaufman's favorite writers, Philip K. Dick, who wrote the source short story for the Ah-nuld movie "Total Recall." All items relating to the person you want erased from your brain are assembled together, and the technicians at Lacuna (Mark Ruffalo and Elijah Wood) then "map" an outline of your memories, which are supposedly stemmed together. I have my doubts about the seriousness and remote possibility of such a procedure being performed, and the explanation is quite simply utter bull, but we don't care because the entire erasing of Joel's memories serves as a backdrop for a deeper meaning: If you could forget about past romances, would you really want to? And if so, would you be willing to sacrifice all the good ones, along with the bad ones?The conclusion that "Sunshine" arrives at is, to be totally truthful, as honest as can be. During the procedure, Joel's subconscious realizes that it doesn't want to let go of its memories of Clementine, and so begins a strange labyrinth of fragmented memories, constantly changing surroundings, and mental materializations of Clementine. The movie is like a very bizarre dream, when you're trying to interact with people, but they're not responding, and you shout and try to get their attention but they don't seem to notice. Joel's entire odyssey of the interior of his mind makes "Being John Malkovich" look normal -- but as I didn't like "Malkovich" very much, and thought its strangeness was unjustified, it fits perfectly in "Sunshine" -- there are some great special effects, such as when Joel is wandering through his own memories, drifting in and out of sleep, hearing the voices of the technicians erasing his memories and watching as objects and areas around him vanish and deconstruct. It's so bizarre but yet also so beautiful. Gondry was a former music video director (his complete works are available on DVD) and he is the perfect candidate for this project, having worked with Kaufman before on the 2001 flop "Human Nature." It seems that he has finally found a unique directing style that ties in perfectly with the underlying themes of the movie.There is a very deep message in "Sunshine," and it is arguably Kaufman's deepest film to date. Love and romance and memories of both have rarely been examined as thought-provokingly and tenderly as they are in this wonderful motion picture. The movie has a very profound message that all viewers should pay attention to. There are many small intricacies in the film, surely picked up on more thoroughly on repeat viewings, and the entire construction of the movie is completely enthralling and intelligent. I saw two people leave the rather empty theater during the screening I attended. It tanked in the US and I predict it will do the same in the UK, which is a shame, because this is the smartest film of 2004 and has the most to say about our lives than any other film this year. While everyone flocks to see the new Denzel Washington action movie, "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is forgotten, which is quite depressing -- people would rather spend their money on forgettable entertainment than view something unique that has something important at its core.I think what the movie finally asks us after its long, emotional journey, is would we want our own memories erased? And if so, what would the consequences be? A lesser film might examine this idea poorly -- "Sunshine" is not. It is perfect in almost every conceivable way, and anyone who complains that it is not original must be joking -- in my entire lifetime, this is one of the most unique film experiences I have ever had."Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is a beautiful movie, eloquently voiced by Gondry, firmly constructed and rooted in an eerie nightmarish fantasy land where anything is possible. It's beautiful, it's bizarre, it's exceptional, it's funny, it's lovely, it's touching, it's witty, and it's one of the best movies I have ever seen.


                
This movie gives us what we all secretly wish for-- a chance to forget something that's hurt us in the past. The viewer can almost live vicariously through the two dysfunctional characters that are remarkably just like ordinary people. The relationship problems are the same. The little fights and bickers are things we all can relate to. The acting was amazing- throughout the movie, I actually forgot that I was watching Mr. Ace Ventura himself. Carrey and Winslet pull off a great performance, both ditching the typecasts that they've been shackled with. Not only did the film give us the opportunity to see what it was like if painful memories were erased, but it also gave us the opportunity to see that everything deserves a second chance. The way it ends leaves the viewer to imagine how the characters' lives will end. The idealist may say that they lived happily ever after; the pessimist may say that they just reverted to disliking each other again. Either way, it leaves you to imagining your own ending; a characteristic many films leave out. Basically, this movie makes you think, "What if...?" It truly gives new meaning to the phrase "You never know what you've got until it's gone."
Michel Gondry, credited as the director and co-writer of Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, is only partly responsible for the success that the film achieves. He implements a awe-inspiring blend of style to a story that is perfectly non-linear. But then there is also the madman genius of the current screen writing plane- Charlie Kaufman- who has written three of the most ingenious, funny, and human of "little" Hollywood movies (Being John Malkovich, Adaptation, Confessions of a Dangerous Mind). He understands, and perhaps likely experienced to a degree, what a relationship holds to- the truth, to understanding, and then when it ends, how out memory changes the relationship. Enter in the concept that makes 'Eternal Sunshine' something of a un-official science fiction film - the Lacuna corporation, led by Tom Wilkinson's character, can erase just one person out of your memory, all of the experiences that you and the significant other had. So, when Joel (Jim Carrey) goes in to erase his memory of Clementine (Kate Winslet) after finding out she did just the same, he enters into a mind-warp. He goes through memories they had, happy ones, sad ones, some that are just what makes up what you have emotionally with the one you've loved. And sometimes, and to the behest of the assistants of Lacuna (Kirsten Dunst, Elijah Wood, Mark Ruffalo), Joel doesn't want them all to be erased.As I mentioned, the plot is non-linear, which could've gone the wrong way if not done with skill. With a film like 21 Grams, which has a talented director and cast, the non-linear structure isn't necessary. But it's an asset that the story doesn't start from A to Z. To assist Gondry with this, he has the extraordinary Ellen Kuras as DP and Valdís Óskarsdóttir, an editor from Iceland. Their collaboration is crucial with Gondry and Kaufman (and co-writer Pierre Bismuth), as they bring all of these un-real images a real quality. Quite simply, there isn't a finer example of surrealism crossbred with realism in any other American film so far this year. The usage of lights, cuts, and with the kinds of special effects not expected (i.e. no CGI), add to the effect it has on a viewer. That the characters of Joel and Clementine are as enveloping as they are is also a credit to Kaufman.But then there's one more part that completes the success of the film - the acting. Jim Carrey, very simply, is at his very best. He finds a balance from certain scenes in being like people we see everyday, feeling low, not much of interest, inward. And then when the memory erases begin, we get to see him act funny, but not like the kind of humor he brought with Ace Ventura or Dumb and Dumber. This is Carrey knowing this character just well enough to play off his counterpart, played by Winslet. She, meanwhile, is perhaps at her best. Her character is eccentric, funny, insightful, and wanting. She pulls it off. As do the supporting actors.There's not much more I can say about this film, except to say that even after seeing it three times, I feel like I could watch it over and over and see a new shot, a new sequence, and new set of emotions tied to things. It's one of the great romantic dramedies of the decade.


                
There's only one way to describe "Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless Mind": perfect. It's been one week since I saw the movie and I still cannot stop thinking about it. Was the ending happy or sad? I cannot tell, but it's deeply touching.Charlie Kaufman is incredible. How does he come up with all these original, flawless scripts? Finally there's someone who uses the possibilities of cinema to the fullest. I love the way Kaufman shows the fate of individuals and derives universally true rules from it. The content of his story is always highly philosophical without ever being smart alec.Some say "Eternal Sunshine..." was over-directed. I disagree. Having read the script, I know that Gondry deserves lots of credit for bringing this beautiful story to life. Sure, there are five creepy images per minute, but have you ever seen such an original, weird picture? Mind you, I'm not saying that lots of effects automatically make for a good direction, but in this case it really helped to underline the story, not distracting from it.Jim Carrey... wow! I've always liked him as the hilarious Comedian he is, but I never thought that his performances in "The Truman Show" and "Man On The Moon" were that much of a departure from his funny-man side. As Joel, however, he is a completely different person. It's like Jim Carrey had a serious twin brother. Unbelievable. I bow to this performance! Give this man more chances to show his acting abilities, I say!Finally I have to mention Beck's cover of "Everybody's Gotta Learn Sometime", which fits perfectly into the movie and won't leave my CD-Player for the next months.A movie like "Eternal Sunshine..." really shows how much time and money Hollywood wastes on producing crap like "Bad Boys" or "The Fast & The Furious", and its box office result demonstrates how little people care about quality in movies. Personally, I have found my first contender for best motion picture of the year. I need to see the movie again, because I have a feeling that this one gets even better with each viewing. I can't wait until it's released on DVD.I feel the need to say more, but I can't put my feelings into (English) words. All I can say is: GO SEE THIS MOVIE! You won't regret it.


                
After a lukewarm reception in 2001 with "Human Nature", Charlie Kaufman has teamed up with director, Michel Gondry again for this romatic fantasy. With a name like Jim Carrey, this second collaboration couldn't go wrong in terms of box office success, and nor should it as this film is quite simply brilliant."Eternal Sunshine" centres around the life of Joel (Jim Carrey) a shy, mild mannered man who is heart broken after splitting from his feisty, impulsive girlfriend, Clementine (Kate Winslet). A short while after their split, he meets her again while she is working at a library and he is stunned to discover that she doesn't recognise him. He later finds out that the reason for this is that Clementine has had her memory of Joel wiped out completely. Dr Howard Mierwick (Tom Wilkinson) has performed an operation on her brain after Clementine visited his clinic to forget Joel. Much to Joel's distress, he decides to do the same, but during his operation he revisits memories of Clementine that he struggles to let go of.If anyone was in doubt as to whether Jim Carrey can act, this is the film that will put all doubt out of the way. He performs with sensitivity and warmth, never once verging on the manic rubber faced lunacy to which he is most well known for. Out of all the perfomances where he has stepped into the dramtic role (The Truman Show, Man on the Moon, The Majestic), this has got to be his best yet. Kate Winslet is also brilliant as his unpredictable, adventurous girlfriend.Kaufman's story of a man going into a surreal dream world is not too dissimilar from his earlier work, "Being John Malkovich". You have off the wall images such as Carrey re-enacting his 4 year old self along his journey in his head. The eccentricity of the story, which is Kaufman's trademark, once again works excellently. When watching this you generally care for Carrey and Winslet, in much the same way as Bill Murray and Scarlett Johansson in "Lost In Translation". Gondry's diection gives a bittersweet flavour to the tale.The sub plots involving the supporting characters who are operating are ingenius. Tom Wilkinson once again proves that he is one of the best British actors of his generation and he is backed up by great performnces from Kirsten Dunst and a post-LOTR Elijah Wood.This is a lovely film and if you like originality with a sense of fantasy with a love story, then I suggest you see it. It's one of those films you'll want to see twice.


                
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is the most well written movie since Pulp Fiction, and the best movie since the turn of the century. It's originality is unprecedented, putting screenwriter Charlie Kaufman (Adaptation) up there with the greats. And every time you watch it, you will gain a new understanding of the characters and story.Just imagine, instead of dealing with the pain and suffering of your past, you can erase people and moments from your memory, and move on with your life, without giving it another thought. Imagine your bad relationships can disappear. You bad experiences obliterated. Your bad times gone. Dr. Howard Mierzwiak makes this all possible.Meet Joel Barish (Carrey), an archetypal lost American, a passive soul wandering through his own life in a cloud of dissatisfaction. One day, his shyness and antisocial tendencies led him to meet the free spirit Clementine (Winslet), changing his life forever.They break up, and Clementine impulsively decides to "erase" Joel from her memory. Joel, upon hearing this, also signs up for the procedure. But midway through, he changes his mind. Then the chase begins, as Joel and Clementine try to outrun the erasers, hiding in his childhood and humiliation.Meanwhile, Kirsten Dunst, Elijah Wood, and Mark Ruffalo, the ones performing the procedure on Joel, have their own troubles with romance, memory erasure, and Clementine, all due to the procedure offered by Dr. Mierzwiak.Although Carrey spends most of the movie in an induced coma, his outstanding performance proves to us that his talents go far beyond his Ace Ventura days. And Winslet's spectacular performance didn't go unnoticed either, earning her another Oscar nod.To say the least, Eternal Sunshine will change your life. Kaufman shows us that you must take the good along with the bad, because if you forget, you are destined to repeat your mistakes. Joel doesn't realize he made a mistake until he gets past their bad moments, and remembers all the good times he and Clementine had together. This movie gives a new meaning to "You never know what you've got until it's gone."Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is a brilliant work of originality. With all the crap Hollywood has been turning out in recent years, this will feel like a blast of fresh air. Kaufman's masterpiece is inspirational, and, unlike most Hollywood films, makes you think. It'll make you realize that at the end of the day, our memories are all we really have, and when they're gone, we're gone.
Very nicely crafted science fiction love story. More of an experience than a film.What? Sci Fi? Well yes. A simple science fiction device, memory erasure, is the vehicle for this beautifully shot, brilliantly edited and directed love fable. The fact that this is a good film does not disqualify it from the sci fi genre. In fact, would-be sci fi writers and film-makers should take note of this.But Eternal Sunshine is a love story first and last, in all respects. The characters are what John Irving would call "L.A. dysfunctional", although they don't live in L.A. Carrey and Winslet are deeply insecure people with little going for them but good looks (which they try to disguise), fairly sweet dispositions, and a desire for companionship. They meet on Valentine's Day in Montauk, where they have both seemingly traveled 'on a lark', and the entire experience of the film seems to derail from this point forward. Chronological, linear story-telling becomes impossible because the characters are having their memories erased in order to assuage the pain of their separation. No spoilers, so let me stop right there.If I have made Eternal Sunshine seem like it might be too much of a challenge or too disturbing for an evening's light entertainment, be not afraid. Certainly there are occasional disturbing elements, and the characters themselves are all neurotic enough to have walked off the street and onto the screen. But the film is so artistically rendered, and so well thought-out that what could have been a nightmare really becomes a fantastic post-modern love fable. It's also one of those great films that becomes predictable after a while, but is so delightfully portrayed and satisfying that it does not matter.The acting is exceptionally good. I would expect nothing else from this cast. Winslet is especially remarkable for her ability to play a young North East American better than most American actresses could. How this genius has been passed up in each of her 4 Oscar nominations to date is inexplicable. Carrey's talent is undeniable, though I dislike many of the films he chooses to take on. His performance here is easily as good as his award-worthy performances in the Truman Show, Bruce Almighty, and Man on the Moon.We spend a lot of time inside people's heads in this film, yet the camera never becomes a member of the cast as it does in films like "Being John Malkovich". I can pay no higher compliment to the production team. This is a very difficult thing to accomplish, and it is done with flawless simplicity in Eternal Sunshine. This film has just joined Shakespeare in Love, Wild at Heart, and Brokeback Mountain among my favorite all-time love stories. This is the first Michel Gondry film I have seen. I am going to make sure it is not the last.


                
Here's the basic plot. Clemintine and Joel have a long, rocky relationship. Clemintine decides to get Joel erased from her memory, so Joel decides to do the same, only while Joel is in the process of the erasing, he comes back around to the really sweet, nice memories, and realizes that he wants out of the procedure. Now here's what I thought about it. This movie is completely amazing. Totally original story and wonderful directing. Some of the best directing that i've seen in any movie. Some of the best original music too. This is in my top five favorites, and it also boosted Jim Carrey into one of my favorite actors. You know you have a good movie on your hands when the next day you're still thinking about parts of it, and you want to see those parts again. If you haven't seen this, I recommend that you check it out. It's different, in a really good way. There's not much more to tell you about it. If you want to see the Ace Ventura Jim Carrey, than you should absolutely skip this one. But if you want to see a side of him and Kate Winslet that you've never seen, or if you want to see a total original movie with wonderful cinematography and really great music, then by all means, you should absolutely see this one!
Joel (Jim Carrey) is a rather milquetoast man who meets up with free spirit Clementine (Kate Winslet), and they become romantically involved. However, they endure a messy breakup and Clementine goes to a business called Lacuna, Inc., where she has all of her memories of Joel erased. Not wanting to be left out, Joel also goes to have his memory erased. However, soon after it begins, Joel realizes that he wants to keep the memory of Clementine, so he tries to reverse the process.Well, if you're familiar with Kaufman's work, then you know what your getting yourself into. This is just as weird if not weirder than his previous work, Being John Malkovich. I knew what I was getting myself into, but 90% of the movie I was saying to myself "What the hell is going on?", but in a good way. It opens with Joel calling in sick for work and going on a different train, heading for Montauk. He meets Clementine and they hit it off. Now this is about 15 minutes into the movie, then out of nowhere come the opening credit sequence. I will admit, I thought it would be different, but I'm glad that it is the way it is, the movie is 80% of the time in Joel's head.If you think you know Carrey, think again. This movie is his best performance, better than Majestic, Truman show and all of his comedic roles (which is what I love him for). Just looking at his face from the second we see him, we feel his pain, then like that, we feel his joy, embarrassment and hate. Just awesome acting on his part, and Winslet was great as the free spirit who never seems satisfied. The supporting cast all work well in their small, yet important roles. Oscar nominations for Winslet and (crosses fingers) Carrey.But if I were to bet any money on any Oscar nominations it would obviously be the writing, what a mess, but beautifully constructed. You think to yourself, is that scene really necessary? Then ten minutes later you think to yourself how brilliant it was, that's beautiful, crazy, give me whatever he's smoking kind of writing. Charlie Kaufman's writing is always clever, but this time he's one-upped himself by making something simultaneously bizarre and emotionally engaging. It seemed like his earlier movies were clever for the sake of cleverness, but 'Eternal Sunshine' manages to dazzle you with it's originality and it's poignancy. The fact that this movie was able to wrap such profound loss, emotional tenderness, and hope in such a self-consciously stylized package illustrates the incredible talent of the people behind it.Michel Gondry's use of vibrant coloring and quick camera movement give the film a very involving first hand feeling. The constant use of the handy cam is very all involving for the viewer, and I suppose that this is exactly what is needed in such a personal movie. His work on the dream sequences is incredible as well. He decides to use more practical effects than what we see today with computers. Eternal Sunshine is a tragic, yet beautiful film that sits at the top of my list of "Best of 2004".


                
this is my favorite movie of 2004 and definitely one of the top in my all-time favorite lists! Eternal touched a certain part of you, your heart that most shows never did. or rather could never did. it shows the fragility of a relationship. people want to erase bad memories of a failed relationship yet at the same time, cant bear to part with the good ones! how so can that be done? how can you erase bad memories and saved good ones only? Carrey and Winslet did a perfect job acting as Joel and Clementine respectively. Arguably one of their career best so far. its a pleasant surprise to see the man behind "The Mask" playing such a quiet and introvert role. Kate, on the other hand, brought Clementine to new heights as the bubbly and brutally honest lass who you love and hate.Eternal is a definite marvel, a feat in itself. its rich and flamboyant yet fragile. it brings the audience to such a personal level it hurts. especially when both cant seem to escape from the erasure.well-done!


                
There's absolutely no way I can write about this film without a spoiler, as I think, judging from the comments written up on this site, many seem to have difficulty following the plot. As a general guide, if you're having difficulty following the chronological order of the scenes, it's necessary to follow the changes in color of Clementine's (Kate Winslet) hair. It starts off green, then changes to orange and finally finishes up blue. In the film though, it starts off blue, then goes to orange (the predominant color), then green and then back to blue.I must say I watched the film with a certain level of discomfort, being constantly reminded of my own break-up. This wasn't helped by my feeling that the Joel character (Jim Carrey) was very similar to myself. The film challenged me to re-evaluate many of the memories I have which I'd purposely buried. This is the dominant theme of the film: our memories and our relationship to them.The film starts as Joel wakes up one morning feeling awful. It's Valentine's day (his comments about which remind me of things I myself have said). His day simply improves when he discovers someone's smashed in the side of his car, and by the time he gets to the train station he's in such a funk that instead of going to work he impulsively jumps on a train to Montau and later calls in sick. But there he meets someone and they click.Although we've already seen 15 minutes of the movie, it's at this point that the credits kick in and we watch Joel driving alone in anguish. It soon becomes apparent that Joel and Clementine have just split. Joel is driving home to forget about Clementine forever. He's told by his friends that Clementine's just had him permanently erased from her memory, (a new service offered by a company called Lacuna). So Joel volunteers himself. The company offers to wipe his mind in the comfort of his own home, but during the process Joel in a dreamlike state gets to visit all the recesses of his own memory. At first all we see between the couple is the senseless bickering and the ghastly fights that led up to the breakdown. But then he suddenly comes across a forgotten memory where the couple shared a single tender moment and he remembers his love for her. At this point he starts fighting to save the moment. He tries a number of different stratagems, such as trying to wake himself up, and associating her with memories from his childhood. At first he has some success, but when the "erasure men" hunt down even these memories he's forced to find ever more buried and ever deeper parts of his subconsciousness. But even in the parts of his memory that Joel has almost forgotten himself, the memory of Clementine is systematically rooted out and destroyed.Most poignant for me is probably the way the film portrays our desire to forget, so that we can block out the mind-numbing pain. When Joel is told to collect together all the things that may remind him of Clementine, he collects together two black bin liners full of stuff; I remember the ambivalence I felt to many of the things I myself once had (and coincidentally I also have a photograph from when my ex was about 8). Another point which touched me was the portrayal of the Eakin's (the mutual friends of Joel and Clementine who'd introduced them.) We see them arguing openly in front of their friends, slowly destroying their own marriage, which in the light of what's happened between Joel and Clementine looks like infinite folly. The film clearly shows the way in which we tend to ignore and take for granted the love we have for our partners and then how we often only realize after being rudely reminded by the pain of separation.The final scene is when both Joel and Clementine have found out that they had once been lovers. Joel is sitting at home and listening to the tape from his case file. Clementine, on hearing some of the mean things that Joel had told the "doctors" about her, runs away. Joel runs after her and begs her to stay. This is juxtaposed with their real first meeting where the roles were reversed and Joel was the one to chicken out. The relationship starts anew.Jim Carrey's performance was absolutely stunning. I would never have dreamed that he could play a shy, reserved and introverted man with both subtlety and compassion.
I had no idea what Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind was about until the end of March. I had heard some small rumblings about it around the Internet for a few months, and also saw a few short TV trailers for it, but that was about it. Basically, all I knew was it was another dramatic Jim Carrey film, written by the same guy who wrote two of the weirdest and somehow great films to come out in a long time, Being John Malkovich and Adaptation. But does this film succeed to be just as weird yet excellent as the other two? Or is it even better? A big yes on both counts would be highly appropriate.The film's main protagonist is Joel (Jim Carrey). He was in a relationship with the very free-spirited Clementine (Kate Winslet), but slowly, they began to pull apart. So, the very impulsive Clementine decides to have a wicked new procedure done to herself in which every memory of Joel is erased from her brain. Of course, Joel fails to find out right away, and only thinks upon various attempts to try to speak to her that she is simply just completely ignoring him. That is until, he finds out about the procedure from friends who were supposed to be keeping it a secret.The company performing the procedures is called Lacuna Inc. Upon heading to Lacuna for answers, Joel finds out from the head doctor, Dr. Howard Mierzwiak (Tom Wilkinson), that he cannot be given any whatsoever, as everything is confidential. The Doctor does however, tell Joel the details of the procedure that Clementine had. After some passing time, Joel decides to have the operation done to him, on the night before Valentine's Day. So Joel goes home that night, takes the special pills given to him and falls asleep on his bed. It is then that Mierzwiak's assistants at Lacuna enter in to perform the procedure.What follows from here, is a seamless blend of both memories of Clementine and Joel within Joel's head, and the real world where Patrick, Stan and Mary (Elijah Wood, Mark Ruffalo and Kirsten Dunst respectively) are performing the procedure on Joel, as well as doing random things around his house. Only everything doesn't go so sweet. After the procedure's initial reactions begin to set in, Joel isn't as enthusiastic as he once was about having it done. So he begins to try to fight off the erasure. This begins to complicate things for the assistants working on him and serves for the main basis of where the film goes from that point.Despite how complicated and bizarre the film may sound, it still is a great and maybe even brilliant film. All the actors shine brightly in their performances, especially Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet. I don't think I've ever seen these two as good as they are in this, both within and outside Joel's head. Their chemistry and romance comes off very well on screen as well as being very believable. The writing is also just as good, if not even better. It must take quite the effort to continue to write films such as these, but the writer, Charlie Kaufman, is seemingly getting better and better with his scripts. By the same token, the scripts are getting stranger and stranger.The editing and look of the film is very well done as well. The film is quite jumpy in many instances, looping back and forth from activity in Joel's brain to the real world outside of it. The way the imagery is shown is quite stylish, and truly shows the complete agonizing nightmare Joel is going through. It is evident that a great deal of time was spent on the final product of the film both by the editors and the director, Michel Gondry. Although Gondry hasn't had a hit film as of yet, he does show off his excellent film-making skills with this film. Hopefully, this director will continue to excel with films like these and become much more mainstream as the years go on.I have nothing but praise for the film. It is definitely a must see. The complete brilliance of every aspect of the film is far superior to many of the "hit mainstream" films being released in theatres these days. It can even be considered as a very early candidate for the best picture of the year. If you have the chance to see it, this film is not to be missed.10/10.
That is the question underlying this entire movie, since two-thirds of it is the process of elimination of a man's memories in order to forget the person who caused him some hurt in the recent past.This man is Joel Parish, played (or underplayed) by Jim Carrey who on a train ride to Long Island meets Clementine Krucyzinski (Kate Winslet). Both strike up an uneasy conversation: she being brash, aggressive, he being almost demure. There seems to be something there lingering between them, some connection even when they're totally different, and later we learn, when their affair ends, that she has decided to erase her memories of him and move on, which prompts Joel to do the same.Except he decides he doesn't want to at the last minute.So begins a roller-coaster ride where he tries to salvage anything he can as one by one his memories are being zapped away from him, and to see how he goes from one to the other, often with the surreal assistance of Winslet herself (as she is an integral part of his memories), we definitely get bombarded with frenetic images of Joel's mind literally coming apart at the seams, but we never forget that this is his heart that we're talking about, and in a small performance, Kirsten Dunst reveals just how heartless the procedure can be in a revelatory moment, one that makes us totally root for this odd couple right down to the last scene. One of the most original stories which hit theatres in 2004 and which deservedly won its Best Original Screenplay Oscar even if it lost in acting categories, this is the Movie of 2004.
This was hands down the best movie of 2004. I wish it had come out later in the year so Kate Winslet would have won the Oscar she so dearly deserves. One of the reasons I loved this movie was because of the wonderful role reversal. Jim Carrey, whose comic performances have been lauded and dramatic roles almost universally reviled by critics, is superb as the normal, every-man Joel. Kate, who almost always plays the uptight proper lady, is hilarious and heartbreakingly too real as the quirky, emotionally disturbed Clementine. The words that come out of her mouth make you laugh, cry and go into shock all at the same time.The basic premise of this story is about a recently parted couple, Joel and Clementine, who were polar opposites. Joel comes to realize that in order to move on with her life, Clementine has undergone a new radical procedure that erased all memories of her relationship with him. Joel is horrified and curious at the same time and decides to seek out the doctor for his own experiment. Only once the procedure has begun, he decides (too late!) that although those memories hurt, they are his memories and he is better for having them.The supporting cast is fantastic as well. Tom Wilkinson, who has never given a bad performance, does not disappoint here as the doctor performing the memory-erasing procedures. While it would have been easy for this character to be one note, Tom breathes life and his own story line into him. Kirsten Dunst shows depth rarely seen before as Mary, a receptionist in the doctor's office. Elijah Wood is stuck in a pretty thankless role as a technician who performs the procedure. Mark Ruffalo, another technician, takes his character to another level with his relationship with Mary and proves once again that he is an amazing supporting actor.This movie is very big on psychedelic special effects, but the moral is completely real. I would recommend this to anyone in any walk of life.
Now... those of you who haven't seen this, would probably go in to this movie with extremely high standards, and I don't blame you. This movie has seriously been recommended, and welcomed by critics. After seeing it for the first time, I understand why.Charlie Kauffman is known for his "Out-Of-The-Ordinary" scripts, and this is no exception. However Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless Mind has something a little extra, something special, and as soon as it starts, you'll know it. What's amazing is that he captures what every true love story has, into one relationship... that of Joel and Clementine's. The idea of having one person in the world for everyone is supported.The acting is superb, both Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet do an excellent job of pulling their weight. They are able to truly become their characters... who in reality, are complete opposites of the two in real life. Jim usually plays the overtly open character, bad mouthing everyone he's p***ed of at. Kate, usually playing the more "innocent-type" characters, damsels in distress, things like that. The two deliver, and I couldn't have imagined anyone else in the roles of Clementine and Joel. I truly believe there are Oscar noms. hiding in this movie for the two leads.The plot of this movie is very unique, very different. Now although going to get parts of your memory erased may seem corny at first, it truly shows the fact that are brains are misunderstood parts of our body, and no matter how hard we try to forget something, it will always find it's way back to us.The ending makes perfect sense, and while being tastefully done, it doesn't ruin the movie in any shape or form. While it is not one of those completely open-ended endings, some things are still left out in the air, to think about ourselves, and those are always more fun.Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless Mind, is one of those things that if you never take the time to sit down and watch this remarkable film, you'll end up regretting it for the rest of your life. And after you finally do watch it, I honestly think, you wouldn't want to erase the memory of this movie, even if you had the chance."How Happy Is The Blameless Vestal's Lot, The World Forgetting, By The World Forgot. Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless Mind, Each Prayer Accepted, Each Wish Resigned." "Eternal Sunshine Of The Spotless Mind" 9.895/10*****
What an exciting time to be alive! We can actually go to our corner theater and participate in the invention of a new medium. Fundamental elements of the vocabulary are still being explored and invented.I knew that I was witnessing something important halfway through. Superficially this is another Kaufman exercise in self-reference. Those are always interesting, he knows how to fold the story with methods of telling the story plus a third story about those methods. There's some of that here, but it is shoehorned into the 'big idea' that wasn't his in the first place. So although you have one of the most powerful folding actors ever (Winslet), the real advance here is in another area.Hundreds of films have tried to portray dreams and visions, folding them into 'reality.' Some are blunt ('What Dreams may Come'), others frantic ('Pi') and puzzling('Mulholland Dr'). No one has yet managed the arbitrary slipperiness of visions as successfully as Tarkovsky in 'Nostalgia.' Part of Tarkovsky's genius is in making ordinary objects exotic by bending the context. But he does his work in large chunks. Any filmmaker, the real ones, make an early decision about the materials of their creation, just as an architect does. In architecture, you can choose to make the structure out of bricks. These things actually hold the building up. Then you have to design the brick. What's the right size?Tarkovsky used large bricks, so we could read them from a distance. Rodriguez , for instance, in his second act of 'Once Upon a Time in Mexico,' used what looks like small bricks, but they are just for show: they carry no narrative.What we have here are small bricks, small minivignettes that come at blinding speed from all tenses and actually hold up the narrative. You need an intelligent actor to help carry this off and in this case we have the redoubtable Kate who is one of our most intelligent masters of this sort of architectural material. After all, her very first film ('heavenly Creatures') was about this same matter: how small a fantasy or memory could be and still create reality.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
Focus is an independent production company which dwells on the non-conventional "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is, to say the least, a non-conventional film!! This movie, which is a purveyor of many Molotov Mardi Gras emotions, authenticates an equivocal potpourri of ideas that are indicative of numerous independent production company films!! This movie also bears a striking similarity to Elia Kazan's intensity to itemize belligerent confrontation!! "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is sort of a counter culture version of the film "The Arrangement". Many films that are run of the mill mainstream Hollywood movies immediately hack out a succinct and concise mindset of everyone of the major character's feelings. In "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" to say that Joel's (Jim Carey) feelings were introverted, would be a paramount utterance of understatement!! Joel's relationship with Clementine,( a name we associate with a folklore about loving regrets, also, with a particular type of orange) evokes a vivid presentation which signifies an emotional diligence. The illogical transition to their pursuing ideas and trepidations compound an inexplicably and unnecessary intransigence for both of them!! The ephemeral activities in this film perpetuate a cerebral anguish which becomes the heinous culprit to Joel and Clementine's difficulty to adequately dissect their conceptions about one another!! I could see this film 100 times and still not capture every intricate detail to it!! Set in a New York City neighborhood, it depicts a realism about imperfection being ubiquitous in all of the character's lives!! This movie had a foreign flare to it as well!! In fact, I initially thought this film took place in Montreal... After viewing a couple of scenes, I, of course, blew that contention out the window!! My first clue was when I saw the New York License plates on every single one of the cars!! Jim Carey is FABULOUS!! in this movie!! Originally known as the box office star of copious high profit zany comedies, his enormous popularity garnered an auspicious association with the light hearted!! In "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind", his role was very serious and complex!! Think about it though, if someone were to handwrite a silly comedy, and then, all of a sudden, he was required to change this screenplay to a serious drama, it would be a case of simply needing to borrow someone's erasure for no more than 18 seconds!! Kate Winslet is superb in this film as well!! I did not even know she was British!! When the acting in a movie is so excellent, it almost appears as though the writers and directors of the film are getting paid only about a buck above minimum wage!! "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind" is a remarkable movie, and is considered to be one of the best films ever made according to this website!! The step by step thought process to this film puts this movie in a category all by itself!! Marvelous flick!! Focus Productions always gives way to the unorthodox, perhaps you as a movie viewer should try doing the very same thing once in awhile too!! FIVE STARS!!!! ABSOLUTELY!!


                
Eternal Sunshine of the spotless mind is a love story about two lovers who undergo a procedure to erase each other from one another's memories, but when they meet after their memory is gone, there is something strange still drawing them together and it is also during that memory wipe that they realize how precious their relationship really was.Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is one of those films where you have to pay close attention to the scenes and dialog because even the smallest bit of dialog is important in this film. Because otherwise you will be confused in your initial viewing and will soon be asking yourself what in the world is going on. This film requires close attention in the initial viewing or multiple viewings in order to fully understand it and appreciate it for what it truly is.The film is not your basic love story, it is unique and sort of bizarre at the same time, and while it is not a suspense movie, it is filled with several shocking moments and twists, which will only increase your interest in the movie and the more you will be intrigued by it. The narrative part of the love story is also told in a reverse chronological order, which starts from the moment the lovers broke up and ends when they first met. While the present scenes are told in a normal order, the film constantantly switches back and forth between the two which may create some confusion, another one of the reasons that this film requires close attention, at first you will probably be confused about what you are seeing is the present or the past, but as the film will progress you will be able to tell them apart. The way the Narrative is similar to Mememto which also followed a reverse chronological order of storytelling. The storytelling is clever and interesting and only makes the film better and it's twists more shocking and intriguing. Acting wise, Jim Carrey is in Truman Show mode, or probably the most serious he has ever been in a film, this is probably the most serious role he has ever done, and he shines in his role as Joel Barish and is completely into his character. Kate Winslet also performs excellently well, and her character development in both the dream sequence and the present sequence is done extremely well. The supporting cast did not get that much screen time but they are performed their roles well, Kirsten Durst and Mark Ruffalo are good but the scenes between them in the apartment are kind of drawn out and I could have done without a few of them, but Elijah Wood is really great in his role as Patrick and scenes between him and Clementine are also interesting. The ending is also great because it leaves it completely up to the viewer to interpret what will happen next and the events that led up to the ending were also very interesting and intriguing. The soundtrack is also great and suits most of the scenes it is being played in, the opening and closing credits song is also fantastic and also wonderfully portrays the relationship between Clementine and Joel. The ice setting was not something i was fond of before watching the film but it is handled extremely well here, with the scene of Clementine and Joel laying on ice being one of the most touching and memorable moments of this film.Overall, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind, is a touching, in-depth and intriguing love story with such great plot, settings, performances and memorable moments that I can watch this film over and over again and never get bored. However you may need to watch this film multiple times to fully understand it's plot and the message it is trying to convey and appreciate it for what it truly is.Rating: 9.5/10


                
This film has both Jim Carrey and Kate Winsett playing roles that you are probably unaccustomed to seeing them in. Jim Carrey plays plain-vanilla introvert Joel and Winsett plays extroverted salesgirl Clementine who likes to express herself by dying her hair an odd combination of colors and dressing up potatoes like Barbie Dolls. At the time he meets Clementine, Joel is living with someone named Naomi that he mentions several times during the film in only positive terms as "very nice". Joel must be searching for something other than "very nice" since this doesn't prevent him from throwing over this woman that the audience never sees for the unpredictable unknown quantity, Clementine. However, eventually the relationship ends so badly for this mismatched couple that Clementine has all memory of their relationship erased from her mind by a company that has the technology to provide such a service.When Joel discovers what she has done he is so hurt that he wants the same thing done to him so that he can erase the pain. The process takes an entire night, and during this process Joel relives all of the moments he and Clementine had together and realizes that Clementine brought enough happiness into his life that he doesn't want her erased from his mind after all. However, he is now unconscious and unable to communicate his wishes to those handling the procedure. Thus, he tells Clementine - inside his mind - what is going on and they attempt to hide from the "mind erasers" in places in his memories where he would have never taken her. Specifically, he takes her to particularly humiliating points in his childhood and adolescence. It seems telling that the pair have been together for two years yet Joel has apparently never told Clementine about any of these memories, apparently having shut her out of selective portions of his life. However, these evasion tactics are no match for the mind-erasing team of Lacuna Inc., and ultimately Clementine is cleansed from Joel's mind. Just before the last memory of her is erased, she tells Joel to meet her in a particular spot that was special to both of them. The next day he awakes, is drawn to this prearranged meeting place for reasons he doesn't understand, and she is there. Neither one of them knows who the other is, but the relationship is beginning to start all over again when a disgruntled Lacuna employee gives them their files, which include tapes of what both Joel and Clementine thought of one another at the the time each requested to have the other erased. They listen to each others tapes and are both shocked and embarrassed. These are not flattering revelations, to say the least. Will they decide to part before all of these awful things start happening all over again, or will they take a chance? Watch and find out.The plot may be hard to follow as it bends back and forth through time, but it is worth it, and Jim Carrey gives the best performance he has given since "The Truman Show". The movie has a lot to say about how we are the product of our memories and our choices - both the bad and the good. It also illustrates how absolute power corrupts through the unconscionable actions of some of the employees of Lacuna Inc. who start out helping people and end up helping themselves. You'll find yourself catching something you missed before each time you watch it. I highly recommend this film.
Hands down one my most favorite movies of all time, starring Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet is a brilliantly directed movie from Michel Gondry.Plot : A girl highly impulsive and the guy a calm and soft spoken gets in love and the love is gone bad. A new service opens up where they promise to erase part of your memory, the girl gets her lover erased from her memory and starts a new life. When the guy gets to know this he gets frustrated and gets an appointment to do the same. The plot starts to travel in reverse direction from the last memory of the couple getting erased. The guy gets to see the memory getting erased from him and after a point of time thinks he has taken a bad decision and tries to stop the process by trying to hide his girlfriends memory in old memories where the doctors cant reach, but it goes in vain and all the memories of them gets erased from the guys head without a spot. Finally what happens to this couple is what the whole movie is about.A very complex story telling technique, you need to watch it twice to truly appreciate the effort and ingeniousness of the script. I always felt Jim is a very underrated actor and my notion got stronger after watching this movie. Memento was my top rated movie till I saw this movie, a definite #1.Review : A truly unique script and a genius story telling, a "MUST" watch for all!.. 9.5/10! :)


                
I will admit, when it first came out last year it did not appeal a whole lot to me, but after all this talk of how great it is, I am letting everyone know that I regret not seeing this one in the theaters!It was a beautiful film, very different, very realistic, very crazy, and trippy, however, although it is strange, it is one of those movies that you can understand what's going on without it throwing you off to badly, leaving you saying "WTF?!?!" No, this is a fantastic movie with excellent character structure which I recommend to anyone, anyone who loves movies. However tis is not for the low intelligent people out there who wish to only see blood and explosions, while those kinds of things are entertaining, they aren't much without a story, and this was a movie with a lot of wonderful story, and it wasn't quite 2 hours!Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is living Proof that the best stories are not found in big over priced Hollywood popcorn movies, but with people who put time, effort, and love into writing a script, and producing a movie that will both entertain, shock, and leave the viewer speechless with how thought provoking and moving the film truly is. Eternal Sunshine is definitely one of the top 5 movies of 2004 if not THE BEST one. Great Job Jim, Kate, Kaufman and Gondry!


                
**** WARNING - SPOILERS ****** Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind IS the best movie in 2004. What could you expect when you have a movie written by Charlie Kaufman? OK I admit at first I wasn't so sure about it, being a movie written by C. Kaufman and not being directed by Spike Jonze, by now I'm glad he didn't, it wouldn't be the same I suppose...I won't go into details about the movie, I don't have to. I just have something to say for those who didn't like the movie: you're simply not intelligent people. Simple as that. I hate romantic comedies, I hate Kate and dislike Carrey, I avoid watching anything related to Elijah Wood, so this movie had everything to make me want to hate it. But I didn't, I loved it and it's my 4th favorite movie of all time now. And you know why? Because I like movies that make me think. I enjoy movies made for smart people, by people smarter than me. OK perhaps you guys prefer a more linear, straight forwarded, non-surprising "american gladiators" kind of plot. Well good for you, as 95% of films is made for people like you. But if you didn't like this movie, please... try to think a little harder.PS: I really think the ending should feature our main characters in the car, talking (before she puts on the tape), and things start to disappear from the car and their faces disappear, and you know they eventually got together and did it again.
Sunshine was one of those cinema films, credited as a story about love i got dragged along by the girlfriend. At the time I enjoyed the sci-fi aspect of it. I found the writing and idea to be interesting on a purely inventive level. A very original concept which I found as more of a good story at the time. I appreciated the acting, particularly the way Carrey portrayed his character. People don't always give him the respect that his abilities deserve, they see him as a funny man, but their are films like this and The Truman Show where he manages to capture an emotion which he might not be so related to.I watched the film again on DVD of late, and things that happened to me related to the film, which cast it in a totally different light. I could suddenly understand the idea of removing somebody from your mind, the physical act of it didn't sound like a clever Sci-Fi idea, but something that should be able to be done. In the same way, I also understood the concept of running from the removal. It related to me because I found that I didn't want to forget things, and wanted to forget others.I think this film has several different effects on people. Those with histories in relationships will feel a lot more connected with the film, it speaks to people who still feel the effects of their own relationships. To others, who cant feel this connection, it becomes much more of a typical film, nothing really to relate to, no compelling characters, no huge action or uncomplicated story lines. The viewer can just see it, but not really care. This leaves them thinking less of such a film.I think the only way people can really appreciate this film is to see themselves in it, pick a person who they are like, and understand how they would react in such a situation. I believe that this film is much better when you see your own mind and memories, and begin to feel the story.


                
Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind directed by Michel Gondry is one of the most outstanding, original and riveting movies I have ever seen. Charlie Kauffman does it again with a spectacular and uniquely original screenplay accompanied by phenomenal performances from Jim Carrey (as Joel Bash) and Kate Winslet (as Clementime). Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind perfectly orchestrates subtle moments, heartfelt experiences and other key features of film and story telling in order to create a master piece of emotion, action and truth.Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind depicts Joel Barrish (Jim Carrey) undergoing a procedure to rid himself of the memory of his ex girlfriend Clementime (Kate Winslet) after discovering she had already undergone the same procedure. Written by Charlie Kauffman, Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is one of the most original and well written screen play of the century. With it shining light on subtle moments whilst also producing some of the most heartfelt moments in cinema history. The use of subtly is effectively used throughout to produce symbolist if meanings not usually presented in your everyday film. This rewards viewers who pay attention to the little details and immerses the audience deeper into the film. Each character was beautifully constructed and manipulated so as to have the viewer exactly where they need to be throughout the film. Also as expected in a Charlie Kauffman screenplay, heavy symbolism is used throughout so as the audience can delve deeper into the film. Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind also has a unique re- watch-ability due to this originality, detail and amazing characters. This is also a movie I would more then definitely recommend to watch more then once, as lots of details are lost throughout.Both Jim Carrey and Kate Winslet perform superbly throughout which greatly increased the immersion throughout. Special credit given to Winslett as she performed phenomenally throughout and was a perfect fit for her role. As for Jim Carrey I thought his acting was superb as well, with what felt like a whole other side to the actor. Also we see some great acting from the other side characters such as Elijah Wood, Kirsten Dunst and Mark Ruffalo who help tie together the whole story. Without these great actors I can imagine the movie would of never been quite up to the phenomenal level it currently is.Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind is one of the most amazing, heartfelt and tremmendesly great movies and deserves recognition for every various aspect within


                
