To start off, I am a massive Top Gear fan and have been for a long time. I can watch endless re-runs and never get tired of it. I was really excited to see what these three would come up with, given free reign.But boy was I disappointed. The show clearly has a massive budget and the production value is incredible as expected. In the first episode the hyper car segment was good. But the in studio (tent) stuff was just terrible. Everything feels extremely scripted, and not well scripted at that. Feels like the guys have lost all of their chemistry and it feels forced. The celebrity segment was a complete and utter waste of time. And drawn out to the max.The second episode was worse. The in studio stuff again was not good. Some good Jacob Zuma digs, but the rest was the same bad jokes as episode 1. But in episode 2 the SAS film was very long and dragged out. Everything just feels like a filler.I am extremely disappointed in the show thus far. Was expecting them to raise the bar with the GT, but at the moment it is nowhere near TG.
Watching the Grand Tour is like watching a Hollywood pastiche of Top Gear.The show, in concept, is a great idea - and in practice should have been too. However, it comes out as bloated, Americanised and barely capable of holding your attention; or at least of providing your attention (and memory) with anything worth holding on to.Clarkson, Hammond and May have become aged sock puppets to what must be a roughly 95% scripted affair that sucks all of the life and fun out of the original format whilst spewing as much expletive content as possible to remind you that it is on the internet without the regulations of the BBC. The scripting itself is packed with crass, awkward and poorly written gags and dialogue that tries to imitate the natural but falls short in every way. Not to mention, the editing team have somewhat missed the point and, once again, have created a parodic American mash of the style of the original source.One of the redeeming factors is the larger budget, but even that feels wasted and wanton and - you guessed it - brimming with unnecessary American excess.


                
I was genuinely excited that Clarkson & Co had found a new home and one that would provide more scope for them to do more, and the opening to the first episode increased that excitement however ever since I have been really disappointed with the show. I keep watching and will keep watching in the hopes that it gets better but I just don't think it will.The last few series of Top Gear was going far too scripted and The Grand Tour is nothing more than poor scripted jokes.I find Clarkson & Co to be their best when they are put under pressure and how they respond to each other, for example the Botswana special or the Peru special. This show is nothing of that! What could have been a superb exploration of what a Grand Tour in the Victorian era was turned out to be absolute garbage with the main joke being Hammond's Americana, something that has been explored in similar ways numerous times.Under Amazon's money Clarkson & Co could really have done some special shows about cars and the humour would have come from the genuine friendship and camaraderie of the three.You see Clarkson belly laughing at things in the videos however it must be a "you had to be there" kind of thing!
I saw to the second episode. And I must confess, it was really disappointing. This folks used to do a show about cars. And now it looks like directed by Michael Bay, I know in the past they had the "murican" explosive moment. Silly jokes, and all that on the hand of being carefully balanced It was really nice, it had sordid moments, yet had class. The first episode was good. Lacking of some spice. Like they can catch up. Like when you start something after being of for a little time. But the second one definitely went down... What was that? a step of not funny comedy? It is supposed to be funny but not?Really?! WTF? I hope some one changes production or fires Michael Bay. One more chance, lets see the 3rd episode. Maybe I am wrong. BETTER TO GO WHEN YOU ARE BIG, OR STAY LONG ENOUGH TO BE SMALL AGAIN.
I was really looking forward to this series but have been disappointed so far. The jokes and banter between the three guys seem staged and predictable. The Celebrity Brain Crash is absurd, totally pointless. The American is unfunny. Why is it so different from the original Top Gear? The best episodes of Grand Tour so far have been the Christmas one when the presenters were showing funny ideas for gifts, and the special filmed in Namibia. These were genuinely good entertainment. I think the show needs guest appearances, obviously not the same as on Top Gear. Perhaps the guests could review cars on a test drive. Or include segments when the presenters meet other drivers (perhaps. from the general public) who are doing car projects or who own interesting vehicles. I am hoping for better in future episodes and hope the producers and presenters take note of comments and reviews.
I was looking forward to this show so much, but after 5 episodes I must say that I'm deeply disappointed how that came out. I admit I also loved the introduction of The Grand Tour in the first episode, but looking back it's just too much "hero worship" and self-adulation and not enough cars and good humor. Also, the painfully scripted running gags like the "celebrity brain crash" don't work, the new test track and "the American" are absolutely horrible, and most of the "conversation street" dialogue is just plain nonsense ...I was hoping at least for spectacular road trips like they did in the "country" specials in the past, but no... The Italy episode came close though. What I also find strange is that they don't dedicate the episode to the country they are located in with their tent at that time... in the Netherlands for example they showed a film from Morroko.I will probably just refrain from watching this show anymore. It's just not fun.


                
First the good parts:Beautiful cars, beautiful sceneries, technical perfect presentation. Clearly the budget for this show is quite big.Having said that... The shows tries very hard to create a good chemistry between the characters - and fails miserably!I very much wanted to like it! But the heavily scripted dialogues and scenes scream FAKE at every single second. The humor hardly ever works - it's entertaining at its best but mostly so childish that even my immature mind cringes at the stupidity.I've finished the third episode hoping it would get better. I'm giving up now. The only solace I can take from having wasted 3 hours of my life is that I saw someone who is generally considered to be an asshole fall flat on his face.I really couldn't care less about celebrity gossip but the first episode makes it obvious that Jeremy Clarkson is sending a huge "up yours" to the BBC. Google quickly told me he was fired for being a terrible human being too often.MILD SPOILERS AHEAD Apparently the lesson he took from that was to show BBC that he could "fall up" and that he was happier than ever! The entire thing seems convoluted, childish and sad... "I'm so happy now! Look at how much better the weather is in California!"In conclusion, the three stars are for the beautiful cars and the technical part of the show. The execution is flawless, the plot and characters are terrible.


                
First of all, I would like to state I am (was) a huge fan of Top Gear when it was on BBC. Also, this is my first review on IMDB after being an user for around 10 years. Now, let's get going. I can easily summarize The "Grand" Tour - a very disrespectful, insensitive and ignorant show. What once was a very respectable show about cars, now is a joke.The first season - in absolutely every episode they laughed at various things, showing how mighty and powerful are the British people. If anything is "lesser" or weaker they would make everything and anything possible to showcase it. They also had guests (mostly British peeps not known to the vast majority of viewers) but thank God we could skip those moments filled with fake laughs and daft humour. All in all, I would not watch season one again.The second season - what started with a glimmer of hope that the old style programme that made the three stooges famous was making a return was false and quickly doused in merely 11 episodes time. They managed to prove that that the old saying about a wolf changing his coat but not disposition is still true to this day and age.This is merely a show about kids' jokes and pointless tests making fun of anything (everything) that they don't like. If you make up your mind based off of this show then you surely must drive an old British made car with 5+ litre engine. Oh, did I mention they tried to be politically correct for once - getting a female test driver who never gets a name or the chance to speak apart from muttering out "right" or "let's go".I am truly disappointed and shocked what modern media has come down to. To me, personally, this show is a massive let down and I would think twice or even thrice about watching another episode after they made sure to make fun of people living in Mozambique. That triggered me to write this review and stop watching them. Everyone makes up their own mind on their own and chooses what to watch and not but mine is made up.Verdict - 4/10 due to the first few episodes of season two.
A huge, huge fan of old Top Gear, who even likes the new one as well. This show is so unbelievably bad and scripted, I am in awe of how many people think it even deserves to hold a candle to the old with the amount of talent on board. What do you give the greatest threesome, possibly of all time, with such pure chemistry? I would say not a script. Or at least a half-script that got then from A to B with some direction. There are of course good things, I actually quite enjoyed the first half of the Africa trip. The later half of the series felt better paced and nicely imaginative, with a greater variety of items to show instead of just one. Also I'm in the minority when I say I like the reviews - simplistic but to the point and to a degree memorable and wonderfully shot (even if the crew have no idea what tone to use with each car).Andy Wilman once called the boys a happy accident - it's exactly what the Grand Tour isn't, an unfunny parody.


                
Gorgeous cinematography and scenery, fascinating locations.However . . .The Stig's replacement is awful. I realize that BBC may own the rights to a silent tame racing driver, but Mike Skinner should shut up and drive. His comments add nothing to the feature. In fact, they detract from it.And "Celebrity Brain Crash" needs to go away at the earliest possible opportunity.What used to be a fresh, funny, and spontaneous chemistry among the hosts now seems forced, scripted, and stale. At times, it's painful.I'll keep watching for a while in hopes of improvement, but I can't take this indefinitely. I understand it can take a new show and new format a little while to find its way, but geez . . .Update: I've slogged through to the end of episode 10. While there have been flashes of the old show's brilliance, so much of it is so bad. Mike Skinner's still there, unchanged (contract commitments?) and "Celebrity Brain Crash" is the zombie skit that refuses to die the grisly death it so richly deserves.One of the high points of the old show was the guests. Maybe BBC also owns the rights to "Star in a Reasonably-Priced Car," but watching people like Anthony Hopkins, Jay Kay, and Jodie Kidd interact with the hosts was enjoyable, and I could watch Sabine Schmitz 24 hours a day. Remember the race between cars with other cars welded upside down on top of them? The rally team made up of amputees from the British military? Playing conkers with caravans? Jame's lighter-than-air adventure? Sorely missed.The old show was probably scripted to a point, but not so it was noticeable. The new show may as well have "the boys" holding the cue cards in their hands while they read from them. Clarkson, Hammond, and May just seem too old and tired to give the show the energy it needs. My sense is that they're just coasting along, resting on their laurels, not really putting much effort into this show. After all, they're long in the tooth, they're multimillionaires, they get fabulous paychecks no matter what, so why break a sweat?Amazon's money isn't being well-spent.


                
Predictable, pedestrian and three tired old men trying to live like it's the past. Sure, it looks good it 4k but if its all surface and no real content what's the point?
I sat watching the latest episode knowing beforehand what would likely happen in the ensuing segment and being proven right.
How many more times do we have to watch these dinosaurs go to a foreign country be crap at whatever task they've been set and come to no conclusion?
They have become their own tribute band in a way. Playing all the greatest hits with no real enthusiasm.


                
Some say, The Grand Tour is brilliant....oh dear, the rest of us can spot the Trabant in the room! Proof that throwing millions of dollars at a show doesn't guarantee it will be a winner. The presenters are now well past their "best before" dates. Clarkson is 57 and always looks tired, and May is 54 and appears bored most of the time. The script writers are trying too hard to be funny, and failing. Humour works better when it is more spontaneous. A little less Conversation Street and a lot more action is what's needed.There will obviously be comparisons with the trio's previous show, Top Gear. Sure, the Grand Turd, oops, I mean Tour, has had some awesome cars, but their excuse for a track, and it's name, the Eboladrome, is awful. The American will never have the legendary status of the mysterious and cool Stig. The guests should be allowed to chat or drive a car, not be "killed" before they reach the tent. The Grand Tour got off to a great start then it ran out of gas. Matt LeBlanc, Chris Harris, and Rory Reid are doing a good job on series 24 of Top Gear, so I will rate Top Gear as the far superior car show, and on that bombshell, goodnight!
From the view of a petrolhead, this show carries little entertainment value. Cars have become meer props within pointless segments whose only discernible point is to get Jeff Bezos to pay for their elaborate adventure holidays.Incredibly cringeworthy: the giggling that ensues everytime one of the presenters hears or spots anything he perceives as sexual, like a man standing behind a donkey. I guess it's true what they say....people revert to being infantile with increasing age.


                
Season three is the lowest point so far, not sure if this show can keep limping on. Tired 'jokes' that the uk audience have seen before, the show now seems to be more popular abroad as everyone I've spoken to in the uk thinks it's poor. The columbia 'special' is very weak, literally nothing happens for 20 minutes then it's a trek around some lovely scenery but there's no real entertainment. I think the guys know that their days are numbered. I cannot see a season 4 happening.


                
Loved Top Gear. Season 1 Grand Tour was watchable. Season 2 I watched bits of. Season 3 is pretty awful to back fair. 3 old guys filmed acting their way through poorly thought out sketches. Not really sure what I'm watching? Just finished Gymkhana files, that's what I call a cool car program with other footage wrapped around it. Grand Tour had lost it's direction completely.


                
