If you really are open to other views: I watched Top Gear since the 2002 reboot, and the two most fun elements were the specials and the chemistry between the believable characters.But when they realized this, they gradually tried to force it, resulting in it becoming more and more over the top. And in the end it just stopped being believable. Which means it stopped being fun.In The Grand Tour, they desperately tried to re-ignite that chemistry. (Jeremy says so himself.) But by now it has completely stopped being natural and believable, and is more like someone badly copying a caricature of a nostalgic memory. And all that's left is them looking like they're trying too hard. That's just not fun anymore. And that makes me disappointed and sad.The other problem that I have is that, given their apparently much bigger budget, having each episode be a special and then some would have been possible. But they just went on doing basically the old format. Which is rather wasteful, financially.Well, at least their mini-specials each episodes give a bit of joy. I still have hope. I'm just rather disappointed.


                
How Grand Tour can be rated by users at 9.5 is beyond me.... I like cars, I don't mind the presenters and Amazon have clearly thrown a lot of money at this but come on it's nothing special. Some of the finest, most classic feature films ever made don't get a rating above 9. But interestingly I notice that IMDb have the same looking login page as Amazon.... hmmmmm, I'd like to think IMDb was not biased?? Anyway the latest episode, the training ground episode in Jordan was just unnecessarily long, I had to force myself to carry on watching. I hope the show starts to focus more on motoring than pointless tasks that centre on the presenters.


                
Having been a fan of Top Gear for well over a decade like so many others I was gobsmacked about it being cancelled, elated that the guys found a new home and have watched every episode of The Grand Tour so far.However: the bigger budget only serves to show off depraved consumerism dressed up as being a "fun between best mates". Killing off animals to build a car, to weigh a car, destroy a whole fleet of cars in good working order to boost TV-ratings (admittedly, I never liked that in the original Top Gear either), flattening a beautiful house... that's not a sign of the chemistry between the three. That's a sign of a big budget production without a heart.Everything is over the top, everything is planned and shown off to be -where is the feel of spontaneity, the feel of things actually being able to go wrong? "How hard can it be?" - well, just bring in a bigger crane, ship, tank, airfield, whatever...The public personae of the three are so overproduced that they've become cliché and that makes it, sadly, very boring to watch.The Grand Tour tries very hard to be what Top Gear was, but it has lost its heart. Sadly.


                
It is really sad to see people that should know better doing this pathetic replacement for Top Gear. They did some really crazy things in Top Gear but this is absurd. It is over scripted, humour is tepid., their English charm is lost along the way, and it is just over the top...well...dumb. Even the celebrity segment is predictable and it worked only in pilot episode. I think these guys need to have someone to keep them in focus, and BBC did that job well. I know this is not just a show about cars, but man bonding, and kids that have more expensive toys. But kids took over, and cars became irrelevant. I think the balance between those two was a formula for success, More money is not a formula for good content. I would be more than happy to write a great review but....guys, back to the drawing board.


                
Having watched EVERY episode of the BBC series, and most of them with family, we were checking the net almost weekly looking forward to the Grand Tour's launch. The BBC program had some occasional language but most was bleeped and the slips were maybe 1 to 2 x per season - generally the whole family could enjoy. This new series needs an adult with a drop of class to engage the production team. The quality of the writing and humor has degraded. The stupid antics with 'props' from Amsterdam "shops" in the 5th or 6th episode, followed by the Christmas episode with "branded gift ideas" including the unrolling of condoms is expected from MTV. Apparently Amazon's programming peeps thought, "The British style from the old show (with a billion viewers) wasn't raw enough. Let's hire a bunch of boys from Jefferson Junior High School to write jokes for the various segments. Moving the audience portions from roving locations seems to have consumed the time,effort and budget the BBC was able to direct elsewhere. The Ebola track with "the American" and his predictable chatter ceased being funny by the 4th episode, and is about as inventive and surprising as a constant left hand turn. I'll go back to reruns of the old show.


                
The original Top Gear peaked around the Vietnam special then headed slowly down hill from there. The Grand Tour has not really changed that.
Too much money can be a bad thing and has made the producers risk averse, which means highly scripting everything. The spontaneity has gone and been replaced by three actors who are not actors.On the positive side, the filming and editing is fantastic. The solo car reviews are still good. What is missing is the original British wit and ladism.If I recall my fave TG moments: they were mainly the specials. Toyota Destruction, Space Shuttle, Vietnam Special, North Pole, Argentina, some of the races, sabine.
I hope they get their mojo back.It's also disappointing to see what seem to be paid 10 star reviews. Its not a 10 star show.


                
The effects are top notch and it's well made, but it all feels really force to say, we have lots of money and are being controversial just to say we are. The car comparison videos are usually funny, but the often feel forced. The competitions on the original shows were better designed to use the personalities of each host better. It feels like with the hour long episode I only enjoy about 20 mins of it. While in the original it would be entertaining for nearly the entire hour. I hope they stop trying to force the jokes and force the entertainment and go back to the drawing board with original ideas. I would rather wait twice as long for quality episodes than having to fast forward through most of it to get to the good stuff.


                
Season 2 Episode 1.
The test between the Lambo, NSX and Rimac could have been fantastic, but the feature story gave us little to no info about the cars, how they operate, specs, times or data. Just some rubbish fluff piece in which we learn (again) that super cars don't ravel well around the tight streets of European cities, and LAmbos have troubles on steep drives. Seen it all before. Yawn. Boring.
The climax of the piece is Hammonds crash in the Rimac. No mention or thanks to the emergency personnel. No apology to Rimac. Arrogant much? Hardly surprising given Clarkesons track record, and the reason he was sacked from TG.
There was nothing in this show I found original or entertaining. The cars are awesome though. Unfortunately, the "car show" didn't tell me too much about them. 
On the other hand, Top Gear with new presenters is going from strength to strength. Perhaps the real skill of the show was the back of house staff, cause with GT I haven't been impressed in a season and one episode.
So, after all the press, all the hype, we actually now get to see what Amazon is spending the big bucks on, and also what viewers are getting for their money too.What they are getting is pretty much everything people liked about the old 'Top Gear'. Flashy stunts, fast cars, and three grumpy men at the helm.Amazon have certainly splashed the cash, meaning that you sometimes feel like you're in the middle of an action film. Is it style over substance, sometimes yes.Much like 'Top Gear' though even when certain bits don't work the chemistry between the hosts carried it through. You can say what you like about them as people, but their chemistry is great.Of course it'll be a hit. There was no way it wouldn't be.


                
The Grand Tour is anything but "grand". After being picked up by Amazon, the former presenters of Top Gear promised this a long time ago and really I wasn't that hopeful to see it. The three presenters just got worse and worse the longer Top Gear was on for and watching a show where they had very little restriction I thought would be hell. However, they are a lot better now than they were when they presented Top Gear, but that hardly saves this waste of potential.The Grand tour could have been two things: a complete copy of Top Gear but with a larger budget and less restrictions, or it could have been an ALTERNATIVE to Top Gear that had a drastically different format that fit with what the presenters did best which was comedy. Unfortunately TGT is the former and it is basically them saying "We're exactly the same as Top Gear, but better cos we have the old presenters!" It could have been so much more, I was hoping they would go in a completely different direction and make it a comedy motoring show and not a motoring show with comedy elements.In short, it's pretty boring and a waste of good potential. I don't hold out much hope that it will get any better and some of the more recent episodes have the same trend.


                
An average episode of the classic Top Gear is better than the best episode of The Grand Tour.Every episode is unbelievable, the 'comedy' is forced on the viewer and we are made to try and 'go along' with scripted chemistry they are showing. BUT WHY? My question is: If they were so successfully at showing natural comedy with chemistry why now has it turned over the top to the point of death? Why do they need to force it? if we all know from the past, it's there naturallyPeople who say this is 'Just like old Top Gear' obviously haven't watched classic Top Gear - It's nothing like it and that is just a FACT.One of the key USPs of classic Top Gear was the fact they had 'relatively' low budget, hence why sometimes low budget car challenges were in place.Unfortunately because now The Grand Tour has such a vast budget, we don't get to see REAL or 'believable' break down situations for example, or constant 'things going wrong' events. It's all just scripted which for me and probably most people who have watched Top Gear from the start - makes it cringe-worthy and difficult to watch.I find it really hard coming to terms with reviews where they actually praise this show. Especially from people who have, like me been here since the start.I really hope it improves.


                
Was good, now just the same old tired crap. Can't stay awake through an episode any more.


                
I was massively looking forward to The Grand Tour. Have watched (and been a huge fan of) Too Gear since the Tiff days.The first 2 series of The Grand Tour have been, quite simply, woeful. Cars have come a very distant second to the three of them attempting to be "funny", usually solely via the use of very thinly veiled racism and homophobia.Series 3 does look like it has improved slightly, with the focus being wrenched back to actual cars a little.The biggest problem though is the total lack of chemistry between the 3 of them. No doubt Top Gear was scripted but it was scripted in a much more natural way - it didn't feel pre-arranged (even though you knew it was). The script writing in this is predictable, boring and unnatural.My final gripe is Richard Hammond. On Top Gear, he was mercifully used as a bit-part player, with the occasional larger part. In higher doses, as with here in the Grand Tour, he is INTENSELY annoying. He's incredibly unlikeable and his constant overacting is enough to drive anyone mad.


                
The episodes in the traditional format (tent, discussion, car reviews, road trips) have all been pretty good. However, the "specials" like last nights episode in the American West, and the trip to Columbia to look for improbable animals have been increasingly nonsensical and dull. It's a car show guys!


                
The show is just getting outdated and the jokes just seem mean spirited. Clarkson is the worst in the joke department and I'm using the the term joke very loosely. I'd say it's more than time for this show turn off the ignition and hang up the keys for good.


                
