I already started to dislike the last BBC Top Gear episodes because of the increasing amount of scripted jokes but Amazon took it to a whole new level. This show is now 100% scripted, there is not one improvised joke. The dialog between the crew feels forced and uncomfortable. Not only that but the jokes are not funny at all, the car scenes take on for much too long to keep me interested, even the audience was super annoying, over the top American.This shows that making a good auto show takes more than a lot of money + Jeremy Clarkson & co. The BBC had an entire crew behind it which is what most people seem to forget.This show is now just another over the top American TV show about cars, just like all the other shows that are already out there.


                
For this review, I will be comparing to 'Top Gear', as we all know that 'The Grand Tour' is based on it. What made us come to love 'Top Gear' was that everything seemed to happen systematically, it felt unscripted. With 'The Grand Tour', you know from start to end that it is scripted and feels much less organic than 'Top Gear' did. There are some parts of the show which fell flat (Brain Crash to say the least) and should be gotten rid of before series 2, as they are perfect examples of being scripted. But that's not to say that there aren't any good parts. Most of each episode are very entertaining and some episodes are, you could say, amazing. But the bad areas just pull them down. It also seems that Amazon invested a bit to much money into this, as it starts to seem to have too much thrown at it.


                
OK, so I was really excited to watch GT and hoped for great things. Well, it was not great, good, but not great. I liked the first show better. Seemed to be more of the old TG in the show. I am a little disappointed in this so called 'Test track'. I do not get the feel of the speed or cornering ability of the test cars.The second show however was SAS overkill. There was less car review and drive time then the SAS skit. It could have been funny if not so long. Although the first 2 shows were not as good as I hoped, I do believe (hope) it will get better. I will continue to watch and see what happens. As I was a die hard TG fan I can accept some growing pains in a new format. Hopefully they will find their stride as they did with TG and knock it out of the park!I hope people realize that remaking a show is tougher than it seems, just doing the same thing as before does not work. They need to find out what new things work and what does not. I guess only time will tell!


                
The Chemistry has always been great since Series Two of Top Gear, but, it looks like the American bosses and the influence they're having over the whole production crew is "SERIOUSLY Detrimental".The three seem as if they're addressing the crowd and not recording the program, as they have to think of a need to speak slowly and clearly. The program is trying too unnecessarily hard for being idiot friendly, but what these people forget to realize is that they run the chance of losing the intelligent viewership by doing so right there.These people are British, and their own cultural jokes sort of gave one, insight into how Britons saw the world, and what they got on to. This global tent thing, as I am sure they well know themselves, is something that is just not working in their favor, at least so far.The magic of spontaneous jokes is completely absent.Looking up bloopers and outtakes of previous Top Gear episodes shows exactly the sort of magic that has completely been wiped clean.It seems as if the limitations posed by the BBC brought the best out of the three, given that they revel in failure and the excuse of having a compromised budget gave way to some nice jokes.The reinvention is indeed a shambles at best at this point. And the worst part is, that we all know that they can do far far better than what we see at the moment.If IMDb allows me I'll add a lot more later


                
First of all let me mention, I have been a long-time fan since the Top Gear days and all my comments here are not just to whine about the show pointlessly but to point out places where they can improve because I love the show and do not want it to go downhill from here and I understand working too close with the project for so many years can make them more difficult to see the problems that we may see. So here goes my honest review of the Grand Tour so far:I'm feeling the show is starting to get less crisp. Back in the BBC days, they had a lot of content in a show: perhaps a car test, the news, a 3-car challenge, celebrity chat and back to 3-person challenge. It felt dynamic and the one hour flew by. Now though, it seems they are scared of the BBC suing them if they did do the celebrity chat or even the news, turning those two sections into pretending to kill a celebrity off and 'conversation street' where they talk random stuff and not much about cars. That's the first problem I'm starting to feel they should avoid: talking too much random stuff. Yes, I do like their chemistry, them just being around each other, whinging about the other two is entertaining regardless of what topic they talk about but having too much of that in each episode is a bit..'too much'. The second problem I have with the show is something they have been doing since the BBC days and that's 'trying to make themselves look incompetent' – and guess what does that lead to? Yes, more whinging and blaming each other. For example, pretending to set fire to things, pretending Jeremy cannot get himself out of a hole in the wall or deliberately not anchoring cars to ocean beds and getting James to trod on beach chairs with his crane to fix the problem.The third problem is when they ruin their 3-person challenge. When they do this properly, I believe it is the core of their success – it provides a good half an hour of entertainment showing off their chemistry, their car-loving passion and even providing some useful information. Some great 3-person challenges that spring to mind are racing from A to B with different transportation modes, bringing 3 cars to another country and testing them or building/modifying cars for a special purpose and testing them. The problem is when they do non-car related stuff like the military thing, or not testing it properly like when they built 'environmental-friendly chassis' car then just drove it around whinging and then end with James deliberately destroying Richard's car, or back in the Top Gear days when they ended a challenge with an irrelevant mucking-about segment like when they did the ambulance car challenge or the hatchback challenge.Let me try and do a rundown of the current show and point out where it nags me: - Starting each show now, Jeremy will do a monologue about random stuff - I'd rather they cut this and get on with the show as this will lead to problem 1 (the 3-person challenge has lots of room for them to whinge, they don't have to do it everywhere-else on the show). - After that they might do a car review - that's still great. - After that they'll go into conversation street – which is just space for more whinging and not much information about cars – problem 1. - Then we'll have celebrity brain crash - second problem. - Then they might do some 3-person challenge which is great but they have to make sure they don't run into problem 3. - Sometimes they'll do random stuff like James at that tyre-burning doughnut event, the Battleship-with-cars thing, back in Top Gear days: car rugby and race between non-car and car. This is sometimes entertaining, sometimes not – the doughnut wasn't, the bug out car wasn't (this could have turned into an interesting 3-person challenge) because there was again too much whinging and blowing up, the Battleship one, the car rugby and the races are alright. - Then sometimes there'll be these great segments like the Ford GT or back in Top Gear days I can remember the Land Rover ad tribute and the look into British car industry.All in all, I think the main problem is them trying not to be like Top Gear – getting rid of celebrity chat, the news, etc and then having to fill the time with the monologue, celebrity brain crash and longer 3- person challenge videos which means we get to see more of their whinging chemistry – which is at the moment, a bit too much. I know they can't do much with this because they don't want to get involved with the BBC so as I see it, they have two options: one – make the show shorter, cut out the whinging, the deliberate incompetence and mucking about blowing things up with tanks and fighter jets or two – come up with more segments that doesn't involve using the chemistry of the three presenters and mucking about like car and non-car race, Ford GT tribute, Jaguar E-type tribute, etc.So there you go, what do you guys think? If you like the show then feel free to chip in and join the discussion. I hope someone in their office sees this and take it as positive criticism and not just negative ranting. I shall be still following the show and get excited every time they come back in season!
The facts first: Everybody knows the background story of Jeremy Clarkson getting sacked from the BBC for hitting an employee and Hammond and May following him only to sign with Amazon for the Über-sequel of their original show.That being said, the first thing you notice is the budget. Oh yes, The Grand Tour is big, very very big and expensive and you will be constantly reminded of this.The heart of Top Gear was the chemistry of these three gentlemen, so, where is it? Exactly where it's supposed to be - nothing has changed, the three are still a joy to watch, particularly when they have different opinions on things. So this is also the heart of The Grand Tour.What do we get? Well, what we got on Top Gear - three hilarious lads driving fast cars, chatting and disagreeing about then while taking things to absurd levels. Half of the show is in front of live audience in a studio tent and the other are prerecorded films that are being played in between. We also have a track that is being used to measure the performances of a car and we have a new racing driver to do this.Is The Grand Tour better than Top Gear? Hm, in its current state this is a definite yes. Is it the ultimate car show? Considering its budget and passion you may have the right to say so. Is it original? Come on, let's be honest, it isn't. Even though there are a few minor new ideas here and there it is exactly what we have come to expect from the trio formerly steering Top Gear. Don't get me wrong, they do what they do very very well and without a doubt this is already one of the biggest car shows on the planet. However it isn't new - at all.That's why I can't give it 10 points. Quite frankly even 8 are very generous already - but as a little leap of faith this may prove to be right.It actually doesn't matter, Clarkson, Hammond and May are back in the game and they play it just as everyone hoped they would.
I was a fan of the original series Top Gear, however during the years the emphasis of car reviews was shifted towards more showing of super cars. In the later season super cars seamed like the only ones on the market and doing stunts became the number one occupation of the original trio.Sadly, The Grand Tour continues on the previous allure. Very few car reviews except for super cars which only the very happy few can buy anyway and the stunt department is even more present with some outrageous stunts like using beach buggy's like a cable car.Although still entertaining, The Grand Tour is heading in a direction in which it will be hard to think of what stunt next to dazzle the viewer. Very low on content, very high on being outrageously spectacular but ultimately The Grand Tour is like a Big Mac. It's nice to swallow, but it's junk TV and like the presenters say: 'What have we learned: nothing.'


                
