== this review has been kept spoiler free in mind. But their are aspects and style of presentation that i have elaborated on which may spoil the show for some people===================================================I am pleased to see the car enthusiast trio back at it once more, with their new revhead series, The Grand Tour.At first impressions the show seems to make use of its outstanding budget very nicely by implementing many exiting explosions, flying jets, new exotic locations and new racing challenges.For the people who loved Topgear, the new producers have made sure to bring back the long run nostalgia and credibility that has been built on topgear for many years.The show still contains the timed race laps, celebrity talks each week, car reviews and challenges. I understand that this typical setting of the new show can allow easy-transition of the previous viewers of top gear into TGT, but i don't believe the show can thrive on using the same content forever.As mentioned by Jeremy Clarkson. This episode was a more car oriented episode , with a focus on presenting new cars to the audience. This episodes approach on this was quite underwhelming and repetitive at times. Most of the episode featured the same 3 cars being driven and raced in a slightly different manner (drag race, more drag race, track race!). It is hard be driven with excitement for most of the episode with the same cars and content (especially considering the episode is 1hr long).Im looking forward to future episodes of TGT as they have introduced the show very well. I cant really say much about how its presented because you would know that well from topgear, which is resembles really well from (and i don't want to spoil it for you!). I cant judge the show from just this episode, but the show has some true potential. I really hope they emphasise the "Grand Tour" part of the show, because the road trips that they did in top gear was the best part of the show (in my opinion), something that many fans I'm sure are eager to see. The introduction episode has been done really well, and hasn't been made TOO boring, but I'm looking forward to seeing what this show becomes once its all settled in.


                
After reading about the BBC-Clarkson situation a while back and watching Top Gear for about 5 times in my whole life - I decided to give The Grand Tour a try. Not being an avid Top Gear fan as well as not being into these kind of shows, I didn't expect it to blow me away. But it did, nonetheless. Watching the introduction alone prepared me for the coming three seasons and automatically added The Grand Tour to my watch-list; the cinematography containing the beautiful cars, scenery and music make the show worth watching. All of this paired alongside the action-filled scenes revealed during the intro, the comedic scenes (which feel more real now that they can swear) as well as the chemistry between the three makes me excited for the next episode. If you haven't watched Top Gear before, now's the best time to introduce yourself to The Grand Tour. And if you have already, forget about it - because this show completely blows it out of the water.


                
What more can be said; May, Clarkson and Hammond are back and they do not disappoint...From the intro it is clear they are no longer bound by budget and constraints, the production has gone to the next level!The tent is a stroke of genius, taking their already formidable brand around the world maximising its potential.Much of the formula remains, but with a twist - the show will leave you with as many questions unanswered as answered, reeling you into waiting for the next instalment.And finally on mainstream media, the boys pull off a coup and bring the Holly Trinity together, and most of the show - rightly so, revolves around 3 master pieces of automotive engineering. Watch carefully, there are many references and jibes throughout which sometimes are a little too subtle, but will put a big broad smile on your face as they unfold in front of you!There is more to come, more polish will be poured on: It's good to see familiar names in the credits at the end. The boys are in good hands at Amazon!
The dynamic trio is back, Jeremy, James and Richard, and under a new name The Grand Tour, produced by Amazon, this new show brings back your favorite segments and hosts from its obvious inspiration (Top Gear). This show follows the same formula as Top Gear, with a few tweaks. after watching the fist few episodes of the series (Se1 Ep3), i can safely say, it is a great watch. With lots of laughs and some great nostalgia, it really feels like I'm watching Top Gear again. But i do have my queries with the show. Although lots of fun, it feels scripted and doesn't seem to have the same natural flow as Top Gear, some of the segments feel over scripted often being more like skits than random adventures, and some of the dialogue even feels like it lacking that fast witty banter between the trio and has unfortunately been replaced with some controlled dialogue. maybe the BBC was just really good and hiding some of the scripting, but c'mon amazon your on the internet, i don't think you need to control it this heavily, i really hope they drop this in later episodes. But there are some welcomed editions to this new show. The traveling set is a great idea, mixing up locations and audiences, with the great ability to include some hilarious audience interaction. also Amazons resourcefulness to keep those iconic Top Gear segments in the show but also change them up enough to give the show it own identity, even if they are a bit hit and miss. overall defiantly recommend if you are a Top Gear fan, and even if you're not give it a go you never know you might like it. some of the changes can be frustrating and it might turn people off, but i think Amazon has made a great attempt, and i know i defiantly will keep watching.


                
Watched the second episode tonight & saw the first episode last week. It's 4 parts awesome and 2 parts flat. The "American" doesn't fit at all for me. The hilly billy humor just doesn't go with the British wit. What executive group-think came up with this schtick? I liked the old show precisely because it wasn't full of American clichés and overt pandering to the NASCAR crowd. Also, the second episode's attempt to cut, splice, and stretch 5 minutes of actual video into a 30 minute feature was irritating. And James enjoyed his featurette in EP 2 about as much as I did. I think it's promising, and I'm hoping it hits a better stride. Send them on a road trip already!!


                
You almost won't notice that the show has changed in the second season. No killing stars, back to some (for me) unknown guys driving cars. Oh, and there is much more money in it, which is also nice.Just one thing. Get rid of the driver woman. If they got rid of the American for not being very funny (and justly so), then I have no idea what she is doing there. She said like two words in the entire show.


                
