After a steady start with Seasons 1 & 2, the 3rd has really excelled in my opinion.The features and specials are great, the humour is more natural and most of all it's great fun to watch!! The chemistry and banter between the 3 of them is much more evident in this latest instalment too.It's worth noting that I did very much enjoy the first 2 seasons but I felt the show was still finding it's feet in terms of the format and what felt like over scripting at times.Overall I love the show. I watched Top Gear with the 3 of them religiously and I love that The Grand Tour is here to fill the void!


                
Yeah, first season left me a bit dissapointed. The first episode in general was really good and there where signs of hope along the tour of season 1 but in the end it just felt too scripted. And it seems they heard it, just look at the episode unscripted, it seems they really took the criticsm to heart.Second season is full of all the stuff that i loved in Top Gear. Its fun, fast, slightly ridiculous, some times scary but really really just great entertainement. Love it, keep it up!


                
Watching The Gran Tour, i see the same quality in the motoring sections as Top Gear had in their very best episodes; the visuals, editing, audio, are as good as if not better than before. The parts in between - comedy parts where the three leads chat and entertain the audience - are funnier than they used to be. The clear culprit here is the change of scenery for Hammond, Clarkson and May, who look refreshed and happy to be doing what they do. The fun is infectious and i feel like i'm having fun with them.I would actually say this is better, in everything, than Top Gear. "Old" Top Gear, not the new clone TV show that the BBC is trying to keep afloat.Would i recommend The Grand Tour? Heck yeah. Amazon prime is not free, and unless you use Amazon, you might have not much use for it, and it could be money badly spent on only one TV show.But if you do have Prime, or if one of your friends has it and you can go over and watch it there, then The Grand Tour is unmissable, one of the best TV shows worldwide.9/10 - possibly the best TV show without a story script.


                
I consider myself a car enthusiast even if I'm not a true gear head. To that end I enjoy car programs. What an unexpected delight it was to discover Top Gear back in the early 2000's. It quickly became one of my favorite shows. And no surprise that it became such a monumentally popular show. That success had NOTHING to do with cars. Lamborghinis and Ferraris will only net you so many viewers before the masses nod off. No, the secret to TG's success lies squarely on the dysfunctional relationship between the three hosts. The cars, the excellent cinematography, production, music, etc, are all just icing. This could be a show about kitchen appliances and would still be just as entertaining given the same chemistry between the hosts.Fortunately Clarkson, Hammond and May recognized that and have played to their strengths. Yes, TG could at times come off as too contrived and it suffers for it when it happens. That is a tricky balance that the three will have to juggle as they carry forward with GT.The first season of GT was a little lumpy as it worked through whatever non-compete arrangements it had to make with the BBC. The American test driver was a still-born idea, reportedly forced on them by Amazon themselves. Lesson learned and wisely dropped for the second season. Same for the completely idiotic Celebrity Brain Crash. Interesting to see that in the third season the celebrity guest segment has been dropped all together, which has always been the weakest element in the show and should have been discarded long, long ago even while the show was still TG.Clarkson, Hammond and May knew well to simply keep on keeping on. That they are doing and GT is a success for that. There may come a day when their schtick grows tired, but considering much of their humo(u)r is based on being curmudgeonly old men, they should be golden for some time to come. Sit back and enjoy. GT is your old TG with a new shirt but the same old smile.


                
Things have gelled, the style of the series came together. A proper Mongolian episode shows what these guys are. Friends, co workers, enthusiast. What they put themselves through is Staggering. Well done boys, thank you


                
I have grown up with these 3 idiots over the decades and it pains me to say they can do better but seem to be choosing not to do so.The show is mostly great viewing, looks amazing.The content is a mixed bag of cringe worthy skits taking their old jokes to extreme lengths or trying new ones that just don't work at all and yet they keep on going with it.The films on location when they review or give insight in to cars is like a feast for a top gear fan, they just look amazing and the music just makes it a great experience you can almost feel like you're with them.How ever they kind of spoil the mood a bit when they have a petty squabble over who gets the crew for some lame reason.The studio tent segments really aren't my thing on occasion they work (Finland) other times it's just time sink of cringe and boredom. The celeb thing should be scrapped or given a serious rethink the killing of celebs was funny in the first episode ONCE imho the second time it was amusing then the 3rd nope not any more it's just a waste of time... and as i said earlier they thought it was good and just ran with it through out the series... and it just got worse each time... the last few improved with being a bit unpredictable but still James is phrase of ' they're not coming on then' just failed on all levels.The tent segments also had a location themed Clarkson 'idea' where some random person would either be turned into Clarkson new invention or a local guy who'd done something good or clever, once instance was a guy had built an old le mans car by hand in his garage, all he got was a round of applause and then ignored.They also tried location themed jokes that anyone not in that country would be unable to understand with out more context and they got in trouble for it.The we have the 'stig' replacement. a fat old American who is apparently some big shot in the NASCAR world... who makes lame jokes about European cars being girls toys that do nothing of note... Clarkson also spent way too many episodes referring to communism as the reason. eventually in the last few episodes Clarkson dropped that 'c' word and just referred to actual communists.The special was a nice 2 parter let down by too much filler in the opening where they made no progress towards their goal, and then spent the rest of the time rushing ahead.. Some of the scenes shown were spoiled in the trailers which lessened the impact for me.The there's Hammond's acting, too over the top to be real and he went a bit too daft with comment about stuff.James lacked effort in some of his lines at some points where the script was a little too heavy.I hope they take some of these hints on board and rework something's but on the whole if season 2 is the same i'll still be happy to have them back on the screen..A final note: The Jordanian military hostage rescue squad segment in episode 2 was a failure in every aspect.
what a show.. you knew when Clarkson didn't get his contract renewed there would be some company prepared to take these 3 friends on. they also knew what rapport they had and they also knew it is a fantastic combination. they all work together and off each other. I don't think they would have the same screen presence if they worked alone or with someone else. now for the best car show on the planet.. its been a long time coming and it is well worth the watch. I think the only painful thing about actually watching the show was the audience. I know Americans don't understand sarcasm but the audience were lost. I felt so sorry for them. I tried to watch the old show (top gear) and felt that it has seriously lost everything. no one could revive this show. yes I do understand what had to happen due to Clarkson doing what he did.. but they could of allowed them to create their own show and allow them to call it top gear and bought it. now they have lost a massive audience and they have a show that will slowly die off. to me.. WATCH THE GRAND TOUR now


                
personally,I am not such a big car geek and I don't normally watch car shows. But, The Grand Tour lives up to its standards and this was a bold move by Amazon by picking up a classic show (Top Gear) and giving it a whole fresh,new look. The Grand Tour is a fantastic car show with a mix of comedy, drama and of course, cars. Also, the fact that they go to different countries around the world every week in their "tent" makes it somewhat of a cultural experience which is a huge positive here. but one thing about the show is that it seems like a walking advertisement for Amazon. everywhere you look in the tent and the credits and the opening you see the word "Amazon Original" which I'm starting to think its amazons way of saying "ha! we bought a popular show and Netflix can't have it" but that is just my idea. Besides all of that, the grand tour is really a phenomenal show and me and my whole family even watch some episodes together. for sure, a binge-worthy and enjoyable show for car geeks alike.


                
The Grand Tour Season 1The Grand Tour is a rather nice show. They kept most of Top Gear's concepts in the program but gave them a new touch, which makes this a completely different show. However, is it any better than the old Top Gear where Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May still used to work with the BBC? This has been the first year that the trio has been working together with Amazon. The team was less experienced and so it was hard to make the show perfect. Still, Amazon gave the guys more freedom than BBC ever had given and so they made a brilliant show. Not only is the Grand Tour a funny and informative show, but a very beautiful one too. Every episode they present in a different places which makes you see a lot of sights and culture every time you watch an episode.Anyway from my point of view this show is a very unique one and can not be compared to the old Top Gear. They are both nice programs and special in their own way and so one can not be called better than the other. The Grand Tour contains some scenes which are obviously faked to make the show more funny, and I am not sure if I like that. Top gear sometimes became a bit boring so I would lose my focus. So they both have their flaws and are not perfect shows. I am curious to see what Amazon does with Grand Tour season 2 since they are now more experienced than last year.


                
So glad to see the Lads back.
Makes s Guy feel smarter after watching their escapades.


                
I've recently finished perusing the first season of The Grand Tour. Created through popular demand by the public to see three idiots create stupid and ineffective tests for cars that few can afford. But they make it fun, light and entertaining so it's always worth the hour.Exclusive to Amazon Prime, Jeremy Clarkson, Richard Hammond and James May were forced to change networks after the tall idiotic one got fired from the BBC after he, a 50-something year old man, chucked a tantrum and punched a producer. And of course you can't have Top Gear without all three idiots, so the small one and the slow one decided that they don't leave a man behind after all and followed suit...in leaving, not in punching producers. But as three hard-hitting journalists, I think they have sorely forgotten to ask the most important question of all: Has the punched producer followed the trio over to Amazon Prime? Who's to guess? With the dramatic drop in viewing figures of the first season without the trio, I'm assuming that more than just the affected producer will be asking to join the trio's new show. Top Gear Two has its similarities with Top Gear One, but seeing as most of the copyrighted titles that Top Gear is famous for; The Stig, Star in a Reasonably Priced Car, The Cool Wall etc. are owned by the BBC, there have been a few changes to the set-up.Namely, The Stig is now some weird American who's only job seems to drive the cars and complain how everything's communistic... possibly being the only thing that I do not care for in the new layout. Surely the re-emergence of Ben Collins would be more aptly suited here? Celebrities are given quick cameos that are both interesting and hilarious, and the puns made as they go for a quick walk-down Conservation Street really do wonders to lighten the mood after they've just killed off a very popular figure of society, not to mention the newly introduced segment of 'Making James do Things he Doesn't Like', is certainly one to get those cheeks aching. The episodes that would have been classified as 'specials' in the Top Gear format are now more about the three bickering and their exchanges which personally, I've always found the most entertaining aspect. The build challenges in the season were by the far the most entertaining. Proving to be barely- able-to-catch-my-breath funny, the shows producers really allowed the three to bounce off one another which was something that I always felt was slightly contained in the original Top Gear lay- out. Which is the feel you get throughout the whole season. The shows style is a lot more relaxed, allowing the presenters to really express their ideas and thoughts on whatever topic they're discussing even if it isn't car related, with only gentle reminders to keep on topic in those instances. Even with the similarities between this and the original Top Gear, the trio are able to really show their artistic and journalistic flair as they are no longer restrained by the rules and regulations of the BBC. It is extremely clear that they now possess more lee-way in respect to what they do and how they go about it. The show is slightly coarser and certainly reflects the personalities of the three presenters more acutely than the BBC allowed allowing them show off the chemistry between themselves that just makes the show work and the playful teasing and bullying makes for light-hearted fun and laughter. Instead of being confined to a studio and having the odd overseas 'special', the show is set-up in a large tent, which is moved from country to country as they travel. They are always up to date on the local news and events making the jibes and jokes relevant not only for a worldwide audience but also for a local one. An overall assessment of the first season of The Grand Tour would be to say that it was certainly a success. Definitely more-so than the 23rd season of Top Gear, which in no uncertain terms, bombed. But I heard that Joey's on it and is funny as well, so it might even be worth a go.
At first I wanted to give The grand tour a 10 star rating but there is just one thing that bugs me a little and why I gave it a 9. I loved watching top gear because of the spontaneous feel it had, of course I know it was or is a scripted show, just like the grand tour. But for some reason it felt less forced. If they can manage to make it feel more real I think they deserve a solid 10/10.I understand it may be difficult to do the challenges again because of legal reasons but if you could somehow make it possible, the grand tour would be even better. the best habitat for the tree old men are some old cars they modify along the way after all!After watching the first 5 episodes, I'm still not tired of watching these guys.I know the show will only get better with every new series.


                
What can I say, other than the boys have done good :) If you loved the chemistry and banter the three amigos displayed in Top Gear (you know, back when it was still worth watching) then you should love the Grand Tour, as it offers up everything that these three middle aged idiots do best.I've seen people moan that it's too scripted, and that the banter is false, and that they're trying too hard.. but for me it is pretty much the same as it always was on old top gear, and it still makes me laugh out loud more often than I probably should do, which gets me a few very strange looks from my kids. There are a few issues that need to be ironed out obviously, (lets not talk about the American, I'd have given it 10 out of 10 if he wasn't in it) but I honestly believe these issues exist only as their hands are still tied because of their former employers. I read recently that Amazons lawyers fear they may get sued, so have placed many restrictions on the format, up to and including Mays use of the term 'Cock'which was only allowed in the very last episode. That said though, I'm sure that over time those restrictions will be relaxed, and meanwhile there is more than enough going on to thoroughly enjoy, and thoroughly enjoy it I did.Unlike new Top gear, (Now there IS a show that is trying too hard) which did not hold my attention beyond the first episode, I've loved every minute of The Grand Tour and I patiently await the Next series, long may it continue :)
Gets better with each season and season 3 is the best yet having ironed out all the kinks (the celebrity bit was dire) . The special episodes are my favourites, truly entertaining with loads of laugh out loud moments, absolutely brilliant.


                
My god the new audio track starting from on Columbia Special part 2. Sound track is the best I have ever heard on my IPhone XS Max. Surround audio mix of this show plus visuals are so well that I love showing them as example on IPhone. I can't wait to play it on my home theater. I just became a fan again of trio. Quality of show is superb


                
Over all so far this series ks excellent, though episode 2 had weaker elements I felt. I'm not very keen on 'The American' though I accept that they need a racing driver to do the lap times, I found his comments unfunny. The photography and production values are superb, the fact that most of the same team of camera men are working on The Grand Tour as honed their skills on Top Gear really shows. Episode One was superb, and living up to the expectations that has generated may continue to be a problem. A mix of cars and silliness is needed and for me episode 2 bordered on too much silliness. Having said that it was funny, with only a couple of bits feeling awkward and missing the mark altogether. It ks without doubt the personalities of the three that carry it along and make it what it is, my criticisms are small over all and it is an excellent piece of entertainment taken as a whole.
It is entertainingly produced and not boring like several auto shows out there that try to take itself too seriously with information lifted straight from the dealer brochures. What we have here are witty personal views combined with genuine British flair that makes this show top notched viewing.


                
(Flash Review)Top Gear was the most humorous, exciting and unexpected car show I've ever seen. (With a strong tip of the cap to Fifth Gear) Clarkson, Hammond and May have amazing chemistry and still do on Grand Tour. However, most of the verbal interplay, adventurous mishaps and random fun felt planned or forced. Where on Top Gear, those mostly felt unscripted and off the cuff. That is a big difference in eliciting my genuine laughter. While the Stig is irreplaceable, the dopey American test driver was not funny and I did not believe he was extracting maximum performance of each vehicle for the lap times. Season 1 lacked the Top Gear magic but I would hardly call it bad by any means.
Like everyone, I was so excited when The Grand Tour was announced and after a while released, and the first episode did not disappoint. I cannot say I don't like the show, but I can honestly say there are a lot of things that are bugging me every new episode comes out.1. I hate the racing driver. They are trying to make him funny by showing the contrast between American and British point of view concerning cars but honestly he is just so bad and the jokes make me wanna puke. I saw the teaser they did about "The Ben Collins" and I was pleasantly surprised because I had a feeling that without Stig the show would lose some of it's magic. Turns out I was right.2. I miss those low budget car challenges, I think I speak for all of us when I say that this is what has taken Top Gear to an elite entertainment program. So far only the beach buggy boys can be considered as such but it sure wasn't low budget. 3. I still like the teasing with each other even though it has gotten really old and we are used to it. We anticipate now their reactions but still you have to admit it's funny. 4. Also, you got to admit that those extreme budget specials, like that Spec Ops operation they did and the episode where Hammond was building an "undying" car for a doomsday were not even remotely funny. The idea itself had a lot of possibilities but them destroying everything with cannons and tanks was a really cheap excuse at showing us how kick ass the British Army and Navy are. 5. Last but not least, I cannot describe how annoying that "Celebrity Brain Crash" is. I was not a big fan of the Celebrity section on Top Gear either but don't try to fill time with idiotic jokes about celebrities dying and being unable to come to the show. I get it it's an opener for another one of either one's of the hosts idea about some car transformation but please skip the damn Celebrity.But the show being on Amazon Prime and everything enabled them to make jokes they couldn't even dream of on Top Gear. Kick political correctness right to it's hypocritical face.Cheers mates, Enjoy the show :)
The gang is back! The widely loved motor show that was canceled by the BBC, has came back in a new a better way. With more funding and the original trio, the show was able to make a successful first episode. The new style of a moving studio will enable them to travel to a new location each week. The comedic value was brilliantly presented through, well through the presenters. The relationship of the three has never been stronger. The production value could not have been higher. Beautiful shots, stunning scenery, and hilarious crowd interaction. I rate it a 9/10 only because their was 1 or 2 dull moments specifically with the car they test on the track. Can't wait for the rest of the season!


                
Yeah that's the name this show gotta have, mantaining the TG acronym for me. Maybe it has been an issue of rights. Let me be completely honest here: these three wretches are now a little bit vintage. We exactly know where they want to end up, we love them for that and we even watch 'em over the internet.But hey, actually many did it already.GT exactly is what was expected and this is great but to be honest, after a sensational first episode (not be otherwise...) the second already seems to me something too seen. Always great, always hilarious but a little bit discounted.Fact is that seeing them is always a great pleasure, but at this point I'm expecting much more from the new series of Top Gear that I hope will be totally ruled by Chris Harris.That said there are still many episodes GT coming and I do not think I will ever be grateful enough to these three crazy men about what they put on. Thank you!


                
Although I can understand the decision of the BBC to drop Clarkson, it was an impossible decision for them. They would have known that the gravy train that was Top Gear was over as the real essence of the show was the three presenters and how well they go together.I was worried that the Grand Tour would be over-hyped and under performing but they have managed to take with them all the best bits of Top Gear and leave a lot of the dull bits behind.That being said I'd make the following changes to the format for a subsequent series.1. Dump the Celebrity Brain crash. It's just pointless and not as funny as it should be. 2. Dump 'The American' as he has none of the charm that 'The Stig' had and has zero charisma. It just feels forced and out of place. The timed lap segment itself is fine, they just need to go back to the drawing board as to the Stig replacement.3. Put in more 'challenge' episodes where the boys build stuff. They were always fun.4. Put in more and dangerous (perceived) challenges. The beach buggy episodes were excellent and in that direction but they need to be bolder like in the old Top Gear ones (Bolivia, Artic, etc).


                
I really enjoyed the first episode of THE GRAND TOUR. The second episode wasn't what I expected but it doesn't matter. I didn't like all the episodes of Top Gear too. It isn't nice that the section of the Celebrity on a reasonably priced car isn't allowed to be used. The come back is real and the chemistry isn't lost. The new track isn't as good as the the Top Gear one and the overweight American race driver isn't the best choice. They could have used an American cousin of Stig, with a different name. I don't think that the use of a driver under cover is copyrighted. Also the way the lap times of new cars is announced isn't as good as the original magnetic board. The new format will need some time to mature. Amazon doesn't have the experience of BBC.


                
Amazon did the right thing at the right time: convincing Clarkson, Hammond and May to make the Grand Tour was easily one of the best decisions they have ever made.Is it like Top Gear? Yes, in many ways. But it's also very different (it sort of has to be for the sake of copyright): no Stig, no putting stars in reasonably priced cars, etc. However, I'd be lying if I said the three didn't make up for what they've lost. Subtle jokes hinting at the old show are sprinkled throughout the first episode, and the humour is spot-on as always. It honestly feels like they've never left.The bigger budget is obvious and the production team is just as good, if not better, as the old one from BBC. All shots look great and the editing is perfect.All in all, a must-watch 'continuation' of the epic franchise that was Top Gear, don't miss it!


                
Everything you would expect from clarkson and the boys... they are "top gear". Would have been 10 stars but too much cheesy celeb guest bs


                
