Carl Sagan's "Cosmos", the book, is fantastic. It's a captivating, eye opening and inspirational saga of evolution and technological advancement of human race and its place in the Universe. I wouldn't mind if it was ten times longer than it is."Cosmos", the series from 1980, hosted by Sagan himself, was a slight letdown. Obviously, a lot of the material had to be sacrificed for a mass-media format. Still it's regarded as a cult classic. Probably mostly among people who didn't bother to read the book, but classic, nevertheless. Deserved to be made, if for nothing else, for bringing the celebration of the human mind to a wider audience."Cosmos: A Spacetime Odyssey" shares the name with the original series, as well as some people behind it, but quality and charm are not there and the goals are murky now. For one, it looks like a targeted attempt to emulate the successful "Through the Wormhole with Morgan Freeman", a similarly themed series from competing network. To call it after the legendary "predecessor" is more a cynical trick to boost credibility somewhat, than anything else. It does cover the same bases as "Cosmos" and it does bring necessary updates from various fields of studies, but the writing is structured poorly. It never stays on a subject long enough to present it systematically and thoroughly. A couple of sentences on quantum physics and, hop, they're onto Galileo vs. Church etc. I guess it's tuned for popcorn audience, not the people that really want to learn something. What's worse, instead of concentrating on providing facts and figures, the "new Cosmos" unabashedly promotes left-liberal agenda, masquerading as science. To annoy further, it now boasts boring "Star Trek: Voyager" look and feel, crappy cartoons to illustrate historical events and figures and the worst imaginable host in the shape of Neil deGrasse Tyson.The idea of putting that hack up front was probably to match Morgan Freeman's skin color and Carl Sagan's academic pedigree at the same time. To no avail, because Tyson lacks charisma and theatrical competence of Freeman, as well as real scientific accomplishments and contributions of Sagan.Tyson's "fame" rides on intellectual contrast to that "other" Tyson, the fact that he is a black man with PhD in astrophysics (of all fields) and on his notorious low-brow quips that found their way to being lovingly shared as memes on Facebook. A brief glance at his biography shows that there are no significant achievements to his name, other than rising through bureaucratic ranks, submitting but a minimum of academic input to satisfy the conditions for the degree, and serving as a scientific poster-boy for current US administration. He spends most of his time parading for various media. A far cry from real scientific gravitas that would put a stamp on his hosting of "Cosmos". His presenting skills are really wanting and he's shown to be way out of his depth here, struggling to seduce the camera with his clumsy movements and expressions and wake up his deep grumbling voice by some wayward affectations.No better than him are the two key people behind the scenes - Seth McFarlane who is so much up his own colon because of his "Family Guy" success that he thought his crappy cartoons would do justice to people and events they portray, and Ann Druyan, Carl Sagan's widow and holder of "Cosmos" copyright, who rapes her late husband's corpse... body of work, to advertise her myopic yet sanctimonious world view. Everything is there, put through mouths of Tyson, from anti-religion, to socialism, to environmentalism. The original "Cosmos" wasn't entirely spared of all these agendas, but at least it addressed them with a lot of subtlety and only when it seemed necessary and logical.Subtlety and logic have, in this "new rendition", given way to heavy-handedness, spoon- feeding and blatant reckoning with would-be opponents. Turns out science can be abused to vile causes just like religion. No wonder some people can't tell the difference. Others can't tell the real scientific show from a piece of junk. Those people loved this. And producers can congratulate themselves for sticking it up to the audience. I guess Tyson's spaceship was shaped like a giant dildo for a reason.


                
Sorry for Tyson, he must be a good physicists, i have seen others of his shows but this show is terrible. It is impossible to get even close to Carl Sagan skills. This new cosmos has excessive background music with distract you from the main message. The Tyson narration is hyper accentuated, to many low and high which doesn't show what is important, conclusions..etc. it make it hard to follow. There is excessive special effects which make it waste of air time. There is no sequence on the events and narrations, it jumps back and forth to creation time, big bang, black holes, inventors living time...etc, it is impossible to follow a logical sequence of the events and discoveries like Carl Sagan did. I am sorry, he was a Master. I have seen that original 1980 series like 4 times, and get impressed every time with his simple language that reached all level of people. It is not worthy to keep writing about this new show. Thanks


                
The original, Sagan, Cosmos was for its time a blockbuster. By today's standards of CGI presentation it is, of course, pretty old fashioned; but who could forget the heartfelt narration, the "little blue dot" which still brings a lump to my throat.An 'updated cosmos" this ain't.With all due respect to Dr Tyson, he should have told the producers of this to get lost. I have seen him many times on TV expounding with authority on many of the wonders of the universe, but in this effort he has been badly let down.I think it's fair to say that the majority of those who choose to watch this sort of programme are interested in science, know a reasonable amount about it and want to be instructed, not merely entertained with anime-style cartoons and cheesy CGI fly-throughs of star systems, pretty though they may be. Unfortunately, the twenty minutes of the episode that I managed to stick with convinced me that my time would be better spent making a cup of tea. So I made a cup of tea.Two and a bit decades have passed since Sagan made the original series: his "spaceship" looks like something from an old SciFi movie to us now. But the present obsession with smart graphics and "exciting" background "music" (my quotes are deliberate in both cases) renders the message in irrelevance.Must try harder - cheaper would be better.


                
In spite a little bit of reasonably good science in this lame excuse for a science show, this thing is crammed full of bull shitting, speculations passed off as fact, philosophy and religion hiding under the guise of science, propaganda and incredibly wrong "facts". Anyone that swallowed all of it is simply necessarily illiterate in the subject matter.Its amazing how these people think they get away with passing off their materialist religion and philosophy as "science" when anyone that knows the fields of study can see that its not science at all. Its amazing how easy it is to fool people watching these bogus "science" shows today. Just scientific sounding jargon, some gratuitous extrapolations, lots of conjecture and bias and voilà, its all true!!! Not.Sagan's belief that the "The cosmos is all that is, or ever was, or ever will be", is pure philosophy, not science. Did anyone ever prove this? Nope. Is is provable? Nope. Yet this whole show is based on that ridiculously unfalsifiable presumptuous balderdash!Tyson devotes time to promoting the old tale that religion is at war science, and strongly promotes the idea that religion opposes intellectual advancement. Really? Nope. Pure lies. Newton, Maxwell, Townes, Schrodinger, Heisenberg, Faraday, Townes, Marconi, W. Von Braun, Planck Mendel, Axe, Faraday, Leibniz and all the other world renown scientists that were staunch creationists, were all at war with science?! Ludicrous to the utmost degree. A pure lie if ever there was one.Question: "Why make the religious persecution of scientists some four hundred years ago a major focus of a widely publicized television series that is ostensibly about promoting science?"The answer is so obvious - propaganda, lies, indoctrinating viewers into believing the materialist atheist view on science. Nothing more.Tyson said, "I want to put on the table, not why 85% of the members of the National Academy of Sciences reject God, I want to know why 15% of the National Academy don't. That's really what we've got to address here. Otherwise the public is secondary to this."Oops. The cat's out of the bag. Its all really about religion for him. The series was drenched into materialist metaphysics from start to finish. I.e. It was intended, not to instruct people in science, but in the religion of Metaphysical Naturalism.Dishonest and disgusting to say the least. Tyson, you hypocrite. Shame on you!The executive producer is celebrity atheist Seth MacFarlane. A very vocal atheist fundamentalist shill for materialism being preached through propaganda on TV.As always in this kind of atheist agenda based marketing of materialism, the lies are big, the science is tiny and the only point of view presented on any scientific topic is the atheist materialist one. No intelligence allowed, questioning the materialist religion is forbidden.Pure pathetic propaganda is the only thing one can honestly say about this atheist indoctrination series.Sadly, most of the public is too ignorant on the issues or too unquestioning to notice.


                
I looked forward to watching the updated version of carl sagan's original version. In the interim decades, I have watched many BBC productions on the same subjects. This is a poor production, aimed directly at the bible belt mentality of limited intelligence Americans! The BBC versions are Scientific, Science based, Secular, and in no way are trying to be a 'counter argument' to the religious fundamentalist rightwingnuts of the USA. The USA can keep their rightwingnuts - the rest the world will continue the advancement of Humanity! It is really a sad state of affairs when a programme that should be aimed at the general public - does nothing but pander to counter the religious zealots who should just crawl back under the rock where they live. Also the geezer hosting this is NO 'David Tennant' when it comes to narration. For future advice, when producing such tripe - keep it in the Fantasy Land of Americana Hollywood!


                
The host knows nothing of science, or if he does he doesn't want anyone to know. He talks as though his audience is made up of particularly dull children who are nonetheless thrilled by shiny shiny images. The sense of being talked down to set in at minute 2 and never left. He blathers for a while and in the middle of that he badly describes the central tenet of Science -- the Method -- and then returns to more blather.And then the howlers start. Earth 250 million years from now as some kind of slightly advanced technology? By that time, if there are any humans left, we'll have filled the galaxy with Ringworlds and be well on our way to other galaxies. Two hundred fifty million years is a VERY long time.Now, I have a degree in physics, so I thought I was being picky, until my right-brain wife told me to turn it off as her intelligence was being insulted.Gawd awful.


                
I can't understand why this is getting such good reviews. There is nothing new here. This is just the same old story (propaganda) we heard 30 years ago from Carl Sagan. It's the same morality play that has been fed to us for 50+ years now since the play "Inherit the Wind". Can't we have a science program without always making it a tool of propaganda? As far as I can tell this began in 1925 with H.L. Mencken's so called coverage of the Scopes trial and has not let up since. This time Neil Tyson adds a few lies about Giordano Bruno into the mix.This from Jay Richards; "We're barely seconds into this farrago and we have our first lie. "Everyone" knew the earth was the center of the universe? Wow, who's going to tell Copernicus? Kepler? Stigliola? Diggs? Maestlin? Rothmann? Brahe? All of them believed in models of the cosmos that were not considered orthodox, and lived at the time of Bruno. All of them escaped the fire, and indeed weren't even pursued by the Inquisition. Right here we have the major lie at the heart of modern anti-religious scientific propaganda: the war between faith and science. We're supposed to just assume this ignorant backwards world of the past hates smart people. Tyson himself says it: "How was Bruno spending New Year's Eve in 1599? In prison, of course." Of course! Because that's what the Church does to smart people! Bad church! Bad.


                
Nothing bothers me more than science shows and scientists who present one theory and express it as fact. It's irresponsible science, and it's disrespectful to competing theories.I was a bit shocked to hear things were all settled and concluded and all the discussions are over. No wiggle room. I suppose the high council has decreed it.At one point the show was comedic... I laughed. I thought to myself, this reminds me of the scientists who denounced Einstein's theories until they found out he was right. Then of course, they gushed all over him and heralded him.This show seems like it was written by those same scientists who have decided in their own minds, that what they believe is true, is indeed fact. Not cool!I cannot imagine all the 10/10's here, so I tried to balance that ridiculousness with a 1/10. Really I'd give it a 5/10. If the science was presented objectively, at most a show like this could get a 7/10.


                
The original series was a masterpiece ! ! ! What made it so was the science and even more so, the host. Carl Sagan was a master at drawing you into his world and filling you with wonder and awe. He brought science and the wonder of the universe to common man. He held your hand and lead you on a journey of discovery. I'll never forget when Sagan said "we are all made of star stuff."This new series falls short in everyway that really matters. Sure it is visually stunning and will appeal to the current MINDLESS Generation who think pacific rim and new avengers are good movies.Carl Sagan was a master orator Neil Tyson is not. Unlike Sagan, Tyson has no wonder in his voice does not draw you in. It is almost like he is trying to force look at things his way and not think for yourself. It felt like I was being lectured by a politician and not by a scientist. TYSON IS NOT SAGAN'S HEIR.
 
What is even worse there was very little substance to the show, very little science. For the most part it was all about the scientist and not the science itself. Episode after episode hour after hour was like watching one scientist patting another scientist on the back. An entire episode was about one scientist struggling to get her theories accepted, but they never explained the theory, why it was important, or how it effects scientific thinking today.In simple terms this is a show about science patting itself on it back, it is science show for scientist, not for the common man. The cartoons used in some episodes where ridiculous. The really sad thing is due to the great visual effects and idiotic cartoons, you as an audience, are actually duped into thinking you actually learned something, instead you are brainwashed into thinking how great scientists are. It is really sad. Carl Sagan would be ashamed. Recently I received a dollar the word God was scratch out and replaced with science, so it read "IN SCIENCE WE TRUST" In the 1800's science declared there was nothing left to learn that science knew everything and nothing was left to be invented. 95% of all we know was discover after that. for decades Dinosaurs where to massive to walk so they must crawl on their bellies, OOPS got that wrong. Sixty miles an hour is the fastest a man can travel, any faster than that and human body would be ripped apart. two weeks latter a race car diver went faster. The science said sound barrier can't be broken, they forgot to tell Chuck Yeager when he broke it. It is the science that is important not the scientist for they are often wrong.


                
Extremely irrelevant content. This series tends to focus on the biology of the Earth Also this show is awfully misleading and there are much more informative documentaries about the universe out there. Yes, the animations and CGI's are really impressive but that is nowhere near enough to make a documentary successful in terms of information and validity. Some things are also really simplified and not explained in a professional, trustworthy manner but rather in a childish way. Yes i understand astronomy sometimes has to be simplified for the understanding of the general audience but this simplicity was taken to an unbearable extend. Overall this series is both misleading and irrelevant in terms of the universe/cosmos.


                
I love the original: Sagan was truly awe-inspiring, a true intellect who could entertain, enthrall and enlighten - He even helped design the plates attached to the outside of the NASA spacecrafts. Neil de Grasse Tyson fails badly, in my opinion, and should have stayed well away from trying to re-make this classic: Production quality is poor, he is obviously not of the same intellectual capacity as Sagan, and can not hold the audience's attention anywhere near as well.Some other reviewers wrote that it may be OK for your children.. please show them more respect, and look to aid, not stifle their future levels of intelligence by investing in the original set. Search on IMDb for the 1970s original if you haven't heard of it, and please help the world stop dumbing-down by boycotting this trashy edition.


                
I forced myself thoughwhat a bunch of rotten tomatoes, who in his right mind enjoys such an illiterate and outdated view of science, who produced this piece of it should not even be named anything.I feel ashamed and sorry for the people who put their good names into that thing.read and watch some real physics, nassim haramein, even Steven Hawkins would stand up and walk out of this show....anyways... i feel betrayed and disillusioned.. what a waste of precious lifetime...do watch if you are really really bored and want to know some fairy tales about what the royal society believes is our history....man really... i want to hit that guy... but i am a pacifist... so longand thanks for all fish...


                
The first episode was complete rubbish-- I was very disappointed. I will start by admitting my predisposition not "believing" in evolution. This show was an outright equivalent of an evolutionary "fable" with the foolish tale being how science was persecuted by the evil church in the "olden" days. They even use cartoons to tell their story of this injustice burning the scientist at the stake. The entire hour had but a few scientific facts in it-- nearly all of it was theory or assumptions based on non-observable evidence such as assumptions of billions of years, how everything exploded from nothing, how life formed by random chance in earth's primordial soup, the Oort cloud myth, (you know, the usual evolutionary storytelling). While I expected to be bothered by it before I watched it, I had at least hoped to see some cool science (like you might see on a good Nova episode) but this was just pure Science Fiction make believe with some ordinary facts mixed in for flavor. Unless you are extremely ignorant you have to see through the veil of this show. The show is only there to indoctrinate you into their evolutionary "belief" system. Lastly, I was extremely irritated to see Barak Obama as the spokesperson at the beginning of the show. Then at the end when the host tells his teary eyed story from Carl Sagan {the Pagan} I laughed until my sides hurt. Don't buy this crap. There is plenty of evidence that destroys most of the premises made in that Cosmos story.


                
I had high hopes that Cosmos would reveal a new layer of cosmic discovery of the universe to me and others. Sadly, what we've seen to date is pathetic evolutionist propaganda disguised as scientific "evidence." One would expect a scientist, like Tyson, to use the scientific method in their studies and draw conclusions on only what they can validate, or even reasonably validate. Instead, Tyson chooses to employ opinion in-lieu of objectivity. What Tyson presents the viewer with in Cosmos is far-fetched and unscientific.Perhaps Mr. Tyson might tell us where all this "star stuff" originated from? What was existence like before the big bang? What caused the big bang? Perhaps he could also dare to explain, if the human eye did evolve from a random genetic mutation as he suggests, how this random mutation could somehow be identically duplicated in thousands of species of animals all across the globe and evolve at the exact same rate? It is so fantastically pathetic that a learned man would utter such terribly silly things and expect people to regard his flights of fancy as truth.


                
