i have been watching and loving films and TV shows for years now, and loving the study of the universe for even longer than that.that being said, this is the first time i have ever felt the need to create an account on IMDb solely to rate something a "10"this has an absolutely stunning, heartfelt, emotional introduction, and i only anticipate it getting better from here.i will probably update this review as the series goes on, or i may just review episodes individually. but either way, i firmly suggest that every human being on earth watch this show.have a good life everyone.


                
Neil deGrasse Tyson's remake of Carl Sagan's original docu-series "Cosmos: A Personal Voyage". Carl Sagan allowed the public to see the wonders of science in an entertaining, thought-provoking and immensely educational way, and Tyson manages to capture the spirit and integrity of the original series, while giving the science and facts of the 1980 original a breath of fresh air. Tyson's narration is full of charm, and the program does the audience an immense favour, and makes "Cosmos: A Spacetime Odyssey" an easily absorbed yet thought-provoking experience.As an admirer of the universe, I couldn't wait to view Tyson's Cosmos – even as someone who is constantly trying to absorb facts about the universe, I still managed to pick up some facts I wasn't already aware of, and this is merely the beginning. The series has 13 episodes, spread over three months, and I can already tell the program has a huge amount to give. Full of lush imagery and wonderful animation, Cosmos is a pleasure to watch, and makes learning extremely easy, something that is becoming extremely difficult in the age of no attention span. Not only does Tyson allow for lighthearted, absorbable fact, but he also allows us to probe into our own imagination, and explore the universe ourselves. Everything in Cosmos is simplified for easy learning, yet isn't dumbed down so far that the fact is closer to fiction – the visuals alongside Tyson's wonderful commentary are absolutely mind-blowingly beautiful, but allow for visual learners to take something away from Cosmos as well.Tyson finished the episode with a heartfelt story involving his relationship with Carl Sagan, and his inspirational ways – I hope that many are inspired by Tyson's breath of fresh air in the documentary genre, and allows for the population of the world to reach for the stars. Cosmos: A Spacetime Odyssey is absolutely worth a watch, it is entertaining, heartfelt, absorbable, and most important, educational. As Sagan once said, "The Cosmos is all that is, or ever was, or ever will be", and I hope 'Cosmos' never ends, because all that it is is awe-inspiring and jaw-dropping in its beauty and splendour.


                
This series is a breath of fresh air when compared to the mindless programming typical of network television.When the original Cosmos series aired on PBS in the early 1980s, the dynamism of Carl Sagan showed how educational television could also be enormously popular. Now, over three decades later, the next edition of "Cosmos" retains the integrity of the original series while providing the latest findings in science and astronomy.Carl Sagan was a true Renaissance man, who synthesized history, philosophy, art, and science in the Cosmos series and the superb book that accompanied the program. Now, one of our finest scientists, Neil deGrasse Tyson, serves as our guide to the universe with outstanding commentary in the sequel. There was an especially moving moment when Professor Tyson recalled the time when he was warmly greeted by Carl Sagan, who took time out of his busy schedule to provide a personal tour of the Cornell campus when Tyson was about to enter college.It is impressive that a television personality on the order of Seth MacFarlane would produce this series that includes animated recreations of historical events, such as the trial and execution of the seventeenth century "heretic" Giordano Bruno. The animations are a cut above the generic dramatizations with actors, wherein the bottom drops out of most television documentaries.In the Academic Awards telecast hosted by MacFarlane, he closed the show with a star turn in singing "Here's to the Losers." But in this truly outstanding series of "Cosmos: A Space Time Odyssey," it is clear that everyone is a winner, especially the viewers who can embark on the voyage of a lifetime when they climb aboard The Ship of the Imagination for thirteen stellar episodes.


                
Neil deGrasse Tyson is a marvelous astrophysicist who really loves his field and you can see this in the way he narrates the series. Cosmos is not only a journey, it also shows how much science has improved since the original series, all the new evidence, technology, and ideas, they encourage the next generation to pursue knowledge and discover something amazing. The visuals are stunning, the animation is unique, and most importantly it is very informative. The way Neil describes the universe is very coherent and easy for everyone to understand. This is an excellent series that shows science isn't just flat rigorous work, it is about discovery, asking questions, wonder, achievement.


                
Neil really takes the baton from Carl and does a fine job with the show. With Ann co-producing and Seth also involved, I can't wait for the rest of the episodes. All in all, 10/10 for the show. Bringing astronomy and science to everyone, Neil was the most apt person to do this. Tip: watch in 720p or higher only because the visuals are brilliant. They tried to take some elements from the 1980 Cosmos, which is noticeable. Also Seth's influence is noticeable, with a few animations. The music at times was suiting the mood, and felt modern. Seth said in an interview that he wanted to make a difference, and with this, he surely is.


                
Absolutely blown away by Neil deGrasse Tyson's hosting of Cosmos. You can tell he enjoys telling the story of the Cosmos. What makes the Cosmos remake most exciting to me is that new theories such as the 'Multiverse' theory and new findings are inevitably making its way to the front-line of grand-audience explanations of the universe. Also, now that graphics technology is more advanced than it was years ago during the first Cosmos series, the illustrations are much more telling and mesmerizing; this helps the viewer to visually break down some complexities that Neil alludes to in some of his narrative discussion.I can't think of anyone better to narrate this story other than Neil. It's obvious he's passionate about this show. Neil's tribute to Carl was touching in explaining how Carl inspired 'just a 17 year old kid from the Bronx' to become one of the most influential scientists of our modern generation. I'm extremely excited for the rest of the series to evolve and use the previous Cosmos series formula as a sort of foundation to continue captivating and inspiring the audience. After viewing the first episode, it's evident that future episodes will not disappoint.


                
This was so much fun--and it is so amazing that Carl Sagan's wife, Seth McFarlane, and Tyson Degrasse from NOVA are all together on this! I love the idea of using animation to portray ancient people--it completely avoids the campy feel of actors in strange beards and so-so backgrounds. Genius, Family Guy guy. I love the perspective it gives you, by really squishing enormous concepts into feasible bits of knowledge. It's not so you'll impress your friends--its so that you watch, and understand why you are so amazed by the universe. The computer animation of some of one of the first creatures to walk on land looks pretty darn tootin' real, as well--something that I loved. No strange feelings that their feet were hovering above the sand as they were animated--this is high quality. Additionally, Tyson seems more personable, even more likable, and definitely watchable because of his knowledge and enthusiasm for the subject. This is worth the watch, a wonderful surprise, and I am super excited for episode two. It's getting me to the gym to watch it on the treadmill. :)


                
This was an absolute blast to watch! I was excited from the moment that I found out that Cosmos would be returning to TV. It was, and still is, one of the shows as a child that really made me feel an overwhelming awe about reality and life as we have come to understand it. I applaud Seth Macfarlane and the FOX Network for taking a chance, and bringing this amazing mini- series to a new generation. Also HUGE kudos to Neil Degrasse Tyson for really taking the reigns, and conveying such amazing topics in thought provoking narrative terms that my daughter, and all children, can now easily understand and enjoy immensely. I really thought that everyone involved handled these topics in an elegant way in which to minimize the offense that a few may try to find with these subjects in which scientific evidence can actually back up. Thank you, to everyone involved, for the beautiful and amazing masterpiece that is... Cosmos...


                
Thank You Seth MacFarlane for having the foresight for bringing this back with your own money. Carl Sagan when I was growing up influenced me with the original Cosmos series to go into science and also gave me the love of science fiction.Astrophysicist Neil deGrasse Tyson is brilliant in continuing in Mr Sagan's footsteps. The the score written by Alan Silvestri also fantastic. I will be introducing this to my young family as the love of Cosmos should be for all generations.There is updated animation no doubt influenced by Seth's Family Guy roots but this should hold the attention of the kids as the this combined with the special effects should keep them engrossed and learn at the same time.Look forward to more episodes and questions from kids !


                
You can't help comparing "Cosmos: A Space Time Odyssey" to the original "Cosmos" from thirty years ago, hosted by Carl Sagan. Among the first things you notice about the new show is that the graphics are, well, light years ahead of "Cosmos". The set of the "space craft" -- what there is of it -- looks less like a 2050 suite in a Las Vegas hotel. The music is more dramatic. And Neil DeGrasse Tyson is the host because Sagan is no longer with us.Tyson is not Sagan. He's pleasant, looks good, sounds convincing, but there are times when his narration acquires a sing-song quality that turns the explanation into an address to a group of kids on a field trip from some nearby middle school. He's not Sagan, but then who is? I liked Sagan a great deal. He was of the moment -- longish hair, cool looking, bell bottom trousers, and he smoked grass once in a while. I also liked him because he was on the faculty when I was in graduate school and he could have chosen to drop in on my comprehensive oral exams and ask me what life would look like on a planet identical to earth except for a complete absence of calcium. (He didn't.)But that doesn't matter. As host, Tyson may not be as familiar a figure as Sagan was -- God, Sagan was all over the telly -- but he's likable in his own right. And there is no question of his knowing his subject, beginning at the Bronx High School of Science and reaching dazzling heights thereafter.There is an expectable amount of continuity between this program, which is a sort of up-dated sequel, and the original. One writer, Ann Druyan, had a hand in both. So we have the cosmic calendar which reduces the chronology of the universe to a single year. And even some expressions are carried over -- "star stuff." I can't wait until Tyson gets to Sagan's awesome "holy of holies." I thrilled the first time around.I do have a problem though, regarding chronology. "Cosmos" appeared in 1980. This show is appearing in 2014. Let's see. Sums were never my forte, but my pocket calculator tells me that 2014 minus 1980 is equal to 34. That means I'm 34 years older than I was when I watched the original. I hope Tyson is all finished dealing with the dimension of time. Let's move on to something else in the next episode -- pronto.Anyway, if he's so smart I'd have some questions for him. If the universe or universes are expanding, what are they expanding INTO? And if everything that exists started with the Big Bang of 13 billion years ago, what caused that Big Bang in the first place? And where did all those original hydrogen atoms COME from? Who's pulling the wool over whose eyes around here? Of course that gets us into metaphysics and he has nothing to say about it in this introductory episode, the only one I've seen. Judging from his Wikipedia entry, he'll have something to say about it later, and it won't make everyone happy. But, man, we need his messages now more than ever.
Being a long time lurker, I decided to register with the site in order to review Cosmos: A SpaceTime Odyssey. As a man with an insatiable appetite for all things science (especially astronomy and anthropology), I can't begin to describe what a delight this program is. My jaw hit the floor when I realized that this is a FOX production, as balanced educational programming is not exactly the company's strong suit. Neil pulls off an eloquent narration of the astrophysical origins of our universe, the development of life as we know it and the countless leaps in science achieved by it's often overlooked contributors (especially the disenfranchised but tenacious females that refused to fold under patriarchal power schemes). The production value is through the roof and enlivens the imagination of viewers young and old alike. I wish that I was exposed to this program as a child in school. I may have paid more attention and become a little more intellectually curious. I agree with the other posters who noted that ALL human beings should give this a watch. There is very little bias towards any speculative theory and a rich appreciation of the historicity of scientific thought. The search for meaning through empirical analysis and the hypothetico-deductive method was contributed to by so many civilizations over a vast period of time. This is the story of humanity. Beautiful, reckless, inquisitive and triumphant. I do also like how typical creationist arguments (some of them straw men perhaps) are dispatched with so quickly, and hope that some of those who rely strictly on ancient textual interpretations of the world open their minds to the truly awesome nature of reality that leaves us with questions instead of answers. The questions are for the brave.


                
"Cosmos: A Space-Time Odyssey" is a reboot of the documentary series "Cosmos" with Carl Sagan as host. Neil deGrasse Tyson is one of the many people that was struck by this documentary and is now the host of the reboot.First of all, let me start off by saying that I am so happy that this show has finally been redone. There have been so many scientific advancements that would add so much more interesting statistics in this documentary, and they've done it. Many fun facts are given throughout this documentary, and little-known scientists get the attention they deserve by shout-outs to their amazing discoveries and achievements.Furthermore, the way of presentation is phenomenal. This series has some amazing special effects that make it seem real life. This is not what makes it ultra special, however. It is the way of presentation that makes this such a special documentary. One of the examples is that Neil deGrasse Tyson uses the scale of a single calendar year to explain how old the universe actually is, and how long humans etc. have been around for in this scale.I wont say much more, but to say that any person, whether they are scientists or not, whether they were good at science in high school or not, will enjoy this breathtaking tour through the cosmos.


                
What can i say about this remake of an already epic TV/Documentary show? If it is not enough that we are talking about an upgrade of something that was brilliant by itself, it had to be done by one of the greatest communicators of the scientific world; Dr. Neil Degrasse Tyson!Everything about these series is brilliant. To watch the universe at work in HD tanks to wonderful animations, plus the deep and mysterious voice of Dr. Tyson, is a real experience.Plus, the science behind it as well as the learning experience is something really worth of anyones time. When people talk about having fun while learning this is the best example.This TV Show should be MANDATORY for everyone. There is something almost mystical about it. The perspective that we get from it about our reality is something that keeps e wondering all day long after the episode.I would like to thank Dr. Tyson and all the people involved for this piece of Scientific Cinematography! I never saw learning, fun, science and even life lessons, fused together this well before!


                
After seeing all 13 episodes of this, i can hands down say, that this is the best science program that has ever been aired. From the very first episode the grip tightens, and never lets go.All humans will greatly benefit watching this series. The depth, details, knowledge, vision and quality is beyond anything else ever made. All this thanks to Ann Druyan which also wrote the story for Contact starring Jodie Foster, and Seth MacFarlane who basically paid for the whole journey. And last but not least, Neil deGrasse Tyson. I bow down before you in awe of this magnificent creation.I rarely give 10's in my life. 10 is like above and beyond. For me to give something a 10, either if it is a movie, TV series, documentary etc. It must deliver above expectations, i call my 10's the "raise the bar score".And this show does just that. I am very glad i have seen it, and i will never forget it. It is simply the crown jewel of "space documentary".I can not recommend this enough.


                
For one hour every Sunday, Cosmos offers a raw unadulterated look at the viewpoint science offers our world.There are many things to love about this show:* Ann Druyen's writing is by far the most fearless thing on television. * Neil deGrasse Tyson's presentation is far more energetic than Carl Sagan's original, making for a much more engaging experience.* The visuals are awe inspiring. Even if as a scientist I might object to the cartoonishly dense asteroid belt or the simplistic depiction of DNA replication lacking the complexities of how the lagging strand gets copied, he never lies.* The reasoning and case it makes for the wonder of science is probably the most important case to be made on television today, and they are doing it right.It well deserves the attention it has received, and the broad roll out.If you have kids, it'd be virtually criminal to deny them access to this perspective on the world, regardless of your personal beliefs.


                
This is a program made for (and rightly so) children, and should be rated as such. Production: Excellent. Neil Tyson is so comfortable in front of the camera, it's almost embarrassing. He should have been a rock star or something.Anyway, if you do not remember anything from science class, or just want your children away from the brain destroying reality shows. This is the one. I was definitely not bored, and I'm 41.I would even go so far as to say this should be implemented in elementary school. Especially in the country where it was made, as "Evolution" seams to be a controversy there. Perhaps the main reason this was made, is because there is Americans who believe humans rode the dinosaurs. THAT's tragic.Edit. Not just for children. A theory is fact, Tyson? Really?Newton rules!


                
The producers of this show have really outdone themselves in this continuation of the Cosmos series. Many television shows of its kind miss the point of being on TV: to teach young people how to love learning. There is a lack of interest in science that needs to exist again for our society to advance as fast as it can. This show teaches not only the basics of science but the desire and hunger for knowledge about the universe. And it achieves this hunger for knowledge without exploring too deeply the petty minutia of science-religion debate. The beauty of our universe and the endless possibilities of scientific endeavor are more than enough for this show to succeed, a fact host Neil DeGrasse Tyson and producers understand.


                
As a high school science teacher, nothing brings me more joy than kids being excited about science, and Cosmos does exactly that. It brings a joy of knowledge and understanding to viewers through stunning visuals and a well-spoken narrative. It encourages a much needed excitement of scientific discovery and pursuit of critical thinking. Cosmos is also filling a gap of knowledge left in the wake of a poorly funded educational institution in America.In an age when people fill countless hours each week with Honey Boo-Boo, Duck Dynasty, and Kim Kardashian, not to mention once "science channels" like Discovery, History, and PBS dumbing down their programming to appeal to the drooling masses, Cosmos is a serious breathe of fresh air amidst a sea of network miasma.


                
I have rated a few shows a 10 before that deserved it (House, e.g.), but this show absolutely deserves an eleven! Neil deGrasse Tyson has certainly done well in continuing his mentor, Carl Sagan, work in educating the public on the wonder of the vast, beautiful, and awe inspiring universe that we call home. The animations are amazing, and they make you feel like you're there experiencing everything as well. His explanations of scientific concepts are unlike any other. He makes you really think about your place in the cosmos like never before; where we came from and how we as a people, as mammals, as life on this planet came to be. All in all it is amazing!


                
I've watched this series from the beginning. Meaning Carl Sagan. And I've gotta tell you, Dr. Sagan's protégé, the justifiably lauded Neil deGrasse Tyson, sublimely captures the spirit of the original. He's a pleasure to watch and listen to, as he guides us viewers through the cosmos with his lovely tones and masterful grasp of science - a lot like Carl.I just watched last Sunday night's concluding season one episode, and Neil and his team pulled out all the stops. Thrilling, exhilarating, jaw-dropping stuff. And it made me cry. That's a tough bar for a science program. What caused the waterworks for me was the replay near the end, of Carl's editorial on the existence of the Earth, what it means to us, and the role it plays in the cosmos - which, let's face it, is relatively insignificant.As Dr. Tyson imparts, what IS significant, for us, is how we perceive the universe - that's pretty much the point of the show. The final episode's discussion of dark matter, supernovas, and Earth's billion-year missive to the galaxy in the form of a seriously long-playing album - dispatched by President Jimmy Carter - was splendid.But let's return to Neil. Dr. Tyson's scientific expertise and allure as a performer are unparalleled. He has equaled and, I think, bested those qualities of his his mentor. Dr. Sagan would be very proud of that.I'm ready for Season Two.


                
Would it be too ironic to say "thank God" for this? Neil Tyson is the natural heir to the great Sagan. I own the original on DVD and still watch it every once in a while. With over 30 years of hindsight it still stands up. I like how the new show doesn't try to just retell Carl's old stories. I think he'd like that too. I've already learned new stuff from this new version and I've got the original memorized. I kind of like the animation approach too. I hope this is the beginning of a trend in Hollywood. Apparently the National Science Foundation have opened an office out there to help them make more accurate shows and movies. Keep up the good work and for Carl's sake (!) don't dumb it down for anyone. Great job.


                
Perfect follower of Carl Sagan Cosmos 1980 gorgeous Hollywood visual effects like from A-rated sci-fi movie catchy story lines including cartooned biographies of famous scientists passionate narrator Neil DeGrasse Tyson ;)definitely a Must-Watch, Enjoy.Neil DeGrasse Tyson taken a torch of education and science propagation from Carl Sagan and is carrying it proudly in our modern days. As he have a great experience with making documentaries from NOVA Science Now he knows how to bring fascinating facts and not-so-easy concepts right to the viewer in a fun to watch exciting manner. The stories in episodes from 1-13 makes a good sense and some overlapping through the episodes do not allow you to forget on them so quickly. COSMOS as opposite to many descriptive documentaries instead of just explaining facts and concepts, puts you more into the center-line of the overall story and makes it part of yours, therefore making it a really enjoyable experience.


                
This show is AMAZING! Quite frankly, this documentary series ties with my favorite show, all genres included. I have to confess that I am only at episode three, but so far, without exaggeration, there was not a single dull moment. The show grabs the audience's attention and squeezes it tightly throughout the entire episode; by far, "captivating" is the word that best describes it. Through it's animated sequences, the show includes history and drama, managing to make "Cosmos: A Space-Time Odyssey" seem almost like an adventure series. Presented in this fashion, I find that the ideas and information conveyed really tend to stick with the audience after the viewing is over.On a personal level, it is the first documentary that managed to put me into a complete state of flow (this might have a bit to do with the fact that I love astronomy). It might sound a bit cliché, but I sincerely recommend "Cosmos" to anyone who is remotely interested in science. It is quite a ride!


                
Such a beautiful series. Well done Neil Tyson. In one line I can say, my interest in science grew infinite times after watching the show. Especially the way they used to show the animation stories of Newton, Will was just superb. The graphics, animation and most importantly the host Neil Tyson was a great combination. The ship running on two engines the energy and imagination took us to a voyage that made us see the cosmos in the new way. The first part I saw was sisters of the sun. Every night at 1:30 AM I used to watch the repeat episodes. Its a masterpiece. The facts of science were showed in a entertaining way. The subject of every episode of the cosmos was simply brilliant.


                
I have just finished up watching all Season 1 episodes and I am now starting all over again.There is so much information given in each episode I want to go back through and learn everything I couldn't hold on to from the first go around. This is not burdensome but quite exciting because I am none too happy the season is over.I have seen Neil deGrasse Tyson on many TV shows and have always found him interesting. He is obviously very intelligent but does not stop there. He is funny, witty and his delivery always sparks my curiosity. I don't think they could have found a better host for this show.I have not heard yet whether a 2nd season is in the works. If I get a vote I would love nothing less than another 13 episodes. PLEASE!!!! Glad to hear there was some filming in, what I call home, Northern California. If I had known where the filming was I might have set up shop to get an autograph from, my rock star, Neil deGrasse Tyson.If you have an interest in Science, like I do, you can't miss this show. In my opinion it is the most fascinating show on television.


                
