The original series back in the 80s was nothing less than extraordinary. Unbelievably good writing, deep meanings which make everything else seem meaningless, a vehicle to know and understand not only science but your own self, and of course one of the greatest presenters of all time, Carl Sagan.No one can deny that the original Cosmos series is an all-time classic. Personally I won't mind see it again right now, one more time.With great joy I learned about a modern reboot in 2014. If nothing else it will focus the public eye to the original series. After seeing the trailer of 2014s series I kept my expectations low.I just finished watching the first episode for the 2nd time. Didn't wanted to misjudge it.Well, it was exactly what I expected. Latest generation, yet uninspiring graphics. Fast paced editing (one of the advantages of the original was its calmness) just to look modern. Star-Trekish, superficial and totally forgettable music by Alan Sylvestri Hasty uninspiring script which tried, here and there, to remind the original. The complete lack of deeper meanings... ...and of course a non charismatic presenter who...well...couldn't wear Sagan's shoes in a million (or should I say billions!) years.Of course I will watch all the remaining episodes, quite possibly 2 times like this one (although in the 2nd run I caught me playing with my smartphone!).So. This one tries to fill some really really REALLY BIG shoes, and must be judged accordingly. BUT even the most kind and forgiving viewer can't ignore the fact: This reboot doesn't have what it takes. It's one documentary out of the bunch.2/10


                
I had high hopes for this one. I loved Carl Sagan's version. I've watched that one half a dozen times and it is truly inspiring.Now DeGrasse Tyson's version has some decent information in it, but I find the presentation painful to watch. There are too many special effects, and Tyson's voice is too low in the audio mix. But my biggest complaint is there is very little rhyme or reason in a lot of the episodes, i.e., he jumps around, and important information gets lost in the shuffle.Most of all, this version lacks the sense of wonder that Sagan's version had. I wouldn't want Tyson to even try to do an imitation, but this version has the feeling that it was written by a committee. Tyson seems to be reading from a script, rather than articulating what *he* wants to say.I stopped watching after 7 episodes. Perhaps I'll give it another shot in the years to come once this is available on DVD. But watching these episodes is a chore, not a delight.


                
well, what can i say. I think Carl Sagan would be rolling in his grave if he saw this new version of his classic, it's full of pointless cartoons that take up valuable space that could be used to teach more useful information, and being only 40 or so minutes with a ridiculously long intro that seems to have taken all the budget up on cgi already, there's so much wrong with this steaming pile i don't know where to start tbh. I waited eagerly thinking it would be an incredible updated version of the original, especially as Carl's wife Ann wrote it, but it's been a massive disappointment IMO, shame, oh, and the music sounds like it comes fresh from the latest Disney film It does have it's moments of clarity, but they are few and far between and not worth the bother from a very disappointed person....


                
I only made it through the first episode. Which led me to believe this Cosmos may be like a bad Cliff's-Notes-meets-anime version of the original Cosmos. It was presented by someone who came off as a smug and uninspired plagiarist of Carl Sagan, thoughtlessly confident in a borrowed narrative dulled down to disconnected factoids. It appeared that the producers didn't put the time or thought into piecing together a coherent and beautiful narrative such as Carl Sagan's Cosmos, and tried to compensate for it with wowy-zowie computer animation. And the ship makes noise in space in this Cosmos, for God's sake. With Carl Sagan's Cosmos, I felt I was marinating in a novel and wonderful understanding of the universe and the quest for truth, and compelled to do my part to make the world a better place, while in this one, I felt like my attention span was being hijacked by lots of computer animations and some uninspiring know-it-all drunkenly reciting lines from Carl Sagan's Cosmos for the sake of the entertainment of his likewise drunken peers. I had high expectations of this documentary after hearing good things about it from a few people. Thankfully, I can re-watch Carl Sagan's Cosmos and forget about this one.


                
I was hoping for something like the old Cosmos or something a bit like Wormhole. I wanted something that talked about the science and physics of the universe. What I got was a bunch of berating and lecturing about perceived social issues. The writers, producers and Tyson should be ashamed. They try to use their unique brand quasi- science as a social and political bludgeon. Sad. This program rates right up there with "Ancient Aliens" with regards to its intellectual honesty.
Carol Segan? More like Cotton Watts; offended, I am. Science is something you can observe, test, and demonstrate. An ort cloud, star births, evolution and millions of years is pure fantasy, a religion. The earliest recorded dates go back to the first Egyptian dynasties like 3,000 years ago, anything beyond that is speculation, NOT science.There is so many fascinating topics one could cover with an actual science venue, all the hidden archeology (of the antediluvian races), giants, dragons (dinosaurs), DNA sequencing, bible codes, so called aliens, the realities behind the myths (Greek for example). History the reality, not the agenda, is so much more fascinating. I cannot believe in this day and age no one is taking advantage of the truth!? Can you imagine what ratings would be, but just like Obama..Neil deGrass is a sell-out too.


                
The cosmos was a great educational experience about the outer reaches of space. All around it was a great show


                
