In 1980 a highly-praised science series debuted on Public Broadcasting Service television channels: "Cosmos," hosted by Cornell University astronomer Carl Sagan. One of the beauties of the original series was Sagan's grasp of scientific history, which he painted in a balanced and captivating way. The series began with a wonderful description of the great Library of Alexandria, the ancient repository of human knowledge that was finally destroyed in the year 642.The new "Cosmos" series, which debuted on March 9, 2014, on the Fox Network, is hosted by Neil DeGrasse Tyson, Director of the Hayden Planetarium in New York City. Although the promotions for the series tout Tyson as the "successor to Carl Sagan," the debut episode proved that he surely is not. But maybe it is not his fault. The actual writing was done by Ann Druyan, the wife of Carl Sagan, who died in 1996.Tyson/Druyan select as the focus for the first episode the case of Giordano Bruno, who supposedly first saw the extent of the universe. This is Tyson/Druyan's first historical mistake. The Greek astronomer Aristarchus of Samos (third century B.C.) saw the extent of the universe and was the original author of Copernicus's heliocentric theory, published in 1543 in "De Revolutione Orbium Coelestium." Copernicus is identified as a "priest." This is Tyson/Druyan's second historical mistake. Copernicus remained a canon and was never ordained as a priest.Tyson/Druyan then proceed to feature the case of Giordano Bruno, a Dominican friar of the 16th century. Although Tyson/Druyan try to make Bruno out as some kind of scientific "martyr," the fact is that Bruno was eventually executed not for his astronomical ideas, but because he strayed into many errors of theology. Galileo also got into trouble not because of his astronomical ideas, but because he strayed into theology, of which he had no knowledge. Historically, heliocentrism was not the issue that got Bruno and Galileo into trouble. Copernicus was the great modern purveyor of that theory, and he was never touched.Tyson/Druyan present lurid graphics, in cartoon form, of prison cells and instruments of torture. They even stoop to characterize Robert Bellarmine as some kind of ogre set on executing Bruno. In fact, Bellarmine was an avid scientist and patron of science, who even counseled Galileo that his theory of tides was wrong. And the historic fact is that Bellarmine was right, and Galileo was wrong.The new "Cosmos" relies on cheesy computer graphics to titillate the unscientific crowd rather than to present well-researched scientific history. It is a caricature of the history of science. It is a great disappointment after all the advertising hoopla. Carl Sagan would have been a balanced enough historian of science not to have presented historical fabrications under the guise of history. He would have let the truth speak for itself.


                
Looking at the other reviews, I can only assume that the reviewers are members of that group of people who are susceptible to movie hype and special effects. This was a great opportunity to impart information to the new generation, and help to open up young minds, and to encourage the older generation to become interested and to question science. Instead, it released the CGI people to go crazy and to forget the actual science. It dumbs things down to such a degree, that those who have some knowledge of science/physics will find it boring, and it skips over information so quickly and in such little detail that it will make it confusing for those just beginning to have an interest in science. The presenter, Neil deGrasse Tyson, seems to have decided he prefers being an actor than a scientist. He has managed to make it a reality TV/soap opera...rather than a serious science offering. For those who have a genuine interest in science/physics/the cosmos...give it a miss.. For those who like CGI, flashing lights, and drama but have only a marginal interest in the science...it should be quite enjoyable...at least as enjoyable as the many soap operas and reality TV shows which are available.


                
If you want to learn about astronomical phenomena, take a course at Caltech.Anthropomorphism in astronomy is completely unprofessional and unscientific, and using this type of language oversimplifies the subject, pandering to the lowest common denominator. Stars and other celestial bodies are not alive or conscious on any level, and they do not die. Humans are not the "children" of any physical phenomenon such as supernovae.Neil Tyson is as smug and obnoxious as always, and strikes me as the Warren Buffet of astronomy: able to explain lower level concepts to midwesterners, but completely inept as an actual practitioner. He's a "proud nerd," as well, which is oxymoronic. I loathe this man. I'm open to all sides of the debate at the professional level, but at the University level, African-American men have great opportunities and many scholarships are available exclusively to black men. Yet, in interviews related to this program, Tyson continues to claim that higher education is stacked against black scientists. This is absolutely ridiculous, and undermines Tyson's credibility as a narrator.Neil Tyson is a terrible narrator and disingenuous race-baiter, and does a disservice to anyone who watches this program.
Despite the up to date graphics and newer scientific data I just can't get past the contradictions. One moment NDG is explaining the natural variations in climate the next he's preaching about global warming. This is the exact reason thinking people say it's politics, not science. "Let's ignore the just stated scientific fact to promote the fear mongering without addressing the obvious contradiction." One minute the climate is ever changing, the next minute we're told a -2c difference in 100 years will mean the end of us all- (paraphrased.) Please. Nothing in nature is static, expect perhaps the minds behind this show.


                
Should have been called "scientist as hero" instead of Cosmos, as only about 25% of this show was about space. One of the episodes was almost entirely about some guy who complained about the hazards of leaded gasoline. Who cares? As the cosmos is everything, one could argue a show about baseball could be called Cosmos. That's what happened here.Instead, this was about scientists, geology, history, etc. Tardigrades on a raindrop. Whatever. One early lengthy cartoon vignette was about some crazy monk who was imprisoned for publicizing his idea that the Earth revolved around the sun, but had no scientific reasons behind his thinking. What was the point of this? Anyone can imagine a transporter or a time-travel machine, like Leonardo Da Vinci's drawings of airplanes, submarines, etc., but try to make one that actually works.Just like this show. Watched every episode, waiting for it to get better, and except for a few sporadic moments, it just didn't work.Good things were the host, who did his best with what he had, some of the music, and a minority of the material. The Mediterranean sea filled in a year-neat. More stuff like this would have been better. There were simply not enough "oooh-ahh" moments to hold a viewer's interest, like there were in the original series.Episode 11 was as close as it got to the original's magic, as it was mostly about space, and life's connection to space, as was episode 4. Episode 10 was good too, although 10 was entirely about electricity, not astronomy.If this show were "good if you like that sort of thing" I would have given it a 4 out of 10. But as a person who does like "that sort of thing" and watched every single episode, wondering if I was missing something fascinating when I didn't, I know it wasn't even that good. Zzzzzzz.
