I love Tyson and can tell that there were other influences directing him on how to tell the story of the universe. I know Tyson has an almost childlike wonder of the universe and it shows in all of his other appearances on the Science Channel and others. SOMETHING IS WRONG HERE.1) number one...they are dumbing down the dialog in Cosmos. I feel that they are doing this because they are trying to teach 4th graders or something. Even if they were targeting 4th graders they don't understand that this is not necessary. Kids are smarter than they think they are. It makes for a boring show. 2) Stop with all the Science Vs. Religion stuff. OK we get it, you hate some Christians. I don't care about Creationism. I'm hear to watch science not to have some politically motivated rant against religion. There not incompatible anyways so way are you so focused on this. 3) The animations are horrible. Again I guess there for the 4th graders that this was made for.4) This production is boring...It's hard to stay awake through this. Seriously other program such as "Universe Works" and the "The Planets" are way more thought provoking than this mess. 5) I guess my first clue that this would be a disappointment was that Obama gave an intro to this mess and that I noticed Seth McFarlane was the producer. It sucks because I know that Tyson was bullied into this boring mess.Carl Sagan deserves better. I loved his shows as a kid. He did not talk down to you but had a certain poetic way about him that spoke to me.


                
I love Professor Tyson and have followed his work in all forums. He did a wonderful presentation in this series. His voice is easy to listen to and his mannerisms are animated enough for me to keep interest. But what is up with all the cartooning by Seth MacFarlane? I admire and respect Seth, but his contribution to this series severely distracted me and I thought it cheap and cheesy. I know a lot of people do not like generic dramatizations with actors, but at least they try to present a realistic picture of what the narration refers to and it is quite entertaining. If more series are going to use cartoon characters I simply refuse to watch them (PBS "The Greeks" did the same style of animation). The real actors I can relate to more than a cartoon character. And it shows integrity on taking history or physics in this case seriously. It was like watching "Family Guy" in a physics class....ridiculous...so much so that I could not stomach it after three episodes. I went back to the original Cosmos...which interestingly with a very few amendments still holds today.


                
For anyone interested in the subject matter, I would strongly recommend skipping this tepid remake and viewing the original series on DVD or VOD. Almost everything about the first episode of the 2014 version is turgid and undistinguished, bearing an unfortunate resemblance to those old educational filmstrips shown to elementary schoolchildren as spoofed so hilariously on the Simpsons. Whereas Carl Sagan's much-parodied florid, plummy delivery was captivating (how did a guy from Brooklyn learn to talk like that?), Dr. Tyson's, in a pale imitation, is merely bombastic (he's from the Bronx...). The animation and visual effects are surprisingly cheesy (well, it's on Fox after all, not PBS). The "ship of the imagination" Dr. Tyson tools around in looks like the key fob of my Jeep Grand Cherokee. Vangelis's rich synthesized score in the 1980 version, which beautifully complemented Sagan's narration, has been superseded by a tinny, forgettable version by some no-name composer. And where's the originality? Dr. Tyson's attempt to summarize the history of the universe relied on the hackneyed trope of mapping various significant events since the Big Bang onto moments in a 24-hour day -- ho-hum. The one thing I did enjoy about the premiere was Dr. Tyson's heartfelt eulogy to Dr. Sagan at the very end. Too bad Carl's not still around to polish this rather dull makeover of his masterpiece.


                
The masterpiece Carl Sagan made in 1980 was a show on science that inspired millions to pursue the sciences. It asked hard questions, it was nuanced, and it was full of information. Even today, it is still relevant.Cosmos ASTO was a huge let down. The show made its intentions clear when it started immediately with one of the most polarizing political figures in history. By the time they finished the 20min cartoon on Bruno it was pretty obvious the series was not going to be about science. When producers put political agendas ahead of science its clearly not a show about science.Its important for scientists to make it clear when theories are theories, and not facts. Cosmos 2014 failed miserably at this as they clearly had an agenda that had nothing to do with science. The best aspects of the series, and these are based on gushing comments from people on the Cosmos ASTO boards, were aspects that either paid homage to Sagan, or basically took segments directly from the original series word for word. What had the potential to continue the tradition of scientific inspiration failed miserably and will quickly be forgotten. It brought nothing new to the table. It did nothing memorable production wise. It was basically a wasted 13hrs (5 of which were commercials). "In many cultures, a customary answer is that a "God" or "Gods" created the universe out of nothing, but if we wish to pursue this question courageously we must, of course, ask the next question - where did God come from? These are not easy questions...Cosmology brings us face to face with the deepest mysteries, with questions that were once treated only in religion and myth." - Carl Sagan 1980"When he found that his long cherished beliefs did not agree with the most precise observations, he accepted the uncomfortable facts. He preferred the hard truth to his dearest illusions. That is the heart of science." - Carl Sagan on Johannes Kepler 1980This is the type dialog the original featured throughout. Eloquent and nuanced. There is utterly nothing remotely close to this in Cosmos 2014. Perhaps in another 30 years real scientists can continue the Sagan tradition properly.


                
Tyson sounds like he's addressing an audience of third graders. The cartoon segments are not only as dumbed-down as Tyson's monologues, but additionally, they look like they were done on MS Paint. Maybe it's because the over-the-top CGI segments ate up most of their budget. I was in third grade when the original Cosmos came out. Carl Sagan didn't talk down to us and I had no trouble following it. Indeed, that series did more than anything to fuel my love of science. The new series utterly lacks both the passion of the original and the sense of urgency.I had all of the original Cosmos episodes on a hard drive that has since failed. I think I'm going to have to reacquire it somehow.


                
I've seen and listened to Neil deGrasse Tyson in many other shows. I've always enjoyed him and have enjoyed his passion with regard to Astrophysics/Cosmology but an apt narrator he is not.When he (the show) attacks the religious, claims evolution is a fact and states that the world is entering a climate period equal to that where 9 out of 10 species of everything on Earth went extinct it just spits in the face of the original.I enjoy most of the stories. I enjoy learning about some folks that I didn't know of before. But when it's clear this series is pushing an agenda it saddens me. It should be opening the eyes of all to science regardless of political or religious affiliation.
Where to begin ...Poorly written, scatter-shot, poorly narrated, poor audio mix, derivative, uninspired, poor musical score, ridiculous cartoons, childish.The whole thing is not merely badly done but is also DULL and, besides, has been done - much more effectively - many times over the years.Never-mind, the masses are loving it. And that is surely all this insipid production was aiming for.On a positive note: Useful as a sedative. Great lessons concerning what can go wrong in this type of production.Update: Changed my rating from 1 to 4 as the series began to find it's feet in episodes 11 through 13. Tyson was more animated, there was even a joke or two. One must appreciate the effort and good intentions that went into this program and, if it is to continue, maybe it will become better.


                
Coming from a science oriented family, I was shocked: This program has really nice computer animation and some beautiful nature scenes. The narrator is flat and not relate-able. He also doesn't seem to be very interested in the subject matter he is supposed to be selling! The rest of the presented information was just not presented in a substantiated or interesting manner. Regardless of the believably factor, it was just boring.Watching this made me appreciate the PBS NOVA series and how well done it was, even if I didn't agree with many of the theories presented there.


                
