I like this version. It's based off of Sagan's original material, so it's intelligent and informative. As we might expect, it's good to see the updates in visual technology, especially with images from the Hubble and the wonderful CGI we now have. Oh, what Sagan could have done if he'd had access to such images, CGI and HD! Given these advancements, it's nice to see Cosmos brought to this modern generation. One, so that a new generation can enjoy this material. Two, the original, while a masterpiece, was getting a bit "dated".Alas, though, as we might also expect, the modern version doesn't capture the magic of the original. Tyson is a good host, knowledgeable, pleasant and well-spoken, but he doesn't have the voice or poetic wonder of Sagan. Sagan's voice made science sound like poetry. I was gripped by his treatment of the subject as a young teen. I only wish we could have brought that level of passion to the new generation.Another aspect where Cosmos 2014 is not Cosmos 1980, is the music. The music of the original was some of the best ever compiled for a documentary. From classical to synth, it was unique and captivating. I remember scouring record shops for the soundtrack on vinyl, until, at last, I found "The Music of Cosmos" as an LP! That music inspired me for years to come. The new version's music is acceptable, but not inspiring. It's more like stock music soundtrack used on any Discovery Channel special.Had I not had the original to compare this version to, I would have no complaints with Tyson or the music. They only fall short when compared to a legendary series, but are fine in and of themselves. As I stated earlier, I do hope a new generation watches, enjoys and is inspired by Cosmos.It's worth watching. If you love astronomy or cosmology, you certainly won't be bored.


                
I gave this new Cosmos a 7, and I am sticking to my grade, which is about a B/B+ for those used to letter grades. I remember Sagan's original Cosmos, not because I watched it in 1980, but at later re-broadcasts and video rentals.I am a big Carl Sagan fan; I've read a lot of his books, and own a few. I even made "donations" to The Planetary Society at one time. I love astronomy, and SETI was very exciting to me when I learned of it. However, as we obviously could see, there are still no results after some 35 years of searching for signals from alien life.Thus, what at the end is the point of this new Cosmos series?Had SETI in fact found ET signals, or probes, or worlds artificially arranged, or Dyson Spheres, or other unnatural structures or artifacts either in space or on Earth, then fine new discoveries were made that will shake up our understanding of humanity's place in the universe. And then there would indeed be lots to talk about. But, there is nothing!What we got here is a long cartoon about some half-forgotten monk named Bruno, lots of CGI, yet another boring condensed time-line into 1 year, etc. I did find the footage of Carl Sagan and his notebook to be interesting. Yes, perhaps for some 13 year old kid who has had no exposure to these ideas before this show could be educational, but anyone over 30 this is the same old boring stuff.
US has best resource for such a documentary. Universities, NASA, national labs, Hollywood, I cannot image what is lack of. Frankly, The film is excellent for primary school kids based on my experience. As a adult, I prefer BBC documentaries on the same topic.Rich in content, best pictures and simulation videos I have ever see, even there are some scientific flaws. However, the isolated stories seems to be less of connection. From quark to atom, then gas, solid material, moon, planet, star, system, galaxy, group, universe. Each of them are connected. However, I get confused while Nile takes me to everywhere. It's a wonderful experience to enjoy the journey, however, I got a "spaceship" sick.


                
I am a Physicist and have watched all episodes of the new Cosmos: A Space -Time Odyssey to date. Although I concur with many facts that are presented by the host, I must state that Mr. Tyson interjects numerous "Ifs" , "might" , "supposes", "created", etc. (count them as you watch)in his journey to enlighten his audience. That terminology is not part of nor can be part of empirical scientific investigation. Subsequently, these descriptions should not lead others to draw the conclusions and rationale he projects. Some illustrations that are used can help viewers to grasp very complicated concepts. However, the "leap" to explain the story line as "fact" in evolution, time, gravity, and atomic structure requires more faith and imagination than those who profess creationism. In my studies relating to Newton's Laws many mysteries remain so. Atoms are held together by "a nuclear force" or what many colleagues called "atomic glue" because there is no equation or explanation to prove how and why an atom exists and remains intact. Our collective human "logic" is confined to the "limits" of time. Remove the "time" limitation and everything "fits".


                
This was one of the best documentaries that I have ever seen but it is missing some critical information especially in the first episode regarding the heliocentric solar system, it is not mentioning that Aristarchus of Samos was the first in human history to propose this. Also more was missed as none of the Greek inventions and ideas was mentioned not sure why?. I will give this only a 7 as I would like to see more of Ancient Greek and other civilization discoveries about the universe and time. I hope if there is going to be a next documentary similar to this there will be more facts that are known but not mentioned that's how history gets distorted and kids learn only what they see on TV.


                
I would have to say it is a very well done science program, but it doesn't hold a candle to the original. Listening to Carl Sagan these many years later can still cause chills to run up and down your spine. He was able to kindle a spirit of wonder, which is likely why I, like many others, went into the sciences.Tyson just states the facts, and tries to act amazed. He plays the part well but the genuine wonder just isn't there, just facts and computer generated animation. At times, this wonder almost surfaces, then it is gone again. A good try. I suppose it had to be done as the original science was now outdated. Like wine, this one needs time to age. But in the end, it will never become a great wine.


                
