Having seen Tarantino's 3 previous films, going into the cinema, my expectations for 'Kill Bill' were already over the roof. However, regardless of my high hopes for quality entertainment, I was not prepared for this film. I was dumbfounded. I was blown away. I had quite simply never seen anything even remotely like it.In 'Kill Bill', the revenge plot serves only as a larger story arc, thus allowing Tarantino to play with as many different genres as he likes, and boy - what a mix he dishes out! With complete disregard for the conventions of filmmaking, he paints an expressionistic masterpiece in his own unique style, the likes of which the world has never seen before. Cinema rarely gets this exciting. With 'Kill Bill', Tarantino proved once and for all that all the hype around his persona is justified: he IS the most daring, original - and entertaining! - filmmaker of his generation. Simply amazing: 10 stars out of 10.Lesser-Known Masterpieces: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls070242495/Favorite Low-Budget And B-Movies: http://www.imdb.com/list/ls054808375/All-Time Favorite Films: http://www.IMDb.com/list/mkjOKvqlSBs/


                
A lot of people have come up to me and said "How can you love Quentin that much, he is just too extreme!" or "Oh come on, Kill Bill is just SO not realistic.." Yes. No.Mr. Quentin Tarantino is rather extreme, yes, and it's lovely! And No. Kill Bill is not realistic, but it's not meant to be realistic! Just like... Lord of the Rings, that's not realistic either! But because it has clear unreal elements, like wizards, it's acceptable?You don't go to see Kill Bill, or any other Q.T-film to see "Stepmom", in the same way you don't go to a Marilyn Manson concert hoping that they will play some Spice Girls..Kill Bill, both volume 1 and 2, is absolutely gorgeous! The art direction is beautiful! The camera angles are perfect... just Gorgeous! The lighting, the sound, the dialogs... and of course, the details! No one works with small details the way Quentin does. I must also say that the soundtrack is brilliant and the whole film is just so well casted! Uma Thurman is perfect in the leading role, Darryl Hannah has never been this good before, ever! And Chiaki Kuriyama, even though she has a quite small role, is excellent, even better than she is in "Battle Royale". David Carradine is painfully perfect, Michael Madsen is ALWAYS excellent, but never as good as when he works with Tarantino. I must also say that Sonny Chiba was great. I've never been a big fan of Vivica A Fox until now, and I used to think that Lucy Liu was just your average actor but she turned out to be fierce. Pretty much everyone who is in this film is ten times better than they've ever been.But above all things, Kill Bill is artistic, beautiful... Perfect colors, perfect everything... gotta love it.


                
Man, what a film. As a fan of 70's martial arts movies, it was great to see all of the references. I also thought the use of B&W throughout was extremely effective. The cartoon sequences seemed a bit much, but did fit in with the overall feel of the film. I have seen many people posting about the sheer amount of blood and guts, but you have to remember this was Tarantino's homage to Bruce Lee-era action pictures. In those movies, the stories were very similar epics of revenge, and they never had much of a budget for good "gore" effects. It was more or less "throw some fake blood on the guy who just got killed" type of effects, which were duplicated accurately by some of the deaths in this movie. The plot also followed closely the plot of most 70's Kung Fu movies; something despicable happens to the weak hero (whole village razed, family slaughtered, etc..) and the hero goes away for years to learn the secrets of a particular style of Kung Fu. All of these movies contained the "secret move" which the master normally does not teach, except of course, in this rare instance. That move, as depicted in Kill Bill Vol. 2, is always used on the evil leader of the clan whom had brought death and chaos to the hero.Kill Bill was a terrific modern take on those movies which were always set in ancient China. I was very impressed with Uma Thurman's swordplay, at no point did I feel that it looked scripted or fake. Even when fighting against more than 50 Crazy 8's, it replicated admirably the incredibly one-sided fights from some of the best martial arts movies made 30 years ago.All in all, a great and original film! R.


                
Probably Tarantino's most universal movie to date, with a little less character dependency than most of his films and a more linear approach than usual, Kill Bill Volume 1 is a great place to start for anyone new to his movies. I don't mean to imply this is a shallow film (far from it), i simply found it easier on the mind than Tarantino's other movies.Uma Thurman, left for dead by her ex-boyfriend (Bill) doesn't die and begins her quest for vengeance, by hunting down Bill's gang members in a search for Bill. Armed with a Samurai sword and a deadly blend of martial arts skills, Uma delivers action, violence and passion as she plays out the character with beautiful precision.Need i say, this is excellently directed, brilliantly scripted and cast, and should be in everyone's Tarantino collection.10/10 Second only to Pulp Fiction. Although it has wider appeal (I think)


                
When I saw Kill Bill for the first time I just fell in love with the film. Kill Bill is definitely a true masterpiece with a classic story about a brutal betrayal and an epic vendetta! Four years after taking a bullet in the head at her own wedding, The Bride emerges from a coma and decides it's time for payback...with a vengeance. Casting was excellent everyone did a fantastic job in their own place, Uma was the best and no other actress could of taken her place. My favourite member of the deadly viper squad is Elle driver the one with the eye patch I also liked the tune she was whistling in the hospital, I was wondering that how did she lose her eye which was explained in Vol 2. They never showed Bill's face in the film that kept the suspense for the sequel which was a terrific idea especially for me because I never knew what the actor looked like before. The two best scenes are: 1. The animated sequence because it was a different story from the film's which made a suitable mood for the perspective. Overall it is the best idea ever the other two films I've seen with animated sequences are Lola Rennt a German movie & Karam an Indian movie and both of them are my all time most favourite films as well as Kill Bill.2. The sword fight with the Crazy 88s just before her revenge with O-Ren-Ishi because it was so unexpected when hundreds of them jumped out of nowhere ready to fight. I thought it was going to be simple because Bill was the main target but it turned out to be more difficult.The main reason why it is one of my favourite is because I'm a huge fan of revenge movies and Kill Bill gives a very deep insight of the topic e.g. Like the Old Klingon Proverb on the screen before the film which is "Revenge is a dish best served cold" & when Hattori Hanzo said that "Revenge is never a straight line. It's a forest and like a forest it's easy to lose your way...to get lost...to forget where you came in". It definitely deserves to be on the IMDb top 250 and Vol 2 was also good but not better than Vol 1.


                
Arguably this should not be a difficult film to review. It is nothing less than brilliant. The story, the direction, the musical score, the casting, the acting, the dialog, the fight choreography, the inset homage to past films ... brilliant.Just brilliant.What makes this film tricky to review is not the film but ironically the film-maker.I do not know the deep background here but I am guessing that QT, at the very height of his creative powers, locked himself in a cabin in the woods for a month and put this opus together. And essentially (in the view of this reviewer) not only created one of the best films of all time but essentially defined his own career by setting a bar so high that even his own future work could not equal it.And there you have it. The hard part of the review.The film is perfection. But in my view QT has yet to produce anything that comes close either in terms of final product or even in terms of effort expended.


                
I am speechless how to praise such a real gem of movie..Uma Thurman has given a greatest performance never can be given by any other actress ..Such a fearless fighter never been portrayed ever before ..Never will be on screen .. standing ovation for both uma Thurman & tarantino .... Great movie.


                
This is an excellent film. Amazing choice of music.


                
I loved this movie since i was a little kid and its one of my favorite movies in tell today. I still watch it because of the way its played out and.I Like the dialogue of the movie plus Tarantino has good vision when it comes to making movies. This Movie had lots of bloody scene and fighting attacks in Kill Bill. Volume 1/2 were sick they should've make kill bill. volume 3.


                
This film is an the result of a genius mind. Quentin Tarantion is one of the greatest film makers in the world today. He has produces outstanding film after outstanding film. And Kill Bill Vol 1 is no exception. Tarantino choreographed the fight scenes in this film and when an expert fight choreographer was hired to assist Tarantino, he saw the fight sequences said his assistance was not required. The dialogue is fantastic as with any Tarantino film. He is a genius with words. While e not his best screenplay, it's very much enjoyable. The best thing about this film however is Uma Thurman's lead performance. In perhaps her finest moment Thurman steals every scene she's in. She adds depth to this already complex character. However, the supporting acting in this film is also outstanding with Lucy Liu at her best and Vivica A Fox giving an electrifying performance Overall a fantastic film


                
I'm a forty-one year old woman who liked "Pulp Fiction" and "Fargo" immensely. It's no surprise that I loved this film. Yup,  loved. Maybe I'm at just the right age to appreciate the oddball references to pulp TV and film. Tarantino is obviously having fun. There isn't a wasted piece of film anywhere. Uma Thurman surprised me. I've never had much reaction to her before, aside from Pulp Fiction. She's quite effective whether she's trying to move her big toe or slash another of the 88. I've got to buy the soundtrack. Who'd believe that you could have music of Zamfir (the pan flute guy) and the theme from Ironside in the same film?The dialogue is priceless and reminiscent of "Pulp Fiction". Half smart ass vulgarity, half philosophical musings. I can't wait for Vol. 2. I think I'll have to see it in the theatre. Excellent Tarantino.


                
(SPOILERS....OF A SORT)Kill bill volume 1. I have asked some people about this film and their view on it was terrible....i decided to watch for myself expecting to follow the trend and find a terrible film with overall pathetic acting and over the top stunts. What i didn't expect to find was a film to top any i have seen before with EXCEPTIONAL acting, brilliantly thought out schemes of fighting mixed with western film music and an overall phenomenal film. Kill Bill. The title gives it away i suppose. 'The bride'(Uma Thurman), a former member of the Deadly Viper Assassination squad, wants a life free from the duty of killing for her unborn child to grow up in. But these kinds of demands don't really suit her boss, Bill (David Carradine). Bill along with members of his squad, Elle Driver (Daryl Hannah), Vernita Green (Vivica A.Fox), O-Ren Ishii (Lucy Lui) and his brother Budd (Michael Madsen) destroy her life and attempt to kill her at her own wedding. The party consists of ten, including the bride's unborn child. However...they only manage to kill nine. After coming out of a coma of 4 years, the bride is on a hunt for revenge. And revenge is a dish best served cold. Kill Bill offers a brilliantly thought out film, very graphical fighting scenes, and overall a must see film. One for the record books to be frank. And just in case you're wondering what I said to those that told me this film "sucked"...i told them they needed to get a life. harsh i know, but once you have seen this film you will understand what I mean.
I was extremely excited to see this movie, because I am starting to get into Quentin Tarantino. I was pleasantly satisfied with this film. From what I understand (although the only other Tarantino movie I've seen is Reservoir Dogs), this movie isn't like his other movies because his other movies capture real life violence, and as Quentin says, "This is the kind of movie characters in his other movies would go to see." This is because the characters in his other movies are very violent, and they would want to see movies that are violent in a comic book way (Tarantino is excellent at dramatic sampling, and one of the great things he does in this movie was add an interesting black and white cartoon sequence for Lucy Liu's character). This movie is also divided into sections which also adds to the comic book feel.This is one of those movies where you are constantly being reminded that it's a movie with its comic book feel, whereas with a film like Resorvoir Dogs there is less genre and cinematic sampling and the audience gets the feeling they are watching real life being portrayed on screen. I can't capture my enthrallment with this film. I felt Beatrix "The Bride" Kiddo's (Uma Thurman) hate throughout. The sound effects and music were very oriental and captured the cinematic and classic 70's Asian feel. One can definitely tell that Quentin is a film geek. There is so much influence in this film: Spaghetti Western, 70's Kung Fu TV show, and some Brian Depalma thrown into the mix. Quentin even says that he takes the best parts from movies he loves; therefore showing the average movie-goer why he has always loved it so much.


                
Well to write about kill bill in IMDb it is just about adding another comment to some but for me i thought it is a necessity to write about this absolute classic and masterpiece. To those who don't like martial arts i ask why? because the way QT depicted in this movie is above my words. Well in 3 words about this movie i say "Have A Blast". The story is about a woman who seeks revenge from his old group of assassinates who killed her friends and child on her wedding day. And revenge gets a new meaning from this slasher movie. I must admit that who are not onto blood and gore should not this movie at all because it contains some very gruesome scenes of body parts flying and blood spurting like fountain. As for the performances, Uma Thurman is my favourite since i saw Pulp Fiction, she is the soul of the movie. You cannot imagine anyone except Uma for this character of the bride. Lucy Liu was terrific and better than ever in this flick though i liked her in Charlie's Angels also. Vivicia A Fox was very Good same goes for Daryl Hannah. Take my word for this Go for this Helluva Ride if u have not seen it yet. Though i warn you again for the violence in this movie. And for Tarantino, Take A Bow sir.


                
KILL BILL VOL1 is the crowning film in Quentin Tarantino's career. I almost hate to put the VOL1, because alone, this first film is a great accomplishment without having VOL2, although I can appreciate what part 2 was trying to do: add depth and character backstory to the plot. In VOL1, plot is unnecessary! I'll just refer to VOL1 as KILL BILL hereafter. The genius of KILL BILL is that you don't need plot or character development to appreciate its brilliance. It's not about these things. KILL BILL is purely stylistic, an homage to all those kick-ass-and-take-names martial arts grindhouse movies of the 70s with stars like Bruce Lee to led you through the carnage. What was the real substance or motivation in those movies? Not much substance and the motivation was revenge, just like in this one. And you don't need any backstory or extra dialogue (very little here) to know from the start that it is all about revenge.The person perpetrating the revenge, our protagonist, is The Bride (played to absolute stunning, convincing, athletic perfection by Uma Thurman). This is Thurman's greatest accomplishment as an actress. She had to be believable as a martial artist (she is), to show agility and athleticism (she does), and make us believe that she is a total, 100%, lethal, bad-ass, killing machine (she does all that in spades!). This role could NOT have been easy! Thurman should have been nominated for Best Actress.The Bride's singular goal is to eliminate those who have wronged her. The main perpetrator is 'Bill', who shoots this pregnant woman in the head before the film's credits even roll. (BIG TIME SPOILER ALERT!) The 'start' of the film is really the end of the film, when The Bride goes to a suburban home to see 'Jeannie Bell', aka Vernita Green (played wonderfully by Viveca Fox). We know Vernita is an old foe of The Bride's (we just don't know why, but there is a brief hint during this opening scene) b/c The Bride immediately attacks Vernita and they get into an all-out super-fight, complete with martial artistry, acrobatics, and knifeplay. It still is one of my favorite scenes in the film.Now, flashback 4 years and 6 months earlier to the time occurring right after the pre-credits scene. A group of Texas Rangers, led by Earl McGraw (played by the well cast veteran actor Michael Parks) are at the church where the shooting of The Bride and her wedding party took place. They soon realize that she's alive and she is hospitalized. During hospitalization, she is briefly visited by a mysterious woman named Elle (played by Darryl Hannah in her only scene in this film, but she leaves a lasting impression) who wants to kill her, but she is stopped by 'Bill' (who we only hear on the phone, but don't see).The Bride remains in coma for 4 years and upon learning that she has lost her baby, immediately wants revenge on the perpetrators, who are former colleagues of hers (including Elle and Vernita). Called the Deadly Viper Assassination Squad, we are introduced to a third member of the team name O'Ren Ishii (played by Lucy Liu) via a cartoon that backstory's her life. Ironically, this cartoon is the only set of scenes with real emotion and character development, and I'm sure this was Tarantino's intention. It totally works.The Bride travels to Okinawa, Japan to meet the world-famous swordsman/maker Hattori Hanzo (played by legendary martial arts actor Sonny Chiba in a beautiful performance). Hanzo, upon learning that The Bride is a wronged student of his former student Bill, who he now despises, agrees to make her his best sword so that she can exact her revenge. She travels to Tokyo to claim her first victim O'Ren.The Tokyo scenes, in a popular nightclub, are the climax of the film and these sequences are jaw-droppingly suspenseful and exciting to watch. It begins with a long, uncut, tracking shot of The Bride waiting for O'Ren and her lackeys, then it finally cuts to O'Ren and her crew having a jovial time until they hear The Bride call O'Ren out, and the fight (and fun) begins! The Bride has to battle not only O'Ren's posse, but also her fighting force The Crazy 88s. In between these 2 fights, she battles the teenaged, psychopathic, slick Gogo Yubari (played by Chiaki Yurikama in an impressive film debut). This scene is another fave of mine. Thurman and Yurikama really show some impressive weapons play and acrobatics in this scene. Then there's the scene with the Crazy 88s, an all-out, take-no-prisoners bloodfest where The Bride stands tall in the end. Tarantino outdid himself with this scene b/c I can't ever remember an action scene thrilling and exciting me this much. EVER! The Bride has her final battle with O'Ren. Lucy Liu is perfectly cast as O'Ren. Even though O'Ren is a young woman, she is very worldly and experienced b/c she was forced into it from a very young age, as we learned in the cartoon. This final battle scene is more elegant and classy (and much less bloody) than the earlier fight scenes. Just good old-fashioned swordplay.KILL BILL is my favorite work of Tarantino's b/c I never get tired of it, like I eventually did of PULP FICTION, which has a few clunky characters and scenes upon further viewing. Tarantino's frenetic "love-of-movies" style really shines brightest in KILL BILL VOL. 1 with vignettes that separately are unique and memorable, but strung together form a singularly brilliant movie-watching experience. Tarantino's choice of music is also pitch perfect, with each scene having a different tune to match it's tone and mood. The diversity of music in the action-packed finale is an incredible integration of music in film! There's something to be said for 100% pure, unapologetic entertainment, and KILL BILL delivers! A must see for real MOVIE fans.
Warning!!! Spoilers!!!As the title reads, it truly tells the whole guidelines of the film. This film is a cross mix between Segio Leone's spaghetti westerns and Akira Kurosawa's old samurai films, and Matrix visual effects are added. Uhm...interesting. Well, here's what I have to say. This is truly one of the best action flicks that I have witnessed. This film may be filled with excessive blood and gore, that is quite unrealistic, but it is a impressive piece of work. This is the first Quentin Tarantino film I have seen, and i love it! The film starts off black-and-white, with a blood soaked bride who begs not to be killed, but is shot in the head anyway. Four years pass, and she's in a hospital, awaking after a gunshot wound to the head. (This film is totally out of order, like Pulp Fiction but this is how it should be in order). She gathers herself together to realize what has happened and escapes the hospital. Meanwhile, after escaping th hospital, and now fully gathered herself together,r she has a quest of vengeance to kill a list of people who have slaughtered her wedding. One by one, she picks them off with her special fencing and karate abilities, making unbelievable action sequences, comical, and intense. The story unfolds from hear on, her quest of revenge, only armed with a sword that speaks for her violent temper! Quentin Tarantino is a fabulous director. he knows his humor, his drama, and blood-soaking action/violence, and unexpected twists. Truly, Quentin Tarantino is one of the best directors ever! Uma Thurman is totally an outstanding actress! My overall rating, a definite 10 out of 10!
Tarantino's first movie of the new millennium is nothing short of a classic masterpiece, like all of his movies of course! This one in particular is filled to the brim with tributes to old Kung-fu chop-socky films, Japanese movies, and anime, and of course the usual pop-culture references, a staple to every Tarantino film.The movie starts off with a rather disturbing look at the main character known as The Bride played by the fabulous Uma Thurman, and the title character, who we do not see but hear his voice on this volume, Bill. Later we figure out the story is all about a woman who wants nothing but revenge on the people responsible for beating the living crap out of her on her wedding day while she was pregnant, killing everyone who was there that day, putting a bullet in her head and leaving her comatose for four years. The responsible ones, besides Bill are the members of the Deadly Viper Assassination Squad. The squad members in order of appearance are Vernita Green, played by the gorgeous Vivica A. Fox, Oren Ishii, played by Lucy Liu, Elle Driver, played by Daryll Hannah and Budd, played by Michael Madsen. The Brides quest for revenge takes her all the way to the other side of the world in search of one of the members, later on returning to America and continuing her vendetta against the remainder of the squad. Yes, as you've all heard there's lots of blood and gore on this one, especially the scenes in Japan, but the movie has many laughs, some of them involving a scene of The Bride in Japan with a bartender/sword maker played by the Japanese movie legend Sonny Chiba. There's also excellent music to top it off, borrowed music of course but that makes the movie even more fun to watch as is usual in all of Tarantino's movies. There's also a very well made, and bloody anime scene in which it describes one of the member's origins.I know there will be some people that will probably trash this movie for his excessive gore and violent content, but as far as i'm concerned, this is still a masterpiece, maybe not another Pulp Fiction but worthy of being in your collection if you're a fan of Tarantino's work.


                
The fourth movie of Quentin Tarantino has an excellent story and elements very attractive.The beginning has strong scene because Bill shoots to The Bride while she tells his about her baby. The sentence: "The revenge is a dish best served cold", tells us the subject of revenge along of movie. The revenge is an important subject because it is an inseparable element of the humankind, from the beginnings of human history the revenge has been present in many stories.The soundtrack is good because the director uses the appropriate music in the adequate moment during all movie, especially in the chapter five when we can hear funny and action music. In my opinion, the most characteristic music is the whistling and the songs of group 5.6.7.8's.The Japanese culture is present in all movie: its language, its ideology, the samurai swords (katanas) and the anime animation. Really, Tarantino make one tribute to the Japanese movies with his film.Despite her rancor and her angry, the bride always faces her enemies without traps and stratagems, that is to say, she fights with honor and bravery in all moment.The main antagonist, in this part, is O-Ren Ishii because we see her life, from the parent's death until her own death, so we can understand the personality of O-Ren.Like in others Tarantino's movies, there is huge use of blood in fight scenes, especially during the sword fights, in my opinion, this is an element strong and attractive.The movie can divide in the five parts: - The chapter one (2): The bride fights against Vernita Green. - The chapter two (The blood-splattered bride): The bride stays in coma for four years, when she wakes up she begins her revenge. - The chapter three (The origin of O-Ren): The most novel part of this film, the bride tells us the most important events in the life of O-Ren Ishii, in anime animation. - The chapter four (The man from Okinawa): The bride goes to Okinawa for visit Hattori Hanzo and he gives one samurai sword. - The chapter five (Showdown at the house of blue leaves): The best part of film, the bride fights against the bodyguards, the Crazy 88s and O-Ren Ishii, using her sword.Undoubtedly, Kill Bill Vol. 1 is one best movies of all time for many reasons and is a film that all people should watch.
If there was one thing we knew about QT prior to Kill Bill it was that he was a perfectionist. If there was another, it was that he was a master of dialogue and character-driven film-making where his visual flourishes were expertly but subtly woven into the background of his films. Thus, when he decided to make his next feature a full-blown action film QT was not only entering new territory but was determined to show us that his mastery of the visual side to film-making was just as sharp as his mastery of the verbal side.One might have argued that he was already accomplished in this respect. After all, there were moments of technical mastery such as the tracking shots in Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction. He gave us an extraordinary example of how split-screen technology can be used to move a story forward in Jackie Brown. His use of the camera in frenetic scenes such as the 'Mr. Pink getaway' scene was as raw and effective as the best action directors and his limited interference with the camera in the majority of his dialogue-driven scenes were indicative of a very disciplined mind reminiscent of the greats such as Hitchcock, Kurosawa, Allen, and of course Kubrick. However, QT believed (and with some justification) that action films are, from a technical point of view, the most difficult films to make well. And if he was to prove his worth as a director he would have to make it is an action director.To say that QT was successful in his desire to cut it as an action director is an understatement of "gargantuan" proportions as Kill Bill is an action film that goes beyond any that came before it or have emerged since. Not content to toil in one of the many action sub-genres, QT bridges at least 4 genres from Spaghetti Western to Japanese Anime, seamlessly interweaving the different styles and pushing the boundaries of their conventions to the point that the viewer finds his/herself witnessing a broader yet unique and singular genre of QT's own creation. With each passing scene, QT squeezes, twists, and stretches traditional conventions to find new ways to lure the viewer into his frenetic world of pure vengeance.And this is precisely what makes KB such an extraordinary film-going experience. It is the profoundly imaginative manner in which he conceives of and executes the action scenes that is the most jaw-dropping aspect to this film. This film is built on a seemingly endless series of conceptual flourishes that usurp and assimilate traditional samurai, Kung-Fu, anime, and western genre conventions onto his unique and broader platform. Take for example the moment when the bride plucks the eye out of one her assailants, signaling the film's switch from colour to black and white. The act which becomes more significant to the story in Vol. 2, is a conceptual bridge to the traditional samurai sword-play film convention of filming bloody scenes in black and white so as to avoid censorship. It is with this convention that QT heralds the imminence of blood-shed, and if the eye-plucking is anything to go by, a lot of it.Of course, one mustn't limit one's review of KB to its technical innovation. It is after all a QT film and like all his films its fueled by his typical razor-sharp dialogue and dazzlingly original characters. This is of course yet another factor that raises it above your typical actioneer in that the time is taken to give each of the main characters a back-story and mutually contradicting layers. Naturally, QT's peerless casting plays a part here as he chooses actor after actors who inhabit these layered characters in ways that retrospectively speaking it would seem only they could.The gang of assassins on whom the Bride is wreaking her revenge are played by an unlikely ensemble of actors who each exude a unique brand of cool which is expertly tailored for a film of this nature. Populating the background of this story are an array of characters which together with the actors who play them (e.g., Gordon Lui, Michael Parks , Sonny Chiba, David Carradine) represent a knowing and sometimes audacious nod to the genres that KB is exploring.Central to the film's casting of course is Uma Thurman as both volumes of the film rest on her shoulders. Most important here I believe is that Thurman never once stops being a woman. I have found that one of the most consistently irritating features of heroine-centred films is the tendency for the woman to act like a typical male, specifically, macho hero. Nowhere in the course of this film is there a trace of this in her performance. Instead, we are given a rather interesting portrayal of a woman clinging to her revenge mission as though there was nothing else to live for. Throughout the film, she demonstrates an authentic anger, composure, emotion, and cunning that is distinctly feminine.However, the real star of this film is QT. Ultimately, KB is a reflection of an intuition for film-making that goes beyond special. As the film progressed, I found myself repeatedly re-evaluating a director who I had already considered one of the greats and each time elevating his position in that hierarchy. I almost regretted that KB was 'nothing more' than an action film as films of that genre are often looked down on in acts of ignorant film-snobbery. However, like QT argues, great action films are not easy to make. They involve the choreography of words, sound, and physical movement into a unified whole. KB is a testament to this ideal and as a result it is a memorising piece of film-making that in terms of technical and conceptual innovation is matched only by 2001: A Space Odyssey and Citizen Kane. Seriously!


                
This movie was intense, creative, unique, not to mention BRILLIANT and all around simply hardcore! Never in my life have i found myself so excited about a movie after leaving the theater. Never in my life have i found myself telling everyone i came in contact with to see this film. And never in my life have i found myself anticipating any sequel this badly.I don't want to ruin or spoil it for anyone, but it's true you have to have a strong stomach to handle it. It's definitely not a film for everyone. But if you can stomach it...you will be amazed by it. I give mad props to Quentin Tarantino. This film is like nothing i've ever seen before. That man is nothing short of genius!


                
The day I saw "Kill Bill: Vol. 1" was the first time I've ever seriously contemplated staying at the theater and seeing it again right afterwards. That's because it is literally so stuffed with cool stuff that it was hard to mentally process it all. I remember that at one point near the end, I was literally trembling with anticipation of what was about to happen.
Quentin Tarantino (writer and director of 3 great movies, "Pulp Fiction", "Jackie Brown", and "Reservoir Dogs") returns after a 6 year absence and if you need any proof that he's still got the magic touch, this is it.
Unlike his other films, which were all witty, tough-talking crime dramas, "Kill Bill" is a martial arts movie. The ultimate martial arts movie.
Uma Thurman plays The Bride (her real name is kept a mystery, and is humorously bleeped whenever anyone says it), a former assassin who is beaten and shot and left for dead on her wedding day by her old crew. She wakes up out of a coma 4 years later, escapes from the hospital and sets out on a mission of revenge against them, and especially against their leader, and her former lover, Bill (David Carradine). That story is pretty old, but a good martial arts movie doesn't need any more. I simply can't describe how good this movie is. I haven't been this involved in a movie, from scene-to-scene, moment-to-moment since, well, "Pulp Fiction". The two films are very different, but both have the same shifting time-line structure, bad-ass attitude and utterly brilliant soundtrack.
Speaking of that soundtrack, I don't think I've ever seen a movie with so many moments that are a PERFECT match between picture and sound.
The performances are, across the board, perfect. Everyone (including Vivica A. Fox, Lucy Liu and Daryl Hannah as her enemies) is completely convincing, but obviously, this is Uma's show. Her character is one of the best in the history of kick-ass, vengeance-seeking good guys. Every smile, cold stare, punch, kick, and tear running down her face you feel all the way down to your soul. Yes sir, QT's still got the touch. Not only is it the best of the year, it's the most invigorating, soul-stirring, heartbreaking, exciting, awe-inspiring FUN time I've had in a theater in many a moon. As most people know, "Kill Bill" was originally intended to be one movie, but was nearly four hours long and was cut into two "volumes". This was the right decision, because 4 hours of this and my head might have exploded. Plus, believe me when I say that where it ends truly leaves you chomping at the bit for "Vol. 2".


                
OK, we all should know by now that Quentin Tarantino has a special affinity for blowing people's minds. In "Kill Bill: Vol. 1", he goes all out (and continued it in "Vol. 2"). Featuring Uma Thurman as a woman out to get the people who tried to kill her, this is definitely not a movie for the squeamish. Especially with that scene in the restaurant.Why make such a movie? DON'T ASK STUPID QUESTIONS!!!!!!! The point here is to have everything come together to form one giant mass of ass-kicking. And you'd better believe that everyone does just that, in a perfect homage to almost every martial arts movie in history. This is what movies with giant casts should be. Fantastic.


                
I saw this movie once (borrowed from a friend) and thought it was good, and yes I had heard all the Quentin Tarantino hype. I felt that I was't content by only watching it once so I watched it again. Now I began to think it was an incredible movie. Soon I bought the QT collection and now I have seen the movie two more times, and I will soon watch it again. Then you might wonder what's so special about it, perhaps even after you've seen it? Well for me it's the special feeling of Hong-Kong nostalgia mixed with perhaps the best soundtrack I've ever heard (the ending sequence with the pan flute music beats everything made up to date), hell I even bought the soundtracks of both movies, and I have never bought a soundtrack before. Be careful though if you don't like blood very much because there is A LOT. Yes I think that just because it's a hyped Tarantino movie it makes it even better I admit that, it gives it like an aura making it even better. Anyway I sum up the movie as being a philosophical gory journey through music perfection and a hail to all movie making. 10++ /JonDan


                
I saw Kill Bill Volume One recently, and was amazed at the skill of not only the actors, Uma and Lucy's sword fight rocks, but of the supporting cast. There were moments where my stomach turned, but I like that sort of reaction in some films. I did find the anime portion of the film, telling the story of Oshi's parents' murders, slightly unnerving but, my interpretation of that because perhaps having real child of that age put in that position would really freak that child out...but that's just me. I really liked the fight "The Bride" had with Oshi. The director must have really enjoyed making this film, and i hope more come soon.


                
Now this is A masterpiece.Very well directed by my favourite Director,Quentin Tarantino.And this movie is just amazing I can't describe it.Well first off let me say that just about anyone can enjoy it.Because there are three main types of movie fans1.There are the people who only care about very very violent and gory movies.If a movie is extremely violent but has a awful story,awful ending,awful actors they still would love the movie.2.There is the person who would judge the movie about amount of violence AND the storyline meaning if it was a love story he would hate it.3.There is the stern critic who doesn't care about if it is action or horror or romance but judges everything about it.Well Kill Bill fits all three tastes it is extremely violent,has a very cheesy but somehow amazing storyline the whole thing was amazing I definitely recommend it.
