***MILD SPOILERS***What a dissappointment, especially after the awesome trailer.  I had several problems with this film:1)  I didn't care about any of the characters.  There was no introduction to any of them (apart from the super-violent anime section introducing Lucy Liu), so I did not understand or care about their  motivation.  Why was any of this happening?2)  It lacked the dark humour of Tarantino's earlier films, especially in terms of the sparkling character dialogue (e.g. Samuel L Jackson & John Travolta in Pulp Fiction), of which there was none.  The dark moments (e.g. the rapist hospital worker) were humour free and quite sickening.3)  Swapping the timelines around is an old Tarantino trick that worked brilliantly in Pulp Fiction, but added nothing to this movie except you knew the ending about 5 minutes into the film.4)  I got bored.  The final battle lasts forever and becomes dull after the first few people get their limbs removed.  The scenes where Uma Thurman convinces Sonny Chiba to make her a sword add nothing but minutes to the movie.Why wasn't it edited down and made into a single, complete, BETTER movie? So dissappointed.
We have been waiting many years for this new Tarantino movie. It was better waiting more and get something else. How people could rate this mess 8.5? Unbelieveble. This movie seems a chinese movie from 35 years ago which has been remade using famous occidental actors. The plot is pretty cheap, banal and simple. The movie is monotonous and also a little beat boring. Based just on some sword duel (all identical) and that's it. It is not spectacular, too few crowd in the movie, nothing is new. The real vote for this movie should be 1 but, as other many times, the director of the cinematography helps the director to raise some vote more using nice games of colors and giving a nice look to a real useless filmband. I'll don't see for sure the next one (Kill Bill chapter 2). I already know that, after killing, in this one, 3 of her 5 ennemies, Mamba will kill the other 2 in the next one. Just one difference: the duel between Mamba an Bill will be longer. For that reason she killed 3 people in the first movie and just 2 in the second one. If you wanna waste 9$ and be scammed from this fake 8.5 go and gape.


                
Quentin Tarantino has made some great movies, most of which are highly over rated. So this fits the bill perfectly, ho ho ho. Virtually every scene has the usual cheese soaked dialogue, the macho one liners, the stereotypical characters; including my favourite - the Japanese school girl assassin! Oh the sheer mundane, cheesy crap of it makes me want to hurl. I'm really not sure what Tarantino was on when he made this but it surely must have been hallucinogenic and must have caused brain damage. This movie sucked. The absolutely comic amount of severed limbs, heads and fountains of blood were like something out of a bad B movie horror from the mid 80s. Virtually every character has been lifted, no scratch that, STOLEN from anime movies. It's like a bad kung fu movie - oh wait it IS a bad kung fu movie.Do not watch this, it is a waste of your time. If you want to see a good Tarrantino movie do not look to this one, if you want to see a good anime movie do not go here, if you want to see a decent kung fu movie simply watch a Bruce Lee movie - since most of the ideas were blatantly taken from these things anyway.Now onto the 'quirky' direction in Kill Bill. First off - anime mixed in with real actors is not a new idea so that's one more idea that QT robbed. Then we get the oh so original 'black and white' moment where an entire fight scene, one which contained so many fountains of blood they should have been swimming at the end, suddenly losses colour then for no apparent reason comes back? I mean really Mr Tarantino what was the point? You used to make decent movies but frankly I think in this one you were just seeing how many dumb ideas you could put into a movie without people noticing. Do yourself a favour QT and go back to the drawing board. Mr Tarantino has proved himself far, far better than this and frankly it is a waste of a perfectly good budget to produce something this awful.So why did I give it a 3 and not a 0? Well there were a few good moments, the plot was relatively interesting, the soundtrack went from great to annoying and, lets face it, you've got to give it a couple of points simply for the sheer amount of blood and violence for no reason other than the director had got a load of fake blood on the cheap.If you like this movie you need your head examining since it is by far the worst movie I have seen all year.
Fade in<U+0085>Clankity clank, bang, bang, bang, swear, clank, ping, swear, twirl, swizzle, swear, pan in slow motion, clank, clank, clankity clank, clang, bang, frown, swear, bang, bang, BOOM! (Funky music with opening credits) Clankity clank, bang, bang, bang, swear, clank, ping, swear, twirl, swizzle, swear, pan in slow motion, clank, clank, clankity clank, clang, bang, frown, swear, bang, bang, BOOM, swear, swear, stare moodily into the distance, clang, band BOOM! Repeat<U+0085> repeat<U+0085> repeat<U+0085> repeat<U+0085> Fade out.And that, ladies and gentlemen, is it. To say that the Kill Bill lacks depth is a bit like saying that dogs lack table manners or the primordial swamp lacks a good opera company. To say that it's a bit tasteless and tacky is a bit like saying Californians need to sit voting exams.I fear Kill Bill proves only two things. Never assume that just because a man has made three great films he is not capable of something as crass as this. Secondly, never, ever listen to Uma Thurman when she says she has a great idea for a film. 3/10


                
Once again, Tarantino gives us a film that's all style, little substance, and no originality. Maybe my expectations were too high, having grown up watching Shaw Brothers films, Japanese chambaras, Jack Hill films, and other grindhouse fare back in the 70's, followed by a steady stream of great HK imports in Chinatown theatres in the '80's and '90's. KILL BILL offers nothing that wasn't done better in Japanese film series like SLEEPY EYES OF DEATH, SON OF BLACK MASS, or LADY SNOWBLOOD. This film breaks no new ground or nor does it come close to the shocks and thrills of a true grindhouse classic. It's a wanna-be film for people who'd p*** their pants if they were even near a real grindhouse theatre.


                
It's certainly arousing to see a woman in a skintight motorsuit get smeared in sweat and blood and guts for hours on end and Tarantino certainly revels in the humiliation of his muse.The camera dwells with relish on her bruised and bloodied face as she pleads with Bill to spare her life, before she gets shot in the head. We share an intimate appraisal of Uma's potential as a comatose sex object. We partake in every painful fumble when Uma, her legs paralyzed and her nightgown drenched in blood, drags herself to safety.And it goes on and on and on: she gets buried alive, beats her fists into a bloody pulp trying to escape, then, covered in dirt, staggers across the road: a horrible mess of a woman, a mindless zombie. Funny, to be sure. But also something else.All throughout both films she gets shot, stabbed, slashed and thrown across rooms with such remarkable gusto, and she slams into walls and furniture with such satisfying thuds, that you start to wonder how the hell you're supposed to maintain an attitude of ironic detachment and cool appreciation of Tarantino's kitschy aesthetic.Underneath the stunning visuals, the beautiful choreography, and clever references, is the rousing lure of sadism and brutality. If only Tarantino would be honest about it, instead of coming up with a paper-thin "strong woman" motif to justify his indulgence."Kill Bill" is thrilling and pretty, but also dishonest and demeaning.


                
I can't understand the brilliant and positive critics all around this movie. Has anyone seen the Asian action movies which Tarantion want to honour? Or is everybody thinking that one can't give an bad review to a film that has been directed by someone who has created so well received cult movies as "Reservoir dogs" or "Pulp Fiction" or who has been involved in "From dusk 'til dawn"? Well, I think that the whole story of this film is just very superficial (simple story of vengeance), has many lacks of logic (as the main actress escapes from the hospital after having been in a coma)and is mostly focused on some gore effects and exaggerated fight scenes without any Asian elegance or philosophy (the almost endless fight scene around the fountain of blood). Sometimes, I think that an aggressive teenager who likes some gore and splatter horror movies and some fight movies in the key of Arnold Schwarzenegger or Jean-Claude van Damme rather that Ti Lung or David Chiang had the idea of such a movie, but not a adult who knows the whole genre and has an IQ of 160.To really evaluate this film you might have seen the original Asian movies that inspired Quentin Tarantino. This kind of filming was an art for itself, while "Kill Bill" is just a superficial gore movie with a lot of dead people, fight scenes and wanna-be cool dialogues.Give those Asian films a chance and forget about this silly opera of violence from a director who has done a few nice movies in the past and lives from its reputation...


                
Prefacing this with the comment that I am not particularly a Tarentino fan and do not find brilliance or genius in his movies should help you decide if the review will be of any value. I have appreciated (as opposed to enjoyed) a few of his films. This is not one of them.For the budget and era, this film is very disappointing. Once again Tarentino focuses on the shock value of over the top violence and profanity to rewrite what is essentially the Charlie's Angles plot.Eyecandy toys and action in a film can be nice but do not compensate for the essentially shallow and clichéd plot which left me dosing off about half way through.In comparison to other films by this director this one lacks any additional elements such as irony, surrealism, or comedy. Definitely not a repeat viewer.


                
I hope this is not considered a spoiler (I'm new to this and can not find a definition of spoiler that refers to this specifically) because I truly wish someone had told the public, namely me, that Kill Bill was only half of a movie which we would be required to pay full price for. It is a cheap trick to play on the public, only this movie wasn't good enough to bring me back to see the second half, misnamed a "sequel", plus I wasn't going to be burned again by yet another installment lacking a finish.I found Kill Bill to have an unintentionally campy atmosphere without the humor, and sadly with adolescent dialogue reminiscent of someone who's ingested too much porn only without the sex. Pretty cheesy fare.Amid a bevy of clownishly wooden characters trying too hard, Michael Madsen's Budd, is genuinely at ease with his real self. This actor has been continually over-looked by a Hollywood which continues to suck up to the popular kids at it's own high-schoolness.Upon further research I realized Quentin Tarantino lacked a common denominator apparent in his earlier and better movies, Reservoir Dogs and Pulp Fiction ---- namely Roger Avary who co-wrote them. Avery's own Killing Zoe, circa 1994 is testament to his brilliance, while Tarantino's own Kill Bill is sadly telling.As my 11 year old puts it, "it's one of those movies that you see, you go 'wow' a couple of times, you go 'that's really stupid a bunch of times' and then you quickly forget about it after seeing it."


                
Quentin Tarantino is brilliant in his use of animation, B&W and memory scenes but in spite of all that this film still misses on all levels of being a quality film.  Three times I fell asleep trying to watch this film but boring rehashed fight scenes labeled as a movie kept me from making the credits.  I wished this film was more than a cheap 70's karate film knock-off but that is at best it's most endearing quality.  If you feel insulted by my comments I am truly sorry as I am aware that many of the films I love are not appreciated by all.  Hopefully the second or third installment will help the story development and I can find something to enjoy.


                
This was a letdown.  I wasn't expecting Pulp Fiction, but I was expecting more than what I got out of this movie.  The movie just dragged on and on. It seems like it was all buildup to vol 2.  My question is why bother with two movies.  Seems likie he could just put everything into one film.  Total letdown.


                
I really cannot understand why films like "Kill Bill" which are based on so much blood and gore are so popular... "Kill Bill" in particular, is 90% ugly scenes and 10% anything else. What is exactly interesting or artful in watching a comatose girl being raped, and then seeing her bite the tongue out of her rapist's mouth?In order to be fair, I must accept that the direction of the film is good. But what difference does this make, when the film in itself is completely unwatchable? I don't object to bloody scenes being shown in a film, provided that they serve some purpose in the plot, and they do not constitute the film's purpose instead (as it happens here).In brief, I find Tarantino completely overrated; what's more, in this film he goes way too low even by his standards. If "Kill Bill" wasn't directed by him, and no stars appeared in it, it would be a typical B-movie. Needless to say, I won't even think about watching Vol. 2. Verdict: 3/10.


                
Kill Bill is about a woman seeking revenge against a group of assassins who violently murder everyone at her wedding, which she herself only just manages to survive. That's it. Beyond that simple sentence lie no finer nuances or greater subplots in this contextually simplistic yarn. We know next to nothing about 'The Bride' (with her real name beeped out for no apparent reason, because that would be just too much information), her own history, why her wedding party was targeted or who the mysterious 'Bill' is. Now admittedly this is the opening of a two parter film, but even so, to completely strip away the context in which the Bride carries out her actions leaves the film and its central character cold and devoid of any real emotional attachment. It's a bit like finishing the Fellowship of the Ring with no idea why Frodo and Sam are heading for Mt. Doom, how they began their journey or who they even are - only that they've got a list of enemies they have to dispatch along the way.At around an hour and 45 minutes, there's certainly no shortage of time in which this could have been achieved (or even the whole affair concluded in full). Instead Tarantino opts for long and drawn-out fighting scenes in which arms, legs and all manner of body parts are chopped off in quick succession. Whilst these scenes are staged with precision and considerable skill, there is no sense of urgency or any question as to what the final outcome will be; we know the Bride will walk away victorious, her 'revenge' partially accomplished, but that isn't enough to carry a film alone.And so, we descend into a Tarantino-esque swamp of film references and homages, weaving a world which is completely unbelievable, but so self-serious it prevents you from enjoying it as a light-hearted adventure. After the film moves over to Japan, we enter a realm in which an army of crime minions lack guns and are defeated by a single individual, people carry swords openly on planes, and teenagers act as highly trained bodyguards to senior crime bosses. Whilst there's nothing wrong with creating this kind of fictitious universe, it is highly jarring after the environmental realism which characterises the American portion of the movie, and leaves you feeling like Tarantino is simply treating Japan as a semi-mythical fantasy land where he can indulge his love of mindless violence.But when all the fighting is over, and the film draws to a close with a half-hearted attempt at a cliff-hanger, I felt as if I had travelled nowhere, felt nothing and ultimately seen nothing. The few precious moments in which blood isn't gushing out are spent in pointless and prolonged conversations about nothing, an interlude before the film can get back to more scenes of raw violence. I know this film is based around the theme of revenge, an irrational feeling if there ever was one, but that should be no excuse to create cardboard cut-out characters acting out a movie with no greater plot other than to kill each and every person who stands in your way.
Don't get me wrong I love 'Pulp Fiction'. But this one I even couldn't make myself to watch to the end. I'm sure this movie will make headlines, but I will not recommend it to my friends to watch. I didn't hear any new good original music selection in the movie either. Sorry, but I don't understand how come this movie is rated so high. Example O Brother, Where Art Thou? rating is lower. Maybe imdb need to do something about how rating is calculated... Or maybe it is just tasteless me...


                
Tarantino will give us a chapter2? I also wanna do that but just to add some comment about what other people wrote about this movie. 1)Scirceo from San Antonio wrote:'I saw this movie on Friday, Saturday, and may go again today.' 10 out of 10 I can't believe it. People come back watching a movie several time when the plot is complicate (this is enough easy also for dumb or  impaired people but here we get a very simple plot with almost no dialog. 2)Ronin 47 from Sacramento wrote `In a nutshell, the best movie I've seen in 5 years (****) `. This is the funniest bul.... I have heard in 5 years. I wanna just list some movie from the last 5 years. American History X (1998) -  Saving Private Ryan (1998) - Truman Show, The (1998)- American Beauty (1999)- Fight Club (1999)- Matrix, The (1999)- Sleepy Hollow (1999)- Gladiator (2000)- Mission: Impossible II (2000)- Pitch Black (2000)- Fast and the Furious, The (2001)-Monsters, Inc. (2001)- Shrek (2001)- Spy Kids (2001)- Swordfish (2001)- And may others (Even the deludental Lara Croft or Charlie's Angels are any way much better than Kill Bill Zeeman from Saint John wrote:"Tarantino is a genius... another masterpiece" How this user can say that? The plot is as simple as a 3rd world movie and the duels seem slow and banal after what we saw in The Matrix or Crouching Tiger. I guess that all those people have been to the movie theatre very rarely in the last 5 years. This movie is just an empty stupid movie based on some blood splashing and some visual effects which make `Blade' a visual masterpiece in the confrontation. (Apologising for my bad english I suggest : `Don't let the advertising push you to waste your time and money'


                
I rated this a 3 only because it's better than "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon", which earned a 1. As with CTHD, I never saw this in a theater and resisted the temptation to get the DVD. I finally did see it on cable when there was nothing else on worth watching. Unlike CTHD, the trailer didn't immediately turn me off. Unlike with CTHD, Tarantino was wise enough in his trailer not to show the sequences which defied all logic, physics, anatomy, and medical science - and of course he couldn't show the gore.This film plays not only to a contemporary audience's ignorance, but also its desensitization to graphic violence. It's a gore fest from beginning to the end. It counts on the fact that a highly-stylized adrenalin rush can overcome any residual horror at the carnage depicted. The audience is further conditioned to accept gruesome deaths as something cool to watch. Anyone who watches this film and feels excited rather than disturbed could benefit from a but more introspection.Tarantino is also obviously a more talented director than the makers of CTHD. The best part of the film is an Anime flashback sequence. That makes sense since the whole film is live action Anime. But then, the same criticisms can be leveled against Anime as this film.That films like this can be as successful as they have, speaks volumes about our society.


                
OK, I have seen some good reviews about this film but I just don't get it! . It's the most over-hyped film ever. It's a totally rip off of old martial art films. I love drunken master, snake in eagles shadow etc but this is crap. I know it's meant to be a kind of tribute to them old films but it just isn't any good. I've seen all this before but that was when I was 10 years old not 21! Just because it's a female playing the lead character doesn't make it original. The more I think about this movie the more I dislike it!No plot spoilers here just an honest opinion. For those who don't watch anything apart from mainstream films, I could see how this could seem exciting and new but for those who have seen more, you will know this is pants. Shame because I like QT films generally.


                
It might be a really good movie to the martial arts fans, but I have to say this is the worst piece of s***t I have seen in ages, I can't believe I read a review involving the lord of the rings, TLOTR cant even be compared to this, honestly I don't know how anybody found this appealing.And to top it off, they made a second one, is like watching Charlies angels all over again, crap, with bad acting - awful storyline and well is basically like watching one of those Chinese fake a*s movies, where the main fights 1000000 opponents and wins, Honestly Quentin get real, leave that kind of stuff for the Asians and stick to some western stuff.To conclude, yes i did not like the movie and I am a movie maniac, I rarely say a movie is bad but come on, in this case I had too, I have to say compared to Atlantic rim well I would give that a -200 stars and I gave this movie a 3 star rating, rather kind of me, well that's all peace fellas.


                
I don't really understand the point of this movie. You can say all you want about slick film-making style and post-modern commentary on exploitation films of the 70's, but it still doesn't disguise that this film has not one ounce of originality.It doesn't comment on the movies it parodies in any significant way, it just sort of copies them in an exaggerated fashion. Imagine, if you will, taking Leatherface, from The Texas Chainsaw Massacre, making him ten feet tall. Now imagine that every time he touches something with his chainsaw, gallons of blood spurt out. And instead of four or five kids, there are twenty. Kill Bill is kind of like this. It's action scenes aren't funny, or exciting, or insightful. They are just over the top. At no time did I ever think "Wow, that was cool!" Occasionally, we get an interesting plot deviation and this is where the movie usually picks up for a bit, but then, unfortunately, it never follows up and we get back into the revenge plot. This plot just leads from one lifeless action scene to the next.Now, one thing I hate is a martial arts movie with poor martial arts. This isn't the worst that I have ever seen, but it's pretty uninspiring. I don't know what kind of background Uma Thurman has, but she generally looks lost in the fights. Instead of a exciting, kinetic experience, it looks as if you are watching the half speed rehearsals.Even Tarantino's famed dialogue fails here. There are very good moments (mostly in Kill Bill 2), but mostly it falls flat because it is constrained by what he is trying to do. The revenge plot dialogue is just too cheesy, and once again, not in a good way. It just seems stilted and uninteresting. Eye-rollingly bad at points. Especially the "Silly Rabbit" line during Lucy Lui's fight scene.One thing you can't argue with, however, is the technique. This film is a masterwork of lighting and camera work. Set design, costuming, and sound design are all top notch. Really good choice in color. This film is great to watch with the sound turned off just to study the picture.I would suggest that people watch this movie at least once, just because it is in the popular culture. But don't expect Pulp Fiction. It's more like the Fourth Room, without Tim Roth.


                
Ok well i went to see this movie the day after it came out. im sorry to say it was one of the worst movies since the master of disguise. im sorry but the only thing worse then computer generated fight scenes are unrealistic ones. the fight seen in which she comes for Lucy Lui and had to battle her "entourage" made me want to walk out. it was one of the worst fight scenes i had seen since the matrix reloaded. now the blood i also found incredibly stupid. when u stab sumone u dont bleed like that nor is it cool to make sumone appear to bleed that way. Now the fight seen with Vivica was very good up until the part where she shot out of the cereal box. Uma was so dead it wasnt even funny, then she magically pulls a knife out of nowhere and kills her right as her daughter walks in. But through all of this i could have lived, but the part of the movie that made me want to throw my extra large bucket of popcorn at the screen was the scene in the "pussy wagon" in which she insisted on "moving her big toe." now i dont care who you are u cannot go from a coma to a fully functional body in a day much less a few hours. Now for my respect of Quentin I' going to lay off the idiotic idea of adding the rape scene in. All comments aside the fight scene with her and Lucy was one of my favorites ever. the head being chopped off was in no way to much. Quentin i feel ya on wanting to "branch out" but u went a little too extreme on this one.


                
maybe I don't get it, but this film doesn't work. I love Hong Kong/John Wu/Kung-Fu etc etc movies, but this is too daft, too over the top, too boring. I sat and sat waiting to find what the 32,000 people saw, who have voted it into the top 100 on IMDB. I am still waiting.I think its the hype, it rolled over the world laing it on several feet thick. People saw it and thought it must be good... . But, it isn't, it really really isn't.It sits in the same trough as Magnolia (utter tripe!) and Godfather pt3 (directionless, uninvolving tripe..but tripe none the less!) where people seem to believe it is good, because it should be good, (and all their friends spout "its good" so they don't seem to be the only stupid one.)
The Emperors New Clothes obviously still lives on!


                
while watching this movie, I was really tempted to stop it, and return the DVD. You see, my ex-wife pushed it into my hands, telling me how great that movie was. I didn't want to watch it because I knew it was very violent. Well, I should have stuck to my original decision.Violence is presented as an art form in this movie. As if seeing fountains of blood spurting out of people's bodies was a beautiful sight... Sigh, it seems to me that we are back to the roman times with people cheering as the martyrs were being fed to the lions.So what of the cinematographic skills of Tarantino? Well, yes, I too detected some reuse of master's techniques. I heard the spaghetti western music and saw its very very close-up shots. I got the De Palma's split screen, and the Carrie scene all covered with blood. Even the big fight scene had been done before in one of the Zatoichi's movies. And there were a few others too, but really, what's the point of going on and on? On one hand, we have a pretty simple plot (I am not going to go over that here, others have done it very well) and on the other a director with a vision made up of the great masters ideas. OK, Tarantino does know how to direct a movie, and some of his use of the great masters influence is acceptable, but... here I thought it was just too much. Combined with an overly simple story and an excessive level of violence, his overuse of others grand ideas becomes just that, a succession of tricks. As far as I am concerned, violence and cinematographic tricks are just no substitute for a good story, no matter how many of them you mix into the pot.


                
Quentin Tarantino has not done himself any favors with the presentation of Kill Bill. Some have lauded this film as an example of Tarantino's established expertise. I felt that exactly the opposite was true.While Pulp Fiction still has the ability to elicit feelings of appreciation for its fresh, new approaches after many viewings, Kill Bill left me with the impression that I had already seen more of it than I would have liked to.There are some plot holes that are weakly patched, and some scenes that were apparently intended to be eye-popping bloodbaths of combat with Samurai swords. There is even a Japanese Anime portion inserted unexpectedly into the movie, which is interesting in its own right, but seems to draw the viewer out of the film rather than more deeply into its plot.At one point, possibly as an apology for the blatant (almost funny in its exaggeration) bloodbath, Tarantino switches from color to a black and white format. While the switch to b/w, as well as the change to Anime, might be considered examples of Tarantino's brilliant, renegade movie-making style, here they come off as weak props, manipulating the viewer's commitment in an effort to keep us watching a little longer.I did stay with the film to the end. I also followed it with a viewing of Kill Bill 2. My impression did not change much over the course of the entire viewing.Kill Bill is an attempt to make a Clint Eastwood Spaghetti Western, with the fragile-looking Uma Thurman as the macho protagonist. Uma does look striking in her leathers, and carries off the performance with style. But she is not convincing as a fighter, no matter how strong and sharp her steel blade might be. The believability factor is stretched so thin at one point, Uma takes on a large group of trained fighters all at once, and of course, whips them like so many playthings. They spew a lot of blood, and die spectacularly. So what.I will probably enjoy Pulp Fiction many more times. I won't be watching any more Kill Bill.


                
Why is everyone ecstatic about this B karate/gore movie? I have tried to watch it several times and I have never been able to watch more than 20 minutes of it each time. No dialogs, a cigarette thin plot, gratuitous B violence, pompous artsy fartsy camera angles completely meaningless... Well, they actually serve a purpose for the director who keeps reminding the audience: "look guys where I put the camera, I'm a genius, see, admire me!". As a matter of fact if it wasn't for the weird camera angles this would be a pretty plain bad film instead of a pompous bad film. Filming dialog from the top of a tree or from underneath the soles of the actors' shoes is nothing to get excited about. This is not what cinema is about. This is advertising making. This is a film for brainwashed TV addicts who confuse ad making and film making. A very depressing film experience, I refuse to endorse just because so many ignorants got thrilled by it, just because they have never seen anything worthy before. Another pathetic Miramax contribution to the history of cinema. The Weinstein Brothers are the kings of marketing. Thank God history won't remember the Weinstein Brothers.


                
If you love anything by Tarantino, you'll probably like this. If you disliked Jackie Brown, you'll be disappointed by this, too. When the QT is good, he's brilliant. But he's far from good in "Kill Bill."Unlike "Pulp Fiction," the violence here is mostly gratuitous. Unlike the artful use of cliches in "Reservoir Dogs," the cliches here are just cliches. As in "Jackie Brown," the acting is horribly inconsistent. Uma Thurman is great trying to get up out of her hospital bed and flirting with a sushi chef, but she falls down playing the heavy.There are a number of excellent scenes: Black Mamba battling a cast of thousands, a handicapped Black Mamba versus a nightmare of a hospital guard, Black Mamba mano a mano against Copperhead...but there's the rub. The battles are fun, captivating, and (sometimes) as artistic as anything in "Hidden Dragon..." or Jackie Chan's best, but there isn't really anything to sustain the tension between scenes."Bill" is just a cliched bad guy, shown only in below-the-neck profiles, rubbing his scabbard. And QT fails to draw the other gang members with any more detail. There's a long narrative scene about O-Ren Ishii's (Lucy Liu's) rise to power--but it's just a narrative, as dull and dry as listening to someone read from the Congressional Record --and with as little to do with the rest of the film, too.And that's the next problem: there are five or ten different directorial styles in the film and there's nothing tying them together. It plays like a series of movie shorts on the same topic (violence in gangster/samurai films) narrated by the same person. I'm convinced the only reason the O-Ren scene remains in the movie was that QT wanted to try his hand at anime. It doesn't appear to have its own place in the movie.Like Wagner's Operas, "Kill Bill" has some great moments and lousy half-hours. Unlike Wagner, I'm not inclined to return after the intermission to see "Kill Bill: Vol. 2."


                
