I thought it was a great film. The fight scenes and over dramatisation that are charictaistic of Quinton tarintino were done as always to a T. The characters and story making were also good as was the way they interacted ( the dialog). All that I felt brought the film down was the Music which didn't fit well in scenes and rewind the mood a great deal.


                
Kill Bill: Vol. 1 (2003) is a unique film. I've never seen anything quite like it. My commentary for this film is almost all positive. First off, the cast really blew me away, each and every actor did a great job with their respective roles. Uma Thurman is a terrific actress and she was definitely the right choice to play the lead character. Thurman commands this role and you are transfixed by her in every scene she's in. It's not just the action sequences that she is great in, she's just perfect for the role all around. And it wasn't just her that I loved, I also liked Vivica A. Fox, Daryl Hannah, and Lucy Lui. They all showed off their acting chops here, especially Fox, I personally loved her short time she's in the film. The writing is well done, I especially enjoyed Thurman's dialogue, the well written dialogue and the impressive way that she delivers that dialogue all comes together to make something great. I think most movie goers will enjoy this acclaimed movie, as long as they're not too conservative that is. I say that because the violence is truly graphic and very bloody, but in a strange way it kinda works for this one. I'm usually not a big fan of that, but here it works. Good job Tarantino! 8/10.


                
First of all, I'm a huge Tarantino fan. I've got a gigantic 6 foot poster of my favorite movie, Reservoir Dogs, hanging in my room. So I was extremely excited before seeing Kill Bill. But ten minutes into it I felt like crying. This movie has none of the great things in it that made Reservoir Dogs, Pulp Fiction, or Jackie Brown great. It is just Tarantino showing off while trying to make some money. And if you think I'm wrong, just think about it. He split this movie into two just so we would have to pay twice to see one movie. And his excuse was that we "aren't ready for a three hour long kill bill". WTF is he talking about.I'm going to give this a 1 vote to bring down the average since Kill Bill doesn't belong anywhere near the top 250. (only there because Tarantino's name is stamped on it). So I would really give this a 4/10 if it wasn't by Tarantino.


                
Quentin Tarantino's fourth feature film, "Kill Bill," is a rollicking rampage of revenge. Fast, brutal, and stylish, the film reunites some of QT's favorite elements from well-known Asian martial arts films with an American twist. But have no fear, people of Japan--Quentin pays true respect to the classics of the genre, and the individuals who made them. He takes what most audiences are unfamiliar with and presents the varying shreds of material as a splendid mainstream whole (even down to segments of anime).
Sure, we have had to wait for another installment because of fat cat Harvey Weinstein, who was after the big bucks when he suggested the film be split into two separate "volumes," but I think I actually prefer "Kill Bill" as two pieces. It just builds up the public appreciation for the film and provides us with a good catcher, and a hanging end. The matinee serials that "Indiana Jones" paid homage to used to do the same thing--I see no true problem with it. (Although I don't feel that having to pay for extra tickets to see the rest of the movie is a move made without marketing behind it.)It's been a long six years since "Jackie Brown," and for Quentin, it's all been spent on trying to make this movie get made. His breakthrough was with 1992's "Reservoir Dogs," one of the greatest films of all time, and his 1994 modern-day masterpiece "Pulp Fiction" truly named him one of the best directors of this generation. (He has proved he can also act, too, in some of these films.)"Jackie Brown," a very good movie (but admittedly not a great one), disappointed many of Quentin's fans, and so he has spent all of this time since that feature film trying to bring "Kill Bill" to the screen (an idea that originated during filming of "Pulp Fiction," when he created the film's tagline almost ten years ahead of schedule).What he does with "Kill Bill" separates him from being another one-hit-wonder director. "Kill Bill" isn't as realistic or perhaps even as meaningful as his other films, but it's a masterpiece in its own right, filled with excessive bloody violence and revenge fantasies that come true. We all wish for a bit of revenge now and again. Some of us get it, and some of us don't.The Bride (Uma Thurman) decides that she wants to get even with the people who tried to assassinate her four years ago, and she'll stop at nothing until she does. The Bride (whose real name we never firmly grasp) was massacred by the Deadly Viper Assassination Squad (Michael Madsen, Lucy Liu, Vivica A. Fox, Daryl Hannah) at the altar four years ago. Bill (David Carradine) was behind it all ("You find me sadistic, don't you?"). But four years pass and The Bride wakes up from a long, deep comatose. Some of her first thoughts?"They killed nine people. They should have killed ten."There's not much you can say about a movie like "Kill Bill" without giving away important plot points or funny moments. Much of the film relies upon Uma Thurman to keep it afloat, and she impressed me very much with this movie. Some of her one-liners and deadpan expressions will go down in cinema history as some of the best--and funniest. ("Your name's Buck, and you're here to--")Tarantino has stuffed "Kill Bill" full of martial arts references. Tarantino (who used to work at a video store before he directed "Reservoir Dogs") is a huge fan of movies, and he's admitted to watching (on average) two or three a day. He's a film buff's director, a guy who actually knows something about film. Even The Bride's outfit she wears throughout much of the movie is that in Bruce Lee's final movie.It's a disgrace that those Hobbits received Oscars over "Kill Bill," a much more exciting, involving, and relatable movie. I'm sorry, but although I found "The Lord of the Rings" well made, it was also a large knock-off of other films from the genre, and I think Jackson tried to bring too much depth to a story that simply has very little. I can't relate to Hobbits and wizards on magical quests. We can all relate to revenge. And I'm going to get a lot of nasty letters for saying that.But Tarantino has delivered a truly original film, and one that should have been nominated for (among others) Best Original Screenplay, Best Picture, Best Actress, and Best Director. I'm sorry, but it's true, because this is a finer and more original film than any of the "Lord of the Rings" installment, despite how much of an impact they have had.This shouldn't turn into a rant, which is why I am going to end my review by saying that "Kill Bill" is a film unlike anything I have ever seen. Yep, it's pretty strange, but it's also pretty fun and extremely well made. Quentin hasn't disappointed. After leaving the theater, I couldn't wait to see "Volume 2," and I'm already counting the weeks until its release.5/5.Top Ten of 2003: #2John Ulmer


                
If you said to me that I was going to die by the hand of some of the women of this movie ,I would die a happy man for this film is any martial art expert wet dream. Pretty girls with swords, gory deaths and the dialogue made by Quentin Tarantino ,sign me in!!The movies follows the Bride as see goes on a vengeance quest to assassinate the people who try to killed her in her wedding day. God an other mass killing in a wedding ,it makes you think if R.R. Martin inspired Tarantino or the slaughter in this flick the producers of the series in the Rains of Castamere! Who knows, but it is fun to try to connect two amazing productions for it is confirmed by Quentin him self that all of his movies are in the same universe! So he is not a uninitiated to this idea.The dialogues as we all know by now are quick, quotable and create tension by themselves alone. Every character is unique and you come in a few minutes know his story art, temper and ideals. What would you expect after innovative killings ,sharp dialogue and great cinematography, the other strong point of Tarantino is that he can flesh out characters in a matter of seconds ,there very few directors and writers who can do that. So that flick deserve rightfully its cult status and more than a decade after it is in everyone list of amazing flicks.If you haven't seen ,as the man said himself :" The *beep* you were doing the past years ,living under a rock?".


                
I guess you can leave it up to Quentin Tarantino and the good people at Mirimax to make a franchise out of one movie. Unlike films such as The Lord Of The Rings and The Matrix, the cutting in half of Kill Bill was an after thought. Tarantino believed that people wouldn't be able to handle a 3-and-a-half hour Kill Bill film, which is ridiculous because, bringing up Lord Of The Rings again, I know that many people went to see screenings of all 3 LOTR films back-to-back. Now that's one long movie, go ahead and do the math, and that just shows how devoted fans can be. And now, Tarantino has ripped off his loyal fans, charging two separate prices for one film. And don't get me started with the whole bare bones DVDs with the intent of releasing special editions in the future "multiple bites of the apple" issue. Just shameless.But, you have to suck it up. It's a pain, yes, but underneath it all we do have a quality movie here. After waiting more than half a decade since Jackie Brown, Quentin Tarantino has come back to films with a vengeance. This time around he borrows from and references so many movies that it's nearly impossible to keep track of them all. For me, at least, since I'm not exactly a huge fan of the martial arts genre. But that's okay, because Tarantino interprets it all in a way that is pretty clever and enjoyable. In a way it's the merging of American and Japanese styles of film-making. There's martial arts and anime, but there's also some jive talk, so ya know, it's a good mix. And I have to say that it undoubtedly features one of the best action sequences of the last decade.The cast (or human props if you prefer) is well thought out and of good variety. Uma Thurman, the star, is obviously the stand-out. She's a little bit scary and a little bit sexy, she just kicks butt. She does absolutely everything necessary in what she calls her "role of a lifetime" and surely needs to be regarded from now on as one of the best female action characters in cinema.It sucks having to pay twice the amount of money for one movie, but as far as this particular half goes, it is really enjoyable. There's no doubt in my mind that vol.2 is the superior half, but this is a fun film loaded with action, gore, and all the things you could ever want from a Quentin Tarantino film.My rating: 8.5/10


                
Might contain spoilers.First thing, before watching this movie,please make sure, that the realism switch in your brains is turned off. Otherwise it could be tad hard to fully enjoy this visually very stunning movie.So, what goes on in "Kill Bill"? Well, 'The Bride', played by Uma Thurman wakes up after 4 years coma and wants to have revenge on the people who caused this state to her. So slash, slash, bang bang, boom boom. That's about it. This could have been one lousy movie... happily it isn't. It is action at is finest.Main character is 'The Bride', who is having her roaring revenge against 'Bill', played by David Carradine, not shown in vol. 1., only heard as a voice. Lucy Liu does fine job as a half Japanese Yakuza boss, prettily dressed in kimono, but from all the baddies in 'Kill Bill' is one-eyed 'Elle Driver' portrayed by Daryl Hannah.So, what else? Yes, there's lot's of chopping in this movie, and I mean lots. So I can honestly say, not for the smallest members of your family. All action is very cartoony and visually impressive.I liked it worth of 8 out of 10


                
Kill Bill is a funny and exciting movie to watch, totally Tarantino style. Is there blood? Yes. Tons of it. Do the characters curse a lot? Yes. Quite a lot. Is it realistic? Not much. Pretty exaggerated in a lot of aspects.Kill Bill follows the story of "The Bride", an ex-assassin that tried to leave the "killing lifestyle" after knowing that she was pregnant but instead got betrayed by her old assassination squad, the Deadly Viper, leaving her in a coma for 4 years, she now must seek revenge. This is the type of movie that just FELLS GOOD to watch. My dad used to go to the movies to watch Bruce Lee and now i go to the movies to watch Kill Bill. I don't go the movies that often but when i do my goal is not come out from the theater deeply inspired, crying or almost falling asleep. When i go to the movies i want to have fun watching something well designed, a small piece of art. And that's exactly what Kill Bill delivers. The great visuals, a soundtrack that perfectly fits the film, the crazy fights and the creativity in creating the characters and their story just make this film so entertaining to watch. Yes, is not a super sentimental or meaningful film but it's not supposed to be.You might be thinking "But man it just looks like a movie with chicks kicking each other ass..." and I'll quote myself "No, it's chicks kicking each other ass with style."


                
This film is essentially a real life cartoon, with everything that happens being exaggerated, and the use of actually cartoon imagery being used really makes this film unique, although I do wish that a slight bit more cartoon imagery had been used, it was still extremely enjoyable to watch. Others would say that is may be pointless due to the exaggeration of everything in the storyline.Being a Tarantino film it has the usual kind of weird perspectives, and this film really uses music to its advantage, helping to create images that are sure to stick in any viewers mind. My particular favourite part was how music was integrated into the film a the very beginning with 'Bang, Bang' by Nancy Sinatra, this part has really stayed in my mind, as it tells you so much about the story even though it has nothing to do with it.Other highlights included the fluency of the fighting scenes and how they were not just all tricks of the camera by changing camera perspectives, although the fighting was unrealistic, that is what gave the film its charm. The characters were all quite shallow, but this again added to the feel of the film, and I believe this was intended, especially being a Tarantino fan.All in all I really enjoyed this film, in all of its blood and gore and its almost comedy in how blunt it was the whole time. It is not for the faint hearted but is definitely for anyone who likes something a little different and enjoys the oriental culture and quirkiness that this film has.
I just felt to write this critic as being a true follower of Tarantino that I believe needs to be expanded. His work in "KillBill" is somewhat intense and entertaining, but as time goes I can't help finding weak spots on "KillBill". I think people are trying to find a reason to admire it. Quentin is a movie lover, and this movie is his ultimate homage to his movie library of favorites. Yet I found somehow deviated of what his sense of homage is. ¿Is his tribute to Old Westerns Spaghettis and Oriental Films just a pastiche of unnecessary blood, mistaken for art, and his intended "cool" characters lose flame as they blade swords into rambling, yet somehow interesting fights? ¿Have we granted permission to Quentin to do as he pleases with the camera? The Power we gave to Quentin led him to believe he could enjoy the Midas Touch. His handling on the filmical elements are wonderful, yet the movie lacks a message and a clear concept more than a mixed tribute. His passion overwhelmed him and audience accepts it as a work of art by a master mind. I'll grant you the latter. KillBill is pretty harmless, mostly meaningless, but altogether a load of splattered-arms and head chopping fun.


                
Kill Bill: Vol. 1 & Kill Bill: Vol. 2; choosing which 1 is best ain't easy. Kill Bill 1 moves along at a slicker pace; Kill Bill 2 has tons more prolonged suspense. The 2 movies are suitably unalike although still equally great. I'll stick to the 1st 1, as I completely understand many would; it's got better action for the most part, but don't sleep on the 2nd 1. Quentin Tarantino joins all his favorite movie genres, kung-fu, samurai, and spaghetti western, in the Kill Bills. Tarantino is the master at creating captivating conversation, delivering clichéd dialogue to a flawless degree. This skill was showcased perfectly in Pulp Fiction. It was done in Inglourious Basterds to a dazzling effect. But the drawn out dialogue in Kill Bill 1, while remaining very entertaining, is oft over-utilized. The talks between Beatrix and Vernita Green a.k.a. Copperhead during their knife fight, the chitchat with Hattori Hanzo before he forges The Bride's steel, and Boss Tanaka questioning O-Ren Ishii's position of power during council are some of the main moments being slowed in accommodation. Kill Bill: Vol. 1 is at its best when things are happening at a highly stylized progressive pace. The attentive developing plot, the accompanying narration, the crossover to Anime, the excessively bloody effects, the alarming signature theme when The Bride is zoning in on her target, the quick, slick camera cuts blended with sharp sound and well-placed music in presentation of adrenaline pumping, overly intense action makes Kill Bill really awesome and really badass. The battle between The Bride and O-Ren Ishii and all of her subordinates at the dojo hangout in Tokyo is really insane, and the end stands out from the rest of the movie as being really, really awesome and really, really badass, especially Gogo vs. The Bride. There is no actress better to be The Bride than Uma Thurman. She's heroically merciless. Kill Bill: Vol. 1 is a superb outing from the entirely too talented Tarantino.
'Revenge is a dish best served cold.'Welcome to the fiefdom of Kill Bill, a world where blood springs like water from the fountain of youth, heads fly like wild magpies, people are slaughtered like unfortunate pigs and in the end you are still with a sadistic smile lingering on your lips. Kill Bill is a movie about revenge, wrath, decapitation, blood bath, swords, evisceration, assassins; I could go on for a while.One of those rare films with a female protagonist, Kill Bill is about an –ex-assassin bride (Uma Thurman), who was called Black Mamba in her better days. A bullet has been put through her head on her wedding alter and she has been left for dead; the culprits - her ex-comrades, leader Bill and a bunch of others. But she doesn't die; not just yet. After remaining comatose for four years, she flips her eyes open. First realization - the baby she carried is gone. Second realization - human tongues don't taste very good. Third realization - she has been immobilized from her knee down. Final realization - someone needs to die.Tarantino's movies have a raw power about them and you can observe that through each of his films. He doesn't delve in being creepy or mysterious. If it's murder, it won't be a carefully injected air bubble in someone's vein; it will be a knife in the eye. Kill Bill takes this to a splendid new level. The movie is certainly not for the squeamish, and even those with otherwise strong stomachs should ensure that they haven't eaten anything volatile before watching it. The gore is immense, the blood flow relentless and the violence would probably make Gandhi pee his pants. At the same time, it doesn't disgust you, and only Tarantino could pull of something like this.The film has all the necessary ingredients of a vintage Tarantino flick. His direction has a certain child-like quality about it. The title itself seems like a ten-year olds attempt at creativity. The movie has been made as neatly as a courtroom drama - hard camera shots, clever dialogue, rising tension - but underneath, it's an almighty mess; something like a monster dressed as Santa. There is the trademark from- the-trunk camera shot, and this time he even puts in a bonus from-a- bullet-hole-in-the-head shot.Similar to Tarantino's second movie (Pulp Fiction), Kill Bill too doesn't rely very heavily on its plot, which is virtually non-existent. It is driven by the execution. Movies are meant for escapism and the director knows this. The story has been stretched to a point where it becomes almost farcical, which is also an escapist's paradise. Things that would have been awfully heinous otherwise become rather likable in the hands of Tarantino. Added to it is a dark tone and black comedy which make it highly even more compelling. Call me despicable, but there is something oddly appealing about cornflakes drenched in blood.It is the subtle things that catch your attention and define the beauty of the movie. The cinematography is breathtaking. Right from a bullet leaving a gun to the large-scale mass murders every scene is awe- inspiring. There's B&W, slo-mo and censoring of names. There is a part in anime; a montage about the past of O-Ren Ishii (Lucy Liu), a deadly assassin, Tokyo's mob-boss and number one on The Bride's hit-list. Perhaps he did it to show a relation between O-Ren's half Japanese ancestry. Or maybe he did to avoid getting an NC-17 rating (there's a paedophilic goon, O-Ren's a kid; add two and two).The eclectic soundtrack by RZA can be termed as one of the most befitting ever heard in Hollywood. It reached #45 on the Billboard 200 album chart and #1 on the soundtracks chart; so you see what I mean. It builds tension superbly, often causing feverish excitement. If you close your eyes and listen to the music playing during the battles in the movie, you can still feel the adrenaline coursing through your body – that's how amazing it is.Uma Thurman does a wonderful job as the vendetta-seeking, yellow-haired bride. She clears all sexist misconceptions from your mind about men being better at war than women. She is lethal and ruthless with an ever- present sardonic smirk on her lips – a true femme fatale. You have to give her credit for managing to hold onto her expressions while performing things that are absolutely nuts.Vol.1 does not offer a satisfactory conclusion, leaving expectations of a second part, which Tarantino duly followed it up with. It leaves many questions unanswered, many people unkilled and many viewers thirsty for more bloodshed.However, while parting the movie does teach a very important lesson – when you kill a woman you need to make sure that she is dead because if she isn't, boy, you are screwed.


                
After long threatening to make a pure genre film - a film the plot and episodes of which are constructed by genre convention, and always secondary to the enjoyment of the action - Tarantino has produced a quirky but faced-paced homage to the Chinese and Japanese martial arts films of the 1970s (and some of their American clones as well).There's certainly no denying that the action sequences are rapidly paced, and professionally shot and edited. The story is loose and a little hackneyed, but that's exactly what a genre-film plot ought to be, since it is really just an excuse for the action. So of course the dialog is riddled with cliché; that also is as it should be.I suppose most of this will be missed by those unfamiliar with the '70s martial arts film; but they may be able to enjoy it as just an irony-laden action film of the current era.At any rate, anyone who thought the Chiba Street-Fighter films fun stuff, or who harbored a secret passion for TNT Jackson, will certainly enjoy this film.The one weakness is Uma Thurman. She was well-cast in Pulp Fiction, but I haven's seen anything with her that I've liked since. Here, she is just way too "over the top" for this kind of film. The martial arts hero has to be cool unless really really angry - but Thurman has her rage-meter pushed to the max from beginning to the end of this film, and it gets awful tiresome after a while. Wish they had brought over Sue Shiomi for this one.Finally, a word about the sequel, Kill Bill II; and the word is BAD. Worse sequel to a good film I can remember.But this first film is a lotta fun.


                
Treat for action movie lovers.......the movie is all about revenge.. and direction ,everything is great. I have seen this movie in 2019 but still a unique experience of story telling and direction as well as action to me


                
This is Uma Thurman's best portrayal as ever. Up to this day, the whole Kill Bill thing still surprises me.


                
Volume 1 is an action film in the purest Quentin Tarentino´s way. There are very few dialogues and unrealistic scenes and yet, we simply want to believe in them. The story doesn´t quite make sense in this first part so volumen 2 is mandatory to enjoy this ´fairy tale´.


                
'Kill Bill: Volume 1' is a violent and stylish masterpiece from Quentin Tarantino. From it's opening scene, Tarantino is quite clear with his intentions with this film and tells his audience from the get-go that they are in for a bloody ride. Led by the amazing Uma Thurman, who plays the unnamed role of The Bride with perfection, the first part of Kill Bill consists of glorious fight scenes, excellent screenplay and a compelling, non-linear plot line. Despite the film feeling a little muddled at times due to it's blend of different genres, it ultimately is solid and consistent enough to still consider it as a great film. Tarantino's effective use of soundtrack contributes greatly to the film, with highlights being 'Bang Bang' by Nancy Sinatra and a great cover of 'Don't Let Me Be Misunderstood' by Santa Esmeralda. While many viewers may be repulsed by the over-the-top and gory violence, others can appreciate the glory of it. It can be quite excessive at some points which can seem unnecessary, but this is Tarantino doing what he loves best. The final scenes at the House of Blue Leaves is a breathtaking sequence of fight scenes that is masterfully choreographed and a perfect ending to Volume 1. Tarantino ends this film on a perfect cliffhanger that will have it's viewers immediately wanting to delve into Volume 2.


                
Another masterpiece i cannot wait for more to come
Movie Review: "Kill Bill Vol.1" (2003)Making no prisoners, director Quentin Tarantino returns after a six year break from directing with his fourth motion picture, distributed to the last by Bob & Harvey Weinstein run Hollywood Label "Miramax Films", the director and his leading lady actress Uma Thurman bring action thriller beats to the maximum, when "Kill Bill Vol.1" unfolds a revenge story of a woman left for dead after a bullet to her head from her lover as father-like mentor, the character of Bill, portrayed by match-making actor Keith Carradine (1936-2009), once leader of a "Death Squad", which then just betrayed one of their own.Supporting cast, which then build the Bride character's infamous "Death List" by the one-by-one confrontations are stunningly translated into visual film language by director/writer Quentin Tarantino, who centers each characters' background story, the resurrection of "The Bride" and a uniquely-received, highly-stylized as accurately-researched Japanese production design by Yohei Taneda in the razor-sharp, ultra-violent action sequence at a Tokyo restaurant that the MPAA (Motion Picture Association of America) needed to insist on some on-screen color corrections towards color-forces in blood-splashing reds turn suddenly black-and-white in an blink of an eye that furthermore only the "uncensored" Asian Market Version of "Kill Bill Vol.1", especially in Japan, came into the full splendor to watch actress Uma Thurman, in a Bruce "Enter The Dragon" Lee (1940-1973) homaging yellow-black training suit, fight presumingly eighty-eight yakuza opponents with a samurai sword.There is only left to lift the hat on director Quentin Tarantino's dedication for the original writing, well-researched source material that is just an amazing joy to watch "Kill Bill Vol.1" in its pitch-perfect as accelerated 105-Minute-Cut by Tarantino's editor of the first "Reservoir Dogs" minute Sally Menke (1953-2010), making utmost use of cinematographer Robert Richardson's excellent shot 35mm raw footage alongside a pumping musical score by RZA, member of the 1991 New York based band the "Wu-Tang Clan".Copyright 2018 Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC


                
Quentin Tarantino, a figure highly admired by many people who love the movie especially myself. Pulp Fiction is a masterpiece artwork and makes him famous for this movie. In addition, Kill Bill is also a masterpiece full of blood splashes. With her favorite actress, Uma Thurman, who cast a role in the Pulp Fiction movie, now cast a role in this film with two parts."Kill Bill: Vol.1," tells about an ex-mercenary woman being pregnant and nearly killed at the hands of her own lover and her friends on the day of her marriage. During the movie, we only knew as "The Bride" (Uma Thurman). Four years into a coma, she awakens and promises to kill everyone who slaughtered him. The assassins incorporated in The Deadly Viper Assassination Squad consist of Elle Driver (Dary Hannah), O-Ren-Ishii (Lucy Liu), Vernita Green (Vivica A. Fox), and Budd (Michael Madsen). Her own lover Bill (David Carradine) is the boss of a gang of assassins."Kill Bill: Vol.1" presents some bloody revenge plots of action. The sadistic scene in this movie is the main attraction in this movie. The Bride who has a frightening figure and cut off his enemies makes the audience into emotion and blood rise. As always, the film will be divided into chapters by chapters like novels and non-linear plots. The film also inserts a few minute anime sequences that tell about the bleak life of O-Ren. Some scenes that suddenly became black and white is a very memorable scene. Artistic cinematography, cool soundtrack, and modern classic style that is certainly very epic and far from the mainstream word.Although I think there is a very unreasonable scene, this movie is a movie that you must watch if you like the action of blood. Great movie you can't miss.


                
I must say this kind of action film is rare to find. I enjoyed it but i it's violence was too much. Whatever uma therman did a great performance. I liked it.


                
A story of vengeance written in bloodWho doesn't love a good old revenge tale packed in a thriller? A plot where the main character is done wrongly by their peers and then sets out to vow bloody vengeance against those who committed the betrayal. Kill Bill is without a doubt, the holy grail of revenge movies. Despite being very bloody and gory, the film successfully delivers its sweet story of revenge in a comical way. Indeed, it is the masterpiece of director Quentin Tarantino, who made $180 million off the movie, that keeps people glued to their seats, anxious on seeing the fate of the tale's heroine. For a euphoric 111 minutes of limb chopping, heads flying, and sword clashing, you're in Kill Bill for a once-in-a- lifetime experience. The movie starts with our pregnant protagonist being attacked on her wedding rehearsal by a band of assassins, who used to be her co-workers. The later half of the movie focuses on the bride in launching her revenge, after being comatose for 4 years. The highlight of the movie, I mean besides the non-stop action packed plot, is the actress. Uma Thurman plays an incredible job as a no-mercy bad ass who won't let anything get in her way. In her journey of murder, she encounters several characters, whose actors nonetheless deserve credit. Lucy Liu, the antagonist who acted as salt and pepper to the story, played an outstanding job as a female, Chinese-American boss of the Yakuza. Of course the Yakuza boss had to be a Female Chinese American, I mean, it's Quentin Tarantino, throw all wishes of the ordinary out the window! The cinematography of the movie is no-less than superb. Quentin Tarantino employs a mix of black and white shots, conventional color crisp shots, and a short scene of anime versions of the characters. The background and details are exquisite, with scenes in a big metropolis in one moment, then a traditional Japanese eatery in another. The mixture of different approaches towards the scenes really made the movie unique. Who would've thought from a glance, that a blonde southern US girl is a master of the katana? Kill Bill is a feast for the eyes and mind.
When I walked out of the theater a few months ago, these were my thoughts:-Uma was excellent-The music was excellent-The cinematography was excellent-Some of the fight scenes went on a bit too long-I wish my back yard looked like the setting of the final fight (japanese, snowy)Suffice it to say, I thought the movie was good, but I was not blown away.The strange thing is, long after seeing the film, I still remember many parts of it vividly and look back at it fondly.  I have even considered going to see it again.  After letting it sink in I have realized that I like this movie much more than I initially thought.Kill Bill vol. 1 is so "out there" that it is impossible to guess what it will be like by reading reviews.  It is definitely not what I was expecting, and I think is what initially kept me from liking it as much as I do now that I have had time to reflect on it.It seems to me that a lot of the negative reviews here are based on a preconceived notion of the movie.  If you haven't seen Kill Bil vol. 1 yet, I suggest you throw any preconceived notions you might have out the window.In particular:-This is not Reservoir Dogs, Pulp Fiction, or Jackie Brown.-This is not a 70's martial arts film.-This movie is not going to be entirely realistic-This movie is not going to be entirely unrealistic-Whatever you're seeing in your head right now, when you try to imagine what this movie is like, is wrong.Kill Bill is definitely one of the most unique movies I have seen in quite some time, and a very good one at that.  I'm looking forward to the second volume.-Mike


                
As expected, Quentin Tarantino hits bulls eye with Kill Bill. It is a glorious mix of genres, from super violent manga to almost traditional samurai movies. All blended with perfection, with the well known Tarantino style saturating the film. You leave the cinema with a big smile on your face, looking forward to the sequel. During the movie you can't help but agreeing in the quote at the beginning: "Revenge is a dish best served cold". I want more, that's for sure!!!!


                
It's been a fair while since a Quinten Tarantino movie. Famous for the groundbreaking Pulp Fiction and Reservoir Dogs, Tarantino later created Jackie Brown to mixed reviews. Kill Bill Vol. 1 is his first major release since then, and it manages to to be as fresh as his earlier hits, as bloody as them, and as groundbreaking, in a sense.It's simply a story of revenge, as Uma Thurman's character, whose name isn't revealed except 'Black Mantra', goes on a rampage to kill those responsible for ruining her wedding day by killing the entire congregation bar her, and for the loss of her child as she was pregnant at the same time. After a 4 year coma she's free to hunt the assassins down in vengeance.It's never made clear, yet, who she is, why she's so proficient herself as an assassin, and why her wedding day was ruined.The first volume, as it is a 2 parter, is simply about the first events.The story is simple, but effective - and simultaneously rather strong, with very stylish direction, some original sequences such as anime, and plenty of action with visceral lashings of the red stuff. It *is* a bloody movie, but it's carried out in a comic book fashion so it never seems gory for the sake of it.The acting, from Thurman, is exactly what it needs to be, and to be honest it's the same from everyone. It's supposed to be *slightly* corny and cheesy, given the comic-book theme.The only real downside in this movie is the characterisation, or lack of. You don't really care about Thurman, or anyone else. I don't know if this is also intentional, but the movie draws no real emotive response from the viewer. You don't feel as involved as you perhaps should.But in saying all that it's a fine piece of film-making and highly recommended.


                
