Just saw Kill Bill: Vol. 1 and was surprised, to be honest, at how incredibly GOOD this film is. Here is a craftsman (or artist, if you prefer) at the top of his game. Some of the shots are simply incredible; the score is, for the most part, vintage Tarantino selections- and the RZA does a very good job at filling the blanks; Uma Thurman is a great female lead, for sheer presence (and decent acting chops). Even Lucy Liu, who I expected was going to re-hash her Charlie's Angel character, burst on the scene like a flaming nunchuck.The stringing together of the scenes was impeccable. The transitions, the intercutting between dialogue, the flashbacks... I simply could not get enough. Tarantino IS, indeed, having fun here. He is giving us a film that may not go down as a classic, Pulp Fiction style, but that shows us what is yet to come. I doubt that he's lost his writing talents (as some have claimed), and I actually disagree that the dialogue in the film is "poor", or that there are "no memorable lines" (Empire). The kung-fu genre has never been a particularly good park to display Shakespearean writing virtuosisms. The lines work fine. The plot is simple enough, but Tarantino takes a burger and serves it as "steak tartare with sauce au poivre and asparagus terrine". He basically manages to cram so much information into the film that plot is simply irrelevent. What is relevent is the Bride's thirst for blood, her primal sense of vengeance and our total devotion to her. Bill, of course, is one of the greatest characters to ever NOT appear on screen. Overall, a great movie and an example of how a filmmaker's tool is not his pen: it's his eye.


                
I know it's a couple years late, but I had to write a review for some of the few people that haven't seen one of my favorite and refreshing I've seen over the last few years. Kill Bill Vol. 1 is yet another quality film of Tarantino's short, but distinguished list.Kill Bill involves a nameless woman (Uma Thurman) who is slowing seeking revenge on her former hit squad the Viper Squad and her boss Bill (David Caradine.) Her former hit squad wronged her by gunning down her closest friends and family during her wedding and putting her into a coma while being pregnant. A few years later she awakens in a hospital, without child, and tries to track down each member of the squad. As the story progresses (through this film and the sequel), you find out who she really, why Bill wanted her dead and the fate of her daughter.The movie is really a combination of Tarantino's love for the 70's over-dramatized Kung-Fu movie era and story of revenge with rich dialog. Yes, this movie is violent, but in a cheesy way. This created some controversy and really had audiences stirred up, failing to realize it was supposed to be over the top without no sense of realism. Like I said, it was supposed to be a tribute more so than a gruesome action flick. With all cheesiness aside, I can understand how some people could feel a little woozy after seeing someone lose an arm and having 4 gallons of Kool-Aid red blood shoot out of the body like a whale's blow hole. What really makes this movie is Tarantino ability to make bad to mediocre actors seem like good ones, a smart and hilarious dialog and a good storyline. Of course, this is what he does in pretty much in all of his movies.There are various plot holes in the story, but we are really meant to ignore them unlike most movies. Just like the gory scenes, come to grips to the fact that the most of the implausibilities are there just to fill in the gaps of the movie. The movie also features a couple of classic Tarantino showdowns, including an unforgettable one with the Japanese infamous crime lord, O-Ren Ishii (Lucy Lui.) Once again, Tarantino puts his imagination at work again in his story telling by using some of his old techniques like jumping timelines and some new ones like adding Japanese animation for character backgrounds.I wouldn't really recommend this film to someone who is really not from the Pulp Fiction era. This film is really just homage to flicks that frequently appear on Sunday Samurai Showcase, revenge and Tarantino's continuous fascination with Uma Thurman. This film contains extreme violence and sometimes strange dialog coupled with some pretty good acting and directing. If you're not a fan of Tarantino's films, you should pass on this one because it is doesn't stray to far from his other stuff. If you like his other works, this is a must see due to its originality and quality. And, if you just don't like Tarantino himself, and find him annoying like everybody else, I don't blame you but it's still worth your while seeing.


                
Do I think this movie is absolutely brilliant? Yes. Do I think this is the all time greatest movie ever, or even a top 50? Nope. I find the dichotomy between people who hate this movie and those that think it's the greatest film ever made is interesting. Even more interesting is the apparent split between fans of Volumes 1 and 2. Like the thread says, I think most of it's a matter of those who prefer style to substance. For my past, Volume 1 destroys Volume 2, but I concede that everyone has their own tastes and experiences and that no one pinion has any more weight than the other. Two scenes in particular really make this movie brilliant in my opinion, and both are fairly subtle in their portrayal but fascinating by their tone and the cinematic elements that come together to carry them off:1.) The scene where Oren and the Crazy 88 enter the House of the Blue Leaves. Absolutely magical. The score, the pacing, the atmosphere....simply magnificent. The slow motion pull away and the obvious hierarchy of characters, Lucy Liu was absolutely made for that part and that part was made for that scene. The beautiful and menacing Gogo Yubari and the goofy 88s trailing behind. You can also feel the tension the owners feel at having such esteemed guests but one's who admittedly exude as much fear as they do respect. Add to this the nameless, faceless people dancing who are oblivious to the regality (and lethality) of Oren's entourage. 2.) Oren is called out by Kiddo who subsequently whacks off Sophie's arm in a highly symbolic gesture. Words can't describe how moving that scene is. The score is superb and the timing is nothing short of perfect. I especially love the way the crowd pauses after the arm slicing...like they're all stunned or still convincing themselves it rally happened...then all rush out screaming. Kiddo makes a slow, deliberate plod through the panicked crowd, a march to destiny filmed from several perspectives that combine holistically to give the segment a life of it's own.One aspect of this movie that puzzles me is the emphasis it's critics make of the gore. For my part the gore was so outlandish it's hard for me to see how anyone could take it seriously, and that was part of the appeal. Buckets of blood spraying 15 feet in the air is so beyond the realm of reality how could you possibly take it seriously? For my part it was borderline comical and really brought out the flavor of the scenes, rather than being their focus. And regardless of what you think of Tarrentino as a director, the man is bar none the best at matching musical scores to a scene in the business. A few other noteworthy scenes...*The end-fight between Oren and Kiddo....marvelous stuff. The backdrop of the snow and the water, the smooth silence interrupted by the fountain, again, a great accompanying score. Fine piece of film craftsmanship.*Kiddo's overhead film shot while walking to the bathroom of the House of the Blue Leaves. Simply amazing. 5,6,7,8s performing live is just quirky yet proper enough to really add some depth and the unique filming make this a scene to behold.
This movie is a visual experience of different styles, all combined with also some trademark Tarantino elements.The movie is obviously a case of style over substance. In essence the movie is just a basic revenge flick without too much depth or meaning. This however is exactly like how Tarantino intended it to be. "Kill Bill: Vol. 1" is simple, straightforward, completely over-the-top but above all beautifully shot and superbly directed. The movie its story comes totally secondary, as Tarantino used this movie as an experimental tool to mix several, mostly Asian cinema, styles together and blend it into one big visual experience of violence and unusual over-the-top looking sequences. His aim was style and with that this movie most certainly does not disappoint.Always when looking at a Tarantino movie, it becomes obviously that he's a big movie buff and movie lover. Tarantino really shows his love for- and pays homage to Asian cinema and especially anime. Most notably of course in the animated segment (that is great by the way) but also in almost every action/fight sequence in the movie and its violence. It gives the movie its own unique style and an overall atmosphere of 'coolness'.The violence is definitely brutal and straightforward, as gallons of blood are spilled in this movie. But all of the violence is done in such a, deliberately, over-the-top and fake looking way, that it becomes entertaining, rather than shocking or stomach turning. It even becomes poetically beautiful to watch at times. The action sequences are definitely the best parts of the movie and they are well choreographed and shot. When things get too graphic the movie simple conveniently switches to black & white or turns to other creative cinematic solutions.The power of this movie is definitely in its visual style and overall style of directing. The movie uses different themes throughout the movie but yet the movie manages to create one big unique identity. The movie never feels incoherent or disjointed in its style or storytelling, though it all widely differs from each other at times. I think that this is mainly thanks to Tarantino's directing, who keeps the movie and different styles all on one and the same line. Visually the movie is also definitely helped by Robert Richardson fantastic cinematography, who should at least had been rewarded with an Oscar nomination for it.The movie is filled with some big name actors, though not all play a significant part in the movie yet (see "Kill Bill: Vol. 2" for that). Uma Thurman is truly superb as the Bride and I can honestly say that this is her best role out of her career. She also was rewarded with a Golden Globe nomination for it. Also really superb in her role was Lucy Liu. Again, also her best role yet.Not of all the trademark Tarantino elements work out well in the movie I definitely missed the typical trademark Tarantino dialog in this movie and for also for most part the trademark non-linear storytelling felled pointless and didn't really served a purpose for the story. It therefor really isn't Tarantino's best but it's definitely his most experimental and most visually orientated, style-full, splendid movie.Unusual, over-the-top but strangely intriguing, entertaining and overall brilliant. Yet another Tarantino must-see!9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
I'm only subtracting one star because either part one or part two taken alone seems incomplete, yet satisfying nonetheless. If they could have been merged into one film it would be the perfect combination of mystery, mythology, and exposition.Uma Thurman was nominated for a Golden Globe as "The Bride," a woman who seeks revenge against the group of assassins, of whom she was once a member, who turned her wedding rehearsal into a bloodbath, killing everybody else in the wedding chapel and putting her into a coma for four years and having her awaken to an empty womb - she looked about eight months pregnant when Bill shot her. In volume one, although all five of the people involved in the massacre are on The Bride's hit list, she only kills two of them.The Bride goes after Vivica Fox's now-married housewife and mother, and Lucy Liu's Yakuza boss, which requires a trip to Japan. Tarantino pays homage to Japanese samurai films and Hong Kong martial arts films to make an entertaining story with excellent editing and soundtrack. A perfect start to what's to be expected in Vol. 2., which is where all of the backstories appear.If you walk away from both parts one and two wondering if there is any symbolism in there, is what you thought you saw what you really saw, and what on earth does that last scene mean?...consider yourself in good company. And my only spoiler, why didn't Lucy Liu's character want to kill Bill as much as Uma Thurman's did? That is, if what you think you see implied in part one is indeed true.This is Tarantino's best as far as I'm concerned. Every time I see either part one or part two on cable I'll stop what I'm doing and watch. Not recommended if you are squeamish though.
To the average moviegoer,"Kill Bill" comes across as a nuanced film that appears shallow litered with flamboyant violence. And yet nothing could be further from the truth. Remarkably unique blend of various genres drawing from an abundant of influences constructing something very much his own. A bride (Uma Thurman) awakes from a long coma no longer carrying the baby before hand. Only revenge motivates her now to hunt down the assassination team that betrayed her, and once a part of. Breathtaking fight scenes function the same as dance numbers would in a musical. Stunningly beautiful and completely innovative. Highly-stylized, magnificent musical score, dynamic performances all around.


                
Described by writer / director Quentin Tarantino as "a 'duck press' of the grindhouse cinema he'd absorbed over 35 years of his life", "Kill Bill: Vol. 1" serves as an exhilarating, wild, genuinely visionary epic tale of a character concocted by himself and Uma Thurman. Uma plays "The Bride" (whenever her real name is uttered, it's bleeped out, to help accentuate her "Man with No Name" quality). The Bride had tried to quit the organization for which she worked, and get married, but boss & lover Bill (David Carradine) sent his lethal international hit squad to eliminate her and everybody at her wedding party. We follow this character as she determinedly hunts down each and every person who did her wrong, and dishes out some thoroughly enjoyable revenge. Tarantino funnels the various martial arts pictures, spaghetti Westerns, and anime that he's admired into one distinct and potent stew, made in a great comic book style, executed with panache and divided into various chapters in a "Pulp Fiction" manner, moving back and forth in time, and the pieces are never, ever hard to put together. This is fun and exciting story telling that never shies away from the red stuff, with KNB delivering splatter so unabashedly over the top that it's endlessly amusing. Tarantino's use of soundtrack music is extremely eclectic; what original music there is, is composed by The RZA, but tracks from a rich variety of composers & artists - Bernard Herrmann, Charles Bernstein, Frank Mills, Quincy Jones, Isaac Hayes, Luis Bacalov, Zamfir, Tomoyasu Hotei, Riz Ortolani,and Ennio Morricone make for an excellent listen and a soaring accompaniment to the action, which culminates in a breathless, amazing job of swordplay as The Bride takes on scores of henchmen. The cast is just a pleasure to watch, with Uma an utter delight; it's also fun to see Vivica A. Fox, Daryl Hannah, and Lucy Liu as her intended victims. In fact, the whole cast, also featuring Julie Dreyfus, Michael Parks (once again playing Earl McGraw), Chiaki Kuriyama of "Battle Royale" fame, and Michael Bowen as sleazy creep Buck (as in "I'm Buck, and I'm here to...") is a blast. Michael Madsen briefly sets up his role for Volume 2, and Carradine is only present as a voice at this point; Tarantino having originally envisioned this as one long movie that got broken up into two parts for theatrical release. It's a particular treat to see martial arts legend Shinichi "Sonny" Chiba as the old sword maker who takes a liking to The Bride and is sympathetic to her mission. Even at an hour and 51 minutes, the pacing here never flags, and the movie is just plain fun, with a delightful contribution by musical act The 5, 6, 7, 8's who perform covers as well as their own songs. Right from beginning to end, "Kill Bill: Vol. 1" kicks a whole lot of ass. Nine out of 10.


                
SPOILERS THROUGHOUT:So what do I say in my review? How wonderful, how great this movie is? Well, many Know that. It is, after all, in the top 100 films of all time. I have a hard time doing reviews on movies like this that are almost to perfect. Whatever can one say? Tarentino's Kill Bill(BOTH volumes) are fully deserving of being called instant classics. There are few movies that mesmerize this much. And really, mesmerize is the perfect word to describe the effect of the Kill Bill movies. They are simply extraordinary. But there was one thing I didn't like in volume one that was not so prevelent in two.That's the violence. I enjoyed both movies but I did give Volume two a ten and this a nine. The reason is the violence. It was a bit much in the first volume. Many people I know, still have yet to see either of the Kill Bill movies because of this reason and I myself was a bit wary at first. One is a lot worse in this regard then two and even though I think the movie is fantastic in it's photography, writing, performances etc, the brutality was tough to take. I really can see how someone could NOT like this.I actually prefer two a bit because of the highly charged dialog driven atmosphere. I will concede however, that it really doesn't matter which version one personally prefers-their both stunningly great movies.The gore in volume one is, many times, almost cartoonish but there are still parts where one wants to say "enough already". It is just to much(OK it's Tarentino but still....).Of coarse, many would argue that was necessary for the overall story. That is my one major gripe about volume one, otherwise I'd say it was perfect. When I say I liked two better, it wins by a smidgen anyway, and for mainly that reason, and another reason is because everything comes together in the second one. I am actually glad they were released as two separate pictures.My favorite character(other then the bride)? I just don't know. I liked all of them. O'wren Ishi was an intense person to watch, Mountain Snake was so evil (kudos to Hanna, who'd have ever thought we'd see the innocent little mermaid in a role like this?) And there was something about that twisted little assistant Gogo that was (here's that word again) mesmerizing, she kind of stole the show in some ways.My favorite scene may have been the fight between Liu and Thurman. Although that scene was mighty intense, it was spellbinding the way it was carried out, all that intensity against the cool, lovely wintry setting.To me, the Kill Bill movies are almost to good, in that one really does not want them to end. I really would, as would some of my friends, like to see a prequel(with the SAME cast please). I'd like to know see how they all met, their various relationships with each other, what made them assassins( we do not know except for Lui). I'd like to see the love story between Bill and The Bride, I'd like to see friendships being built, each person's story. I'd like to see it all! The story of Kill Bill is to good to leave alone. Although follow ups are almost always bad, this IS Tarenteno. Hey, you never know....
Loves these movies cant wait for the next installment hopefully if there is one. First i'm a girl so i'm all for seeing a bad ass female kick some ass and get revenge and all for the right reasons as it comes to be. The story line is great, keeps you in the movie. Don't even get me started on the direction..its Tarantino so no need to go in to detail there, if you have seen any of hims movies then you get it. The acting...DAMN! I recently watched Uma in Crazy Super Ex Girlfriend and i just couldn't grip that this was the same woman who played 'The Bride' like really..so i mean shes super talented and so is everyone else of course special shout out to Lucy on that one..loved her great to see her play a villain and not a happy go lucky kinda person for a change.anyway watch this movie you wont regret it, well unless you don't like good action, good acting, good direction, good story lines etc you get!


                
Prior to the Kill Bill movies being released Quentin Tarantino was known as a guy great at making modern gangster movies but this movie shows clearly him having a good grasp on other genres.In Kill Bill Tarantino is able to step into more genre type of movies and does it with a splash. Bringing together some of the best martial arts fight scenes outside of Hong Kong movies. A strong female lead who empowers women to be more then just a cute little thing on the arms of their men.Lucy Liu does a great job as one of the fellow assassins who eventually becomes the most powerful crime lord of the yakuza in Japan.Tarantino borrows a lot of stuff straight out of Bruce Lee movies to pay homage to him and other movies of that nature.


                
I'm sorry I started with such a tag-line but that's what this movie is all about.So the premise goes like this - The Bride (Uma Thurman) is all bloodied up and lying on the ground at the altar of her wedding, surrounded by armed assassins of a squad, of which she herself was earlier a member of, and who just wiped out anyone and everyone at the wedding. They then shoot her, in what appears to be a death-blow but then she instead slips into a coma and wakes up years later to avenge the execution of her husband, baby - she was carrying during the massacre; and everyone at her wedding. Then begins the journey of 'The Bride' - name not mentioned anywhere in the first movie - who sets out to take revenge!Uma Thurman does a great job as a sexy expert assassin out on the loose. She sparkles with her charisma and style, that it makes her bloody revenge look beautiful and fashionable. Lucy Liu as the wicked O-Ren Shii, the head of Tokyo underworld and the bride's first revenge targets, is still-faced like a mannequin but that suits her role of a mind-controlled assassin.In a revenge-flick like this the action sequences have to be flawless and yes they were. There is also a flashback of one of the characters in anime, which serves as a nice assortment in a 110-min long medley of brutal massacres. The action, the stunts, get better in every scene. The Japanese Samurais defy gravity and jump around as if they are weightless.. You have to be a brave-heart to watch the entire film without having a nauseating headache. There is so much 'Red' in the movie that it puts Spain's La Tomatina festival to shame. Every time a limb is lopped off (and believe me it happens a lot), there is blood just spurting out like a fountain and the killer is spray-tanned in blood. You have one scene where the massacre is so bloody that the entire action sequence is shown in black and white (However, in the Japanese version this scene is in colour).This film is not without its goofs and flubs like any other Quentin Tarantino film but I didn't mind because its entertaining and fast- paced. There was not a single second in the film during which I wanted to keep my eyes off the screen. It is a must watch for all the action junkies and more so for people like me, who love films like Resident Evil, Underworld, Aeon Flux et cetera etc. and who love to watch the leading ladies wield guns and swords like they are Barbie dolls...


                
Kill bill and considered one of the best movies of the tarantino and not for less has a great script, great actors highlighted to a great Uma Thurman track as usual and in the tarantino movies some scenes are a bit insaggerated with lots of blood but of rest another masterpiece by tarantino


                
Kill Bill isn't supposed to be believable. Kill Bill is: gory, ridiculous, It's pure, unfiltered Tarantino. Kill Bill is: Cool. Brilliant, timeless classic, which is exactly what to expect from Quentin. Vol 1 and 2 are one of those kind of movies that I have to watch every time I see it on cable. It just never gets old.


                
A yellow jumpsuit, a lethal Hattori-Hanzo sword and a charismatic blonde taking bloody vengeance? Yeah, you got it; it's the notorious "Kill Bill", the same movie that, I am certain, got hundreds of naïve cinephiles running to the toilet to force the impression of the film out of their stomach. And yet, despite not being everyone's cup of tea, the "Kill Bill" universe is meticulously constructed in such a unique way, that compels you to give it, the least, a try.
The story goes as such: A woman, and past member of the "Deadly international viper assassination squad", is pregnant and ready to walk down the aisle. However, such a conspicuous past doesn't ensure much tranquility and that becomes evident by the surprise- arrival of the other members of the squad, to the Bride's wedding, who, with the aid of their machine guns, fill the chapel with rotting bodies and leave the blonde protagonist in a four year coma. The tale presents a dark twist when the physically and psychologically beaten Bride wakes up, only to find out that the fetus is missing. That's when things start to get bad, as the incensed Bride swears to revenge all the traitors responsible for this tragedy, wreaking bloody chaos in her passing. Sounds compelling enough?
No? Then let's talk about the heroine. The Bride, whose name we are constantly refused to, used to be one the most talented and dangerous members of her squad. She is a determined and unstoppable force of nature and her efficiency is combined with undeniable physical beauty; she is a carnivorous flower, perfectly fitting to the violent Tarantino world. And this world is violent and ruthless in every sense of the words; it is crystal clear not only in the characters behavior (are O-Ren Ishii, the icy and calculating killer, and Elle Driver, the one-eyed femme fatale, ringing any bells?), but also in the scenery. Tarantino uses bold colours, innumerable pounds of blood and even a nauseating anime sequence, to underline this exact cruelty and madness lurking deep in the human psyche; the film is a celebration of human instincts, in their most crude and therefore perilous form, embellished with carefully chosen pieces of music and "subtle" references to the old-fashioned genre of '70s kung-fu movies.
If you are still nodding your head indifferently then don't bother to watch the movie and torment yourself for no good reason. Pick one of the thousand other movies waiting patiently in the shelves of video stores and leave "Kill Bill" for another time. Maybe someday you will feel challenged enough to watch it.


                
Kill Bill: Vol. 1 is a terrific movie with a great story,fantastic cast,brilliant characters and plenty of violence,maybe a bit too much violence for a sensitive viewer.It is without a doubt some of Quentin Tarantino's finest work,with an outstanding performance from Uma Thurman,who seemed to be in to her crazy,insane,revenge seeking character The Bride all the way through.I think basically everyone who was part of this movie was interested in it,there's no wonder the movie was so long that they had to break it up in to two parts.The Bride (Uma Thurman),a master assassin,is out seeking to kill a man she has a great history with,however,Bill has sent out many people to get her,but they myth have no chance against her as she seeks her revenge.


                
Was there a cooler film in 2003 than Kill Bill?  I don't think there was. Kill Bill has all the elements of what a good time at the movies is all about.  The way a director stays fresh and interesting is to continue to broaden his/her horizons, not rehash the same thing they've done three times before.  Let me point out some of Kill Bill's strong points and then some weak ones in my eyes:  While this picture may not have captured the exact "way of the samurai", it did show what revenge is capable of.  I would like to remind people that no one waits for the other person to attack anymore, there's no such thing as a fair fight, so honor is right out of the window, and The Bride had all the motivation in the world for what happened to her. So, her fight at the House of Blue Leaves, was justifiably violent and unmerciful.  Sword fights aren't tennis matches.  They can be permanently fatal.  All the actors established a character very well, and how great was the anime sequence?  Kill Bill is not trying to be anything, it's trying to remind people of a type of film that has been forgotten.  It's a love affair of Tarantino's( just like Uma is to him)  and it shows.  There are plot holes in the first, such as her sitting in the Pussy Wagon for 13 hours while no police, or medical staff from the hospital check the dead man's car when they see his keys missing.  And I would also say the catchy dialouge Tarantino was known for is fading, as it wasn't too strong in this film. But, there are some things I would like to be explained in the 2nd film and I wait in anticipation for them.  This is what going to the theaters is all about.


                
Good lord was I disappointed with this movie. I had been waiting for months to see it and absolutely abhorred it almost from the first five minutes on. All style, no substance, filled with ridiculous, glitzy gimmicks and detours which ring as some of the most self-indulgent I have ever seen in film. Pulp Fiction and Reservoir Dogs were great films, but Quentin Tarantino was so high on himself making this picture it makes me sick. And once you get through all the gimmicks it's really a very boring movie. I probably would have fallen asleep if it weren't for the fantastic amounts of gore. The cliffhanger at the end was pretty cool, I'll give it that. At least good enough to make we come back and see Volume II. But this movie was terrible. I know i'm in the minority on this one, but it was just utter crap. Crap! CRAP!!!!!!! CRAP CRAP CRAP!!!!!!!!! Peace.1/10


                
The best of all Quentin Tarantino's movies, Kill Bill vol.1 is exciting and a breath taking! Uma Thurman is excellent as The Bride who goes after her revenge,and I think it was totally worthwhile that Quentin Tarantino delayed the start of the production because Uma Thurman was pregnant,because I cannot see other actress to be in her place!The fights, the blood,the swords, the Japanese culture, the anime scenes,are all so nice, that you doesn't want to stop watching this movie for a minute. I loved the character Go go Yubari, to see again Tarantino brand's Red Apple Cigarettes and the great actresses like Vivica A. Fox,Daryl Hannah,Lucy Liu among others who works in this movie.The plot: We see a Bride, who wants her revenge with her ex partners from Deadly Viper Assassination Squad, since they all tried to kill her,her husband and her baby. Bill never really shows his face in this movie, and The Bride's name is never told, because we need to see her only as a killer,since her story is not told yet.Interesting fact: The members of the Deadly Viper Assassination Squad are all named for snakes: Sidewinder, Black Mamba, Cottonmouth, Copperhead, and California Mountain (King) snake. Black Mamba is the most poisonous one!;)aka "Kill Bill-volume 1" - Brazil
In Texas, on the day of her wedding, the pregnant bride (Uma Thurman) is shot in the head by her former boss Bill. His squad of international assassins slaughters all the persons present in the church. The reasons are not explained in the story, but The Bride actually did not die and stays in coma for four years. When she wakes-up, she looks for payback and prepares a list of persons that must die. The first one to be killed is O-Ren Ishii (Lucy Liu) and then Vernita Green (Vivica A. Fox).  The story, a salad of Steven Segal's `Hard to Kill', `Karate Kid', Ang Lee´s `Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon' and many other films, has so many blood as `Freddy Vs. Jason', but is a great entertainment, with lots of action and black humor. The screenplay is very original and violent, a trademark of Quentin Tarentino. The story is presented in a non-chronological way, and the reasons of the massacre have not been presented yet. In Brazil, only last week `Kill Bill Vol. 1' was released in the movie theaters. I saw it in an imported DVD and I really liked it. My vote is nine.Title (Brazil): `Kill Bill'


                
Kill Bill: Vol. 1 is Quentin Tarantino's giddy homage to the movies he grew up with—the Hong Kong chop-sockies, the spaghetti Westerns, the Yakuza-samurai actioners, the Japanese anime and the American blaxploitation flicks, reshaped by the writer-director as a sort of reverie of adolescent enthusiasms. The plot has a direct-action vividness suitable for a video game that walks a pretty straight path, especially for a Tarantino film. Cleverly constructed in five labeled chapters, from "The Blood- Spattered Bride" to "Showdown at the House of Blue Leaves," the movie expounds the tale of The Bride (Uma Thurman with the look of a chiseled humanoid, in a physically arduous role) whose rural El Paso wedding is invaded by The Deadly Viper Assassination Squad and turned into a bloodbath, leaving her trembling and bloodied. Four years later, rising out of her comatose state, she sets out on an unwavering mission to systematically eliminate her former cohorts one by one, beginning with the now domesticized Vernita Green (Vivica A. Fox), and the formidable O-Ren Ishii (Lucy Liu), before tracking down Bill (David Carradine), the eponymous focus of her vengeance.Firmly in fan-boy mode here, Tarantino prepares his revenge dish like a skilled chef, chopping and tossing it in an astounding spectacle that's as alluring as the meal itself. And because it's Tarantino, the bloodletting is in full flow. With heads severed and arms lopped off, he pelts us with stylistic jabs even as spouts of red spray the screen. It is a homage all right, but with an extra dollop of ketchup! Tarantino relies on delirious, high-octane camera work, an exhilarating musical soundtrack and wonderfully choreographed sequences (watch O-Ren's origin story told as a spectacularly brutal 7-minute anime or the designed-to-be-legendary showdown between the Bride and the Crazy 88s or the final confrontation between the kimono-clad Ishii and The Bride against the floating snow-flakes) to punch up a story that never loses its intoxicating magnetism. Kill Bill is Tarantino's highly idiosyncratic and deeply personal excursion into a world of movie-inspired unreality. An unapologetic pulp scribe, Tarantino thinks nothing of dropping scores of allusions to the beloved pop culture of his youth into The Bride's universe. Kill Bill Vol. 1 is Tarantino in vintage form!


                
Kill Bill: Volume 1 marked the return of Quentin Tarantino, one of the most innovative directors of our time, after a six-year hiatus (his previous film being 1997's disappointing Jackie Brown). Even though it was split into two parts, the first two hours of Tarantino's epic bloody masterpiece still resides with me as the better of the two.While this film really does not get into much of the key story line that Volume 2 taps into, it still introduces us to "The Bride" (Uma Thurman). She's a deadly assassin who was once part of what was known as the Deadly Viper Assassination Squad. She decides to leave the squad one day, settle down and create a family. The squad feels otherwise, and their leader, Bill (David Carradine), sends the squad to kill her. The entire wedding party is decimated, and they leave The Bride for dead with a bullet in her head. Four years pass where The Bride is in a coma, and what proceeds after she awakes, is the start of a personal vendetta to kill all the members of the Viper Squad who ruined her life.It may not sound like much coming from an auteur like Tarantino, or very original for that matter, but his brilliance makes it original. Through his stylish use of dialogue, story telling, martial arts and especially camera angles, he creates an absolutely amazing film that makes us remember why he was anything to talk about in the first place (along with a beautifully drawn anime sequence). This film is something to see to believe. It has its intensely violent moments, but it's done so tastefully that it ends up looking like a modern piece of artwork, and not something horrifically violent. The choreography in every scene is just so perfect, that it cannot be seen as anything but art. His gigantic colour palate, flying between uses of black and white, to all sorts of colours, is just astonishing. It really brings into question why this film missed out on an Art Direction nomination at the Academy Awards that year (or any award for that matter). It is intensely violent yes, but the way it is done is artful and brilliant. Thurman is fabulous as the blood-soaked weeping Bride, and she makes for a great anti-hero for the ages. The way she comes at this role is just so hard-nosed and strong, that it gives wonder to where all this acting talent has been bottled up for so many years. A faceless Carradine serves as the main antagonist, and serves excellently in the scheme of things. The supporting cast, featuring Lucy Liu, Vivica A. Fox, Michael Madsen, Daryl Hannah and Sonny Chiba all are perfect in their roles, no matter how short. But the real supporting character to watch for is Chiaki Kuriyama, who first got noticed in Battle Royale. She had a bizarrely frightening aura about her there, and it translates flawlessly to her role here. For as small as the role gives her, she steals the show, and proves her worth. If only she could continue getting roles like these.Another key greatness to the film is in the music. As has become standard for Tarantino, much of it is ported over from old tunes from the likes of much older Japanese Martial Arts films. But, just like those older Tarantino films, they flow beautifully into the film. Every blood soaked arts filled image has excellent and memorable music to go behind it that leave powerful visual images in the viewer's mind. They give it an authentic and distinct feeling that is so much different than most modern Hollywood made film. In a way, it just shows how Tarantino can make every facet of the picture work, and make it visually astonishing to the eyes.As long as you can stomach the intense graphic violence, Kill Bill: Volume 1 is not one to have missed out on since it's initial release. This homage to the great Martial Art films of yesteryear is both insightful and brilliant. Tarantino has returned with a vengeance, and I can only pray he keeps it up.10/10.


                
I loved this movie, as I do all other Quentin Tarantino films, simply because it is a simple story with one central theme, revenge. It doesn't get much simpler. Usually a movie with a bland central theme will not fair to well; however, they way in which the story is played out and presented is what makes it so great. In addition to just being a brilliant story, the way music is used throughout the movie gives a quirky yet not at all out of place feel. The first volume is most definitely the more gory of the 2. Whereas, Vol.2 gives more of the back story. Also, there is a wholly different feel to the second one which is most likely why the two movies were separated even though they were a single story.


                
Gross, sickening. Really bad. You see the previews, and you think it's good. Then you go there and all it is, is people cutting of each others heads, stabbing each other, and killing each other. Blood is everywhere. 1/10


                
With a blink of an eye, or removal of one, Kill Bill delivers a masterfully and deliciously edited story of a bride fixated on revenge. Paced for a new generation, Kill Bill doesn't simply pay homage via the film genre cooking recipe, it packages each scene as if it's a "greatest hits" compilation. Don't flinch due to the sword induced refugee limbs as the storytelling is enhanced by the blood fireworks on display due to the rampage of The Bride. Uma Thurman wins as the ultimate heroine in chic glory. It's her story that Quintan orchestrates as diligently as we've come to expect. The sound track deserves merit, carrying long scenes, and has become a usual character in each Tarantino experience with that sporty retro spirit.


                
Before I watched this movie, I was intrigued by the title itself. Kill Bill. It was a one of a kind title design, simple but enough to catch attention. The action scenes were fantastic and I must say that the duel between The Bride and Vernita Green was excellent. The fight was perfectly choreographed and was realistic. The showdown at the House of Blue Leaves was a perfect climax. The casting was also perfect. All the actors in this movie did a great job in portraying their respective characters. They brought life to their characters by showing off emotions of guilt and maleficence, Vernita Green and O-ren Ishii in particular. Daryl Hannah did an excellent portrayal of Elle Driver as the guiltless and wicked assassin who has no feeling of remorse. Most of all, Quentin Tarantino proved that he is a master of his genre. He was successful in blending several film genres into one exceptional movie. The only flaw I saw in this movie is the legal implication of The Bride's actions, for example: She killed Buck and escaped from the hospital and was able to stay in Buck's truck for 13 hours without being searched (at that point the police must have traced her in the truck, unless the police in the community were not cautious enough). However that flaw was overshadowed by the movie's excellent story and intelligent conversations. The story is simple yet assertive and provocative. This is a movie that I must have watched a hundred times.


                
