"Mr. Bean", starring the legendary Rowan Atkinson, was a huge hit during its run in the 1990s, and I probably first saw it when I was around ten, shortly after it ended, so I was seeing reruns. I certainly wasn't much of a fan at the time, and didn't see too many episodes. I didn't really get into the show until my late teens, just a few years ago, which was when I finally watched every episode. Unlike before, it made me laugh many times, and since then, that has always been the case during repeat viewings of episodes! Mr. Bean is a mysterious, self-centred, antisocial, extremely naive buffoon whose best friend is his Teddy! He is pretty much isolated from society, and life is not easy for him, as he constantly struggles with very simple things! This is because he lacks some fairly basic knowledge, and has the mind of a child. He finds himself in various kinds of trouble wherever he goes, and comes up with very bizarre ways to try and solve the problems he faces! Not only does he often cause trouble for himself, but sometimes for other people as well, which he often doesn't tend to realize! In other words, Mr. Bean is a walking disaster! The humour in this show is very visual, and there is very little dialogue. The gags are almost always sight gags, which is mostly what the show is about. While there may be an occasional lacklustre gag, I would say the vast majority of them are funny, often hilarious, (there are so many highlights)! While "Mr. Bean" is certainly not the most sophisticated comedy ever made, it's still great for many of those who like visual humour, and due to the very limited dialogue, you don't even have to speak fluent English to enjoy the show, which is why it has received such a world-wide reputation! The show ran for a few years, but the episodes were made very gradually, so only fourteen were made in total. Nonetheless, it is a classic series, and deserves its wide appeal!


                
Rowan Atkinson's creation Mr.Bean has stood the test of time and will be forever etched upon the memory of those who viewed it.Living alone and appearing not to have a job of any description Mr.Bean goes around doing day to day activities in a rather comedic fashion.The mistake prone Mr.Bean induces heartfelt laughter when put even in the most simplest situations.Though he barely spoke any coherent words his jovial actions more than made up for this.Even when driving in his beloved Mini Mr.Bean still manages to cause inadvertent chaos.Not very much is known about his background but his ability to draw tears of laughter from the audience at his funny shenanigans is well known.Before he found fame Nick Hancock can be seen in a couple of the episodes


                
Rowan Atkinson delivers an unforgettable performance as the clueless Mr. Bean who never goes far without his Teddy Bear. The appeal of Mr. Bean is largely his childish behavior and innocence. We don't know if he came from the sky or another planet. He is the kind of strange character that you can't make up quite easily. He is often alone and used to it. He has a hard time communicating through speech which might be why we only hear his grunts at times. There are other characters who speak to him and he responds. The character of Mr. Bean is a mystery and still is. He lives alone and does the unthinkable when he can do the sensible thing. Mr. Bean is rather an odd man out who does not mind it much. He rather live a simple life with his yellow car and teddy bear and hopes to get to work on time.


                
This TV series is about a foolish and unconventional English gentleman who gets up to all sorts of merry mishaps.I remember watching Mr Bean with my family back in 1990, when I was still a child. My family laughed so hard at every episode, and the contents of which still come up in our daily conversations twenty years later. The memorable scenes which are still in my head include Mr Bean attempting to get out of his car park, shooting out the lights, counting sheep, and him in the swimming pool. We bought all the Mr Bean videos on VHS, no mater how expensive they were. It was worth it because we watched them over and over again! It is so rare to see a very funny TV series that is suitable for all ages.


                
Because Mr. Bean almost never speaks, I heartily recommend using a DVD player with the teacher holding his finger over the pause/play button. At the end of any age group's lesson, simply devote 5 minutes to pausing and playing the DVD, encouraging students to shout out the answers to "What's this?", "What will happen?", "What's happening?", "What's wrong?", or any other question that elicits responses from that lesson's new vocabulary and grammar.Because everyone's looking at the TV, normally shy students become vocal. Because the DVD can be started or stopped at any point, it's a perfect "filler" for the awkward "between" times while students are leaving and arriving.I tried other DVDs, notably "Tom & Jerry" cartoons and Red Skelton DVDs, but no others were as good as "Mister Bean" at holding students' constant attention.


                
Rowan Atkinson has created one of the most original characters in modern times. Ever since the invention of talkies, there have been few iconic silent characters. We had Harpo Marx, but he came with his brothers. This is truly a unique creation.The best thing is that he is not a nice guy. His selfishness is half the fun. His childlike persona contrasts perfectly with his selfish actions.The least appreciated part of Rowan's performance is his physicality. It takes a lot to do so much physical humor and look so easy doing it. In fact, that's the reason that Rowan is unlikely to continue this character as a long term project.


                
Now this is what I call pure fun! Hilarious, entertaining, non-stop laughable actions<U+0085>a really ingenious 'invention' the world has ever seen in the 20th century. I remember watching it for the first time in the early 1990s, actually unintentionally when I waited for my favorite game show in a national TV station. It didn't appear, instead an unfamiliar title showed up, 'Mr. Bean'. What the hell is this, I thought. And man, soon my hesitation all blown up. And pretty soon too, the world as we know became fall in love with the British guy who apparently came out of nowhere.Mr. Bean, simply put, is really a different type of most comedy shows you've known. You won't get bothered with long tedious lines struggling to make you laugh, for it simply relies on comical gestures and other non-verbal communications to exploit your joke instinct to the fullest – and trust me, it really works. Rowan Atkinson – who plays Mr. Bean – is truly a genius man to do the role. He has in fact a gifted special talents, even his natural mimics are enough to make you jump from your couch crying for joy, for he sends the long favorite stars like Jim Carrey and Eddy Murphy back to elementary school. Just call it the modern and colored version of Charlie Chaplin if you want, only he is British – Hollywood, eat your heart up –, and it's really the most successful 'British invasion' since The Beatles.If there is one thing I would frown upon the most is nothing than its extremely limited episodes. It was shot between 1990 and 1995. Well, you might think that five years period should enough to produce hundreds of episodes and numerous seasons, but not for Mr. Bean, which could only make it to 14 episodes! Could you believe it, 14 episodes in 5 years, that's less than 3 episodes a year in average! Though apparently indeed not intended to broadcast on weekly basis, one couldn't help but keeps wondering why the series saw only a handful of episodes into reality. Fear of being flopped? That was clearly nonsense; even after Mr. Bean went worldwide they still did not make new ones. So, if you happen to see one of Mr. Bean's episodes on broadcast, it is obviously nothing more than a rerun.But, still, in general, if you want pure fun and plain laugh, look no more than Mr. Bean. It has been indeed endlessly rerun on various TV stations worldwide, including in my local stations, but I could still have fun every time I watch it again and again, and it's very likely that you will too. Even if you have a limited knowledge of English it shouldn't matter. Lack of verbal dialogue lines and heavy reliance on physical gestures makes it fully comprehensible and understandable universally by everyone – regardless of the culture and age. It is truly a fun without borders. So, if you are those who still have no idea what Mr. Bean looks like, go to your local store and grab the rare gems while you still can, and get ready to save a lot of leisure time – because it might be a while before we could see a true fun as good as Mr. Bean.


                
This is a genius idea, a comedy with no sound, every episode always seems to make you laugh. The series didn't have enough episodes, it deserved a lot more. It was nice that it was revealed in the animated series that the opening was Mr Bean getting dropped from a spaceship and we find out that he's not a alien.
Rowan Atkinson is at his best here in this cleverly done comedy that has wide appeal. It's suitable for all ages, classes, nationalities etc. There's not much dialogue, so you can enjoy it even if you're deaf or can't understand English.The protagonist's interactions with various people are hilarious. This was followed by two films. They're good - but nowhere near as good as this is.


                
Loved and hated both here and in the UK in equal measure there can be no doubting that Rowan Atkinson's oddball creation has become part of culture.There are some brilliant moments of comedy in these episodes, where even the most simple of situations can lead to ridiculous outcomes.It's simple humour, but it's humour that will continue to entertain for many generations to come because it's often non verbal. We predict what Bean is going to do before he does it.I know he's a love/ hate character, but I for one really enjoy the antics of Mr Bean.


                
