1960 was in a way the beginning of modern horror. Before that, horror movies featured monsters and mythical creatures, and monster movie was synonymous with horror movie. This all changed in 1960 with the release of this movie and the inferior, controversial, career-destroying Peeping Tom. These movies showed the worst kind of monster: a human being.The plot follows that Marion Crane (Janet Leigh) embezzles money for herself and her boyfriend, Sam Loomis (John Gavin). She stays overnight at the Bates Motel, run by Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins). It's not a surprise to anyone that Norman Bates is the villain of the movie. That is one of the primary problems with this movie: Norman is the only likable character in the entire movie. He's handsome, but shy and misunderstood, so he can't have a relationship outside of his voyeuristic fantasy life. This is a grave contrast to Marion Crane, a sleazy, immoral character.All is going well to this point; it looks like it might get interesting, but starting with Marion's murder, it takes a 180. Her murder is one of the worst (not most brutal) I've ever seen. While the killer is supposed to be stabbing her to death, the camera jerks all over the place. Epileptics should definitely skip this part. John Carpenter did a far better, less obvious obscuring of graphic murders 18 years later in his Halloween.The movie then goes from bad to worse, as we observe some of the going ons in a small town, with Sam and Marion's sister, Lila (Vera Miles). Here is where it gets really boring, showing us inconsequential pieces of small-town life. Unlike Halloween, which was based on the introduction of a madman into the everyday life of babysitters, Psycho's second half is little more than filler. There is essentially no connection between the first half and the second or between the second half and the first. It just meanders for a half hour or so.The climax really comes out of nowhere. The special effects aren't that good (in fact, they're awful), but it is the best part of the movie: Sam tackling knife-wielding, cross-dressed Norman and the following scene providing a glimpse into Norman's mind, something that nothing before that had done.
I do not get why this movie is so popular. I wouldn't watch it again either not only because the movie is black and white, but also the story is simple, but crazy. It do not get into time nowadays. But still the actors were good. I knew this movie from my parents but I expected also a bit more than the movie showed. What I actually like is that the movie is about real happenings, so that it interesting on the other side. It wasn't very exciting. The audio is cruel from todays view, but great for older times. The story was not awaited and simple. So for me it is a movie which was good in times before I lived, but I would rather watch horror movies that are in cinemas today.


                
Granted, this movie might be of a lot of artistic value, with all the cinematography amongst other things, and also it might have scared a lot of people in the older generations. But I don't see any reason why this movie should be rated 1st amongst the Horror movie genre top 10 in contemporary times. Imagine an average Joe who wants to spend his precious weekend day watching a good horror flick with his girlfriend to get to cosying up. He would expect the no. 1 in horror genres on IMDb to be pretty scary to say the least. Not only did this movie failed to "horrify" the both of us, we did not find this much of an entertaining thriller as well(as it is just that--a thriller). Not sure why it's listed in the horror category. Do not recommend this movie if your situation is similar to what I described above. Maybe if you're a movie enthusiast who loves the cinematographic detail, go ahead...


                
