This famous film with known story tells about Marion Crane(Janet Leigh),she works in a Phoenix(Arizona)office,when his employer trusts her a money.Seeing the opportunity to take the cash and beginning a new life along with her fiancée Sam(John Gavin).Larcenous Marion leaves Phoenix and heads with her car toward California where her lover with debts is owner a store.When is caught in a storm and pursued by a policeman,she leaves the highway and enter to Bates hotel.The hotel with twelve rooms (and 12 showers) is managed by a strange young who seems to be submitted by his overbearing mother,she's leaving into a creaky mansion nearly to hotel.Then,rare thing start to happen.Later a detective named Arbogast(Martin Balsam),her sister(Vera Miles) and Sam(John Gavin) are looking for to Marion,asking help to sheriff(John McIntire).Psycho was not only Hitchcock's biggest successful movie,but was a phenomenon in its own right.The picture is a magnum opus of the terror genre and its immediate impact and its future influence was enormous and cannot be over emphasised.It's the quinta-essential shocker that initiated an authentic sub-genre about psycho-killers continuing until nowadays.The shower images is one of the most studied ,copied and analysed sequences in cinema history and has obtained a notoriety what exceeds of the movie itself.Terrific performance by Anthony Perkins in an immortal role as Norman Bates and sensational Janet Leigh with Oscar nomination included that was the only one of her career.Inventive and superbly constructed plot,filled with delicious black humor, by Joseph Stefano based on Robert Bloch's novel.The highlight film is,of course,the shower scene,it was made 70 cameras to shot the 45 seconds of footage and the creepy sound effects were realized by stabbing a knife into a melon.Magnificent main titles by Saul Bass,he's usual on Hitcock films.Excellent black and white-Hitch thought it would be gory in colour- cinematography by John Russell.Bernard Herrmann'legendary musical score copied and endlessly imitated aids to create a thrilling atmosphere.Film is directed with exquisite taste and intelligence by the master Hitchcock who makes an impeccable control of every scene and maneuvers your emotions, infusing with a deliciously macabre wit,it makes ¨Psycho¨far superior to the several movies what tried duplicate,these are the following: PsychoII(1983)Richard Franklin,PsychoIII(1986)Anthony Perkins and for cable television:PsychoIV(1990)Mick Garris.Psycho'Hitchcock belongs his best period in the 5os and 60s when he produced his finest work,perfecting the art of suspense in a series of masterpieces,Dial M,Rear widow,Vertigo,North by Nortwest,Birds and specially Psycho what are still studied and copied today.Rating: Indispensable and essential classic movie.


                
i had to give another comment on Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho. in my first comment i said it was ok, but one night i had nothing to do and Psycho was on so i watched it and this time i loved it i saw the sequels first and saw the boring remake first so all the suspense for me was gone watching the original, but now i see what a classic Psycho really is, Anthony Perkins was great and is so under rated as well, i give Psycho 9/10


                
The best way to approach Psycho would be with no previous knowledge at all. As it is, the shower scene has become one of the most notorious film shots of all-time, and the secret of the Bates family is no longer quite so secretive.However, even with this in mind, this is an amazing classic : the original horror movie.  Hitchcock has always been the master of suspense, and Psycho is just about his most sinister ever.  From the Gothic setting - the imposing mansion on the hill - to Norman's boyish manner and tortured intensity, Psycho delivers.And if it doesn't make you scream (or at least think twice before talking to that self-effacing stranger), nothing will.  Psycho truly is an incomparable portrait of a mind twisted into homicidal mania that fully deserves the accolades it has always received.


                
Only a week ago I sat through this movie in my English class and lets say that I was anticipating a whole lot of scares that worried me.The way the movie switches from calm to kill works well and I like the use your imagination rather than the gore.But the shower scene though great would have been pointless without the eeh eeh eeh music.The other psycho score was to up, down, fast, slow and was unmemorable and unhummable.The fact was that even though I saw the finale (lacks luster) I missed the revelations at the end (because the teacher left and people then started talking and throwing things) I want to see this movie again now! Its the only horror I've sat through other than the mummy/returns not that I'm a wuss I love scary games Half life 2 anyone?


                
I do not enjoy seeing black and white movie, by chance my cable tv shown this movie couple of years ago then i decided to watch it.I do not really know what this movie is all about until i see the part where Bates talking to his mother and i assumed the person is really his mother. A rather strange and make me guessing as the shower scene come out and the famous tune "ing ing ing ing, deng deng..." It makes glue to my sit and watch the entire movie instead.At the end of the movie, i then realised the mother is already dead and Norman Bates is considered as a person with psychiatric problem who impersonated his mother. It is really shocking and make me feel this movie is a must see thriller.Then the remake appeared and of course the audience will know what happen. The difference? colour,sound. The old movie is much more glim and dull with mono sound.8 out of 10


                
I'm not a fan of Hitchcock's works but I have to admit that I really enjoyed this one. The plot is intriguing and makes you watch the movie with interest till the very end.The cinematography isn't perfect but I'll omit this fact because after all Psycho is from 1960 and no one expects its cinematography to be as good as the one in the movie from the next decades.The acting was good. Of course there are a few scenes with overacting such as the one where Marion gets murdered but that's not of vital importance for the overall acting in the movie.The plot is as I already said intriguing and well thought. It is the greatest thing in this movie and is there probably the only reason why Psycho is considered an all time horror classic.
I had seen the shower-scene, I'd seen small parts of it, but never really the whole film in a dark room, until recently. The movie from the 60's, made by one of the best known horror movie creators, Alfred Hitchcock is probably the scariest movie I've ever seen. The guy who took horror to its new higher levels, Alfred Hitchcock, the master of suspense. It all began in 1957 when a farmer named Ed Gein wasn't considered much more than a local eccentric was visited by the police. They were working a missing- persons case, found a bloody body in his barn, four chairs upholstered in human skin, a vest made out of a woman's torso and a soup bowl carved from half of a scull. Gein told the police that he liked to take things apart, to see how they worked. Robert Bloch, an author, read the newspaper stories and got the idea for a mystery novel. The first would be that the person likely to be a heroine, a pretty, impulsive thief named Mary, and a crazy woman who would turn out to be a crazy man. The movie "Psycho" begins with titles informing us of the exact place, date and time. The script developing quickly we meet Marion Crane, a young secretary who's just finished up her hotel-room "quicky" with Sam her lover. If we're watching real close, we can see that she's wearing white underwear, the pure and angelic color. She goes to her office and hears a vulgar client brag about the house he's about to buy in cash as a wedding present for his daughter. We don't really think that Marion is going to run off with the money, because she seems so nice, so honest, but off she goes with $40,000 to marry Sam.On the run she eventually calls it a night and goes to the Bates Motel, meeting Norman, a nice, charming young man who kind of takes care of Marion, giving her food and is very happy about seeing her. The dialogue between Marion and Norman is wonderful, if you listen carefully you'll hear all about "private traps", "going a little mad sometimes" and "struggling to escape and never budging an inch". When she's in the hotel, she's wearing black underwear, and I think that it kind of is a symbol for the contrast between her pure and good, and then when she's taken the money her underwear is black, dark and bad. She goes into the shower, and all though it's been analyzed endlessly I think it looks far more disturbing for what it really means. Marion has at this point, decided to return the money and face the consequences. So, does she really deserve to die? Hasn't she just decided to make amends? Norman who unknowingly tosses the $40,000 away, cleaning up his mother's work, doesn't he deserve to make the escape Marion couldn't? I think that in this movie, deserving something has nothing to do with it. It kind of reflects upon if our lives have a divine purpose or not. That we're just pointless spans driven by primitive needs. Are we animals?Look at the names, she comes from Phoenix (a bird), her last name is Crane (a bird), Norman keeps a stuffed owl in his office, her room is full of pictures of songbirds. Why does Norman say "You eat like a bird"? If we look at Hitchcock's next movie, "The Birds" he kind of showcases that birds are weird creatures, moving by instinct. Just as likely to fly into their own death as away from it. Hitchcock so often capture the characters facing each other in matching profiles, Marion and Norman are kind of alike names, and Sam, Marion's lover looks a little like Norman. Actual mirrors are everywhere, surprising us and the characters with unexpected reflections.And as I was watching it I couldn't help but think; is Hitchcock just teasing us with the theme of multiple personalities? I don't know, because he doesn't provide us the answers. The private detective who goes looking for Marion falls down the stairs after being slashed, Lila, Marion's sister snoops around and finds an album in Norman's bedroom, but Hitchcock cuts away before we can see the inside. Lila finds the "mother" in the end, and we get explained why Norman is the way he is by an "expert" who's explanation is so flat and unconvincing that I actually started to think that it was the whole purpose, because then we get to see Norman, or "mother". The movie is strange and goes against all of the normal plots. We liked the heroine, she got killed 40 minutes in. The detective was saving the day, he was killed too. Then we thought, okay, so Sam and Lila will fall for each other, no they didn't. A happy ending at least? If you think that the bad guy, or woman now, smiling in the end of the movie is a happy ending, well, then you got your treat, but I think it's rather scary.I was scared to be honest, I mean, the worst horror movies are the kinds that are realistic, the ones where we kind of think that it could actually happen. I mean, think about it for a second, how much more realistic is it that there's a man living next door who's a serial killer, a real psychopath rather than a corpse climbing out of the dark? I think that what makes this movie scary, is that it's totally realistic, and it shows us that the darkness of this world, of the human mind can be just as scary even though it was a low-budget film.
I generally find the oldest movies are overrated just because they are "classics" but this truly is a classic. It may be slower than most modern movies today, although you really follow the plot, and feel the evil and insanity that lies within Norman Bates. The only problem I found with this movie was it had a little bit of a slow start. Once the movie gets rolling though it becomes a suspenseful thriller filled with memorable scenes, some you may have seen with out even watching the movie. The movie contains a great sequel 22 years later that holds up just as good as the first. You will feel like this was the first real horror movie ever made (although it's actually not) This truly is a timeless classic. If your a horror fan or even just a movie fan in general you must watch this, you want regret it.


                
Definitely a major classic! This film by Hitchcock is for sure one of the major classics of all times in movies' history. The argument is very good, the plot is well constructed and if we forget about the dated production we really have a great film.It's a mystery-horror story that grabs you until the end. Of course that I already knew the final twist even before watch it (because of this film being so fairly known), so it wasn't really a surprise; but I guess that if I was seeing it for the very first time without knowing anything about the movie it would be different<U+0085> I bet I would be surprised! Anyway, the story is good, the characters are quite known (who didn't heard about "Norman Bates"?!), the acting is fine and the soundtrack is a classic! Fantastic! Those string sounds are effective to create suspense! There's no doubt that this movie is "the father" of the modern horror! It clearly inspired many horror movies from the 70's and 80's and is still being a reference!


                
Super good movie with tense conversations and a great lead performance


                
1 of the best screenplays ever written by the writer. 1 of the very most iconic music themes ever composed by the music composer. 1 of the more dominant directorial demonstrations ever put on display thanks to the original master of suspense, the director. 1 of the heroic early Hollywood performances by either sex ever adorably attributed to the insatiably gorgeous goddess Janet Leigh and her perfectly crafted physique and soft face with insanely gorgeous bright (colorless) piercing eyes plus Janet's shirtless in her bra plenty. Psycho is 1 of the early forms of erotica with Janet's sultry, vivacious body of work here again, all praise be to Janet Leigh, Jamie Lee's mom! 1 of the great black and white movies of the time thanks to it being made in 1960! 1 of the great story concepts ever for a film! 1 of the scariest films ever shown. The BEST murder mystery ever told. The GREATEST spookiest serial killer portrayal ever seen all thanks to Norman Bates, I mean Anthony Perkins, and it probably always will be because I just watched Split the other day and trust me James McAvoy does not even compare even though I love Anya Taylor-Joy! 1 of the great horror villains ever thanks to Norman Bates and his crazy momma, and lastly and most incredibly and world renown, 1 of the most memorable, unexpected and most potent, shocking scenes ever seen in a film (let alone shower scenes) with the peephole and the gorgeous Janet Leigh and the shower curtain and the shower head and the knife and the wig and the robe and the blood and the water and the drain. I love Janet Leigh! The 1st half of Psycho is pure mastery, and the second half unfolds real nice. I love Vera Miles!
Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho is a god tier horror movie and I'd say its probably the best example of classic horror. The story has at this point been told and remixed 1000 different ways over the years but because of Alfred's understanding of human fear and his incredible skill as a director no other film maker can come close to creating as captivating of a psychopath as the infamous Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins). I love the symbolism in the very last scene where Norman sits alone in the chair and claims he'd never hurt a fly. Very clever and unorthodox camera angles keep the viewer on the edge of their seat while watching this film especially during the scenes where Norman attacks his victims and the famous shrieking sound effect begins to play. If you have never seen this movie and enjoy horror movies it is definitely worth watching. Even though compared to current film it may seem dated because of the lack of special effects and computer animation the rawness and great use of music and sound effects by Hitchcock make this slasher flick stand the test of time.


                
Marion Crane (Janet Leigh) leaves town with money that isn't hers. She's driving to see her boyfriend (John Gavin) and run away with him. She stops overnight at the Bates Motel run by Norman Bates (Anthony Perkins) and his cranky unseen mother...I don't deny that this movie is masterfully done by Alfred Hitchcock--the direction here is incredible. The justly famous shower scene and the murder of Arbogast are still shocking. The music score by Bernard Herrmann fits the film perfectly too. It's all well-done...but I'm not crazy (sorry) about it. Maybe it's because of my first time seeing it. I saw it in third grade on late night TV. The shower scene was completely cut out as was the explanation at the end! I was totally lost. So I thought it was a stupid, pointless movie. It's neither of course but first impressions are hard to ignore.This is one of Hitchcock's true horror films. It was made in black and white on a low budget with a crew taken from Hitchcock's TV show. Also most of the cast took a cut in pay just to work with him. No one thought this would work but it's now considered a classic. I like it a lot but I find some of the acting stiff (Vera Miles and John Gavin especially) and some boring sequences. Let's face it--we all know Norman is his mother so that sort of lessens the movie. Leigh is good in her role and Perkins is just incredible in his. He rightfully plays Bates as a shy awkward little boy--but you see the madness lurking inside him. A truly great performance that came far too soon for Perkins and (sadly) destroyed his career. It's worth seeing of course but I consider "Rope" or "North by Northwest" as being much better films. Ignore the stupid R rating this still carries--it would get a PG-13 today. Recommended."We all go a little mad sometimes." "My mother...isn't quite herself today."


                
These days horror movies are filled with creepy settings and jump scares and people think that's what make scary movies. But before all this, in a simpler time, there were movies like this one. Where the plot itself was scary and creepy. Where the acting showcased the unsettlingness of the scene and gave you an uneasy feeling in your gut. This was one of those movies, without CGI or monsters or supernatural things. What happened to Norman could happen to anyone, and anyone could be affected by people like Norman at any time. That, the fact that this could happen to you (the audience member), was what was scary.
I would like to first start things off by saying that Alfred Hitchcock knew how to create suspense. With the movie psycho it completely frightened the audience when it was first showed in the theaters. Hitchcock for sure was the master of obsession in the movie psycho.
Also any other movies he created for that matter. Psycho was also the very first movie to show an actual toilet. This movie was very important to Hitchcock that he even had a strict entrance policy. Plus the movie made him 32 million for how successful it was. I loved the movie and the suspense it gave me. Psycho has to be one of the top three of my favorite movies. I wonder if Hitchcock had to fight with his production crew to make the movie?
A-Z Horror Movie of the Day..."Psycho" (R - 1960 - US)Sub-Genre: Slasher/Thriller
My Score: 8.3Cast=7 Acting=10 Plot=8 Ending=10 Story=9
Scare=7 Jump=6 F/X=7 Intense=9 Twist=10A Phoenix secretary embezzles $40,000 from her employer's client, goes on the run, and checks into a remote motel run by a young man under the domination of his mother. "I think I must have one of those faces you can't help believing." This was where Alfred Hitchcock to the line you could not cross in censorship and buried it behind the Bates Motel. Considering the movie is almost 60 years old, it can still hold up with its intensity and terror. If you haven't seen this, then you must have gone a little mad...we all go a little mad sometimes. This is a must see for any horror movie fan!!


                
I've recently finished watching Bates Motel and it's great to look back to this film for the original reference. Probably Hitchcock's best known film and icon for the 'shower' scene. Perkins superbly convinced the audience of his calm easy going, mama's boy persona. Hitchcock was never afraid to explore the taboo or lightly delved into
Psycho is a perennial horror classic for good reason. Its best scenes are among the most iconic in the genre and remain potently suspenseful and visually arresting even if they aren't quite horrifying by today's standard. Going toe-to-toe with the "scare" scenes are a couple of tense dialogue exchanges that are just as compelling thanks to Anthony Perkins' layered and chilling performance.The highs are incredibly high, perhaps to a fault. Connective tissue scenes in the film which have the misfortune of resting before and after some of the best moments in horror can feel a bit mundane by comparison. There is an unevenness that has become more pronounced with repeat viewings, as I find myself looking forward to the best moments rather than enjoying each on its own merit. It may be a consequence of the fact that this is a film that is somewhat heavily reliant on its mystery and eventual twist, with many moments dedicated specifically to throwing the audience off the scent. Once you've seen the movie, the tricks take on a transparency that betrays the slightly shallow nature of the story. The execution makes up for these shortcomings convincingly, but Hitchcock has certainly made other thrillers that are much richer thematically (Rear Window, Vertigo), and less reliant on a central gimmick.Regardless, Psycho absolutely shines in its best moments thanks to the excellent performances and Hitchcock's masterful direction. It certainly deserves its classic status in both Hitchcock's filmography and the horror catalog at large, even if it lacks the consistency and substance of some of his other classics.Strong 4/5


                
A story that begins with crime and ends up as a thriller. Marion manages to steal 40, 000 $ from her boss and finds ways to escape to a private island but unfortunately ending up at a motel that ended up all. At the Bates Motel, Norman seems to be a pleasant receptionist but ends up to be something totally different.
The story is a thriller that gives you all possibilities yet difficult to decipher the reality which is disclosed at the very end. A work of a pathological mind ends up taking many lives that were in no way attached to the quest for money. Sam and Lila call for the Sheriff action but in vain. Later, they plan for a surprised visit as disguised couple ending up into finding an unexpected consequences. 
Certainly this was one of best psychological thrillers of all times.
Though a shift in focus at the half-way point slows the up-until-then taut pacing and dulls the tension somewhat, this expertly directed feature is suspenseful and mysterious throughout. 'Psycho (1960)' is extremely unconventional, too. An epilogue exposition sequence feels tacked on and forced, however. It does provide some nice insight into a key character's psyche and doesn't ruin what came before. There are also some great performances, including a masterful turn by Anthony Perkins, and the score, by Bernard Herrmann, really is phenomenal. Hitchcock truly is the master of suspense and this is one of his greatest efforts. 8/10


                
I greatly enjoyed the film. I can see why this is seen as a classic.The movie has an unusual pace. The first half of the film has a different subject than the second half. And the first 30 minutes don't contain the real subject. I would count this as a flaw usually, but the movie still works. Psycho is often labelled as a slasher, but this movie is much more sophisticated and subtle. It is interesting that this movie contains themes of psychology that were contemporary at the time, but now would seem outdated and silly. I'd recommend the film to anyone.
First, I thought the music of psycho affect our mind deeply. When I saw Psycho, I was into Osycho's world and felt fear as if I was there. I think that if there are no music in this film, I will not be fear. I noticed the importance of music in a film. Second, I thought if Norman's mother killed Marion, his mother may be psycho too. Surely the person who killed Marion was Norman, but Norman was surprised when he saw the corpse of Marion. Also, finally, the Norman's smile that was possessed by his mother gave us fear. Because of that, I thought not only Norman but also his mother was psycho. Third, I thought Norman's name express not only normal but also strong connection with his mother. It is because his mother's name was Norma. The name of Norman resemble Norma very much. Finally, Hitchcock gave us much surprise. First is the scene of love's hotel. Second is the scene that Marion was killed at the first half. Third, the killer was Norman. I enjoyed seeing this film with fear.
This movie is the long version of the Japanese television series, "Tales of the Unusual". Psycho is a very complicated story, and I also can say that it's too good.I really haven't understood who the psychopath or a lead character is as the story continues because some characters on it are extraordinary. The strangely real story makes us feel all the more scared although it's supposed to be fiction.Furthermore, the weird sound of the violin can set off restlessness and fear among us. The sound is actually used by some horror games as far as I know. Also, you'll be reluctant to take a shower alone for a few days after watching it<U+0085>.


                
This is a psychological horror thriller that is regarded to be the first slasher film.A secretary steals a $40,000 from her employer in Phoenix and drives to a motel in California, where she is killed by the motel's owner. Her boyfriend, her sister and a private investigator look for her. This film is very well-made and would have been ever better in colour.
A brilliant film and a classic that has most definitely stood the test of time. It was enjoyable watching a black and white movie and then suddenly realizing you didn't notice anyway. Even the actor's clothes didn't seem particularly dated - apart from those bras of Lila Crane (Vera Mills) - but hell, Madonna was wearing those things only a few years ago. What I love about Psycho (and a lot of the older thrillers/slashers) is that it manages to invoke fear and intrepidation without gallons of blood spurting around the room, bones being sawed with grizzly sound effects, close ups of heads exploding etc. Having said this, Psycho did set a new bar for 'violence' and 'sexuality' in movies (apparently Hitchcock had quite a time persuading the studio to let him make the movie). The music is such an integral part of this movie and hits just the right tones denoting 'something really scary is about to happen' or 'it's OK,no one's about to be hacked to death but don't let your guard down'. I did 'jump' on a couple of occasions and that's kudos to Hitchcock's brilliant mastery of suspense. Vera Mills was extremely good but I found her 'guilty' acting a little overblown. What can I say about Anthony Perkins as Norman Bates? Nothing really, he was fantastic. He portrayed the many sides of his troubled character perfectly and was extremely convincing as an 'innocent, sensitive, naïve Mummy's boy'. Other elements that make Psycho so revolutionary and 'deep' include the exploration of family 'bonds', the results of introducing a new family dynamic, and the idea of 'split personality disorder'. If you haven't watched Psycho in a couple of years, I urge you to rent it again and re-visit what I can only describe as one of Hitchcock's masterpieces.
