Let me start by saying that the bizarre atmosphere created in this picture is one of the most fascinating of anything I've seen in science-fiction. The debates between the characters are intriguing. The journey into "the zone" is one of the finest dream pieces I've ever seen on film. The problem is that these parts cannot save the whole. STALKER contains far too many mood sequences in which the plot takes a break and poetry takes over. The film's symbolism is all glaringly obvious and can't justify the monstrously bad pacing. The ending is also a major let-down. What the hell happened? Tarkovsky started his carreer with brilliant promise. Then it all went to hell with SOLARIS. This is better (in spots) than SOLARIS, but not much better. The story could have been told more effectively in the space of 85, just over half its running time. I usually enjoy long movies but this one was death due to pacing and an overdependence on "meaning." Skip this and see ANDREI ROUBLEV instead.


                
People who suffer from feelings of inadequacy long to convince others that they are aware and sophisticated, and it's people like these who claim to appreciate films like 'Stalker'. "It's directed by Andrei Tarkovsky" they'll tell you. "He's an auteur. This film is a classic." Those who attempt to impress by portraying themselves as intelligent and knowledgeable run the risk of associating themselves with another classic, Hans Christian Andersen's 'The Emporor's New Clothes'. 'Stalker' is described as science fiction but has nothing to do with science, in fact it is difficult to decide what category it should belong to. My apologies, that should read genre. It's not an action film, that's for sure. And it's certainly not a comedy, unless I recall what I paid for the DVD, in which case the joke's on me. A case could be made for calling it a psychological horror, as the director has made a creditable attempt to bore the viewer into a psychotic meltdown. Stung by criticism of his 'masterpiece', Tarkovsky is quoted as saying "The film needs to be slower and duller at the start so that the viewers who walked in the wrong theatre have time to leave before the main action starts" and "I am only interested in the views of two people, one is called Bresson and one called Bergman." These are two other directors you're supposed to venerate, in case you didn't know. I don't feel the need to pretend that I enjoyed this film, unlike those who try to pass themselves off as intellectuals. I sat and watched all 155 minutes, and as the mind-numbing tedium continued, I was reminded of an ex-work colleague who, when confronted with something which didn't meet with his approval, would snort "Crap with a capital K!" On reflection, I consider these words to be an accurate summary.


                
lets get one thing straight, this is an art film for art/academic people. therefore if you're looking forward to watching a sci-fi film then forget it it takes the stalker around 9 minutes to get out of bed. then he meets up with some blokes who want to go to 'the zone'. he then takes them to 'the zone' in some kind of rail cart and we are treated to several minutes worth of railway clamping sounds. these blokes then hang about in a field yes we can discuss all the philosophical meaning behind it but lets face it.. it's like 'last of the summer wine' set in Russia, with no fun or enjoyment of any kindokay i'll admit some of the shots are beautiful but if a film is about audience satisfaction, then this is not a film. it's a collection of long drawn out artistic set pieces. also the whole non diegetic sound thing doesn't work as well here as it did in Solyaris for exampleyes this is experimental cinema, but to be graded alongside conventional film and be given a rating of 8.something is highly unrealistic and misleading to a film layman who might be coming on this website to discover a new sci fi movie to enjoywhat irritates me as well about movies of this kind is that they are often wielded by creatively limited people who want to impress with their wide appreciation and knowledge of cinemabefore watching this film a friend of mine who is an absolute film connoisseur in every regard gave me some advice. he told me that if i want to have a good sleep then i should watch stalker


                
This was in fact the most boring film I have ever seen in my entire life. I am not a hater of slow paced movies-- my favorite film of all time is 2001: a space odyssey-- but some movies, like this one, manage to drag you through what seems like five hours of mud without any payoff that you expect from a movie directed by a snail. This film very easily could have been a short story or a novella as the whole film was just simply walking and walking and then an occasional pause that the characters would take to reflect on universal truths and the meaning of their lives. Two hours could have been edited out. There are shots that last over five minutes where the camera does not move the least bit, and there seems to be no motive whatsoever for this decision. I felt many waves of pretentious as I sat through these laboriously long takes that gave the impression that the director did not in fact no how to build tension or emotion in a scene, except by letting the characters handle it. This works in Woody Allen movies, but in this film since the dialog is so repetitive and there is rarely any dramatic movement from the characters, you are left with the urge to gouge your own eyes out. I would rather eat my own flesh than watch this pointless exercise in pretentiousness and boredom. This film could have been a short play or a magazine article, and saved us the pain of watching three characters do the same thing over and over again in a series of mundane and repetitive shots. The lighting was awesome.


                
The opening scenes are incredibly drab, filmed in sepia tone, as some characters engage in uninteresting conversations in a gray, depressing, and filthy city. After a while, the characters escape to a forbidden place known as the Zone, which is in color (like Oz) and has trees, flowers, and flowing streams. While the change in scenery is welcome, the characters continue to blabber on and on and on, sprouting boring and pointless philosophy. Tarkovsky has to be one of the most self-indulgent directors ever. It's torture having to sit through this heavy-handed and depressing film, especially at a length of nearly three hours. Put a restraining order on this stalker.


                
This movie made me really, really angry. Not because it's almost unbearably boring and overrated to a ridiculous extend. No, Mostly I hated it because i just finished reading the book it's based on, "Roadside Picknick". I love this Book, because you rarely come across a more chilling or atmospheric story about an alien culture meeting ours. I thought, a movie made from this book must be great, because you could do something outstanding even on a low budget. So I really looked forward to watch this one. What did I get? 3 Guys talking endlessly. It felt like being back to school and forced to watch a philosophical stage play of three hours length. The worst thing is that the strugatzki-brothers themselves screwed this up. It almost seems as if they wrote the screenplay with the intention to eliminate everything which was great about their own novel. I keep it short and give you a list of the outrageous decisions they made:IN THE BOOK the main guy, Roderic, is a hard-arsed scavenger who is sort of addicted to the bizarre Nature of "the Zone". IN THE MOVIE, he is a whimsical, bible-quoting coward in search of some sort of divine illumination. IN THE BOOK, you experience the deadly traps and anomalies of space and time the "Zone" is contaminated with. IN THE MOVIE, you don't see SH*T and nobody even hurts his ankle -- despite HOURS of dialogs emphasizing how dangerous the slightest movement can be. IN THE BOOK, the Zone is a lifeless industrial wasteland where not even birds are to be seen. IN THE MOVIE you have the impression of a nice stroll through a green landscape with some bunker ruins in it. IN THE BOOK, there are lots of alien artifacts that most effectively create an impression of their culture and technology. IN THE MOVIE, you get some strange sounds, also the aliens are completely reduced to a humble meteorite. IN THE BOOK, Roderics Daughter is disfigured by the strange effects of the "Zone" on human beings. IN THE MOVIE she's mentioned to be mutated, too, but looks perfectly normal. IN THE BOOK, you have really creepy stuff like "the meat-mincer" or the walking Dead - IN THE MOVIE you don't.I could go on like this for hours. Let me just put it like this: If they just had made a lousy B-movie I would be perfectly OK. I don't blame anyone for screwing up, it doesn't suit me. But this Disgrace of a movie was done this way ON PURPOSE! It is simply a violation of a great Science-Fiction-Novel and can only be enjoyed by Philosophy-students who mistake everything for high art as long as it's boring enough.


                
Brilliant, intelligent, sci-fi at its best....Those were the things I heard about Stalker before renting a DVD and watching it. I had great expectations. And, to be honest, these expectations were fulfilled, somehow.Well, we have to adapt and find other uses for the things that are around us. A stone can be used as a weapon or a paper weight, a decorative piece, or a substrate for lichen growth, you got the idea, right? Now, in that vein, I would say that I found a perfect use for a movie like that. Is it a lesson in cinema? No! Is it a lesson in story- telling? No! Is it a well-crafted sci-fi story? No!Stalker is the perfect cure for insomnia. It works, it is fool-proof, and best of all, it is non-addictive. It could not be better! Fifteen minutes watching it and you'll be sleeping like a baby!Stalker and movies like it demonstrate why art, artists and "artsy things" are totally useless and even detrimental to society. They have no imagination, no creative power. They think that emptiness, nothingness, boredom are meaningful. Nothing happens, it is amazing. It is like staring at an empty canvas.... And I think that this is the problem, I know people, lots of people that think that staring at an empty canvas is meaningful, enlightening.No wonder so many raving reviews of Stalker.Watching grass grow would be more interesting, at least you would be looking at something that is alive.ON the plus side (yes, there is a plus side) the photography is beautiful. But, again, this not enough to save Stalker. The photography in this case is like the wrapping of an empty present box.


                
Based on a kind of neat science fiction story, Tarkovsky has made an unutterably boring, molasses-slow, dreary film full of portentous babble. The story is minimal, oozing out slowly over 160 incredibly long minutes. If you watch the film on fast forward, the plot picks up a bit, but not much.  Don't be confused:  this is in no way a science fiction picture. It's pretentious, talky navel-gazing by an over-indulged director.


                
I'm not one to be closed-minded about movies or art, but the the praise for this film has to be some kind of running joke. It was, without doubt, the worst film I've ever seen. Why?Nothing happened. The camera rarely moves, you can't really tell why characters are discussing things, you don't care about what they have to say as it has no relevance to you or anything you know about and every scene is stretched out ridiculously. I could not find one redeeming quality to this movie aside from the fact that it did eventually end.


                
This film is marketed as the Russian "2001."  Don't be fooled into watching it.  "2001" may be slow but it's captivating.  "Stalker" is just plain dull. Most of the movie goes like this:  Some men are walking across a field. Character A says something.  They continue walking in silence for 3 minutes. Character B responds.  They continue walking in silence for 3 minutes. Character A says something else.  You can watch huge portions of this in fast forward without missing a thing.


                
Expect hours of endless philosophical and sociological rambling. Things like out of nowhere a character starts blethering 'why do we enjoy music? do we really need it?'... Except for a young teenager encountering this for the very first time (to whom I intend no disrespect), many of us will have passed this kind of talk years ago, and is not anything profound, but supremely trite. Repeat ad nauseum.The idea of 'Zones' is a good one, but their unusualness is not displayed. And while there are a couple of lines about people having suffered because of, and in, the Zone, none of that fear is conveyed well. Characters staring past the camera for minutes is not the same as building suspense, tension or fear.Aside from a rather flat confessional from the 'stalker' at one point, the film's characters do not seem to have any substantial reason to enter the Zone. Nor is there any wider context, of the Zones, the town, other townsfolk, etc, anything that might help you care at all why 3 guys go into a dangerous, restricted area.This film is pointless (and a sad waste of good source material in the book). Basically three guys you won't care about enter a Zone, stare blankly a lot, pontificate insufferably, then the film ends. At last.


                
I am Russian born and after reading raving reviews here decided to give it a go. My boyfriend bravely joined. Well we tried our best and lasted about 40 minutes. My boyfriend fell asleep. I was bored to tears. My honest opinion unless you are high you can not watch it. Leave it to cinematography students to enjoy and search for a deeper meaning there. They might even find it. I didn't and happily switched if off.


                
I'm really amazed at how many people can be deeply impressed by such trashy films.Would any of you be so kind as to explain to me why this should be considered Sci-Fi (please, check a few dictionaries for "science fiction" first)? I cannot really see the element of fictional science in Stalker... it looks like an "art film", but the perception of the beauty of any artistic work is something purely subjective.Probably most of you love the fact that this film is interpretative and has some philosophical touch ... but is that something really "smart"? many lovers of this "masterpiece" (even Tarkovsky himself) claim/suggest that you have to be clever to understand this film... that's hilarious... one more question for the fans of this "awsome, brilliant, genial, ... & sh*t" movie: what is philosophy and why do you like it? :D


                
Don't listen to the "deep thinkers" who have rated this movie up to the top 250 (somehow). There is absolutely not one redeeming thing about this film. This movie is pure trash, but for some reason, people seem to think if they can perform a post-analysis of a movie and find some cool allegory, then that will somehow make up for a piece of trash lacking in every other department of "good film-making". Don't waste the 3 hours of your life. This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen. If anyone is wondering if I "got it", yes I "got it" but after looking through a fixed camera at 3 men sitting back-to-back, for 7 mins, who really cares if they "get it"? If you want to see a good existential movie, try THX1138 or Kontrol. Life is too precious...


                
what a waste of time...awful concept! or awful display of some less important concept. ...i now its meant to be not entertaining but i don't even know WHAT ITS MEANT TO BE??? U can easily some up the whole concept thing in 5 minuets, then why this TORTURE??. I hate (sorry) you all reviewers to rate it so high and explaining technicalities, only good thing in this movie is One or Two great scenery or cinematography. NOTHING IS EVER LOOKING TO HAPPEN IN THIS MOVIE, why did i waste my time, there are some really worst movies in the top 250 list. I adore my most favorite movie THE SHAW SANK REDEMPTION and the Dark Knight. I have seen some great slow movies too but this is definitely definitely not recommended!


                
I read some reviews and checked out the ratings, both raves, as it were. After spending almost three hours watching this film all I can say is, thank God the guy responsible for this died shortly after the film was made. Evidently all the rave reviews were by second year philosophy students who are trying really hard to seem sophisticated and intellectual. This is probably the worst film ever made. At least it's the worst I've ever seen.


                
I sat through every moment waiting for something anything to happen. This was one of the most boring mind numbing films I've ever seen. I like slow moving thoughtful films but this was a mess, the stalker mentioned rules & they never followed them. I can't understand how anyone could see anything good about this film, I did like the dog.


                
My only guess is that this is some form of torture and people are rating it high to perpetuate the torture onto others.Starting with an annoying ten to fifteen minute opening sequence of people standing at a distance, then the camera moving slowly to a door, then a man lying in bed. The film is nothing more than three guys, who were all basically the same guy, walking, stopping and talking and repeat. I often didn't know who was speaking and I didn't want to know who was speaking. Nothing happens for three hours and it's about nothing. The scene where the guys get into the so called zone area, was mildly interesting. It isn't the worst film I've ever seen, because it isn't vulgar or anything, but it's pretty close. Walk forward, do something, something happen were my continuous thoughts. One of my favourite movies takes place in one room, so I don't need action to be engaged, but this simply has no substance.
It seemed to be just one long shot of a lake. The dialog (what little there was) was stilted and without relevance (of course that may be due to the translation). The acting was... well nearly nonexistent, and there was no real plot to speak of. Stalker lasted about four hours, and over half of that time there was no movement and very little sound. I can understand desolation, but there is a point where as a director you should say, what is the story I am trying to tell, and will this story come across. In that respect the director failed. From the description it was supposed to be about a guy who guides people through the ruins of a city that was hit by a nuclear weapon. I got that there was a lake, and a phone.


                
This movie sucks. It seems a bunch of scripts crops put together. Slow, agonizing, boring and so on. The only remarkable things in this movie are citations from books, some of them religious, so you don't need to see this movie at all... This movie is highly overrated without any clear reason. Existential questions are completely lost in this movie. They could be really interesting if inserted into a real movie, a good one... I'm sorry that so many like this piece of Stalker... Please don't lose your time as I did. It's a painful experience and in the end you will discover that there are less painful ways of wasting your time. If you want to go deep into existence, try to read a good book about it instead of losing your time with this movie...


                
I'm not going to re-invent the wheel with this review, but read the reviews (I agree with all of them):"Where can I recover my 2 and a half hours of life wasted?""Cinematography 10...but a movie about nothing""Cure for sleepiness"The best one: "Must be some kind of joke."When I saw this movie, it was rated #206 on IMDb's Top 250 and it's always rated in the top 50 of most sci-fi movie lists. I would agree, "Must be some kind of joke."I think people are duped into seeing this movie because of the high rating (I was). It reminds me of the Hans Christian Andersen story "The Emperor's New Clothes." Folks give it a high rating because they want don't want to look like they didn't get it.The only thing I liked about the movie is it shows what living in the Soviet Union is like: miserable.


                
Considering I have been wanting to see this for nearly forty years it was a huge disappointment. Nothing happens. There is no meaning. There is no drama. There is almost no story. Nothing is explained. It is tedious beyond belief. The mis-en-scene which may have seemed innovative in 1979 is now tired and done far better in many recent film and tv dramas. How did the director of Andrei Rublev sink to this?


                
Sci-fi? Really?
No, this was a movie with three guys walking and talking through a green landscape with some ruins. Utterly boring and uninteresting talk. 
This is not a sci-fi movie. Nothing strange, out of the ordinary happened. There were a lot of talk that the Zone is a dangerous place, but heck no. 
Ok, maybe I watched the movie 39 years too late? Maybe in 1979 this was in fact a creepy movie? But,... nah, I would not think so. Remember the Alien, from 1979. That was a really creapy move. Ok.. so.. this was a really great art type of movie then? 
Nooo, it wasn't. Unless Sepia is considered enough for a movie to be considered art? Or unless never keeping a camera still is art? The camera was shaking during all scenes. My first thinking was that they must have done this movie in a hurry because the camera man did not even have time to fixate the camera. And you know what? Half of the movie was re-shot, because the original footage was damaged when they developed the film.So of course they was in a hurry. 
And maybe that is explaining the amateurish feeling of this movie. From it's dialogue to the actually filming and even direction. 
I don't know russian at all, and relied on a kind of strange english translation. Not even sure that was the official translation. But anyway, I felt the actors were poor, and the dialogue had no real depth. It was kind of a forced dialogue to create a sense of urgency and mysticity, but since the movie did not show anything that seemed unnatural or strange (except for the telekinetic in the end), it was just plain boring and pompous.I am sure there are people who like this movie, but because you are suppose to like a movie by I think they are far less compared to the people who pretend to like the movie. However, I am comfortable and secure enough about my mental capabilities to dare to say that this was not a good movie. It is a B-movie, made by one of the most regarded directors ever lived.
The movie is about nothingGreat art movie, but as far as science goes there was not any science or any fiction. It seemed pretty real to me except for one, one minute scene.Worth watching as an "adventure/art" movie. It's quite goodAs a drama it's cheapSubtitles are moved off the screen too fast considering the slow pace of the movie. There is plenty of time to leave them up there so you do not have to constantly rewind.I am out of words to write now, but IMDb requires more words. This is exactly how you'll feel having to suffer through this long movie about nothing. How do you write something about nothing?


                
Bad philosophy, boring idea, if that movie is a great movie then everyone has the ability to make movie.
many Un understandble scences, not suitable for anyone.


                
