Andrei Tarkovsky is a rarity among filmmakers in that he creates films that resemble elaborate (and always smartly written, beautifully shot and superbly acted) puzzles. The pieces are always scattered, and Tarkovsky relies on his viewer to bring the final element of the puzzle along with him. SOLARIS explores the boundaries of consciousness and the sense of grief (and it uses the titular planet as a metaphor for God). ANDREI ROUBLEV is a multi-layered voyage into religious belief. STALKER, however, is far more spiritual and existential than both of them.A teacher and a scientist wish to go to a restricted patch of nature - the mythical conscious "Zone" - to make their wishes come true. To enter the area and survive its numerous danger, they hire a man sensible to the Zone's thoughts and actions, a Stalker. What they find there turns out to be very different from what they expected, as they come to discover who they truly are.There's only so much you can say without getting drowned in details that would appear heavy-handed on paper but flow seamlessly on screen. Quite often, Tarkovsky reduces his characters to silence, letting their movements and eyes convey their thoughts and feelings and letting the viewer bring his own thoughts and beliefs to the film. One of STALKER's many treats is that it invites you to get carried away into your own thoughts, flowing with the images as it provides new questions to ponder... In that sense, the film is very much like a philosophical poem: a very simple surface covering innumerable layers of meaning. Yet the images Tarkovsky provides - whether filming landscapes or wide-shots or simply peering into his actors' extraordinary faces - make this almost hypnotic.STALKER is a treasure: an invitation to go on a mental ride with a poet and philosopher. A film that makes you wonder more about yourself yet without making you anxious. The few existing films like STALKER are the reason why cinema is called "art"!


                
The characters at the heart of Tarkovsky's "Stalker" are people who embark on an arduous journey only to discover that they had no idea what they wanted to gain from it. The central character is a "stalker," a man who makes a living by illegally escorting people through a restricted area to The Room, a place where their greatest wish will supposedly come true. Exactly why the area is restricted is never made perfectly clear; in the novel this film is partially based on, "The Roadside Picnic," it was a site where aliens briefly landed, and The Room was an object they left behind almost as if it were refuse. But Tarkovsky would rather not settle for such a flat explanation. To him, The Room is a place that means different things to the people who journey there, and the stark, ravished landscape they must journey through consists of the phobias and anxieties that they can hardly bear to face. The expedition the men experience is a long and often maddening one, and there are many scenes where the camera lingers on a beautifully composed shot so that the viewer can take time to understand how the characters fit into the settings and how those settings form both natural and supernatural obstacles.Andrei Tarkovsky was an artist who did not like giving solid answers to the questions his films posed. He sculpted his stories so that viewers who had the patience and self-discipline to stay attentive all the way through could draw their own conclusions. If there is any specific meaning to "Stalker," it is that we have to fully understand anything for which we are willing to alter our lives.


                
Some have claimed that "Stalker" is not a science fiction film. I'd say it's more of a science fiction film than most of what Hollywood passes off as part of the genre, most of which are simply action films with a sci-fi bent. Stalker is science fiction in the vein of the genres greatest writers like Phillip K. Dick and Stanislaw Lem.  It's pure science fiction, based on science, metaphysics and speculation, not some action fantasy or space opera that fits into the genre on the technicality that it takes place "in the future" or "a long, long time ago".   The film is slow...very slow but it has to be to put you into the mindset of the film.  After the opening 30 minutes the pacing actually draws you into the film in a more personal way more than any Cyborg-post-apocalyptic-hell crap Hollywood could spew out. This film is truly sci-fi, and truly great sci-fi.


                
i want to say somethings about the most poetic,philosophical and intuitive director, tarkovsky and his movies ,especially Stalker.first of all, we must all know that, tarkovsky is not for all. his poetic understanding of life and human and putting this understanding to his movies is unique in the world for my opinion. one of the most poetic and philosophical movies of him, Stalker is that kind of movie. it is like a poem written with objects. we must feel before we try to understand.opening sequence of film contains some kind of expressionist objects with related the moral and inner conditions of the people living in the town . the "dirty" black and white take gives the viewers ,the mood of people having nothing to live, nothing to believe and nothing to give others.and the aggressive green take in the "zone" gives another vision of the life. the camera moves very slow to make us to go into to film and feel the film. tarkovsky's usage of objects and colours is very different and that is why i think he was a cinema poet. on the other hand, in addition to this "poem written with objects", the film also has very deep philosophical content. what is life,what is human, what is goodness, what is selfishness, what is devotion, what are the bases of our civilizations etc. and people are made to think all these things, not mostly with dialogs but with objects and colours and complete vision. for example, the three objects shown while the camera goes into the water ,but actually to the heart of human being and we see one cringe, one gun and one religious icon. and these are the metaphors of the human civilizations for my opinion. and all the journey into to the "zone" and finally "room" , actually done into the human being. into our selfishness,into our subconsciousness, our badness,our goodness, our weak and strong parts. actually i can feel that , the things searched in this movie are our lost innocence . the stalker is the only people who believes something and needs to believe .and actually the journey itself is a fake. to go to the truth,faith,justice, goodness are being related with innocence in that movie. the microcosms shown poetically in the water is another metaphor shows human being's selfish behaviour. because human, destroys the things,destroys the innocence, destroys the world living around them.our today's civilization broke our strong cooperation with nature and changed this relationship to a nature disaster. the movie gives the message of the need of mercy to all the living and even non-living things in our nature. because human being's salvation is only related with that.and the need of hope, need of believe is human being's basic needs. and our modern world destroyed all the hopes and believes. the movie contains metaphors making us to feel and think about those needs.and the most critical thing is felt in the film that self-denial is the basic need in our world.and unfortunately this value is lost and needed to be re-gain.i can tell about all the metaphors in the movie but no need. because every person understand those things different like kafka's novels. and we just need to watch the movie with no prejudice but with open heart.i recommend this film to all the cinema-lovers. i recommend also not to try to understand this film. only leave yourself to this great poem and it will give you all you need.


                
For me, it's, quite simply, the best film ever made; Don't you find you can pause any Tarkovsky film at any moment and the art on your screen is good enough to have as a poster on your wall for life ? With Stalker it is doubly true. The first time I experienced the tunnel scene my heart nearly stopped. This was in 1984 I watched the TV listings in England for 20 years waiting for a repeat - finally buying the DVD in 2004, though I couldn't really afford it. Proof that a SCI-FI film does not need tons of effects to work. In a science fiction film book I read years ago they rated Stalker as the only film ever made deserving full marks in all 3 sections. Imagine if Tarkovsky had made a film of one of PKD's novels ?! OK, I'm dreaming ?! We are lucky to have been blessed by his genius. The good die young. All the best, Rich (English, 38 yrs, Paris)
It seems to me that I see Tarkovsky' movies differently from many other people. For me this film is not "too long" or boring. For me this is one of the best movies ever made.Western culture has a very long tradition of film-making. Usually typical western movie is focused on "story". (Of course - not always) The sharpness and tension of the movie are achieved by the big number of cuts or by the fast varying of shots or by the sudden varying of plans or by some surprising angle of camera etc. Tarkovsky don't like cuts. The number of cuts is minimal. His camera is moving like in dream (Bergman envied Tarkovsky for that), it has no angles at all. Colours are pale, "dirty", very tender, soft, almost black-and-white.In a typical western movie dialog is followed by the camera. Picture is illustrating text and is subordinated to it. In Stalker text and visual image are coexisting, cooperating with each-other. Both are moving on their own ways but at the same time, somehow - harmonically. Text and picture are not subordinated, they are both independent.Why is Tarkovsky using such a weird language? Surely not only because he wants to opposite the dogmas of western cinema. He has a positive message too. Audience of his films has to understand his films not only at the level of thinking or emotions, but at the level of much deeper consciousness. Therefore watching his movies means rather meditation than watching-TV-and-eating-popcorn. The purpose of Tarkovsky's films is to loose the mind of audiences, to wake it up to much deeper attention. So that audiences can simply watch and see.Stalker is not an entertainment and is not supposed to be. It means there is no sense at all to watch Stalker, when you need some amusing entertainment. Stalker is a serious movie. It is very narrow-minded to evaluate movies on the assumption of entertainment only. Of course, we live in the world of movie-consumers, produced by powerful film-companies, demanding more and more and more exciting entertainment. Consumer doesn't understand this movie. For him it is big bore.


                
This film is loosely based on Arkady and Boris Strugatsky's "Road Side Picnic," and Tarkovsky tried, as he did with his "Solaris" (1972), to downplay the science fiction aspect of "Stalker." Except for a brief explanation at the film's beginning, Tarkovsky chooses to ignore the speculations as to what could have created The Zone, and the changes within it.With "Stalker," Tarkovsky marks the shift toward his later style, with the long takes throughout the film averaging one minute in length, with many four minutes or longer. These long scenes in turn rely heavily on the talent of the actors to sustain the mood, like Writer's long monologue in the sand mogul room. In "Stalker," Tarkovsky is definitively more systematic in his use of black-and-white (sepia) and color stocks than he had been in his previous works. In the swamp scene and Stalker's dream, Tarkovsky reverts to is more usual convention, where dreams are shown in black-and-white, and reality in color. However, the last scene is in color, implying a leakage of the powers of The Zone into the outside reality.As always in Tarkovsky's films, the natural world is present. Water, which used to be the source of life, a redemptive force and a center of regeneration, is now mostly a symbol of decay and pollution. The only exception is in the dream scene in the swamp, where the water is somewhat restored to its positive symbols. In the last scene in The Zone, the men, resigned to their limitations and weakness, sit outside The Room, as the rain falls inside, gently blocking them from entering.The wind is associated with the spiritual, and the earth is a positive force. Upon arriving in The Zone, Stalker's first act is to lie down and embrace it, and in the swamp, all three men lay on it. Like a miracle, there is the luxuriant, if dangerous, Nature ever present in the Zone, in contrast to the polluted outside world, where it is totally absent.And then there is the mysterious dog, which first appears in the swamp scene. Up to this point, the men felt totally alienated from their environment, outside and inside The Zone, and it is at the very moment when they start to meditate and remember, that the dog appears: The Zone is its territory. But at the end of the film, the dog has followed Stalker outside the Zone, showing that even there, the hope that the men were looking for inside The Zone must somehow also exist here, outside, as the dog establishes its own space even though it becomes domesticated in the process.Although Tarkovsky usually favors classics by such composers as Bach, Pergolesi, or Purcell, the musical score in "Stalker" consists almost exclusively of Eduard Artemiev's electronic music mixed with some folk melodies, contributing efficiently to the hypnotic atmosphere of the film.The performances of Nikolia Grinko and Anatoly Solonitsyn, as two lost souls in search of an answer, are convincing. Aleksandr Kajdanovsky is outstanding in his role of a tormented and somewhat pathetic Stalker. Although Alisa Frejndlikh's appearance in the film is restricted to only few scenes, there are most powerful.In "Stalker," Tarkovsky opposes a world in decline, polluted and sterile, to a verdant Zone, which has gotten the better of any human enterprises. He portrays a society which has severed all links with nature, with its own past, and lost its spiritual or moral bearings."Stalker" explores the conflict between science, rationalism, materialism, and cynicism versus spirituality, faith, art, and love. The three men embody different philosophical principles. Professor is a rational being who tries to understand the world according to the law of physics. He justifies his going into The Zone as purely scientific curiosity. Writer belongs to those people who cannot accept the world as it is. He is well aware of humanity's decay and of his own as well, but he abhors science, which he does not understand, and would rather look for answers in the supernatural. Writer believes in the redemptive power of art, but he has lost his own inspiration.Stalker is alone in showing an inclination toward faith. He knows The Zone and has total faith in it, speaking about it as if it were a living being. Stalker respects and fears The Zone at the same time, as he recognizes its potential to provide comfort to the wretched ones who, like himself, have lost all hope, but at the same time it punishes who so ever infringes its rules. This, of course, is how most religious people see their own Gods.The redemptive power of love is personified by Stalker's wife. Her love and devotion is the final miracle which opposes cynicism and the emptiness of the modern world. All these ideas are clearly expressed at the film's end, as she addresses the audience in her heartfelt monologue.As the three characters reach The Room, they can ask for their dearest wishes to be granted, but this would require a painful and searching self-examination, with the realization that what they thought they wanted was not exactly what they now really want. For Professor, his true aim was to destroy The Room, which was beyond his scientific understanding. Writer had said that the purpose of his journey was to regain his genius, his inspiration. However, on the threshold of The Room, he realizes that he may not worthy of accepting The Room's gift. As for Stalker, he asks for nothing of The Room, his only purpose to make the trip being to bring hope and happiness to those most retched than he."Stalker" is certainly Tarkovsky's most complex and most beautiful film, and is worthy of many viewings to appreciate its aesthetic and depth. Unfortunately, the word limitation of this review does not allow one to explore all the intricacies of this extraordinary film and do it justice.
This movie is so strange. When i saw it, i realized that it was beautiful, that it was really good. but what really fascinates me is that some of the pictures and emotions i experienced in the movie keep reappearing afterwards. They haunt me so to say and i've got an incredible urge to watch the movie again. I've never experienced this so vividly and uncontrollable. Normally it's you who "summon" the pictures and feelings from the movie when you find cues (feelings/pictures) to it in your environment.But this movie just keeps appearing without no obvious reason at all, filling you with feelings and beautiful images out of the blue.See it and make up your own mind, could be i'm just on the verge of going mad after all ;)


                
My first Tarkovsky experience, and I'm overwhelmed by its imagery power. The film is pure joy, which, admittedly, requires some time and open mindness.'Stalker' begins when the camera navigates into a room as if we are entering an art gallery. In those images of introduction there is a strange tension between calm, peace, but also a threatening feeling of mysteriousness. It is a feeling which goes throughout the whole film, some sort of a basic flow or vibration which keep fantasy and thoughts of the viewer always busy. The picture of the three persons in the bed, the Stalker and his family, appears as a painting or a collage, showing primary luck and happiness but being now doomed to downfall. This extremely intense atmosphere is capturing and therefore very 'joyful' to watch and go through.I won't get into plot details. Just some things on the characters first: The three persons who enter the Zone are representing different kinds of human ideologies, coming along as a soul trip. We have the Stalker, the one who leads the other two into the forbidden area. He stands for individuality. He is an obsessive, a desperate who escapes his real life and believes he can only exist and unfold himself in the Zone. The writer, cynical and sarcastic, a quitter, embodies the nihilistic ideology of the civilization. The professor represents the scientific conscience.The Zone sometimes appears to be as not real, but maybe also shows the inner cosmos of the three men. Tarkowsky kind of abolishes the difference between inner and outer world by permanently switching from monologues to dialogues, from black/white to color, from close-ups to totals and the other way round.That's not it, not only a soul trip of three failed men (and in that respect of human conscience), but it's also the urge to get to the insight, the truth, the veracity of the damaging progressive human civilization. You see rotting industrial constructions and instruments, you see how the nature takes back what it has lost, captured in beautiful picture compositions (i.e. the fish in the river, surrounded by cans, a Christ figure, coins and oil).What makes the film quite intriguing is that it's not only an apocalyptic description, not only all negative. In the stunning imagery, especially the image of water, you see the miracle of life, something wonderful and esthetically very appealing.At the end, the wife of the Stalker asks him 'What would be life without harm?' A life without harm would be also a life without happiness and hope. She, who didn't want him to go, welcomes him again and brings him to bed.His daughter without legs (and that is the most powerful and enthralling shot I hardly have seen before in a film) sits at a table, we see her profile of the face, and she is silent. She looks at three cups, moves them with the power of telekinesis, one falls on the floor and breaks into pieces. Is that the will of God? The power of free will? The influence of the Zone? Do the three glasses represent the traveling men? Maybe this picture alone is the expression of the mystery of life, the question on how we effectuate, what we cause and what we shall effectuate in this world and in it's nature. Maybe it is the question on the ranking of love and passion when Stalker's wife doubts a life without harm and happiness and hope. Maybe Tarkowsky hits on his own society in the communist totalitarian Soviet Union. Maybe the film goes beyond that and doubts other promises of fortune of other societies. Maybe. Certainly.
Other reviewers have covered important points, but the essential quality of this film has only been danced around by a few.'Stalker' is not to be watched, it is to be experienced. Those who find it too long or boring are standing outside the experience, looking on. Stalker is like an ancient spiritual or healing ritual. It offers you the opportunity to enter into the process and by joining in at each step, allowing the carefully crafted pacing to work on you, come to a point of transformation. Each person has a different understanding of this film because what's in the Room is different for each of us. Every one of us has a deepest wish, usually unconscious, around which our entire life revolves. It drives all our decisions and relationships with people, things, society. And as the film makes clear, our goading wish is quite often not what we think it is - and not what we want it to be.Entered into in the right way, this film can bring you to a new understanding of yourself. You may learn something you wish you hadn't. That's what happened for me... but I'd rather know. Others may choose differently. Others may choose not to even enter the journey into their personal Zone, in which case this film will seem long and boring, like someone else's dream.Experiencing this film was a pivotal point in my life. It profoundly changed me. Like ancient rituals, this is what art - real art - is supposed to do, and Tarkovsky is the greatest master.If anyone would like to discuss this film with me, please email.


                
This film is based on a SF novel by the Strugatki brothers, called "Picknick at the side of the road" (the translation might not be very accurate). In spite of the very simplistic narrative and dramatic structure (the whole action takes place only in one day and only in three locations: the stalker's home, the bar where they meet and the Zone), this is the masterpiece of Tarkovski and probably of the whole cinema ART.You have to understand that this film is not sensational through its action, but through its metaphors and motifs. For example, the house motif, that appears in all his movies (The Sacrifice, Andrey Rubliov, Ivan's Childhood, Nostalghia etc.) also appears in Stalker, as everything that is outside the house. That means all the world that was destroyed and made hard to live in by man. Like the whole world, the stalkers home is ugly and sordid and like Rubliov he doesn't have a place to call home: "For me everywhere is a prison". Thats why he retires and finds his peace in the dangerous but alive and full of miracles space of the Zone. The Zone, sign of extraterrestrial or divine (apparently hostile) passage on earth, remains the only breathable place for man, because man hasn't reached to spoil it yet. The presence of the "wishing well" there says it all. The time in this film is as important, as in all tarkovskian art. The rhythm of the movie is given by the time that flows in it. The long frames express a relation between action and contemplation, between the meaning of that moment compared to the meaning of history. Although there are no retrospectives, the linear flow of the frames doesn't imply neither the subjective nor the objective characteristic of time. If you noticed, in the Zone they only travel in curves: "Here the shortest way is not the straight one" says the stalker to his companions. Anyway, these are few of the reasons why I think this is a masterpiece of the cinema art. For the ones that have rated this film less then "excellent" I would recommend that they see it again... and again... and again. "BUT, EVEN THEN THEY WILL NOT BELIEVE" - says the stalker at the end of his one day adventure. :) I would like to excuse myself for the spelling mistakes! (I'm from Romania :))


                
This is a masterpiece. You can tell from the fact that it would be just as good without sound, or sound without image, or even just a set of freeze frames played out.That being said, what you actually get in this film is intense and vast imagery, from the minute to the universal, horrible dankness to expanding nature, inside and outside of rooms; and what is also rare, is that NOTHING is wasted in the script, no fillers, and no retreat from exactly what is going on.The things that turn people off about it are all of its virtues, it's long, it takes its time, its script is poetry, and it doesn't shy away from talking about life.It is also complex, but does not 'try' to be complex. It's actors, all of whom are cast perfectly, especially the almost alien demeanour of Alexander Kaidonovsky (as the paid for hire 'Stalker'), are not really there to entertain you, you are there in Communist Russia walking through cold wet puddles, with little in the way of supplies, going somewhere strange, without knowing what's going to happen.If the world of film was filled with the opposite of this, which it is, one would have to search through the dross to find anything as worth while as this.


                
There could be many things to say about Tarkovsky and his films. The most important (which could be found in many comments ) is that he does not offer us a very clear interpretation , leaving us to guess, wonder and question ourselves.My interpretation of this film is that the whole trip to the Zone and to its core, the Room its a metaphor for the dangerous trip the human soul takes in searching the redemption and finally the Kingdom of Heaven. Stalker (like Jesus) is the one who shows the way to this kingdom - and there are some arguments to this idea. First, before entering the dangerous Zone, he lies on the grass thinking (or praying?), just like Jesus did in the garden of Ghetsimani before being crucified. Stalker is the one who shows who could reach the final point of this trip: not the good or the bad, but the desperate ones. Stalker is the one who fights with the professor (another metaphor for the rational and logical part of our minds) who wants to destroy the Zone, and also Stalker is the one who in the end laments over the lack of will people have to enter the Zone and to believe in its powers.There are so many powerful shots in this film and I choose only some who really got to me: 1. the destroyed tanks in the first part of the trip are for me the communist weapons who tried to destroy the faith and the church in Russia and in the other communist countries. They failed. 2. the objects shown in the water when the 3 heroes sleep near it, the money, the weapon, the tiles under the water describe the precarity of our material world. 3.the water in the film, from the beginning until the end - it is pure poetry. 4. one dialog between the writer an Stalker, the writer is saying: "who needs your room, i don't need your room" - it reminded me the dialog between Ivan Karamazov and Alexei Karamazov, the first saying to the other: "I don't need your God"But this is only one interpretation, and if it would be the only one, we would not be talking about a great great film.
Taking its inspiration from an Eastern bloc sci-fi novel entitled The Roadside Picnic by Arkadi and Boris Strugatsky, "Stalker" is a film that literally typifies Andrei Tarkovsky's approach to film-making. Mysterious, personal, elliptical, beautiful, philosophical, disturbing, inspiring <U+0096> all at the same time. But there are two factors above all others that make this film truly a work of genius. Firstly, if Tarkovsky ever intended the audience to glean one specific interpretation of his film he never shows his cards, thereby inviting every individual viewer to undergo an experience vastly different than the person sitting next to them. Secondly, "Stalker" is one of those rare films that replays and resonates in your mind long after it has finished. You may be driving along months after you last saw it, and an image or idea from the film might suddenly pop into your mind. You may be running a bath one morning and for no obvious reason find your musing about one of the many mysteries generated in the film.In a small, unspecified country, there exists a Zone where the laws of science and logic cease to hold true. The Zone was formed following a meteorite strike (or possibly a celestial visitation). Now, the border of the Zone is continually patrolled by armed guards with instructions to prevent anyone from entering. And there are plenty of people who WOULD like to enter, for rumours abound that at the centre of the Zone lies a Room where innermost wishes can be granted. Stalker (Aleksandr Kajdanovsky) makes a living by smuggling people into the Zone and guiding them through its hazardous landscape to the Room. His wife (Alisa Frejndlikh) has grown to detest his frequent absences on such dangerous jobs, more so because while he is away she must tend to their daughter Monkey (Natasha Abramova), physically disabled yet in possession of telekinetic powers due to her father's exposure to the Zone. Stalker finds himself taking two new "customers" into the Zone <U+0096> Writer (Anatoli Solonitsyn), who wishes to find fresh inspiration, and Professor (Nikolai Grinko), who claims to be fascinated by the scientific mysteries within the Zone, but is in fact on a secret mission to blow it up in order to prevent the potential for an evil person to have their darkest wishes granted at the Room.Tarkovsky presents the outer world as an impoverished, litter-strewn dump, shot in endlessly dull sepia colours, while the scenes based in the Zone are filmed in striking colour to emphasis the lush greenery. But he also makes the Zone seem permanently dangerous, with Kajdanovsky uttering cryptic warnings about its ever-changing pathways and wearing furtive, fearful expressions upon his face all the time they are there. By having his camera more often than not positioned at some distance from the characters, Tarkovsky makes the audience feel like spies and this in turn creates paranoid suspense, as if the three main characters are continually being watched by some unknown force. In the film's stunning climax, Stalker assumes messianic characteristics - he breaks down in tears and laments the fact that nobody he has taken to the Room has fulfilled their dreams. "Nobody believes. Nobody! Who am I going to take there? Oh, God<U+0085> And what's most awful is that no-one needs it. No-one needs that room, and all my efforts are just in vain". Like Jesus, Stalker is trying to convince people that they MUST have faith<U+0085>. Tarkovsky's shattering conclusion is that he cannot win in the face of a cynical society, but the one redeeming fact is that his daughter's amazing powers may give her strength to succeed where her father has not. This is challenging, essential cinema.
Reading the reviews on IMDb has cemented what I have always felt about this film and about art in general. It is not always about a "product" that sums things up in a tidy sentence or a two hour film. It is possible to criticize this film based on the conventions of the medium, but thats besides the point. Sure the stalker is the only fleshed out character, but the writer and the scientist are not even supposed to be characters to begin with. I think its fairly obvious they are archetypes that represent a conflict. Some people have said that the science versus religion thing is tired, this is missing the point completely!!!! Its the absurdity of trying to reduce any conflict to a duality to begin with. The scene where we observe them sitting together makes it all very clear. We are observing them from the very room itself, where our innermost desires are laid bare and revealed. With this insight we can see that there is no duality to begin with, but only different ways to strive towards an understanding, the characters are joined together, their separation dissolves. Someone mentioned that this film is "straining for deepness, and many a viewer will constantly feel this strain." They seemed a little confused because most films strain for this, as do most people!!!!! A successful film will always have this strain because that is part of our existence. Stalker evokes that yearning and allows us to feel it, and that is one of its best qualities I think. To actual visually embody the yearning for meaning, thats what A.T. has done here.Stalker vs. Solaris: Another point of contention on IMDb, Most people seem to like a Solaris more...all I will say is this: Solaris is much more obvious and much more straightforward. I guess people find it easier, but in its supposed "humanism" its actually quite sterile, its clean. It presents human problems but through a haze of "greatness" that you will find with a lot of art. Its filmed from a further distance is what I am trying to say.Stalker is the down and dirty, the swamp, the overgrowth, insects, water, rotting, rust. Its a much more dynamic world, just like our striving is much more dynamic than duality. Its dark, confusing, musty, a little frightening, but extremely beautiful. I would like to mention the use of the word pretentious. If you have you used the word pretentious in your review please read a dictionary and understand a word before you use it. That word is used constantly to instantly demonize something. It is the equivalent of calling someone an anti-semite. It is loaded and works against serious discussion and observation. THIS FILM IS NOT PRETENTIOUS BECAUSE IT DOES NOT ATTEMPT TO IMPRESS OR HOLD ANY GREAT IMPORTANCE!!!!!!! It just exists as it does and its people afterwords that attach importance to it. A.T. refused to ever state clearly what this film is about. So you can discount everything that I just said and anyone else said about it. Like life, like existence itself there is no clear meaning.
Tarkovsky's 'Stalker' is the film that made me fall in love with cinema; write tens of pages on movies I have watched; go to America, following a crazy dream of becoming a film director - and thus influencing my later life immensely. I had read the book by Brothers Strugatski before seeing the movie and I think those two narratives are quite different. The book supplies us with the necessary background as Tarkovski never bothers to give any explanations in his film. I will not try to persuade anyone in 'Stalker's virtues - this film is way beyond that. I am sure it will be hated by many, but - with no intention of sounding rude - I couldn't care less. There have only been a handful of movies that, in the process of me watching them, have given me the intense feeling of penetrating to the essence of things - and God at its heart - thus bringing tears to my eyes. 'Stalker' - in its tender and humane ways - is probably the best of them.


                
Stalker is the one of the most bizarre movies I have ever seen. There is a strange zone with high security levels to keep out the ordinary people. It is said once a mysterious crash from outer space happened there. It is also said there is a strange room some where in that zone with power to fulfill every dream. There are only few men how know where that room is and know the zone well enough to avoid all its tricks and dangers. These men, these guides, are called The Stalkers.This movie is a bout two ordinary men who want to go into that zone with the help of a Stalker. One of them is a writer who has lost his inspiration and ability to write. The other is a scientist who seems to be curious about the room and its mysterious power.The journey begins and we see them enter and pass through the zone. The world outside the zone is black and white but after they enter the zone every thing turns to be colored. It clearly shows the differences between the two worlds. One of them is boring and frustrating but the other has some kind of spirit inside. However we never see any other life in there except the three travelers. It is completely a new world by its special rules and order. The silence of the area by itself heightens the tone of mystery. All the time we feel like somebody is watching us, but who? Maybe because we are afraid of something that we don't know what is it.Finally when they reach the room struggles between them arises. The scientist carries out a small nuclear bomb to destroy the zone. He believes any dangerous people and rotten politician could get there and make a bad wish. Who knows the next person who wishes to go there? But the power of the movie I think starts to reveal itself here. The stalker explains this room could be a hope for many people. His life has been spent to guide people there. This room is a symbol of hope more than any other thing. At this point we start to think: does the room really have a super natural power? It seems the two travelers wanted to see that room more because of their curiosity than their believe in it.I think even the two travelers are signs and symbols. The writer is a representative of the artistic feelings of human. The scientist is the representation of logical aspect of human. Both these two parts can't find their way in the modern life. Which one could lead our lives better? Both the writer and the scientist seem confused and helpless in that room. At last they reach an agreement to leave that room alone and don't ask anything form it.They seem more like the Stalker after they have nothing to do with the room. The rain finally starts to fall over them maybe washing their sins and make them ready for a new life. The rain and water are among the key materials in all Tarkovsky's movies. I guess they are the symbols of life and its continuity.The three wretched men are the main subject of the film not the science fiction background and the story of the zone. The director wants to show us their deep emotions and feelings but not to analyze them and clarify who they are. They are like us with their ambitions and hopes. We all might be happy if we could find our own room of dreams. But after all, do we dare enough to go there and make a wish? That room is us in the mirror. It only reflects our deep thoughts, feelings and fears. It shows what we want to be or afraid to become <U+0085> It's not a usual movie to watch. All the Tarkovsky's movies are great mysteries. He is a modern poet who does not impose his ideas. It's more like an open text to read freely and with different kinds of interpretation. Tarkovsky's films are new worlds to face and would never repeat again anywhere. I think this film should be regarded as struggle of life to find a meaning for itself. But whether there is a meaning or not, no one knows the answer.At the end of the film we see Stalker's paralyzed little girl moving objects over the tables by mental power. Maybe she was able to do that because his father believed deep in his heart that room had the power to fulfill his wish. That room made him to move on and show the way to others. It is a strange end like all the other Tarkovsky's films.I rated this film 9 out of 10 and I'm sure it is well worth it.
...time i have ever posted a comment on IMDb, yup. thats right. this work of art just screamed to be noticed, contemplated, discussed, absorbed, and re-viewed many, many times. also, i want this to be on the top 250 instead of hobbits and droids.basically, a professor and a writer are led by their guide, a stalker, in a pilgrimage to a mysterious Zone, where one's deepest wishes come true. the characters wandering from a haunting sepia dystopia into the sheer natural beauty of the zone captured in full glorious colour, musing about art, life, time, honour, music, self-worth, faith and a few million other issues.i put this DVD in, pressed play and for the first 5 minutes, my jaw was cleaning the floor. that would happen many times in the next few hours. the shadows, the light, the camera 'stalking' the characters, the meditative sequences, brilliant. using basically nothing (a few haunted houses, syringes, a garden, railroad tracks, water, so much water, leaves, trees) tarkovsky somehow has created science-fiction that cannot be described in words. liked 2001? watch this. and Solaris.OK, so I'm a huge fan of tarkovsky. that should be obvious. ppl have complained that this movie is too long. i agree with someone else here who said 'too many notes? no, there are just enough.' this is what i recommend: take a chunk of time, disconnect from the world, settle down, have coffee, grass, lsd, whatever floats your boat, and just watch.remember: its the journey, not the destination.


                
What is it, where is it, how will it affect me? A guide leads to men through an area known as the Zone to find a room that grants wishes. To show no respect for this film is to sin. From a cinematographic viewpoint looking in, it's most certainly close to flawless. Tarkovsky presents to us a journey into the heart of darkness, through the eyes of the breathtaking decadent beauty of the Soviet Union's cinema, by way of what could be an exhibition in a gallery for us to breathe and to absorb. Tarkovsky is one of the most impeccable and original directors, if not the most, of all time, hailed by Ingmar Bergmam as simply: 'The Master', and Stalker represents the height of what the human mind is capable of casting on a screen. Many a time has Stalker been criticised for being too slow paced, too drawn out; but my goodness does it work. It will weld us to our seat with some sort of invisible energy the poetic acting, an awe-inspiring location, and engrossingly reflective concepts throw at us. Such wisdom, such aura, such an off- the-wall perspective laced with metaphor. An encapsulating quote from Stalker reads as follows: "While I am digging for the truth, so much happens to it that instead of discovering the truth I dig up a heap of, pardon... I'd better not name it. A man writes because he is tormented, because he doubts. He needs to constantly prove to himself and the others that he's worth something. And if I know for sure that I'm a genius? Why write then? What the hell for? The Zone wants to be respected. Otherwise it will punish." The nature of the zone itself: its mystery, its tantalising fear and its stagnant silence elevate to one of the greatest fictional supernatural worlds of all time: alongside the ranks of Narnia and The Galaxy.Looking back at some of the great moments in cinema history: the horse's head in the bed, the twist to 'You Never Can Tell', few are left out of the dust by Stalker's 'dream sequence', whereby the characters balm us with a beautiful and thoughtful script whilst the camera pans over a river filled with objects in sepia, each representing something so different, and inviting a convention of interpretation: is the Zone's room an allegory for the threshold of heaven, because there is a picture of St Peter in the river? Or is the Zone's invisible and mythical aggression a metaphor for nature's reclaim of the abandoned and the inhospitable, as the dust and sediment covers a sunken syringe just upstream from St Peter. The significance and depth of this film is otherworldly and almighty. Eduard Artemiev's score is in perfect balance with the images shown to us, mixing a sensual blend of eastern and distant melodies with the screen's mists, mosses and relics. Few films which specialise in the power of one specific emotion can conjure as much effect as Stalker does for suspense (specifically the phenomenal scene in the tunnel/meat grinder), philosophy, fear, choice and anguish.


                
Probably my favorite Tarkovsky film. This is an examination of the conscience. He physically takes us to a place that represents our conscience, appropriately called The Zone. A place where obviously the government fears us entering. The Stalker here is a Christ-like figure amongst the two men, one is an artist, a writer and the other is a scientist, a professor, both characters questioning existence and the meaning of life from their own separate but not entirely different perspectives. The Stalker feels that they both have the ultimate potential to be fine candidates to enter The Zone, a place where for very intensely personal reasons only he can venture or escort anybody who he deems fit. The naive chick with her fur coat and sports car was told that she better go back to where she came from upon introduction. However even the most wretched must know how to behave themselves in The Zone. We are confused because we are not entirely sure what it is that we want due to the conflict between our mind and our heart. Our conscience plays with us, The Zone is tricky. A stray dog without the gift of human spirit is allowed to wonder freely. We have to be like children again in The Zone.....its all poetic and Biblical, an extremely spiritual movie. I like the slow pace in which he takes us deeper and deeper to find some understanding. This is the ideal way to approach and make a science-fiction movie. This is a spiritual experience.


                
One of the all time best movies, slow hypnotizing and absorbing. Maybe one of the Genius named Tarkovsky more "acceptible" movies, but still a definitive in the philosophic and psychological movies. No, it's not your typical sci-fi movie in the American way it's more complex and deeper. Just listen to the dialogs and pay attention to details and references. Especially the moment with a text from the Revelation. And to those who find this movie boring - you just have not grown to the level of this kind of movie. It's not a Saturday Night entertainment. It's something to think about, the true existential questions and like religious revelation for the mind and poetry for the soul. Deeply personal for the director and each of us.


                
Besides all those big reasons which make "stalker" a masterpiece in cinema history and also in future , there is one thing that we all should know and thus respect to Mr. T for his immortal existence . That one thing is this "stalker" we've seen is the re-shot version after the first attempt ended up with a catastrophic result in lab process , where Mr. T lost all of his exposed film material and he had no single frame of what he shot. After this tragedy , he found this mighty power to re - shoot the whole film from the beginning until the end with of course less financial opportunities than the first one ,as the number of tanks, shooting days , etc. I think he really meant something for what he is and what he wanted to say , and proved to all of us , impossible is really nothinG. Thanx Andrei...


                
I value Tarkovsky so much that I have saved this film. Watching an important film for the first time is such a profound experience that one should pace oneself. Conceptual gluttony may not be a sin, but its unwise if you take film seriously. It provides yet stronger reasons to hang around.I've saved this film for 30 years to watch for a special birthday, and opened it carefully. It did not disappoint. I recommend it to you as something worth saving. I think it is something best encountered after enough life to register <U+0097> it surely does not surf energetic hope as most films do.Some background, if you do not know Tarkovsky. I rate him as among the three filmmakers now dead who have influenced me. Recommendations at this level can only come from personal reports of the great voyage into the unknown and how the filmmaker has led one through dangerous, oracular terrain. It is what Tarkovsky does for me, as the most cinematic of the greats. And it is how this story is framed.There are three men here: a scientist, a writer and the guide. The journey is abstract, as presented visually through the most hypnotizing environments you will ever touch. These are textured spaces, always strictly architectural and derived (by wear, use and penetration of the wild) from ordinary built structures.The journey is presented in a way that can be seen as a general Godot-inspired existential drift. On reading observations from others, even serious thinkers, this seems to be how most people experience this. I would like you to consider a deeper experience. Elsewhere, I heavily criticize movies that depict mathematical or artistic breakthroughs and they might as well be depicting a sporting success. "Beautiful Mind," "Good Will," and "Pi" come to mind. The problem is that actual search, actual conceptual risk <U+0097> which is the idea in these movies <U+0097> is fully cinematic, strongly shaped by internal narrative and highly visual in the sense of escaping the images of worn dreams. These movies miss the boat, probably because no one involved has been there.Tarkovsky has, at least as a guide. He not only understands the angst of living in abstract webs of fluid risk, but knows the internal collaborative tension between the writer and the scientist, and between each and the outside world of reified happenstance, and also among all those and the edge of family and love. All of these we can literally see. It is an absolutely miraculous experience. Save it for when it can matter.This is quite different than other Tarkovsky works I think. It is more removed from experience of life, more deliberately unrooted in the flesh. It transforms sex into rougher refinement of urge. It will be less accessible than, say, the meditations on the body and place of in "Nostalgia" and "Mirror," which themselves are apart from the even more open notion of self and nation (as religion) in "Andrei Rublov." For this reason, I will advise working up to this because the biggest disaster would be for you to see this for the first time and not place yourself in it. Break yourself first.My rule for rating a film 4 out of three is that no more than two per year and two from each filmmaker. Andrei has two others rated 4, which I think are essential. This is more powerful and personal than those, but consequently more elusive.Ted's Evaluation -- 3 of 3: Worth watching.


                
It's my most dear, secret movie, which I'm ready to watch again and again making journey with characters. As already mentioned in some comments, it's not even film, it's co-existence with travelers, it's a road to your heart or to God, or to elsewhere. I could tell much about this masterpiece, but would like to say about things people, even fond of Tarkovsky art, might unaware of. Below is a quote from Tarkovsky; "For me this work is expression of power of a weak man, man of faith, man of highest spirit. His actions might be impractical and absurd. But impracticality is a sign of high spirit. He has an idea. There is no Zone. He just invented so to take two-three desperate people, bring them there and inspire an idea of some hope for the happiness sake. But finally none of them want to enter this simple room". This is a answer to those (I'm also amongst them), who expressed they guesses that the Zone and the Room are not actually produce miracles or disasters, but just Stalker's words. Though we see corpses, tanks and other things that supposedly confirm the existence of something supernatural, but real miracle (or peril, or change of mind, or growing of souls, if you want) takes places spiritually. This Tarkovsky's explanation (some people, as I am, realized this even before learning Tarkovsky's words) only adds depth to the film. Another interesting point is that the final monologue of Stalker's Wife supposed to be IN BAR (and it's actually shot THERE  look at the wall behind her, when she is speaking), not in Stalker's home. I learnt about it from interview of the editor of the film. She (it was a women) offered Tarkovsky to move this scene from the bar closer to the end so to have an effect of addressing not only to Writer and Professor, but to the soul of an amateur. The editor said to Tarkovsky that the difference of the surroundings would not be marked by a amateur because his attention on that moment is fixed on the face of Alisa Freindlich (Wife). Tarkovsky finally agreed and put this scene to the final and it became much deeper then it would have been in the bar. Wife now addresses to all of us (as Writer did sitting near a hole in the Zone after going through the "meatgrinder'). I watched film many times and paid attention to the interior of Wife's monologue  it's in the bar! Thanks to advise of films editor we have such a important change of the final moments of film. To end it I would like to mark a strong scene, almost nowhere mentioned. When crippled daughter of Stalker seems to walk<U+0085> Film returns in color and Artemiev's music is heard as to underline the miracle. And several seconds later camera moves revealing us the truth  she is sitting on Stalker's shoulders. What a piercing, shrill moment of a miracle that took place only in our imagination. Wonderful moments!
What is happiness? What is the meaning of life? What is the Zone? And what exactly is reality? These questions and many more you will find yourselves asking as you enter the Zone, a place with a Room where all wishes come true. Don't expect too many answers, but try to enjoy the journey, even amidst the decay and ruin of both man and machine.Tarkovsky's Zone is a place of magic, a place where ordinary physical laws don't apply. If one is skeptical that the scenery is what it is, and that there is nothing more to it than what you see with your eyes, the camera in conjunction with the dialogue works hard to convince you otherwise. Distance, scale, and position are all warped, not by any special effect of the camera as in ordinary sci-fi movies, but by the positioning, angle, and movement of the camera within a shot.To take one harrowing example: In the early part of the journey to the Room contained within the central core of the Zone, the small company of travelers, the Stalker, the Professor, and the Writer, pass a blackened trailer containing intact fleshy skeletons. The camera tracks the travelers as they move from a vantage point that deliberately inserts this trailer of death in between. Ever so slowly it creeps up to the scene of death, enlarging and magnifying the details of the decaying corpses, until the camera, having just gotten past the point where it has crept so far up, then overshoots the dead. But it stops; so that while the travelers contemplate the fate of these dead "tourists" to the Zone, we are aware that we are actually sitting on top of them.Metal armor, assorted trinkets, and other material possessions that man has donned or created all fall by the wayside and are discarded and rusted at the bottom of pools of water that saturate the Zone. Man's life and possessions are ephemeral and in a constant state of decay in our industrialized, bleak world. Man is removed from Nature, not just in Soviet life but everywhere we look. It becomes apparent that the only way to survive such ruin of both spirit and home is with faith and hope.But we don't always know our innermost desires so a trip to the Room is fruitless if we have a specific goal in mind. The central dilemma is that the Stalker's faith is predicated upon his belief that the inner desires of most people are good. However, the Writer and Professor, from different but not necessarily opposing perspectives, espouse a view that their deepest desires may not necessarily have the best intentions, despite a basic sense of morality that pervades their respective consciences. This is what I think Tarkovsky was trying to depict, without giving an answer, since there may not be one in this brilliant, philosophical, haunting, and beautifully poetic meditation on what it means to be human in a particular reality that we can see but not really ever grasp.
