This is certainly not the worst movie I've ever seen, but it is the most boring. If it had been shortened to the half hour it deserved, it would merely be pretentious and sophomoric.The photography was beautiful; the B&W sequences had wonderful texture and there was a definite chiaroscuro effect. The transition to color and back again created a nice mood. The camera movement was effective and the angles as well. Too bad it was all wasted on a story which is a piece of crap.Even decent acting couldn't save this picture. The psycho/philosophical/pseudo-intellectual babble or attempt at such was worse than reciting a telephone book - at least the latter makes no pretense at deeeep meaning.There is an intellectual challenge to this film, though. Is it necessary to watch to the bitter end before passing judgment? My resolve to endure was bolstered by the fact that it couldn't get much worse.If it seems slow at the beginning, gird yourself; it doesn't get any better.


                
Another one of the most disappointing movies I've ever seen. What I felt was worst about Stalker was that it came across as pretentious, a term I do not use lightly. Where normally a director would attempt to engage their audience somehow, to make their thoughts and ideas in some way accessible, Tarkovsky seems to have the attitude that there is no need for this, that people should patiently watch a slow, uninvolving movie and simply figure it out for themselves. Granted, I would agree that in general audiences should be patient and open minded with films and that very often, especially with "great" movies, the more an audience puts in, the more they get out. This was certainly not the case with Stalker which I felt practically alienated its audience rather than welcoming them in.I would like to be proved wrong and I'm sure I could have payed more attention in areas (although this is arguably the fault of the film to some degree). But even if I later find Stalker not to be so pretentious, it remains unnecessarily long and slow paced. Plus, there isn't any clear pay off at the end. No climax.For example, the cinematography was predictable and repetitive, and even worse, drew attention to itself. In the first 10 seconds of various shots you notice that you are (very very) slowly zooming in (or out) and you immediately know that for the next few minutes, that's all you're gonna get. It wouldn't matter so prominent if the film were more eventful and interesting. I felt that its style didn't create an atmosphere so much as it reflected the lack of creativity from the filmmakers.Nevertheless, I thought the acting was very good but it's hard to get into the characters if almost every shot is a wide shot and there are barely any close-ups. The music was forgettable, not necessarily bad per se but clearly lacking in power and effectiveness. Some of the locations were quite memorable and imaginative but I can't help but feel as though they were barely explored or touched upon. Some of the shots were nice and bring you into the movie's world quite well (for example, the abrupt colouration change) but these moments are unfortunately few and far between. Also, some of the dialogue was interesting but it never seemed to go anywhere.I have to admit, it is quite likely that I just completely missed the point of Stalker or that it's so different from what I have seen that I was unable to properly appreciate its merits. In that case I look forward to finally enjoying it some time in the distant future (I'm not keen to rewatch it anytime soon).Nevertheless, if I've established anything from watching Stalker in my personal quest to understand and appreciate film, it's the importance of the tone of a film. If a film comes across as at all pretentious, it is virtually impossible to enjoy, no matter what qualities it does have. In terms of measuring or defining pretentiousness, the best way I can think of putting it is that somehow one gets the impression not as much effort was put into the film as could have been and that instead the audience is expected to put it together for themselves; the filmmakers don't work for attention and appreciation, they simply expect it.


                
This was my first taste of the film geek's favourite, Andrei Tarkovsky. I knew that it would be slow, but I was hoping for something hypnotic rather than just plain boring but that's exactly what I got. Imagine The Lord of the Rings on no budget at all and replace the fellowship with three miserable Russians and you've got yourself Stalker.Many call it a masterpiece which isn't surprising. Any old foreign film made in the 70's with tortoise-speed pacing is considered a masterpiece to film snobs. No doubt some boring old fart will tell me that there's something intellectually deep about this drivel but life's too short to give a toss.I'll save you the time of watching it, unless you suffer from insomnia, in which case stick this on, it'll do you wonders. A miserable potato-headed Russian leaves his family to take a drunk writer and professor on a trip to a mystical place called "The Zone". Don't worry, it sounds far more intriguing than it actually is. It turns out that "The Zone" is just a dank field with a misshapen house in the middle of it. The potato-headed Russian keeps telling them how "The Zone" is dangerous and ever-changing. No one ever comes out alive etc. etc. but it's quite clear that the only thing mystical about this god-forsaken zone is that the producers could afford colour film stock instead of black and white.They wonder around this field and take many pit-stops to talk about rubbish which no one gives a toss about. At one point the potato-head lies in a puddle and harps on about the philosophical properties of music. You get the idea... I should also point out that it takes a good fifty minutes before they ever get to this zone, so we're treated to the three miserable musketeers evading the police complete with a seemingly never-ending shot of them all travelling on a train track.They bop about in a field, they bop about in a house. It occurred to me that this film could be watched on fast-forward so that's exactly what I did. Please note that I have only ever done this to one other film in my life, a Turkish delight entitled Uzak. If you enjoyed that one, then you might want to give Stalker a go too. I fast-forwarded only to find that absolutely nothing else happened aside from the threesome plodding around an empty house and some tunnels. I was only left with regret for not doing it sooner, realising that it took me 1hr 40mins to do so, although by that point I felt like I'd spent my whole life watching this film.You can call me a close-minded millennial for all you like, I don't care. I have a very eclectic taste in film, it was only yesterday that I watched an old Japanese film entitled Kwaidan which I enjoyed very much. It was the same length as this film, not terribly fast-paced in the slightest but it had a story to tell and was visually entrancing. I'm not one of these people who need quick-cuts and conventional plotting to keep me enthralled. David Lynch is my all-time favourite director and his films are often extremely slow but always absorbing, so don't disregard me as one of those hopeless kids who consider Transformers an artistic masterpiece.After I skipped through Stalker I felt empty. I grabbed myself a beer at three o clock in the afternoon and sighed. There's no denying that the film is powerful, as it drove me to drink. This was my first and last film by Andrei Tarkovsky. A director who makes Ingmar Bergman look like Michael Bay.


                
I don't know why people go on about how great this movie is. I watched it based on a friends recommendation. He's a serious movie buff and knows more about movies than anyone else I know, and he's recommended many good movies. He totally missed the mark on this one in my opinion. First off... it is long! Almost 3 hours so watching it is a commitment. Second... It's boring! Mind numbing boring! These guys spend this whole time wandering around the woods talking.... and talking... and talking. thirdly, the ending is pretty much absolute non-sense in my opinion. They are headed to the "zone" where all their wishes can be obtained in it. Some magical mystical place on earth that grants wishes. The director builds up getting to this magical place only to reach the "zone", and the plot takes a twist and getting there becomes this MASSIVE non-event.After wasting close to 3 hours of my time on it... I was pretty upset at the ending and the fact I even watched it. I really felt that I was duped. When I saw my friend next I pretty much went off on him over his recommendation... he laughed at me but completely understood why I was upset... but stood by his original statement that this is one of the best sci-fi movies out there... I personally think he's nuts when it comes to this movie and I don't even consider it sci-fi in any form.
One of the most boring films I have ever watched in my whole life. I managed to watch an hour and a half of it, but just could not make it to the end. Art does not make a movie, eerie music and bleak landscapes are all well and good but two and a half hours of it is too much. The endless and monotonous conversations between the characters is basically just mindless babble. Lots of time spent standing around in fields or lying in pools of water. Perhaps I am the wrong person to watch this kind of film, I like substance to a film, I like an engaging story, this provided nothing of enjoyment to me. For the life of me I cannot understand how so many people can rate it so highly.


                
Tarkowski is one of the most praised Russian directors but I can't see why after watching this film. The photography is bad and the story itself is worth nothing. the film is full of symbols and hidden meanings and it is to the spectator to reveal them. That's why intellectual people like this film because they can say that they understand it and so make impression on their fellow intellectuals. But symbols on itself don't make the film more valuable. It is just a boring film. The characters are not interesting and the story is stupid.


                
Watched this movie after reading all the praise.. didn't quite like it due to expectations and how the story was driven. --- Rant contains SPOILERSSlow pacing (even for a movie from 1979), lack of revelations and lots of self-exploration.. but dialogue was not strong enough to evoke submersion. Most time, characters are talking about the 'zone', a seemingly normal place people don't dare enter but still talk about. What is in it? Apparently nothing! There is such a poor explanation of it that it may result in expectations not being rewarded quite harshly. But then it is quite possible that (after reading about it) it is a place where radiation exists due to a nuclear-related explosion, which the government might have covered for years! So there is nothing magical about the Zone, it is wishful thinking.. but, even if it isn't such a crazy "revelation", you'd have to think about it yourself and realize the people are ignorant of the fact by yourself (or someone on the internet claiming this relation), as the movie doesn't even go there. Probably a message for the times. The rest of the movie-dialogue consists of quippy quotes that, sadly, don't go well with the moments where you would expect some sense of what is happening and not a philosophical analysis out of nowhere. These characters don't mash well in this 'scenario', they either know more than us and do not share such experience, or are written to not ask questions.. well, until they do at the very end, when there is not enough time to give an explanation (though the movie doesn't seem to care to do so). So, is this movie about the zone, or simply a tool to invest in these lacking characters with such poor/obscure motivations? Or is it as secondary as it seems to be? Why dedicate to much time to it if it's going to be ultimately useless or go unexplained? As a study of humanity, it is way to open-ended, and doesn't contribute strong ideas to help steer it, in my opinion. There might be a great movie underneath it, and hopefully someone will take this and inspire himself/herself to write a better and more coherent version. I don't like a story/journey that feels like a waste of time. A much better vehicle could be created to transmit these 'feelings' of self-investigation.


                
This film did not entertain me. A friend recommended it, saying it was similar to Eraserhead, but by the time it ended I found myself completely unfulfilled. Granted, it was well shot, but good direction alone isn't enough to save a movie. I found the constant philosophizing pretentious. The characters were unlikable. The dialogue was too heavy-handed and completely unrealistic (maybe this aspect was lost in the translation, but I doubt it). There were no special effects.  I appreciate lyrical films, but after two hours of watching these guys wander around a wasteland, I was sick of hearing every detail of the movie being questioned and I wanted some kind of payoff, anything, which never happened. Lyrical films like Picnic at Hanging Rock or La Dolce Vita managed to entertain, and left me questioning existence and ordinary life; The Stalker lacked any kind of subtlety whatsoever and left me questioning why I wasted 160 minutes of my life.


                
When I saw Tarkovskys film Solaris I was very impressed, I thought Ivans Childhood was good. I didn't like Mirror the first time I saw it, but when I saw it on TV some many years latter, I changed my opinion of it.Many years ago, as a very young man, I watched a film by Arthur Penn called Night Moves. In the film Gene Hackman is asked if he would like to go see an Erich Rohmar film (Sorry about the spelling), he replies that the last time he went to see a Rohmar film, it was like watching paint try. The same goes for this film. It is one of the most excruciating film experiences that I have ever gone through. I had taped it from TV, and just could not get into it. I felt as if I am being dragged through the mud. That some value this film enough that it would be in the top 250 films of all time is baffling. But I don't want to be too critical of those who think this film is a masterpiece, because we are of all different minds. We are all affected by films in different ways.Perhaps this movie was not for the TV screen, but for the theater, it truly needed what is called a 'captive audience'. But sure wouldn't take a date with you to it, she might say she has to go to the bathroom, and you would never see her again.I've seen five of Tarkovskys films, I think he only made seven features. Not all of his films were great, and after having watched this, I honestly feel this was one of his failures.


                
I just read from Tarkovsky's bio that this movie "had to be completely reshot on a dramatically reduced budget after an accident in the laboratory destroyed the first version", which makes a lot of sense considering it was based on a book where, well, things actually happen. In this version of the movie, a "stalker" is leading two tourists through the countryside in an area that is supposedly "the zone", an area contaminated by alien presence. However, in the movie, it is just standard countryside. The Stalker, who in the book is supposed to be a rugged survivor, is portrayed in the movie as a wimpy conman who could well be making up the supposed danger of "the zone" to charge his guide fee (I kind of thought that was the point of the movie). The movie never shows anything actually dangerous or alien. Some of the cinematography of the green countryside is nicely shot, and there are SOME interesting exchanges in dialogue, but after the first hour this has gone seriously stale. My recommendation would be not to waste your time.


                
I know it's highly influential. I know the body of work of its director. I know how highly regarded it is.I know all that. But... For the life of me I cannot see what everybody else seem to see in this nearly 3 hours of a contemplative roadmovie of enlightenment.I remember stumbling over an old VHS cassette in a local library as a teen. I loved sci fi even then. And strange takes on cinematic language has always fascinated me. The blurb on the back intrigued me but when I saw it... All I could remember was boredom and endless shots of the three men doing nothing.A few years later I tried again, this time a DVD from another library. But again. It was a chore to get through. Though I remember that something was strange with the encoding that maee certain elements wiggle slightly compared with the rest of the scene. The Bed of the beginning and ending for example.And once more, today, I felt suddenly like I should give it another chance. I had obtained a nice Bluray in a boxsset of Tarkovsky blurays.I am intrigued by the elements that this film consists of. The enigmatic environment of The Zone, the boy with telekinetic powers, the hallway covered in sand dunes. The mysterious black dog that befriends the titular stalker... The haunting music... There is so much here that should work. So much I should loveBut when it comes down to it. It breaks apart. Its an endless series of excruciatingly long shots where the characters mumble half baked philosophies at each other. Each one uttered is worse thought through than the next. The Zone itself is reduced down to the most boring countryside imaginable. Everything about it is talked only about. Nothing is really ever shown. The stalker insists that the path constantly changes and any deviation from his instructions is mortally dangerous. And we are just supposed to take his word for it. Because god forbid we get to see the environment alter itself.. to see that there is any danger.. to see anything other than the endless takes of them mumbling during their travel toward The Room. I hesitate to say what they do when they finally arrive, in the interest of not spoiling too much... I'll just say that the runtime by then felt like an insulting waste...Very few films feel so long to witness as this one. Sure it is 2 hrs 45 min. But it felt more like 12 hours.Your mileage may vary of course. I may be in the minority. And I don't want to call the fans deluded. I just wish I could see the film you saw. I have tried three times now. On as many formats. Over 15 years. The ideas they are working with are fascinating , to say the least, which is probably why I have refused until now to give up on the film. But there is simply nothing here. Or at least, what is here have been explored by other filmmakers infinitely more efficiently.Show... Don't tell... That's a mantra I thought was well accepted by well renowned filmmakers and critics alike. I am not so certain any more.


                
PLEASE NOTE: Spoiler alert(if that's possible).OK. Here's the movie in a nutshell. Man get's up in the middle of the night, wife get's cross and worried he'll get thrown into jail. Man leaves, meets up with a couple of people who have organised to meet him. They make there way through a curfew section of the city patrolled by police/law enforcement, in a Range Rover. They swap to a train car, that they use to get them out of the city into 'The Zone'.The Zone is simply outside the city and is beautiful simply because it's nature and scenery. There's objects such as concrete blocks, tunnels and misc run down rooms they walk through, there journey ends in a room where they all sit and throw rocks into the water.Then it cuts back to the city, man goes for a walk with his wife and kid, they talk, then his daughter puts her head on the table looks incredibly bored and appears to move some glass wear with a psionic ability. One glass falls off the table, the others stop, camera pans to her almost bored to death face end of film.Yes, I get that the poetic points that are mentioned and in particular the message: "Weak is beautiful and strength is nothing, in that when a child is born it is adaptable and flexible. When the child becomes a man it get's hard and set in it's ways, therefore weak is far more beautiful than strength", is a worthy one but hey 3 hours for that? Other points like this but ultimately nothing to do with the overall story which is simply that 'The Stalker' is simply someone who walks people through the zone which is essentially like a walk in the country in an effort to expand there minds from there otherwise pointless existence(talk about ironic, the Stalker is beyond pointless in himself to say the least). For some reason there not meant to go there. Why not is not really explained.(More than likely because some Russian dictator declared it was off limits to ordinary civilians for some reason(we see various signs of war amidst the rubble, bunkers, a gun etc but overall just a lot of pointless walking around scenes with absolutely no meaning, not even poetically).Overall this is an incredibly boring film and I have no idea why it get's such a high rating. As for watch it again. NO WAY, I'd rather stick red hot needles in my eyes.Seriously, don't waste your time, I only gave it 2 stars because 1. The scene in the practically war torn Russian streets was interesting and 2. for the finale at the end of the film which showed that had the movie focused on the talented young girl, it might have been great. Instead she was really depressed because her whole role got 1 minute at the end of the film and the rest of the film was essentially a tangential screed of rubbish.My strong recommendation for a movie with poetic license and far more impact and strong points but still has a great story and is actually endlessly re-watchable(especially if you get the Criterion Collection edition with the bonus versions), is the Terry Gilliam film BRAZIL.Watch that instead, you'll be glad you did.
This is a hard movie for me to rate. I think that the filming techniques are impressive. And the cinematography was stunningly realistic for the time period in which it was made. But overall, I think the movie was far too long. And just mind numbingly boring in most parts. The characters seem kind of stiff and don't really seem like there really "in their roles". There's hardly any action. There's a lot of suspense, but nothing happens from it. There's a couple scenes that are interesting like when you get to see shot of war torn Russian streets. Overall, I would not recommend this movie. Its just too slow and no action to keep you excited. Its got a few good parts but not enough to really keep you engaged and hooked.


                
