Don't be ashamed to dislike this film. Don't be ashamed to call it slow. I like many slow films--to complain that something is slow is not a sign necessarily of stupidity or impatience. I've read the Bible, for example. Now THAT is slow. But it's also GOOD. And that's the problem with this film: it is slow AND bad. I suspect that this is what people who call it slow are really complaining of. The "philosophy" or "meditation" of the characters in this film is trite and full of bathos. It's straining for deepness, and many a viewer will constantly feel this strain. Almost every monologue or long exchange is weepy and overdone. The story would be much better captured by a novelist. Some people, apparently, are content to watch a bunch of mesmerizing images flicker by on a screen, but that's not enough for me...so I didn't like this.


                
I am tempted to give this 1 star to bring down the overall score as much as possible, but truth be told it wasn't that bad.I'll go into what I liked first, which will be very limited, and into what I didn't like afterwards.The good: The cinematography was stunningly realistic compared to the overly commercialized Hollywood BS we see nowadays. Have you ever noticed how every character in American movies is rich and drives a beautiful sports car? Not like real life at all. The characters in this movie are poor Russians living in Communism. Pretty realistic.Also the film had good acting. I don't know who any of the actors were but I believed them, and they did a fantastic job telling a story on what looked to be a pittance of a filming budget.The bad: Far too long. This could have easily been told in 90 minutes or less. The director was far too indulgent with non-essential elements of the film.Far too boring. For so much of this movie, nothing is happening at all. The director will do these long still-camera shots of someone's head. Or a puddle. Or some trees. It contributes nothing to the story, and doesn't even look good. At times I felt myself thinking "what the hell is he trying to show us here?" In good storytelling, a writer or director should strive to eliminate redundancies. If something isn't essential to the story, cut it. The director obviously isn't familiar with that concept.All suspense, no reward. The ending is a huge letdown. I won't tell you what it is, but let's just say the movies keeps you waiting and waiting and waiting, and then in the end you're left to wonder: "What the hell was that?" The Zone itself was also a huge letdown. It's literally just a bunch of fields somewhere in the middle of nowhere in Russia. The Stalker keeps warning them: "Oh the Zone is powerful. The Zone will punish you if you disrespect it. Don't back-track... The Zone will kill you!" And then nothing ever happens. No matter how the Writer and the Professor screw up or disrespect the Zone, nothing even happens to them.Summary: If you want to try something off-the-cuff, and totally non-mainstream, give Stalker a whirl. There are worse ways to spend two and a half hours of your life. Like waiting in line at the post-office. Or stuck in a traffic jam. Or going into labour before giving birth. Hmmm on second thought, maybe I would prefer the traffic jam.


                
This film is like a painting. The problem with paintings is that they are often boring and lifeless. The story here is interesting, the images impressive but the pace sloooooow. You have to concentrate when they are talking, and when they are not you have to watch the original images of a poor nation intrigued by a mysterious zone policed by people who know nothing about it. As they get into the zone the words spoken are more meaningful and the film becomes a chore. If this was shorter it might have been thought-provoking and interesting.


                
Is "Tarkovsky" Russian for "Mallick"? The only difference between the pretentious, pedantic, Russian dullard and the American one is the language the actors speak. I mean, how many scenes involve one more more actors lying down and spouting philosophical drivel, then staring into the distance for five minutes? 
Stalker is just as boring as Solaris. Nearly as mind-numbingly long as Andrei Rubilev. Did this guy ever make a watchable movie?
By the time they reach the house in the swamp I was playing it at 2x speed on my PVR. Even then, the scene where the three main characters sit around and chucks rocks into a pool of water grinds on for 5 minutes. 
By the time the Stalker comes home to his wife to lie down and spout more drivel, I wanted him, his wife and his kid to have a meteorite fall on their house.
I bought this movie for 25 dollars based on the fantastic reviews and high rating that this film received on this site. Very disappointing. Perhaps my tastes are not cerebral enough for this audience. I am a science fiction and horror fanatic. I have been watching films since I was a little boy. I think myself a good judge of a movie. This film had potential! The director did a wonderful job shooting this movie. The actors were phenomenal. The plot was ambitious and intriguing. But it never took off. It was very boring. I kept waiting for the plot to thicken, the climax, the satisfaction of being mesmerized by a cool idea or twist...... anything! Instead, it was a lot of Russian philosophy. Honestly, I was upset. I had such high expectations. This is a long movie. The boring dialogue and material made it seem even longer. These Russians would literally stop and discuss their different opinions on philosophical matters and religion and politics, blah, blah, blah. This occurs, literally, about 15-20 times throughout this movie. I could have saved myself the 25 dollars and read some Plato or Aristotle or watched C-Span or something. Not to say that I do not like philosophy or such. Not like this, not in my sci-fiction film. Not that much of it. I don't understand all of the high reviews. This is a pseudo-science fiction film and should be classified as a philosophy film! Another European art-film labeled as science-fiction.No apologies!


                
Hey, every time I go see a sci-fi movie I don't expect it to be star wars. I read real science fiction, including Asimov, Ellison, Dick and Lem (who the filmmaker has also tackled).  But this movie wasn't just slow at times, it was boring as hell.  It just went on forever and nothing happens. Somebody's gonna tell me that's the point.  Ok.  It still makes a really boring movie.  It's not even science fiction, it's a fable of some kind. It's allegorical, not fictional.  This actually may rank as one of the dullest movies I've ever seen.


                
STALKER is another long-winded movie from Russian director Andrei Tarkovsky, this time a science fiction yarn in the same guise as SOLARIS. The setting is a post-apocalyptic landscape in which a couple of characters work their way through a devastated world looking for answers in a place known as the 'alien zone' which may contain extraterrestrial life. The best part of the movie is the authentic setting; word has it that the genuinely radioactive Estonian locations resulted in the early deaths of a number of the crew members, not least the director himself.Sadly, STALKER is one of those films that goes on interminably and as a mood piece this just doesn't hold the attention. Had Tarkovsky made the running time more reasonable (i.e. under half what it is) it might have been more interesting, but as it stands it's just an endless ramble through the wilderness with few answers at the end. I found it gloomy and depressing, not to mention sleep-inducing.
Let me start by telling the reader that regardless of what you might have been told, this film is neither cyberpunk or dystopian(unless you consider the USSR in the 70s a dystopia in its own right).I have heard that the film is based on the Strugatski brothers' story "roadside picnic". I can offer no opinion on this piece of literature as I have not been able to get hold of a copy, except to say that the work of theirs which I have read is all solid, consistent SF. The Strugatskis also wrote the screenplay for this, which surprised me.As this film was banned in my country(Reason being 'glorification of communism', which is a joke), and seems not to have ever been released after the unbanning, I watched it on the Internet. I am sorry I blew a lot of data on a film of such low merit.First, the film is inordinately long-winded for the story it has to tell. Certain narrations and self-indulgent bits of cinematography could have been cut without harming the look of the film and tightening the storyline considerably.The conceit of shooting urban sequences in monochrome and the parts happening in the "zone" in colour is utterly pointless and adds little but confusion.Shortly, the story concerns three people.Introduced first is "the stalker", a tolkach(Soviet Russia: person who does illegal or borderline illegal free market transactions for which there is a demand). This gentleman's speciality is escorting people into the aforementioned "zone", within which a room is found which has the power of granting the deepest desires of those who enter(according to rumour, which the stalker obviously does nothing to dispel).Said stalker lives with his wife and daughter in an extremely dilapidated set of rooms which is open to the elements and situated next to the railway, whose trains shake it about. Later we hear that he has no real work and has been in prison several times for penetrating the "zone", and that his child is malformed due to the zone's action.His two customers, the "writer" and "professor" arrive. The writer is an alcoholic and the professor an academic nonentity.After much palaver the three set off into the zone. evading the police barricade. Apparently the zone has aspects of intelligence, killing people who disturb it excessively. The "correct" route to the room also keeps changing.The trip through the zone is the weakest part of the film. Although the two customers keep messing around, nothing happens to them and the "professor" even manages to find a short cut by ignoring orders.The "writer" and "professor"(who detest each other) indulge in endless disquisitions on the purpose and nature of life, with the stalker joining in on the pseudophilosophical talk by perpetually alluding to religious themes, quoting the Bible, and minutely discussing the fate of another stalker called Porcupine, who got rich by using the room and later hanged himself.A ridiculous scene before the three discuss entering the room shows the professor calling his boss and insulting him, and the writer turning on the lights, showing the long-abandoned zone to have power and telephones working, which is almost impossible.The professor decided to blow up the room because it will attract dangerous types of people. Eventually he changes his mind and dismantles his A-bomb. The writer has decided that the deepest desires of people are debased and refuses to enter (The case of Porcupine is used as an example). Both insult the stalker, saying that he is addicted to playing God and uses the Zone and his clients for the purpose.Although the religious talk may have been very transgressive in 1979 Moscow, it is dated and boring now. ( A film about the rise and fall of Porcupine would have been more interesting.) This film preaches at you, it does not show you, and that is its failing.Positive points are the accurate depiction of a Pripyat-like area six years before Chernobyl, and for showing the living conditions of the most benighted class of people in the USSR(former prisoners).Recommended for fans of religious cinematography and the Turkish dross propaganda film "Kod Adi KOZ", which it is far better than.
This film goes on and on in a manner that drains your patience... we follow three men in a so called ' after-world ' after some human disaster or whatever....and we are following their voyage into , or through some other dimension which is not visible before our own eyes , but which becomes real trough the dialogs of the guys....a writer , a professor and their guide on this trip ,who is called a 'Stalker' , some convicted criminal who's task it is to guide people on this supposedly incredible dangerous trip. I guess the meaning of this Film is to let you experience the film by it's created atmosphere...the use of sounds...color and Tarkovki's ever returning symbolical use of water.Partially this works.but satisfying ? no ! a dramaticaly overrated work.


                
I enjoyed Solaris so i figured I'd also pick up stalker. Just got the recent US re-lease with US subtitles. The movie isn't all bad...it's very visually impressive and Part I of the movie is great. You're attention is grabbed early on and for the first hour or so you're slowly getting more and more information on what's going on and it gets more and more interesting. It's even a little bit creepy. The movie really works on your imagination because of how they present the zone.But then part II comes. Extremely long, Way too much dialog, and no pay off. There is no reason it should have been a movie. It really should have remained a book with pictures. There was so much dialog and at the end this hyped up zone and room give us no interesting pay off. Visually interesting yes but there are 20 minute sections where the camera doesn't move and we just get very long slow dialog. Some of it i found interesting but the rest was rather dull.The creepy "what in the hell is going on here" atmosphere that was built up in part I crashes quickly in part II and I'd have to say the movie flat lines at the end. It's even a stretch to call this movie a sci-fi. The most interesting super natural thing that happens is someone moving a glass nearly 2 and a half hours into the film.


                
This movie is a typical example of the over-hyped, trendy movies of what (almost) on one dares to write negatively about out of fear of contempt. I'm not doing this because of defiance or because I like to go against the flow - but because sadly this really isn't a good movie.I'm well aware that this movie was made in 1979, so you can't expect mind-blowing special effects, CGI images that would have turned this movie into a visually stunning masterpiece. What I usually say is: don't attempt to shoot a sci-fi with a low budget.If we put aside the story (which is great), the characters, the symbolic meaning - then there's absolutely nothing to appreciate in this movie. The actors aren't given much opportunity to show their talents, mostly they stare blankly into the camera if they aren't talking to each other. The backgrounds consist of grassy fields with debris, ruined town sections, narrow interiors mostly set in bunkers and sewers, all that could be quoted as "great and retro looking" by viewers from Western Europe, but actually if you come to Eastern Europe, you notice that you can find these locations (literally) everywhere.Also the authenticity of the movie suffers, because we never get to see why the Zone is so dangerous (as the Stalker claims it to be) or how it makes people disappear. All we see are rust-eaten tanks and some bodies long since dead. Neither we are allowed to see what happens to the nuts they keep throwing around to check whether the area is safe or not, if they throw one into a "wrong" place.I liked how the burnt out Writer is allowed through all the traps because of his nihilism, the Professor whose goal is to blow up the Room in order to prevent it to fulfill the wishes of evil people, the Stalker whose sole purpose in life is to guide those who are willing to the Room through the Zone and of course how they all become enlightened towards the end about the purpose of their lives.It would have made a brilliant book and instead we got a plain looking, boring movie with almost no reason to watch it - you need more than just audio in a film. Otherwise the camera work and the soundtrack - that can be heard quite seldomly - are pretty good. So many movies are being remade nowadays, I believe that this is the one that definitely deserves a remake and a bit of a genre makeover (into horror/sci-fi) and a bit more clarified ending. Let's hope someday, someone is going to discover it as it happened to Solaris.
It was okay. 163 minutes of walking and talking and philosophizing can make your rump awfully sore. I kept waiting for something to happen to justify the 163 minutes. Nothing happened as far as I'm concerned. It wasn't boring, because there was that idea hanging about that there was some entity in the Zone who could help these pathetic guys with their problems. A lot of elements from "The Wizard of Oz" could be implied, except the Wizard never shows up. "2001" also comes to mind with its unseen entities. Perhaps they were the same ones in this film. Bashful critters, whoever they are. There was so much possibility and so little to show for 163 numbing minutes. Ouch! My rating: 5 out of 10. Above Average. The rating is for showing the world how bleak it is in Russia. Good for them.
I was a little boy when I first read the Strugatki brothers' "Piknik Na Obotshine" novel, and though it is the starting point for "Stalker", I wish to warn all the fans of the story not to have their hopes set up too high, because "Roadside Picnic" and "Stalker" are two different things in a whole lot more ways than they are the same story... I at least, as a SF fan and admirer of Arkadi&Boris Stugatki's works, was deeply disappointed by "Stalker". It was a good movie, very deep and managed very well to point out the psychological meaning and implications of the situation, but so not what I wanted to see...But hey, when I grow up, I'll make a dignifying motion picture in the honour of "Roadside Picnic" and what it meant to that little kid who read it all those years ago... :)And the right well to spell the name is Struga&#355;ki, but it won't show that 1 character.
I read the awe-struck reviews claiming that this is the greatest science fiction film of all time. Well, it's not. I hardly classify it as science fiction either, although I suppose it qualifies technically. A better genre would be 'slow existential art-house'.A film may be frozen in time but still needs to appeal to an audience that currently exists. Classics can do this, but this film definitely does not. Few will have the patience for this film with its self-indulgent, ages-long shots, terribly mismatched sound effects and long and boring scenes without plot or character development.Having said that, connoisseurs of truly obscure projects from Eastern bloc countries decades ago may find some value in learning about what niche audiences once may have put up with.


                
