Andrei Tarkovsy's STALKER is one of these films whose reputation is entirely confined to that of Universiy level film studies . It's a film that remains unknown to people who visit multiplexes on a Friday night to watch the latest blockbuster from Hollywood and is rarely shown on network television . I think its only broadcast on British television was on Channel 4 in 1990 or 1991 . Nevertheless it was well regarded enough to make it in to the the lower reaches of the IMDb Top 250 for a couple of years but I'm rather puzzled as to why ? It's not a film produced for the masses which possibly sums the up inherent irony of communism The story starts 20 years after a meteorite has landed on Earth and when people have started disappearing in the crash zone the authorities quarantine the area which is now referred to as " the Zone " . A trio of men sneak through the blockade determined to find out the secret of the Zone This is communist science fiction based upon a story written by Arkady and Boris Strugatsky . Communist science fiction differs quite markedly from its Western counterpart by concentrating on metaphysics , man's relationship to the natural order rather than plot driven concepts . In many ways it's introspective humanism rather than mind expanding and imaginative . This type of story would appeal well to Tarkovsky since his volume of wok centres around elemental imagery such as water and wind . He is a film maker who is the archetypal auteur The problem with all this is that it makes for a rather unengaging piece of cinema . If you're expecting to see aliens you'll be disappointed . There is an argument that science fiction doesn't need aliens in order to work and this is certainly true , think of the number of novels by people such as John Christopher that feature Earth shattering eco disasters for a premise . But if you had three men in Soviet Russia escaping in to a forbidden zone where they walk around discussing the human condition for three hours then you'd have the exact same story devoid of any science fiction heading . In short STALKER isn't really a science fiction film at all At least the film sets out its stall right from the very beginning . We're treated to the type of camera work seen in films by luminaries as Bela Tarr where the camera moves about for several minutes without cutting . We don't actually get any dialogue until ten minutes in to the running time and if you're bored senseless by then then it's perhaps a good idea to watch something else because the pace doesn't really improve much One of the comments on this page states that STALKER is " Like Last Of The Summer Wine set in Russia " and that's a very accurate description of the movie . It's composed of three philosophical men wandering about the countryside making profound statements on the nature of existence . You might rub your chin and nod in agreement but you might also have to rub your eyes in order to stay awake too


                
The premise of the film is there's this zone where things are different and dangerous and people don't really go there. In this zone there's a room though that basically grants people's biggest desires. The main character is called a stalker which is basically a guide to get people to the room. He brings a professor and a writer with him for a price to the room. Most of the film is them walking through the zone and philosophizing about life. The dialogue is okay at first but it just grows so boring. I liked the writer and he had interesting thoughts of life. All of them have pretty depressing takes but the writer is kind of funny about it. The whole goal is basically to find happiness but nobody really finds it and nobody he's taken before has really found it. He said he takes people there then never sees them again but basically just assumes they found happiness. My take on it is they didn't. I did like the switching from the yellow tinted film to regular color though but that's one of the few redeeming qualities. Multiple times I looked to see how much time was left and was shocked at how much was left. That's not a good sign.
You know, I love art-house movies - Jodorowsky, Anger, Bertolucci, Wenders, Warhol, it's all good. But there's a line which mustn't be crossed. That's the line between justified and unjustified pretension. In other words, when does your film become arty without being entertaining? Well, for me, Stalker crosses that line.OK, the good points. It's wonderfully shot. The contrasting colour and B&W works well at differentiating between the industrial landscape of the city and lush green growth of the zone. Some of the images here would work better hung in a gallery So what's my problem? It's slow. OK, let me rephrase that - it's so slow I think I could see my hair growing faster than the film was moving. Compared to this, Paris, Texas was a mile-a-minute riot.I mean, what can you say when one plot element means it takes about 15 minutes just to cross a field? It would be something if the film was actually going somewhere, but the film just ends sort of inconsequentially. No re-balancing of equilibrium - they just go from nothing to nothing.So call me a mainstream sellout if you want, but I like plot, I like colourful dialogue, I like characterisation, all to a moderate extent. Oh sure, you can analyse this film all you want, but you know, you can analyse Warhol's Empire to death too; nothing changes the fact that it's just the Empire State Building doing nothing for 5 hours.I dunno, maybe it's just me, but this is exactly the kind of "art" movie that Monty Python was always so good at ridiculing.
Andrei Tarkovsky's Stalker is a cerebral, and perhaps pretentious, science fiction picture that examines aspects of mankind's existence (purpose, life, faith, etc<U+0085>) through philosophical dialogues and cinematic metaphors. It's all quite open to interpretation and has a loose, almost indiscriminate stature about it (which could be due to the on-the-spot script rewrites and changes). Upon reflection, I do think Stalker offers some reasonably interesting themes and thought-provoking allusions but I don't know if it's anything particularly deep or new or even very significant (or at least, it never feels like it, aside from the needlessly(?) weighty presentation). A further hindrance is the film's dynamic, or lack thereof. It's a tediously long, distant, drawn-out, mostly uneventful affair. The story is compelling enough, however, and The Zone locations, made up of some decrepit building structures overrun by lush wilderness, were effectively haunting.


                
"Most of the threads slating the film seem to try to reduce its content to inane, pointless things so they can present it as stupid. "Oh, it's just three bald men walking in a field" etc. You can reduce anything until it sounds simplistic and mundane... I could say Apocalypse Now is "just people going up a river" or Fight Club is "just men fighting"."This is simply not true. In Apocalypse Now, things HAPPENED while people went up a river. In Fight Club, things HAPPENED while men fought. In this film, nothing happened while three guys walked, and sometimes just sat, in a field or building. This film was painfully boring, and takes the 3rd spot on the list of films to actually put me into a deep sleep (along with Citizen Kane and The Seventh Seal). It's not that I don't like films most people would call boring. Werckmeister Harmonies is "boring", Begotten is "boring", 2001: A Space Odyssey is "boring", and Enter the Void, my favorite film of all time, is "boring". The problem with this film is that absolutely nothing happens for the entire 2 hours and 43 minutes. There is a complete lack of buildup to a nonexistent climax, in which (spoiler alert, I guess) three men sit down, talk about going into a room, and then don't go into the room.Many reviewers absolutely love this movie for philosophical and intellectual reasons based around what the characters say. That's all fine and dandy, but you can't analyze dialogue when you're sleeping. Perhaps it was because I came into this movie expecting something completely different (it was recommended because I liked Eraserhead), but I did not enjoy the experience of sitting through this film at all. Maybe I'll give it another try, or maybe I'm better off forgetting that I ever even saw it.
