It is a brilliant movie in many ways. The visuals are stunning and haunting. Several of the scenes will remain imprinted on your memory forever. The script is literate and thought-provoking. Like any great work of art, it is not pedantic, but open to interaction with the viewer.If it were 90 minutes long, it might be the greatest movie ever made. Unfortunately, it is 160 minutes long, and the extra footage can be tedious beyond belief and seems to do nothing to further the story or enhance the mood.Tarkovsky makes every point with a sledgehammer, never with a scalpel. This can be supernaturally effective. It can also impel you to yell "get on with it" or "you already said that" at the screen.I view this film as a great achievement, and yet a failure in that Tarkovsky's acquaintance with Western literature apparently did not include an encounter with the phrase "brevity is the soul of wit". As great as it is, how great might it have been!


                
Stalker, like most of Tarkovsky's work, is almost unsurpassed in visual quality and sensory aesthetics. Also in-keeping with the great director's tradition, the film features a lot of philosophical discourses delivered in sombre, almost depressingly serious tones, and exploits ambiguity very well.Stalker develops a cyberpunk atmosphere but is much more than the standard cyberpunk adventure. A Stalker is a person who can find the path into the Zone and is able to bring people back from it. The Zone is a forbidden place from which most people never return. It is rumored to grant those who can reach it their most profound desire. Most of the film takes place en route to the Zone, detailing the journey of three men - a science professor, a writer, and our stalker. The acting is superb.Every scene is a work of art and the minimalist soundscape and very heavy dialog complement the visuals very well. The film's setting is a major component of its themes. The setting was inspired by an abandoned town which suffered a nuclear accident in the 1950s, and it seems likely that the film was actually made in that same location. Tarkovsky makes a point in this film, and unlike many art films, the point is really not very open to interpretation. It is also a little surprising given the content of most of the film. No spoiler - so I won't tell you what it is. Despite the fact that I recommend Stalker very highly for thoughtful viewers with good attention spans, I can not recommend it to the average film watcher - it can be tedious and confounding to those used to films which do not challenge the intellect.


                
I first saw this movie when I was 13 years old, and to me it was just a magically leisurely paced science-fiction movie. Somehow, I had managed to forget about the lengthy discussions about the meaning of life.When I bought the videotape of it, I found it impossible to sit through it. It just got on my nerves too often.My suggestion: force yourself to see it in a cinema.


                
The basic idea of the movie is incredible. The story itself is incredible.
I love movies just like the ones that are rated it with 10s.BUT!I highly doubt that anyone on this planet can possibly enjoy watching those parts where nothing happens. Those parts do not add to the story. That was just waste of film and money. This was a very low budget movie back then. They made it out of less than a million dollar in today's currency (I think it was about $300.000).So my point is that nobody can honestly enjoy something like that in it's entirety.
I really loved the idea, the story, the point of the movie BUT THE WAY I HAD TO EXPERIENCE IT, the way how Tarkovsky showed it WAS NOT GOOD. Not at all.This is first a sci-fi and a drama. Being a drama does not mean that it has to be boring with full of unnecessary shots. The movie shouldn't be SLOWED DOWN. It should flow. When they add those parts it not just slows down the movie but also breaks the flow. Making it boring.My ratings are public. Almost seen the top250. About 25 missing. In overall I've seen mora than 2000 movies. I can watch any genre, I have a good tase, I'm always fair and I only rate movies with 10 that are perfect in the way they exist.Because of this I rated this movie with a 7 which is fair compared to that how boring it was. Tarkovsky was a good one in picking the right story but wasn't a good director at all without any kind of self-criticism.All the 10s on this movie are coming from people that want to make themselves seen special by liking super boring movies.
A very similar movie the Annihilation is by far better than this.


                
In a not specified time, there is a place called `The Zone', surrounded by the surveillance and protection of armed guards and forbidden to be visited. Its unknown origin is attributed to meteorites or aliens. Only some men, called `Stalkers', are able to successfully trespass its borders and reach a place in its inner called `The Room', where all the secrets and innermost hopes and wishes come true. A writer, who lost his skills, and a mysterious scientist are guided by a Stalker, when the journey begins. Today I have just seen `Stalker' for the first time. I found it intriguing, but unfortunately I have not really understood its essence. I became very disappointed, but after glancing other IMDB users reviews and the message board, I realized that there are indeed much more questions than explanations. Further, I found this story too much hermetic and boring for my taste and the images are not very clear in the old Brazilian VHS. I do not have much experience with Andrei Tarkovsky movies, therefore I intend to read some reviews, maybe see `Stalker' again and then I may write my own review. I do not want to be polemic, but I believe that a movie that needs additional reading or discussion to be understood has some problem in its development. My vote is seven.Title (Brazil): `Stalker'


                
"Stalker", I can only describe as a love it or hate it experience. Its narrative and hidden motif's I'll get to in a second, but what I want to say upfront is this. "I enjoyed the "Heart of Darkness" like attitude in it, but I also think this movie is grossly overrated considering Tarkovsky's earlier works". I want to say upfront immediately it is not because of the movies quiet, linear storytelling. I really enjoyed "The Mirror" (1975), and that was so ambiguous had you no knowledge of its autobiographical moments you wouldn't nearly enjoy it as much. It's not my least favourite Tarkovsky picture, but it certainly is an acquired taste and even its meanings remain shrouded today. Is it about the Gulags? The eventual Chernobyl disaster? Even some have made comparisons to "The Wizard of Oz" (1939). What I can say with assurance, is that "Stalker" feels somewhat more connected to nature than any other fiction movie out there.An expedition takes place led by a man known only as the 'Stalker' (Aleksandr Kaidanovsky), who has the ability to navigate the "Zone", a site that has a specific area that has the supposed ability to fulfil desire. His task is to escort two clients into the area, one is a writer (Anatoli Solonitsyn) seeking motivation, and the other a professor (Nikolai Grinko) seeking scientific discovery. The trio travels through these areas filled with ruins of modern society, whilst arguing with each other about the practicality of the "Zone", and the arguable aura around it.The infamous history behind this film is that Tarkovsky and Cinematographer Georgy Rerberg, had already spent a year filming all the outdoor scenes only to return to Moscow and find all the footage unusable due to a defect in film stock. Tarkovsky of course was despondent and wanted to abandon it, and soon Russian film boards were about to write it off until Tarkovsky hired Cinematographer Aleksandr Knyazhinsky, and began work again after making a deal with the company. The finished narrative was drastically different compared to the original vision. Its Sepia tones hauntingly fit its urban settings well, the "density" of time actually feels present and the colours of the natural world look astounding. I found the talks of philosophy nowhere near as deep as "Solaris" (1972), even with that movies large quantities of "techno-babble" I enjoyed them. I'll also admit that the payoff and my expectations on the discoveries made felt underwhelming. Tarkovsky was approached about the nature of the movie and how the audience may react to it, to which he uttered this quote I somewhat adore the man for saying: "I am only interested in the views of two people: one is called Bresson and one called Bergman".The film is crafted with particularly well executed long takes, and its sounds never betray the atmosphere the creators desired. The acting is strong and the dialogue is somewhat delivered well, given such an opaque narrative. There are moments where the fourth wall is broken both directly and ambiguously, and the film leaves many pleasant questions for you to decipher as Tarkovsky (I guess) intended. I suppose the final piece of trivia to mention is that several people involved in the film production including Tarkovsky, had met tragic deaths which has been debated that it was due to the fact this movie was filmed near a half-functioning hydroelectric station (Tarkovsky, his wife and actor Anatoli Solonitsyn all sadly died of the same cancer).Final Verdict: I believe it comes off as a little pretentious, but on repeated viewings I warmed up to it a little more. I stand by what I've said in this review, in no way did I hate it, but I would advise you to seek out the other directors work before seeing "Stalker". I don't know why, but a lot of production notes come into my reviews when it comes to Tarkovsky. All his movies are visually stunning works of art, but I also found his later pictures to be somewhat colder. 7/10.
Actually, I've never watched this film. I've noticed it several times on TV but every time I decided not to watch it. Do you want to know why? Just because I have read an original book of Strugatski (hope I am right ;) ) brothers! I am a fan of these authors and the book (Roadside Picnic) is one of my favorites. The film just cannot be compared with the book. The book is much more interesting, provides more details, much closer to the real life, and still contains all the strong ideas. The only thing, which is absent in the book - visual effects. Of course, sometimes in the future I will watch it and I will really like it - I know that for sure. But in any case it is a pity for me that the book was filmed in such a manner - that is why I vote for 7. P.S. Still I hope sometimes someone will do another film based on Roadside Picnic.


                
STALKER has undergone a restoration and is making the rounds of big cities via Janus Films. I assume a DVD release is forthcoming.I first saw STALKER in 1987, shortly after Tarkovsky's passing. Having already seen SOLARIS and much of his other work, I knew what I was in for with this 163 minute mind-trip epic. Still, I found it frustratingly opaque, if fascinating and visually fantastic. I had not seen it again until this afternoon (at the very same theater, no less!!).The 'plot' of STALKER is fairly simple in outline form. A meteorite is said to have landed in the Soviet Union 20 years earlier creating a vast wasteland Zone where nobody is allowed to enter. In this Zone, there lies a Room where those who dare visit are granted whatever wish they desire. A Stalker (more easily described as a Guide) is hired by a Writer and a Scientist to lead them to the magic room. They traverse the Zone and get to the Room and then they return. And, without much else (even in the way of spoilers), that's about it for nearly three hours.So, what to make of it? The characters are literally just their titles - Stalker, Scientist & Writer. The only character we see any background on is the Stalker, who has a wife and child (conceived in the Zone). Like SOLARIS, most of the film is given over to musings, visions and the inner thoughts of each of the characters. Philosophy is very difficult to depict on screen. Fortunately, Tarkovsky was one of cinema's great visual poets. Without any optical effects whatsoever, he creates a vision of this apocalyptic badlands. (One could imagine a modern remake full of CGI to create in artifice what Tarkovsky achieves with location, photography and some judicious art direction). The only visual 'trick' Tarkovsky uses is to have the outside world shot in Sepia tone, and the Zone in color. It's an astonishing vision.But, what does it all mean? A bit of personal history. About four years after seeing STALKER I worked on a couple of productions in Russia shortly after the collapse of the Soviet Union. I spent six months in Moscow, with short trips to St. Petersburg and Estonia (where the film was made). The setting of the film is said to have been influenced by a nuclear catastrophe in 1957. Of course, Tarkovsky could not have known that only a few years later, the nuclear power plant in Chernobyl would explode creating a barren "Zone" that exists to this day. Even more to the point for me (see Spoilers below for details), the Soviet empire was to collapse just a dozen years later. Given the bleak broken down images we see of the Soviet Union in the opening and closing scenes, is it any wonder that the Zone and its enticements would lure people in? It's hard for most Westerners to fully comprehend the dark morose soul of many of the Russian people. But, spending that half a year there, at least gave me a glimpse. I see STALKER much differently now than I did in '87!Sasha, one of my Russian interpreters while working there had a quote that sums up that fatalistic world view, "In the Russian dictionary, there is no translation for the word 'Fun'." *** Possible SPOILERS Below ***The key to the whole for me is a comment made by one of my Russian friends who I met in Moscow: "You have to understand how the mood of the country was at the time, and the stuff that was happening." Having spent my time there, it gives me a whole new look at Tarkovsky's intent. To me, the Zone represents the Free (Western) World, and the hopes, dreams and dangers of that freedom. The Writer represents the aspirational aspect of the Soviet peoples (and the grand tradition of Russian Literature). The Scientist is the technological tool of the government who always claimed that the Soviet system was superior to the West's and created the Space race etc.. The Stalker? He's the proletariat. He and his family just want to get by and survive. He'll do anything including breaking the law to make some money as a guide. The labyrinthine route to get to the Room? That could be a depiction of the often maddening bureaucracy of the Soviet system (which I saw in spades in my time there!!!!). There's also an aspect of Sartre's famous play No Exit to the tale of three trapped lost souls. As mentioned above, Chernobyl and the collapse of the Soviet Union gives STALKER added resonance all these years later. Some freedom and independence were granted (the Room's wish-giving property), but, it has certainly not been a smooth or rapid change. And, Putin stands not only in the way, but, he actively is trying to reverse course. Russia may need a whole new, and more powerful Zone.
(Flash Review)This film was visually bold and cognitively deep and one of those films open to each user's interpretations to some degree. Lots of great long cuts<U+0085>many up to 4min in length. Several poetic slow camera movements that tend to abstract the natural world giving the user ample time to think and ponder. The core plot is in a world lacking nature and under heavy authoritative control there is a place called The Zone that has some mystical aura about it as well as an extra special location. However, that land area is fenced off to everyone. There is a man known as the Stalker who can take brave people into The Zone who are in search of various things. Some people go for hope, science or to better understand their purpose. There are some religious symbolisms mixed in and one adventurer has to overcome many of his fears in search of this special location. Even the experienced Stalker is impacted during the voyage. There are many philosophical soliloquies, unusual spaces and places and at a lofty 2:45 runtime, ample time to soak it all in.
Stalker is a unique film that has a sci-fi feel to it. The setting of the film focuses majorly on nature and the elements of the wilderness. It also touches on human nature as you follow the journey of three men risking their safety to explore unknown territory. It is a very slow yet suspenseful film, making it hard to look away regardless of it's lethargic pace. I liked how open ended the story line was because it really kept you guessing as to what would happen and how it would end, therefore making every conversation between the men meaningful and captivating. The overall eerie feeling of the film adds to the suspense and forces you to think of all the possibilities the film could end in.


                
Should you see this movie? Definitely YES, but you have to be aware that this is a 70'es Russian movie, a classic one, but the way to tell a story is slightly different from what we are used to in the west. Not in a dramatic way, though.First of all: This is not sci-fi, not a bit! Yes they mention aliens as a possibility, but that is not important, and there is no "science" here at all. Not that it matters. Yeah, and there are "traps" but I feel this is more psychological things, not literally. In a spiritual way.On my first attempt I was bored like hell, I found the dialog to be disjointed and weird, like when the woman says "Why did you take my watch? Where are you going, I'm asking you" or later on, a character called The Writer is trying to be philosophical: "There is no Bermuda triangle. There's only a Triangle ABC that equals Triangle A-prim, B-prim, C-prim". Like he is trying to be technical in a childish way. And why did the lady drive off with his hat on the roof <U+0085>. ? Then the slowness, the not very excellent sound effects and three people seemingly getting nowhere. I switched off after nearly an hour and was ready to give it up and forget about it. I totally understand some of the bad reviews. Then I started to think and I wanted to give it another chance. No matter how bad it is, I cannot rate something I haven't fully seen, right? So the next day I sat down with an extremely open mind, played it from the beginning, paid attention to all the dialogue, tried to absorb and understand the emotions. And it paid off! I am not yet a huge fan, but somewhere in between. Definitely a decent experience. All the good outweighs the bad.The story is linear and quite easy to follow. The dialog is something else, the talk is not always very clear, but pay attention to it nonetheless. And there is use of symbolism all over the place. But look at it this way: Like a dream. You may not always understand the meaning of it all, but it affects you. Probably you will understand more deep down than you could express in words.Give it a chance, but only when you are wide awake, with an open mind, and do not expect to understand it all. Never mind the occasional weirdness <U+0085>


                
