This movie is beautiful, stunning, disturbing and very artsy. It is incredibly slow and metaphysical too. This is not the sort of movie you would take to a party, it is depressing, heavy and almost post apocalyptic. Its best to be consumed on your low day with a bottle of vodka - when you watching alone, in complete darkness. Then you can really enjoy the dark atmosphere of the movie. I think there are different layers in this movie including religious ones (well, this has been shot in SSSR in deep communism so this must have been really risky for the author). I liked the atmosphere, collapsed roofs of the buildings, decaying rooms filled with water, strange dark dog which is supposed not to exist in Zone - all these stunning visuals which just seems to "exist" in timeless Zone. The philosophy in the movie is probably a bit overkill which makes it really hard to swallow for ordinary TV viewer who just wants to relax with some generic scifi movie. Overall I have liked the movie but I do not intend to watch it soon again as it is really "hard to swallow".


                
Like a solemn and reflective piece of poetry, Andrei Tarkovsky's 'Stalker' moves forward slowly. Though loosely based on an undeniable straight science-fiction novel, 'Roadside Picnic' by Boris and Arkady Strugatsky, the film is less concerned with science than it is with pondering the philosophical and metaphysical notions of personal faith and desire. 'Stalker' was released in 1979 after a trouble-plagued production, during which vast portions of the film had to be re-shot due to errors during negative development, and amidst crumbling relations with the original cinematographer, Georgi Rerberg.Most of the film takes place in a wilderness area cordoned off by the government, known as "The Zone." Strictly guarded by armed soldiers who fear to enter it, The Zone is believed to have been the site of a meteor strike, a nuclear accident or even a UFO landing (as in the original novel). One man, known as Stalker (Aleksandr Kajdanovsky), living in a grey and dreary town on the outskirts of The Zone, makes a living out of leading men into the perilous heart of the area, specifically to a room with the alleged ability to grant a man's most innermost desires.On this occasion, against the wishes of his wife (Alisa Frejndlikh), Stalker accompanies two men into The Zone, respectively known as Writer (Anatoli Solonitsyn) <U+0096> a skeptical author looking for inspiration <U+0096> and Professor (Nikolai Grinko) <U+0096> a man of science with ambiguous motives. Once they have bypassed the armed security on the outskirts of the area, Stalker informs his clients that they are to obey his every command if the three of them are to avoid the unspeakable perils of The Zone. These dangers do not appear immediately obvious, with the vast surrounding landscape seemingly peaceful and serene, with the quiet calls of birds and insects occasionally pierced by the distant howl of a wolf or dog. Indeed, it is here that Stalker appears to find complete and utter solace, stretching himself amongst the thickly-scented vegetation to absorb the sights, sounds and smells of the only place that makes him feel human.Writer is initially quite skeptical of the so-called dangers of The Zone, but Stalker's passionate pleas for cooperation eventually convince him to do as he is told. The characters make their journey to The Room slowly, sometimes infuriatingly so, but there is always an underlying sense of peril with every tentative step that they take. Out of a seemingly peaceful and benign environment, Tarkovsky has inspired foreboding. The slow and deliberate pacing of the film most certainly plays a part in this. Tarkovsky's characteristically long takes, coupled with the slow and subtle movement of the camera, successfully create a dream world, a perspective of the story that appears far removed from reality. The trio's journey towards The Room is not so much a journey into the heart of the forest, but a journey into the very depths of the human mind.Softly shot in a sort of dreary metallic sepia, 'Stalker' is a surprisingly beautiful film to look at. Through his extended takes <U+0096> some as long as six minutes in length <U+0096> Tarkovsky leaves every image on screen long enough, not just for us to notice it, but for its beauty to inspire, to inhabit us. Tarkovsky notably despised the use of quick cuts or montage to achieve artificial dramatic peaks, and, at 163 minutes, 'Stalker' is not the most accessible of films. Admittedly, I did catch myself sneaking a glance at my clock on a couple of occasions, but, once we reached that breathtaking conclusion, I couldn't help but think that the entire journey was very much worthwhile.


                
Dream-like story of a mystical room within a cordoned-off wasteland at the heart of run-down society. The room is supposed to fulfill the wishes of anyone who goes there, but is very difficult to approach and requires a guide (or "stalker") to help reach it. The film follows the progress of one stalker and his two latest customers (a scientist and a writer) during a day's journey through "the zone". Deeply philosophical themes of human desire and meaning are addressed, leaving the viewer with a LOT to think about, both during and after the movie.Tarkowsky was apparently obsessional about every single tiny detail of what appeared in every shot, and this resulted in the most visually perfect film I've ever seen: the stark black/white "real" world contrasting with the lush colours of the wild vegetation and crumbling buildings in the zone. The mood is set by the opening scene where the camera, VERY slowly, tracks into a bedroom, towards a chair being used as a bedside table, and then across the faces of a sleeping woman and child and then a man who is awake and looking back across the bed... so the camera tracks back the other way so you can re-view the scene in the knowledge that it is also being observed by the man. This is the only example I can think of in cinema of an attempt to address Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle! And this is only the first scene! There are so many other stunning scenes, but one that stands out in my mind is the slow close-up tracking shot of discarded objects and debris in the bottom of a very shallow, slow-flowing stream of water - a microcosm of the whole film, and of human life in general - this is a scene that only Tarkowsky would ever have thought of doing.This is a "proper" film, a work of art, that will still be watched and appreciated in a thousand years' time.


                
I have seen Stalker just for one time and have to say here that I was almost confused in some parts of the movie. Too slow camera motion , worded conversation and many more ( now I'm not speaking about the art level of the movie - it is great) . But it could be due to the fact that I watched it when I was tired and maybe I couldn't focus on it. But now when I have already thought about it I suppose I can see the point of it. Next to the drawn human minds and men's deeds and instincts I found the similar path to the god. It is also guarded,it is hard to reach , not for everyone, but finally you feel heavenly great and your dreams come true. Some people are afraid to come in to the chamber - they are not prepared or are feared - the same with reaching the God. And when you want to destroy it - all for you the mythology or fairy tell - in your eyes - those who live only for it will try to stop you by any means that necessary. They blindly believe and don't hesitate to sacrifice a man - friend , brother . But after reaching that final point that can see their former deeds and than the suicide it the only suitable choice.So it was what I found in the Stalker. I believe that it is unnecessary to prove the artistic value of the movie that is something that everyone will feel while watching it. The acting was also very good but what impressed me the most was the chosen scenery where the story took place. It was - I believe - common heritage of the former industry in Soviet union - heavy industry factories break down by nature.


                
This movie is done by one of the most brilliant Russian directors Andrei Tarkovsky (solaris, Andrei Rublyov).His movies are released on DVD and you can find them almost everywhere so I had no problems tracking the movie down and watching it. Just as I hoped, the movie is MIND BLOWING! Absolutely wonderful! But I'll start with a warning: This is a slow intelligent movie, no action and no special effects.The story is about a Stalker that specializes in sneaking people into "The Zone" where there is a secret place in which their dream will supposedly come true. He takes there a writer and a Scientist and they have to sneak up to that place while following "rules" that are set by the place.The best thing about the movie is that it got the most wonderful cinematography that I've ever seen and it got great music and the most intelligent dialogs and monologues. Also the movie got a strong message... it's kinda like Kubrik's "2001: Space Odyssey" in style. I think that it's a must see for all cinema and serious sci-fi lovers. Also it's very recommended for anyone that wants to enjoy a good piece of cinema but to watch it you must be able to handle almost 3 hours very slow paced. Again, kinda like Kubrik's "2001: Space Odyssey".Enjoy!


                
"Stalker" is a tapestry of beauty and sorrow. Tarkovsky's visual introspection of human life and hope is hauntingly realized through a journey into the Zone--an enigmatic area encircling a room which will fulfill any innermost wish of its vistors. In the wake of the three protagonists follows the breath-taking dreamscape and their fear of facing the essence of life. What is hope? What is love? What is our reason to live? All of the questions echo through this heartbreaking journey.Highly recommended for those who seek profound sci-fi matter. Also check out the beautiful poems from Arseniy A. Tarkovsky, father of the director, in several sequences.


                
The best introduction to this film is to say it is an art film. So saying may conjure up past experiences where entertainment takes a back seat to artistic expression. This is not true with Stalker. It maintains suspense and interest throughout the film. The story involves a strange journey into a heavily guarded Zone to which strange things are attributed, including possibly an alien landing site. But the journey in involves viewing nature and the ravishment of man's industrial footprint and nature's natural tendency to erase it, with fresh objectivity. It is a rather schizophrenic vision in which phenomenon so common as a gust of wind are perceived with the primitive fear of a savage. Or a dry wind of dust and leaves blowing across quivering quicksand. Nothing about it supernatural but so strange!In the long run no ET monsters or anything else is discovered. To borrow the words of Bob Dylan: Nothing Is Revealed. And so, there is a letdown in suspense, but the letdown is not without dramatic meaning. It is the letdown of a man unable to prove that he is not insane.I have to think that even in Russia--a land known for its industrial pollution--the makers of this film must have spent a lifetime scoping out potential visual material. To watch the camera pan over the submerged items left there by man and nature is to stand in the shoes of an alien ourselves. This is a great film for sensitizing one to man's effect on the environment.
It's been 5 years (already!) since I saw my last Tarkovsky. I had come to rest with Zerkalo, because here was a man, one of few, very few in the cinema, who can permeate so deeply into the essential mystery of how things move, and he only made a handful of movies really so I must make them last, and take them in when the time feels right. My next one might be in another 5 years time, but yesterday night the time felt right for this, one I've been heartily anticipating for years.This is Tarkovsky entering the mind once more. He never does it in any obvious, Inception way, it's never actually the mind; but we arrive at a place, a source of the imagining, where wind blows from and rings each thing into being. In Rublev he was the artist looking to paint the face of god in a godless world that concealed it. In Solyaris he was the cosmonaut. In Zerkalo, a filmmaker who recalled a whole life, receiving visions at the doorstep. Here he's the Stalker who takes us into the Zone, obvious enough.Each one is self-referential of course about the very process of stepping into the movie. The Zone as a Tarkovsky movie - full of desolate nature and a mysterious presence that bends logic. We first have to cross the iron border where censors (his illiterate Soviet patrons) prevent entry.This is the border guarded by the irongated mechanisms of reason that has to be crossed before we can begin our guided meditation beyond logic. One way he does this is by splitting himself into characters. One is a scientist, which is Tarkovsky's critique of a mechanistic worldview that reduces a tree to what biological facts it can explain. Another is a writer, a surrogate for Tarkovsky's intellectual self who despairs about the possibility of words to communicate sense. The Stalker himself as who Tarkovsky feels himself to be most purely, the guide who knows the whims of this landscape and wants nothing other than to bring us to the doorstep of miracle.It's his uncanny ability, as always, to pave the way for that miracle. We never enter "the room", as it were. But we are brought to the doorstep. He cultivates the space that leads up to that apperception, this is what people call elusive and dreamlike. Tarkovsky's real work is that he teaches, rewires, us how to see, effects this change in the whole of logic of space, so that we leave with Tarkovsky eyes to go back out. This is far more valuable, and insightful, than any of the imagery that blends industrial grime, fish and religious iconography (in one memorable instance, with voice-over from John's Apocalypse). It's that elements can swirl and reflect in this way.He does several wonderful things, some of them completely breathtaking like the meditation on music that rings a chord in the listener who responds to it with what we have no other name to call but soul. He stretches space, seemingly with no effort, both in the industrial segment early and then across the Zone. He makes the geography elastic, shuffles boundaries of forward and back. It's not that this means something again, it's that the place in which you can receive _anything_ (which is perception itself) can bent thus. The result is a marvelous sense of heaving. Thunderous views of a train, or waterfalls, crash across the frame. Same thing. It's his most sculptural work so far.The dilapidated Soviet locales provide ample opportunity for gnarly imagery, I simply shudder to think that it was actually filmed in places like we see. It's possible that we're seeing the place that killed him and several more from cast and crew.But there's also another side that I want to draw my distance from. In Zerkalo he had reached a point of equanimity that lets go of questions and accepts what is, that for better or worse a life was lived. This is gone here and replaced with a sense of tiredness and cynicism that narrows down to the personal. Now it's not about what is let go of, it's about what is clung onto. None of it is sci-fi of course. But too much is an artist's stream-of-consciousness on what place his own art has. Too much is angsty here. What am I to make for example of Stalker being escorted to bed by his wife, now a pathetic figure who complains that no one wants what he has to show? This is a dangerous path to take because it substitutes the struggle to make sense of life, with the struggle to deliver art about doing it and complain that no one appreciates it. The latter Tarkovsky is far less interesting to me than the former. I fear he would get worse in this regard, compounded by his exile from home.I've read about how Tarkovsy was possibly interested in Zen Buddhism and Tao while preparing for this and may have incorporated influence. There is the notion of spontaneous arising in the Zone as the Zen mind and the bit about how the soft endures while the hard breaks that comes from the Daodejing. It doesn't really venture into either, its preconceptions simply lie elsewhere. But Tarkovsky fails to make use of the Buddhist wisdom in his own predicaments. Instead of letting go, he clings to the burden of fixed views. He suffers their weight, for no reason I might add. The title of this post is a Taoist excerpt.So there are two sides here. The journey to where perception is made fluid and mingles with its reflection and the intellectual burden of its creator. One soft, the other hard. Maybe in another 5 years I will get to see what gives way in Nostalghia.


                
It looks and feels just like ordinary places. Places you may know even, or have visited before.But you must proceed with great caution. Every step you take re-shapes the very reality around you. Beware of traps, of fruitless trails, of dangers and treasures that swap disguises at every turn. Beware of yourself. You are different here too. The Zone is a place that exists both inside and outside of your mind. How you manage that fact will mean the difference between a beautiful adventure and a funeral dirge of apathy.The way in which Andrei Tarkovsky's 'Stalker' has the potential to re-inform and re-excite your relationship with reality is in my view one of the biggest selling points here.The film follows the journey of the Stalker, a guide for hire who leads his two 'thrill-seeking' clients, a writer and a professor, on a quest for wish-fulfilment through the mysterious 'Zone', a place only he can navigate and that the state seeks to quarantine from civilians. The Stalker's profession seems to draw both respect and derision from society. The writer cheekily refers to him as 'Chingachgook'. Both the writer and the professor express doubts about the Stalker's true qualification for this adventure, and about whether or not there is indeed any actual adventure to be had. Only the Wizard of Oz style transition from monochrome to colour strengthens our presumption that the Zone is a genuinely special place. This magical sense of uncertainty, present throughout the first part of Stalker, is intoxicating. In fact, it's like the best drunken and rainy afternoon in the park with your friends that you ever had.The second part of Tarkovsky's 'anti-quest' tells us more about the agenda and sensibilities of the writer and the professor, but there is the distinct possibility that you will find none of what they have to say very interesting.The philosophy showcased in the dialogue is of an elementary sort, and a seemingly reckless amount of screen-time is given to it. Perhaps Tarkovsky wants us to find their ruminations frustrating. Indeed, as the grand design of the screenplay is revealed to us, the message seems to be that Tarkovsky's Russia is being crippled by intellectualism.By the time the writer and professor arrive at the 'very threshold' of the Zone's supernatural core, they have Hamletized themselves into positions of zero actionability. It's another bitter failure for the Stalker, whose profession is also his spiritual calling. Few people are interested in the real gift of the Zone, Even fewer are worthy of it. And those few who show promise have a depressing habit of talking themselves out of their own worthiness at the last hurdle. Perhaps reason is the true opium of the masses...So for me, the engrossing and lyrical first part of Stalker gives way to a difficult and annoyingly elusive second part. But the film is very much like the Zone itself. Different for everyone. Well. Isn't everything. You take it and shape it and model it in your mind, trying to follow what you think are the rules.But what you get in the cave is a reflection of what you brought with you. Not what you 'thought' you brought with you. What you take home might not be what you wanted or expected, but nevertheless, you will take something from it. Even if it's just the same thing you started out with.
HORRIBLE SPOILERS (well just my take on it really) but please DON'T READ ON IF YOU HAVEN'T SEEN IT.Whoa. This is a strange one. I watched it at a small viewing in London. The film is slow but strangely compelling as the imagery is nothing short of sublime. Who cares that nothing is happening when every screen shot is more vivid and haunting than the last? A truly strange picture postcard offering of a film. And it's offering a truly surreal world within a silent landscape - the characters are almost unnecessary. I was happy just watching each eerie frame, each one eerier than the last.The three main characters however all share a rugged appeal and after about an hour (I know that seems a long time) I started to realise that "the zone" that the stalker (for stalker read guide) takes the two fee-paying intellectuals into, is in fact their own minds. And when it comes down to it, their minds are beset with all the ignorance of the true intellectual. This is a mind-bending watch but enjoyable nevertheless. My take on it is that I think the stalker represents a therapist and he is trying to help the two characters but they don't want help, and rail against true healing. After a lot of travelling through a wild, dangerous landscape, when they are actually on the verge of that happiness that they have paid to find, they reject it. As they sit outside the door of enlightenment, they are so shaken that one tries to blow it up (a professor) and the other denies it (a writer), who prefers to hold on to his own misery - not as if his life depended on it - but his life does actually depend on it. This part of the film was frustrating to me as I realised the two men were cowards.This is a truly deep meditation on being human and how some (maybe all of us?) will choose misery over happiness as we are comfortable with it, we know what it is, it is life, is it not. Anything else is just plain scary and too daunting, however much we think we want change. This film is a true masterpiece. This is the first film I have watched from this director. I hope all his films are as deep and as mysterious as this one. 8/10 from me.
I have a weird relationship with this movie. The first time I noticed it in a Blockbuster in 1985, the cover art and the description of the plot drew me in. But the VHS copy was really smeared and muddy, and in spite of the shocks and thrills promised on the box, NOTHING HAPPENED, and KEPT not happening for more than two hours, and I was at a point in my life where I had limited attention to give to movies like this. I don't remember even finishing the movie. But somehow, the movie haunted me. I found myself thinking about it now and then for many years after that (even though I could barely remember anything about it). And after a decade, I started looking around to see if I could see it again to reassess it. But watchable copies of "Stalker" eluded me (or cost at least $100), and the version I found on YouTube wasn't subtitled. And then one day while sitting on a plane waiting to take off, the in-flight entertainment display on the panel in front of me showed "Stalker" on the DirectTV feature, and I managed to catch about 15 minutes of it before the plane took off and I lost the feed (I wasn't a member of the airline's "members program", so I couldn't just pony up the fee to watch it). Encouraged that it was still out there somewhere, I looked for it later on Amazon Prime and found out I could actually purchase a copy for less than $20. So I did, and watched it before bed over the course of 3 nights (it's still quite long at 2 hours and 40 minutes). Wow. Nothing STILL happens except for a scuffle 50 minutes from the end and an eerie 2 minute finish that puts an amazing spin on the non-events of the past hours. No one's face gets melted, no one dies screaming in a Zone trap, no special effects at all (except for in the final minute). The screenplay is all discussion and exposition and character revelation. But...wow. The cinematography, art direction, sound design, sound track, the performances of the three main actors, the long tracking shots of water and nature and debris and rusted metal and abandoned war machinery....it's all amazing. Rarely have I seen such a mood of gloom, despair, bleak hope, and gallows humor sustained so well for so long. And the final speech by the Stalker's wife at the end somehow redeems everything, and the final twist (which I won't reveal) will somehow put everything than came before in a new light.I won't say that you owe it to yourself to see "Stalker". It's a movie of ideas (most of them pretty gloomy) and mood. But for what it is, it's a masterpiece.
I was stunned by Tarkovsky's other famous sci-fi philosophical meditation Solyaris. Comparisons between Solyaris and Stalker are natural because of the genre and auteur.Tarkovsky proves again that he is a master of the visual and each frame is preplanned with the whole flowing seamlessly from seam to seam with long and languorous takes. Like Solyaris, Stalker is a deep, meditative work and a superficial first viewing is probably not enough to understand the significant themes of the film. I have only just finished seeing Stalker for the first time and it may grow on me. However, my first impression while watching Solyaris was intense interest coupled with a longing to understand more about this marvelous, enigmatic film after it is was over. In the case of Stalker I really had to plod through it at times. It was visually stunning but not beautiful. The characters may have been more autobiographical for Tarkovsky but they did not arouse empathy.There are may visual similarities between Solyaris and Stalker and if you've seen one, you can automatically detect the same visual style in the other. In Stalker, the scenes in the real world - first 20 and last 10 minutes - were black & white while the zone was filmed in color. The real world was cold, grey and ugly and in many cases e.g. the tunnel, so was the zone. The Stalker did not have the presence or the sadness in his eyes that the lead of Solyaris did which I see as another major shortcoming. I will want to let my viewing of Stalker sink in over the next few days and may change my opinion, so this is just an immediate reaction.


                
The movie is not as frightening as the poster appears to be. The movie is a landmark in Editing. The movie is shot in color and few scenes are shot in Black-and-white and tinted with a silver-gray texture that adds to the artistic and surreal effect of the movie.I felt the movie was a drag in the first half with several scenes deliberately shot for longer durations but that gave me ample time to observe, experience and appreciate the brilliant cinematography. The movie has some brilliant shots of camera that draws a thin margin between figments of imagination and reality. The movie has a euphonious background theme.The men risk their lives to reach the 'Zone'. As the three men reach the 'Zone', an inhabited land with an ancient myth of granting one's innermost wish, disparate views emerge and each one confronts the other two. The men are convinced of their perception of 'The room' while the Stalker is still skeptical and rubbishes their thoughts. The evidence for existence of the myth is left for the viewers to judge.A movie that reminds me of the works of the harbinger of the genre Fantasy, Ingmar Bergman.
This is one of THOSE movies. You know the ones: come up in every conversation, is on every "must see" list, is referenced and quoted in every essay. It's also very good and very deserving of its attention. Tarkovsky's Stalker is the mapping of a labyrinth without walls. In a sort of Wizard of Oz style approach, Tarkovsky cuts between high contrast sepia and muddled green vegetation. The space in which this movie takes place is marked by water, fluidity, transition, rot, decay, and urban decay factors such as trash, abandoned guns, and hypodermic needles. The result is a mental, psychological space which is explored by a working man (the Stalker of the title), a writer, and a scientist, all to mostly open-ended and contemplative effect, though Tarkovsky does tack on an extra twenty minutes or so where he restates his themes, adds a confession, and then shows a bit of telekinetics, all of which I found to be entirely unnecessary, especially after the richness of the previous two and a half hours. Oh well.--PolarisDiB
Andrei Tarkovsky's 1979 film Stalker (<U+0421><U+0442><U+0430><U+043B><U+043A><U+0435><U+0440>) is not the great nor masterful film its most ardent critical supporters proclaim, nor is it the slow, boring Eurotrash that its most vocal critics counterclaim. It lies somewhere in between- a film that risks and occasionally fails, although it is far closer to greatness than trash. That's because Tarkovsky has crafted a film of unusual visuals with even more unusual power. There are scenes that recall the old telefilm The Lathe Of Heaven, released the same year as this film, 1979; Carl Theodor Dreyer's great Vampyr, in its use of shadows and fog; the 1976 sci fi classic Logan's Run, in that the three leads of the film are running away from their society; Tarkovsky's earlier Solaris, in its mix of color and sepia images; and, most of all, with Alex Proyas' 1998 sci fi classic Dark City, which, like Stalker, creates a wholly believable alternate world unlike any other put on screen. Visually, Stalker most reminds me of the human portraits of the great Austrian painter Egon Schiele, with its myriad of gaunt, pallid, balding, dirty, twisted characters.But, as in most Tarkovsky films, it is not the visuals that dominate, rather the philosophic depth of the characters. What they don't say or dream is almost always as important as what they do say and dream. Stalker succeeds because its ellipses are more brilliant than its fodder. Stalker misses greatness, however, because its fodder some times fails . Of course, there are the usual misreadings by critics, who praise the very things that do not work- like the ending, or imbue their own interpretations of Stalker as a Christ-like figure (his being a religious character makes him no stand-in for a religious figure), when the film is surprisingly shorn of any religious mumbo jumbo (humanist philosophy and religion are not analogues), and the three lead characters are in no way merely symbols- of Christian Wise Men, the Trinity, nor any tripartite invocation. Do they bear some symbolism? Of course, since they are known only by their professions. But, each is a unique character, not a caricaturization. Thus, Stalker achieves a rare intimacy in film, one absent from most films, Hollywood or foreign, and if not a great film, certainly it is an excellent film, and one of the most unique visions committed to screen. See for yourself how even failure can fail better than most.
This film seems to occupy a realm of perception akin to that of the prismatic reflection of light cast across your kitchen counter as the sun plays through it; or that of the whispering angular shadow of a swaying tree outside your window, beamed onto your ceiling & slowly drifting across the room with the track of the sun.  Both are singular phenomena and abstractions of light which one can embrace and perhaps even acheive some level of revelation through if the mind is allowed to 'lose the moment' as it were and embrace the uncommon beauty and inexplicable strangeness that such a simple event can generate.  Just as easily, one can simply cast it aside; leave it unnoticed and nothing more than a wisp of light at the peripheral edge of vision.  Stalker is, as well, one of these "abstractions of light", a flickering presence on the screen open to interpretation.  One that may be fully absorbed and  taken to heart as an illumination of the soul or brushed aside as nothing more than a faceless and futile attempt at 'nothingness'. Perhaps one may find their focus drifting in such a way that only a few fragments may be fully digested, comprehended and sifted through the back door of the intellect; vague impressions of no particular form or figure.  Perhaps one could watch (and re-watch) this film and adopt all of the above viewpoints.  Stalker is "that kind" of a film and one which is bound to polarize viewers.  Unquestionably slow and brooding, yet uncommonly strange and beautiful by turns.  It's meaning is shrouded and the ultimate resolution is tied up in metaphysical abstractions whose meanings are not entirely clear.  One of the most impressive aspects of the film (and much of Tarkovsky's work) is it's ability to render the simplest images in a manner that transforms them into poetic distillations of a very high order. Tarkovsky is truly a visual alchemist of the highest order, as this film will certainly attest.  Watch this film, take it for what it is, and leave with whatever impression and/or opinions you see fit.  You may find yourself thoroughly bored or completely enthralled, but there is one thing that is certain.  Whether you know it or not, a transformation of some order will have taken place.  As the alchemists of yore would tell you, though the transformation of lead to gold may seem an utterly futile, unrewarding and ultimately impossible task, it is the transformation of the self during this process that really counts.


                
I actually came up with this movie from game 'Stalker: Shadow of Chernobyl' which is motivated by this movie. I even didn't know it is a philosophical movie so then I tried to understand, or enjoy? This movie shows 3 guys that seeking Zone's special room for their wish but unfortunately they don't respect each other and only showing their way of life with closed ear, but hopefully they knows, understand themselves. I don't know if I understood this movie too different because I'm too young to think about this. I really hated writer that such depressed and forgot he is human with meaning of life. And then personally I had sympathy with him. this 3 guys represent cycle of way to live, Stalker(Seeker, Hope)-> Writer(failure, Depressed)-> Professor(Succeed but forgot to seek). I'm not going to tell each person's view that would make this review too long. However this movie is way better than other tones of terrible European movies. They want us to understand but this movie explained. I criticize one thing Long take was too bad because it didn't show enough things in shot. But Still none camera move was good.


                
The movie Stalker is first, and foremost, a piece of visual, moving art; it is moving poetry. The cinematography is stunning and quite possibly unparalleled. The primary thing to keep in mind when watching this film is that you will get out of it exactly what you put into it: if you look at it with brewing cynicism and little patience, you are bound to be either letdown or annoyed by this movie (or possibly both). But if you sit back and truly experience the film for what it is, you may walk away with a new-found appreciation for just what a film can actually be when one strips away the constricting limitations that we often confine to cinema. Stalker is loosely based on a science fiction novel titled "Roadside Picnic" by Arkady and Boris Strutgatsky. There was actually an original film that more closely followed the narrative of the novel, but when the original, undeveloped film was accidentally ruined, Tarkovsky chose to do an entirely different story in which he completely stripped away the character driven plot of the novel in favor of a visual story. The resulting product is a movie with minimal story and stunning visuals on a shoe-string budget. Two professionals, Writer (the cynic) and Professor (the reasoner) are accompanied into a derelict area known as The Zone by an individual called Stalker (playing the role of the hopeful "Holy Fool"). Their primary goal upon entering The Zone is to find an area known as The Room, a place where only the truly hopeless may enter and, in turn, have their wish granted, but there's a hitch: The Room does not just grant any wish; it grants your truest, most innermost desire, no matter what that may be. Upon entering The Zone, danger supposedly lurks in every corner, ready to spring up at any second, yet we see none of this. Why is this so? Is The Zone truly dangerous? Or has the myth, the legend of The Zone simply grown larger than what The Zone really is? That's the true beauty of this film: we don't know! There is so much subjectivity in this cerebral film, and a good majority of the film can argumentatively be left open to debate and interpretation. From a cinematographic standpoint, the film is visually stunning. The switching back and forth from sepia tone to color provides a stark contrast between The Zone and the rest of the world. A point of contention seems to be the use of long shots and lengthy pauses, thus making the feel seem unnecessarily slow and drawn out. It is this pacing that is actually crucial to establishing the tone of the movie, in turn inducing a feeling of paranoia and claustrophobia that runs throughout the majority of the film. So at the end of the day, what is Stalker? Stalker is a psychological movie with stunning visuals that can probably be interpreted a million different ways by a million different people. It favors cinematic style over plot, and, in turn, expects you to connect the dots and walk away with a meaning that is uniquely personal to you.
My third Tarkovsky's film (after SOLARIS 1972, 8/10 and NOSTALGHIA 1983, 8/10), STALKER is a startling eye-opener, set in a sordid clanking land of rural Soviet Union, after the falling of a meteorite, an enigmatic area "The Zone" has emerged, inside there is a room can grant incomers' innermost wishes, but cordoned by the government with armies, only with the guidance of so called "stalkers", one can reach the room. So the expedition involves one stalker and his two clients, a writer and a professor, one begs for inspiration and the other conceals an ulterior motive.As one can predict, the film is teeming with Tarkovsky's trademark static/panning long shots, mesmerizing and conjuring up a recondite sense of metaphysics, for example, a steady long shot of various items in the water finishes with the focus on a human hand, sometimes it's baffling, as viewers (as well as the two clients) have been warned numerous times by the stalker, the place is precarious, many a predecessor dies mysteriously in the zone, among a large chunk of the time Tarkovsky successfully maintains the stifling suspense to tally with the seedy locale, the movement is painstakingly strung out, so the audiences cannot shun the unknown danger but only succumb to a thorough wallow in the wasteland. Tarkovsky never resort to cheap horror to give vent to excitement or relief, instead, he utilizes a man-made natural surrounding to trap oneself in, and let our own inside demon out to divulge a sense of thrill and frisson. I don't speak Russian, so it probably hinders my apprehension of the dialog, only if the English interpretation could be better, nevertheless, STALKER seems bit chattier than Tarkovsky's other works, their debate ranges from the philosophy of human beings' psychological trials and tribulations, the socio-political radicalism to the awe and frustration towards the mystery and miracles plus the unselfishness of art, etc. I may not be able to fully cover all the implications from the first viewing, but one can not deny here the luxuriant imagery is louder than words at any rate.The cast is also memorable, the monochrome close-ups endow each character with a pictorial impact of their own resolution, the friend-or-foe association motivates the storytelling and excellently penetrates the harmony of the trio thus overshoots viewers' expectation. Myself find the supernatural elements have been fascinatingly deployed in this film, scattering into many inscrutable shots, sometimes only in a jiffy and most strikingly is the ending, with the daughter of the stalker, mind-controls still objects until one glass falls on the ground but the sound is drowned by the strident train running nearby, which ultimately veils the film with a stratum of mystique that qualifies Tarkovsky as one of the most unique and essential filmmaker of all time!


                
Stalker is too long, too slow, and could have been more emotionally engaging rather than intellectually. But it's super intelligent, and it's simply the greatest film that discovers and delves into human desires.(8/10)


                
Greetings from Lithuania."Stalker" (1979) didn't blew me away when seeing it for the first time just now in 2016. I kinda expected this movie to be "this kind" after seeing "Solyaris" (1972). And by "this kind" i mean: long, dreamlike movie with some long shots and poetry. It had all of that - and while i wasn't blown away by the overall experience, i must say i admired this movie while i was watching it. It also features a great settings and mood - i loved the whole mood and atmosphere in the "Zone".Overall, "Stalker" is surely not for everyone. This is sometimes (most of it) haunting experience, with some deep ideas (which i'm sure i didn't get most of them), nice acting and great settings. There can be millions interpretations of the whole picture or what one or other thing meant, but i think the point in here was for each viewer himself to find it own answers - as there can't be one explanation to everything.


                
Stalker is quintessentially Tarkovskii and stagnation-era. Tarkovskii's extended silences, slow painting-like shots, color filters, and obsession with dripping water permeate the film. From the stagnation era, Stalker borrows middle age, cynicism, nihilism, listlessness, and unfulfilled desire. The film is remarkably atmospheric; aside from a few strange occurrences, nothing actually corroborates the titular Stalker's claims of supernatural danger in the Zone, and yet the fog, the ruins, the unearthly electronic music, and the apprehension of the characters gives an air of ominous oppression to what is objectively a very simple film. Alienation is a constant theme. In one sense, the Zone disobeys physical laws, traps and kills, and inspires introspection in a terrifyingly sublime way. In another sense, the Zone is the most "real" place in the film – it is in color, it is a place of hope, and it is the only place the Stalker claims to be at home, in opposition to the muddy-brown drudgery of the outside world. The dichotomy of Zone and reality, hope and cynicism, comfort and danger, unconscious desires and active passions are constantly at play, and often flipping. I couldn't shake the feeling that the film had something to say about communism and the stagnation period: the Zone is a place of refuge and also a place of weirdness, it attracts the hopeless, and yet offers possibility. One character wants to destroy it, due to the terrible power it might give to bad men. Another character argues that this cannot happen, because man's inner desires will always trump their ideological positions. The Stalker wants only to bring visitors to the Zone for hope and happiness, and grieves at the inability of "intellectuals" to give it their faith. His wife narrates, "If we hadn't had our misfortunes, it would have been worse<U+0085>there wouldn't have been any hope." Whether or not these stagnation themes were deliberately placed or an osmotic result of the era is irrelevant – the film is imminently malleable in interpretation. Stalker is nothing if not strange, and there are scenes that cannot be described with any justice in writing. The atmosphere is beautifully wrought, and the film thankfully does not spoil its own premise with over-exposition or ludicrous elements, as science fiction is often wont to do, but scenes tend to drag, and the film might have benefited from some more judicious editing. The most striking and well-timed scene in the entire story occurs in the last two minutes, and one wonders what Tarkovskii might have done with a little more money and a more hawk-eyed editor. Overall, Stalker is strange, atmospheric, introspective, and a little too long for its own good.
The Stalker is one of many itinerants who spend much of their lives wandering through the Zone. It is an area that has been strictly quarantined by authorities due to an unexplained disaster that may have been caused by extraterrestrial beings or some unforeseen cosmic event. Due to his special knowledge of the area, the Stalker agrees to lead two men, a Professor and a Writer, through the Zone to a special place called the Room, where it is believed that one's most cherished wishes will come true.Much has already been said about Tarkovsky's 'slow motion' cinematographic style. Many like it, and, not surprisingly, many find it boring. However, judging from some of the other reviews, it appears that very little may been said about what the story actually means.On a symbolic level, the zone represents the mysterious workings of the human psyche and all the chaos and confusion therein. The professor represents logical reasoning, which, unfortunately, has been corrupted by a penchant for self-destruction. The writer represents our ability to dream and create things of beauty, however, he lacks inspiration. Unfortunately, despite being highly conscientious, humanity has nevertheless failed to achieve a harmonious relationship with nature, in particular, our own. It is to achieve this natural harmony that drives the Stalker to return to the Zone time and time again. To the Stalker, waterfalls, wild herbs, and warm sunshine are paradise compared to the dull, drab atmosphere of an industrial district. It is an emotionally inspiring experience he needs to share with others if only to make his own impoverished life meaningful. Yet, even he does not dare to take the final step towards eternal bliss.Like many of us, the three travelers don't actually know what it is that will truly make them happy, but it is certainly not the amenities of a technologically advanced civilization. It seems that everything that they had worked so hard to build, including social relationships (love affairs, friendships, families, professional partnerships, etc), lies about them in ruins, shut out, abandoned and left to waste. And, even though their goal appears to be only a short distance away, they cannot truly reach fulfillment unless they take the errant journey through desolation and despair that will bring them to a better understanding of themselves. However, the Stalker's companions are reluctant to take this circuitous route, partly because it requires a great deal more mental and physical effort, and partly because of an almost superstitious fear of the unknown.Is there any hope for these hapless itinerants, or are they doomed to wander aimlessly for the rest of eternity in a vain search for truth or some purpose to what would otherwise be a meaningless existence? By the end of the film, perhaps you will agree that there is still hope for humanity. That we are resilient enough to endure whatever hardships may befall upon us, and that because of the power of the human imagination, we will ever be capable of raising ourselves to still higher levels of conscious.


                
Like the other Tarkovsky films I've seen, Solaris and The Sacrifice, this one boils down in substance to a film one-third its actual length, advancing three times as slowly as necessary. However, unlike the other two, this one didn't bore me. Why not? Because most of it concentrates on three excellent actors and some neat settings, and the part which doesn't is even more interesting. This is the first half hour, which shows the principal character preparing to leave home, fighting with his wife, meeting the men who have hired him, sneaking past armed guards across the boundary, etc. Suspenseful and saddening, it could be set in the real world, and it basically is; and I wish this film, and all of Tarkovsky's films, had remained there. He could have shown a lot about it if he'd chosen to--but perhaps he wouldn't have been able to, for political reasons. Or for emotional ones, since it obviously filled him with despair. He was always escaping--or, as his films show, failing to escape--back, outward, inward. Unlike Solaris, this film isn't really science fiction. Its script concentrates on the development of the three characters, not of the central concept. The Zone remains nonsensical, and at the end we discover that that was part of the point, but I think the point would have been made more strongly had the properties and rules of the Zone been more rigorously devised and given their own definite meaning, so that when they were exploded at the end, their antithesis had a definite meaning also, beyond mere negation. This negation is the expression of only one character, and so may not have been intended as conclusive. But we never hear any argument to the contrary. The only ambiguity the film offers is in the final shot of the protagonist's daughter. But I take it that this follows not from the trip to the Zone but from the family's outing (if it can be called so) on the beach: it's the first scene outside the Zone that's shown in color, and it begins with her "walking." And I take it that the revelation in the last scene is meant to be a sign of fulfillment of her father's--or perhaps her own--hopes. But how, and why? It seems as if something more were called for here. According to the video case, the film recalls Blade Runner and Eraserhead, but it looked to me very little like either, and was more interesting than both put together. The views of the locations or sets (I couldn't tell which were which) were fascinating enough so that most of the time I didn't mind their extreme length.But again, one hour would have been as good as three.
Next time you take a roadside picnic and throw something away in the grass, take a moment to consider what happens next. Ants will come out to pick up and carry the crumbs away. Birds will peck at seeds and fruits. Maybe some badger will grab a wrapper and get his head stuck in it. Suppose you chuck an alkaline battery away, or a canister of oil? Mere leftovers for us become mysterious and deadly artifacts for lesser creatures.This was the basic premise behind Arkady and Boris Strugatsky's book, Roadside Picnic. What if aliens landed on Earth and left some junk behind? People and governments would surely covet it. It could become a whole new kind of black market. But what effects would such artifacts have on lesser beings like us? 1979's Stalker adopts this premise into a one-of-a-kind vision. From its opening credits onward, the film is seeped in hard, gritty textures and drab colors. In this bleak setting, the nameless Stalker (Alexander Kaidanovsky, notably bald, scrawny, and kinda alien-looking) takes a job to escort two clients into the Zone--the place where a meteorite crashed and became quarantined by the military. One man is a writer (Anatoly Solonitsyn) looking for inspiration. The other, a professor (Nikolai Grinko) looking for scientific discovery. Despite the heavy guard and the threat of never coming back, the three break through and progress through the Zone. We never see any psychical threats, but the trio always react with fear and anxiety over invisible traps and unseen entities. Passing through dark corridors and ruins, truths are unearthed about each character, which puts their whole endeavor into question and endangers them all.This is a long and mopey film. Gone are the pulp fiction roots of the original story--Tarkovsky sought to craft a meditative experience out of this, sculpting viewers' time as he always did to draw out each moment and force you to think about what's on screen and what's being said. It might be agony for some viewers, because each shot lingers for long, long, long stretches of time. It kills the pacing, especially when the characters stop moving and decide to discuss philosophy for minutes on end.Fortunately, this film will reward patient viewers. The combination of dreary visuals and sharp writing directs the audience to contemplate greater implications of the journey. It's not so much about three guys walking through the woods--it's an allegory to religious pilgrimage, and synonymous to living life itself. The entire trip challenges each characters' faith, as they question the existence and validity of an all-powerful Room that promises them happiness and fulfilled wishes. Each performer puts on melancholy and understated performances, accentuating the stillness of the cinematography and the quietness of the soundtrack. The sheer mood suggests cynicism towards society, the arts, science, religion--the entirety of mankind. Viewers can infer any number of conclusions, as the Stalker himself distresses over how people lost their way.This is one of the ultimates in art-house cinema. Stalker has cinematography like no other, showcasing places and people so dark, but with a delicate touch that implies greater beauty in nature and power of forces above and beyond mankind. Best of all, the film offers content worth contemplating and reflecting on. Tarkovsky and the crew suffered toxic environments to realize this vision. Then, the film was destroyed--the Soviet laboratories were unfamiliar with the film stock and it was improperly developed. Tensions with the cinematographer (who was subsequently fired) only accentuated the frustration and cynicism Tarkovsky felt, before having to re-shoot the entire film again. What's left might be a reflection of his own anguish. And we are given a chance to stare into his abyss, to see what stares back at us.If you have the interest, the patience, the willpower, the film is a must-see.4/5


                
