Tarkovsky's direction for this film is nearly flawless.The film mainly focuses on three characters and their basic goodness of each other. The photographic colors are brilliantly choreographed to the mood of character and viewer. The visionary landscapes are mesmerizing beautiful. The survival techniques the characters in the film achieve is unlike anything I've seen in film. Much like Kubrick in terms of directive style and character study, Tarkovsky puts the viewer in a kaleidoscopic landscape of mood and emotion. No clichés here though. I have not read the story which the movie is based upon, but from what I understand the characters in the film all develop a healing understanding of each other. That is when you know [as a viewer] that you will watch something unique andexceptional. If you are into complex, psychological science fiction in the same vain of say {The Andromeda Strain, Solaris, 2001:a space odyssey} than you shall enjoy "Stalker".


                
Stalker (1979)***½ Stalker is rich, spiritual and contemplative journey through the fantastic inner world of human's hope, desire, disillusions and believes. Main characters, Writer (as incarnation of irrational, imaginative and emotional aspects of our nature or subconsciousness) and Scientist (rational, logic forces or consciousness) are guided by Stalker (symbolizing our desire, will and everlasting search of meaning) to the mysterious Zone (which may represent all our spiritual goals, meanings, struggles to achieve them and barriers in our path). Breathtaking and mesmerizing images and sounds, witty dialog and strong concept are the major virtues of this feature. Writer's monologues are among the most meaningful, thought-provoking and spiritual moments I ever experienced in any art. But the movie is overlong losing its powerful initial momentum and becoming inconsistent in it's final message (by final I don't mean last in chronology but overall). Tarkovsky's earlier SF drama "Solaris" is more structured and fully developed. Nevertheless, Stalker is an outstanding piece of art movie that puts its director among the few true cinema masters. Rating: 8.5/10


                
Some say the zone was born from the crash of a meteorite, some say the zone is a gift from an Alien civilization. Whatever they say the zone is a miracle.An unnamed rainy city and in its surrounding is the Zone, in this Zone is a Room, and "here we are at the threshold. This is the most important moment of your lives. You have to know that here your most cherished wish, the most sincere one, the one reached through suffering" is about to come true.If we don't make the effort to change our point of view we may pass on a tremendously poetic experiment. In fact "Stalker" may very well appear as three hours bore fest... But if we take five minutes of our precious time to confront our questioning then we would witness how cinema connects directly with our heart and maybe with our Soul.In "Stalker" we follow three different persons who share a unique goal, reaching the zone but have very different reasons to do so. The stalker is a guide who takes the willing to the 'zone'. One is a professor. It seems his motivation is to see the scientific significance of the area. He believes in science and in science only. He is a realist. The second is a writer who wants to recover his lost inspiration. He only believes in facts and in facts only. He is a cynic. They are both hopeless and looking to reveal the secret of the zone...But does the zone bare any secret? And if so how could someone incapable of Hope, reveal a secret based on a simple wish?The film is a voyage not only from a town to the zone but also from monochrome browns to realistic colors and more importantly from shadow to enlightenmentAs mentioned the stalker is the guide, he is genuinely searching for the right path through the zone and to the room. He is pondering every decision he takes, not rushing through the zone but testing the path and approaching side ways. He proceeds in a caution manner guided it seems only by his intuition. It is so irrational that it irritates the writer who decides to go through the zone in a more straight forward fashion. But as we understand the zone like Life is not straight forward, not always rational as it reflects our fears, our despairs and our disbelieves. In short life is dangerous and so is the zone... The professor says it himself "going forward is scary but going back is shameful" so maybe the stalker's way is the only possible way. Unlike the two intellectuals he has the intuition of what reality is.Eventually it seems our three protagonists are involved in a spiritual struggle. The problem is the scientist and the writer are in denial of this spirituality and the stalker is an intuitive being who can't put a name on his spiritual search. For them Reality "is at best the result of the soul rubbing against the material world" and at worst sequences of facts. So in essence if you go looking for something you don't really believe in or you can't apprehend...would you find it?At the doorstep of the room our three protagonists refuse to go in. The Professor wants to destroy the room; he is scared of what he can't comprehend. The writer endorses the Professor's choice to destroy the room. He is scared of facing his own shadows. They both lack Faith in Humanity. The Stalker doesn't go in either. His place in this world is to guide people his hope lies in others not in himself. He has Faith in Humanity. But the Stalker can't let the so called intellectuals destroy the last place where people can hope and believe again. He reminds them that Hope is "all people have got left on this earth". Hope is what makes us Human<U+0085>The disappointment of the Stalker is as big as his hope in the professor and the writer was, he had chosen carefully those two in the hope they will be able to put a name on his Faith, unfortunately they can't as if science and intelligence have nothing to do with Faith.A thunderstorm breaks out and rain starts to pore from the roof. Our three searchers sit down behind a water curtain reflecting on their incapability to hope and believe in the better of themselves. Everyday when I wake up I have endless doubts but every night when I go to sleep I have recover my Faith in me, in others<U+0085>Everyday I search through the Zone of my Life and every night I stand at the doorstep of the Room<U+0085>
Stalker is one of the most bizarre movies I've ever seen. There is a strange zone with high security levels to keep out ordinary people. It is said once a mysterious crash from outer space happened there. It is also said there is a strange room somewhere deep inside the zone with power to fulfill any kind of wish. There are only few men who know where that room is and know the zone well enough to avoid all its tricks and dangers. These men, these guides, called Stalkers.This movie is about two ordinary men who want to go into that zone with the help of a Stalker. One of them is a writer who has lost his inspiration and ability to write. The other is a scientist who seems to be curious about the room itself.The journey begins and we see them enter and pass through the zone. The world outside the zone is black and white but after they enter the zone everything turns to be colored. It shows the differences between the two worlds. One of them is boring and frustrating but the other one has spirit and hidden live in it. It's a world by special rules and orders. The silence of the area by itself heightens the tone of mystery. All the time we feel like somebody is watching, but who? Finally when they reach the room struggle between them arises. The scientist carries out a small nuclear bomb to destroy the zone. He believes any dangerous people and corrupted politician could get there and make a bad wish. Who knows the next person who wishes to go there? The power of the movie I think starts to reveal itself here. The stalker explains this room could be a sign of hope for its seekers. His life has been spent to guide people there. This room is a symbol of hope. At this point we start to think: does the room really have any kind of power? It seems the two traveler's wants to see that room more because of their curiosity than their belief.the two travelers are symbols. The writer is a representative of the artistic feelings of human. The scientist is the representation of logical aspect of us. Both parts can't find the way in the modern life. Which one could lead our lives better? Both the writer and the scientist seem confused and helpless in that room. At last they reach an agreement to leave that room alone and don't ask anything form it.Rain starts to fall down . They washed out of their sins. They are ready for a new start. Rain and water are key materials in Tarkovsky's movies. They are symbols of life and its continuity.The three wretched men are the main subject of the film not the science fiction background and the story of the zone. It ties to depict deep emotions and feelings but , but avoids to analyze . We all have our ambitions and hopes. We all might be happy if we could find our own room of dreams. But after all, do we dare enough to go there and make a wish? That room is us . It only reflects our deep thoughts, feelings and fears. It shows what we want to be or afraid to become <U+0085> It's not a usual movie to watch. He is a poet who does not impose his ideas. It's more like an open text to read freely with different interpretations. Tarkovsky's films are new worlds. They won't repeat again anywhere. I think this film should be regarded as struggle of life to find a meaning for itself.At the end of the film we see Stalker's paralyzed little girl moving objects over the tables by mental power. Maybe she was able to do that because his father believed deep in his heart that room had the power to fulfill his wish. That room made him to move on and show the way to others. It is a strange end .I rated this film 9 out of 10 .
Tarkovsky remains, without question, one of the ultimate masters of the cinematic medium; a creator of deeply felt poetic ruminations on life, love, art and the metaphysical equations that fall somewhere beyond our grasp. He is/was a cinematic genius to rival both Bergman and Kieslowski, and his best films, like Andrei Rublev, Mirror, Nostalgia and The Sacrifice, are masterworks, fit to be filed away in the vaults marked "absolute classic masterpieces: vol. 1". Although Stalker lacks the more enchanting or ethereal moments of those milestones, it still represents Takovsky's ability to construct a deep and enriching story that plays as much off character detail and cinematic design as it does from notions of philosophy and mystical excess. By this point in his career, Tarkovsky had already dabbled in the broader notions of science fiction cinema with Solyaris, a film that I have always seen as the director's great failure... because it showed Tarkovsky trying too hard to conform to the rigid restrictions of Lem's watershed tome, therefore, obliterating the deep, poetic ambiance that his previous film (Rublev) and later works (Mirror, Nostalgia) would so effortlessly create.To some extent, Stalker is more like his masterpiece Mirror than the cold sci-fi of Solyaris, as it employs a more elliptical narrative that at times fractures beyond the point of clarity. We also see the same focus on a varying ensemble of characters, metaphysical alienation, internal and external use of emotional monologues, and one of the most amazing uses of cinematography ever seen. Here, the camera inhabits a different world to the characters, and, like other Tarkovsky films, somehow becomes an equal explorer; slowly moving away from the action to examine the location, the mood, and the relevance of the moment. With Tarkovsky, the camera is always relevant to the feel of the film... this affects his use of movement, composition, colour and contrast. Here, black and white and defused colour are inter-cut, to differentiate the strange power of the zone (central to the plot) in comparison to the bleak, desolate despair of the "real-world". The opening sequences of the film set up an atmosphere of dense, post-apocalyptic industrial dejection that establishes the universe of the film better than any written exposition ever could... whilst the camera, with it's deep black and white austerity, explores the decaying city and charred human remains in the same way in which von Trier's camera would in the later, Tarkovsky-influenced, The Element of Crime.Like that film, the plot here seems simple... however, if we scratch beneath the surface, we will find a multitude of hidden depths and sub-textual theories that branch off from that central narrative arc. In the film, the world has been ravaged by some terrible (nuclear?) atrocity that has left much of the country segregated. Because of a strong chance of infection, the fall-out area of this accident has been labelled "the zone" and is now heavily guarded by police and government officials. It is said that there is a sanctum hidden deep within the zone that was formed (perhaps) by mystical extraterrestrials (or whatever it was that caused such devastation) that will grant those brave enough to discover it their ultimate wish. This, of course, leads to curiosity, and those who desire entrance into the zone must seek the aid of the stalkers... men on the fringes of society, familiar with the workings of the zone, and courageous (or desperate?) enough to smuggle in "tourists" for a substantial fee. The stalker here is a classic Tarkovsky character - a world away from the typical hero (or anti-hero) that you would find in most sci-fi films - a man of great sadness and bouts of philosophical reflection who, when not risking his life by entering the zone, lives in a dilapidated shack with his dejected wife and psychic daughter.As with much of Tarkovsky's work, the central concept of the film is more of an excuse for philosophical rambling and metaphorical dream-logic as opposed to the usual sci-fi hallmarks like explosions and cheep effects. Instead, he uses space and location in a way that is absolutely amazing, drawing on the idea of an architectural narrative as he would with Nostalgia, so that the approach to the lighting, cinematography and style of the performance is dictated by the design of the location. He also takes on Godard's approach to sci-fi from Alphaville, with the present day filling in for the not to distant future (though here we see a much more expressionistic approach that puts emotional texture above post-modernist style). His uses of location are amazing, and the influence of this technique can be seen on everyone from Spielberg, to Winterbottom, to the above-mentioned von Trier... however, the texture that Tarkovsky creates just simply cannot be copied. In this film, we see the interplay between the poetic and the philosophical, with the conflict between the writer and the scientist germane to the plot, mirrored in the external conflict between the elements of the script (science versus religion, etc). It's intelligent stuff... and beautifully handled by the filmmakers.One could argue that Stalker perhaps lacks the emotional transcendence of his previous Mirror, or the deft narrative layering of the later Nostalgia... though the initial combination of science-fiction theatricality with art-house sensibilities is never less than impressive. It also has one of the dirtiest and most oppressive visual designs that I have ever seen (more so than other dingy delights like Europa, Delicatessen and the films of David Fincher), which, suffice to say, fits the pacing of the film perfectly. It is true, I suppose, that some viewers may feel put off by the snail-like pace or the continual jumps in both narrative and character (something prevalent in all this filmmaker's works), but those who are willing to travel with the Stalker will no doubt discover the film's innumerable, magical and thought-provoking pleasures, hidden deep within the zone.


                
Tarkovsky has made many movies but in my opinion Stalker (1979) is his best work. This movie isn't a typical science fiction, it's something more. It shows us the pain of the characters and how hard their life is. Of course thanks to Tarkovsky's great directing we can experience all this. A glaring example are the contrasts in the movie - in the beginning the movie is black and white but when the stalker enters the Zone the movie suddenly becomes "colored", this little detail shows the audience how hard and painful is the stalker's life outside the Zone and how happy he is inside. Stalker was inspired by Strugatsky's book "Roadside Picnic" and the Strugatsky brothers are also the writers of the movie. Still the movie isn't a book adaptation. In my opinion this movie is worth watching. The great directing skills of Tarkovsky are combined with the great writing skills of Strugatsky which makes the movie great. It's really emotional and dramatic but still it manages to keep its fictional character.
SPOILERS ... What was the hidden concept ?? I think the movie Stalker with its strong symbolism can be interpreted in the context of the Soviet era when religion was brutally suppressed. "The zone"/religion is a place that provides a comfortable sanctuary from the material dull life, and is guarded from entering by the military/ communist authorities. It came to exist from a meteorite/ a heavenly message to earth. For the stalker/ the religious man, it represents home and comfort, although he always enters it with fear to make it/God angry. The zone/ religion has its own natural laws/miracles that defies logic, but you have to get along with. It promises a "room"/paradise were your innermost wishes come true. The road/ life work to reach the room/paradise is tough and requires guidance from a stalker/ religious man. The existence of the room/ paradise has been always challenged by science/the professor and philosophy/the writer, and despite that they try to explore the facts of religion, and have some understanding for it, they could not accept it at the end. Science/the professor was ready to destroy what he could not rationalize, and from the standpoint of the stalker/religious man, science/the professor and philosophy/the writer are completely ignorant despite their knowledge. The stalker personal life/ the religious man life is not materially fulfilling and may be disappointing. The daughter may represent the outcome of following religion blindly, the mind/body may be crippled to move freely but it may have sensitivity and mysticism not owned by others.


                
First, because films like that are hardly made anymore. Second because the director managed to set a philosophical debate that doesn't get you bored (and the film is 3h long). I think the 'journey motif' it's what moves the action forward, and keeps you watching. Also the mood and the jumpy characters contribute to overwhelming sensation of unknown to be discovered. This film leaves space for interpretation and character analysis. It does not serve 'fast processed food' but let's you indulge in the cinematographic feast. Third because 'Stalker' was made in social realism period in USSR and somehow it gives me an impression of much freedom. I think the director managed to compromise without loosing his integrity. Metaphisical journey of a stalker,a scientist and an artist but I'm sure each viewer may see a different depth to it...not to be missed.


                
Thats right, most movies are made to entertain, but not Andrei Tarkovsky's movies. His movies are the highest form of art, and not everyone can appreciate it, his movies are not fast paced, or very romantic or filled with comedy but his movies takes you to places where very few directors take you (Kurosawa, Bergman among few) a place where you begin to look for answers, truth, soul. This movie is no different than AK's other movies, The movie is about aliens, zone but you wont see anything which is usually expected in this genre, like too much make up, cool gadgets, aliens and what not..but instead here these are just in the background for three mens to search their souls, find the true meaning of life and being human. Direction is top class,cinematography is top notch and acting is good too. See this movie not with much expectation for entertainment but to see some highest form of art in cinema and just be amazed by the supreme art by the Tarkovsky.


                
First of all, sorry for my English, but I try my best. It describes the journey of three men who are traveling through a post-apocalyptic wilderness called the Zone to find a room that can grant wishes. There are no monsters or aliens in film, which the viewers are expecting. Threre are only 3 people & nature.. full of strange artifacts and phenomena that apparently defy physics. But not only the idea of the film, which has actually something to do with reality(Chelabinsk-catastrophe, Tunguskij meteor) is good, but also way it is made from Soviet Union film director Andrej Tarkowskij. So it is really a unique film, which is worth seeing!


                
I feel no sort of commentaries or critics could ever equal what this unique film carries on. It could easily be just about how us, the eye, could make its way through, and the intensity of our participation... we become something like a ghost within the imagery of this film, as well as the Zone can turn inwards ourselves as a cinematographic (and not only) experience, it is not at all about a slow-paced rhythm, but more like of a seek for silence, when motions and sounds and landscapes and tensions unite, as if Mr Tarkovski played with the Light, and that, is what cinematography is all about. But do we believe in it, because you see, Tarkovski really believed, the cinematography itself needs a writer, a scientist, and even more, a stalker. Maby even the Room could be the darkroom where exposed pelicula comes visible, and maybe we, the viewers, are always at a threshold in relation to what the film carries on. The entire film is by itself a 'zone', but we just might not be able to get a clear way through. Whether we like this journey or not, depends on where it leads us, moment by moment, scene after scene, and which is our 'present'/presence in the image. We could call it science fiction just if we could call Tarkovski a 'dinosaur'. Interpretations are our motors of life, he just knew it and let everything open. I think that 'Stalker' did one thing like only few other cinema productions did, it swept away time in a unique way. Created a new kind of time, which for our modern beings is hard to understand or bear. It has to be lived.


                
A childhood theme was discernible in this movie, and it has been picked up by other viewers. The fact that the child, Monkey (is that a boy or a girl? I got confused) is both unable to walk but able to move objects at a distance, struck me as bitterly ironic. And both these conditions are caused by the Zone. It seems to act like a destiny machine for children (out of control of course). But as to the view on childhood this suggests, I'm blank.The other point concerns the Room. Neither the writer nor the scientist enter it, in addition to the stalker doubting it would work for his own wife - or defending her for some other conjugal reason. To me, that means the Room is fake. And thus, the stalker is deluded, and is indeed seen feverishly complaining about the "non-believing" writer and scientist (to his same wife who's tenderly minding him). The writer and scientist did seem to me, on the whole, more balanced than the stalker, struggling with their own demons perhaps but at least consciously so. Still, they are not taken seriously, since neither enter the room, and the scientist actually defuses the bomb. It would have been an interesting experiment to go into the room, wish for the bomb not to explode (in an "innermost wish" way to keep the fairy-tale aspect), and then detonate it.By the end of the movie, we as audience have outgrown the Zone, just as the writer and scientist have. Still we're looking for closure for the stalker, and the only resolution I could find is that the dog comes back with him to the city. Perhaps the dog will remind the stalker enough of the Zone that he doesn't need to go back there, and can finally move to the suburbs with his family.So if the room is fake, and the stalker wants desperately to believe without finding a suitable object of belief, and the other guys going home to resume their lives, where does that leave us? It left me with a sense of awe for great cinematography. Those long shots allowed one to immerse himself into the scene and make unseen, imagined connections. And there are plenty of jokes too. I liked the one where they are sitting in front of the room and the stalker says he'd like to get his family here because they'd be safe. At that very instant, thunder roars and a torrential shower fills that room, drowning them in the noise. The scientist throws parts of the dismantled bomb in the pond.
Andrei Tarkovsky's most formally experimental film is certainly his autobiographical The Mirror (1975), which is the one that deals most directly with the realities of Soviet life. But his most durable blueprint for the cinematic imagination may be Stalker, allegedly an adaptation by Arkady Strugatsky and Boris Strugatsky of their science-fiction novel Roadside Picnic (1975). Stalker is exploratory in every sense - an undertaking in topographical cinema. In an unspecified future, a meteorite has created 'the miracle of miracles', the Zone, into which a haunted, specially qualified 'Stalker' (Alexander Kaidanovsky) guides two disillusioned men, a writer (Anatoli Solonitsyn) and a scientist (Nikolai Grinko). The outside world, filmed in black-and-white, is a militarized region of checkpoints and freight yards, patrolled by police: to all appearances a classic dystopian image of the Soviet Union. But the pastoral inner haven of the Zone - shot in a faded, chemical shade of blue-green - is just as unstable. Stalker's universe is, above all, porous: water flows everywhere. Even the extraordinary sound design is prone to a kind of seepage. The film can be read as a political parable. A field of abandoned tanks swamped by vegetation seems a clear passage of the fall of power. Tarkovsky, who died in 1986, is widely considered a spiritual filmmaker, and often attacked as such. Now it's easier to admire his work.
Despite watching this movie in 240p (I'm not joking) I still found Stalker to be one of the most visually appealing films ever created. It's filled with so much social commentary that is notably effective thanks to the wonderfully crafted dialogue provided to us from Tarkovsky and the Strugatskiys. Stalker does however, suffer from a pacing that is sometimes achingly slow. Maybe one day I'll return back to this masterpiece of filmmaking with an HD copy and end of admiring it significantly more. (Verdict: A-)


                
Apparently Tarkovsky had to reshoot a large portion of this film after the original stock was damaged. What was actually released is such a striking piece of work, it's hard to imagine what the original version might have been. There is a plot: in a post-apocalyptic world, the "Stalker" is a man who guides people through a restricted Zone where the usual laws of physics and reason don't apply, and in which a room is said to exist that causes a man's deepest desires to come true. There is character development and gripping performances, particularly by Aleksandr Kaydanovskiy (Stalker) who really does seem to carry the weight of the world on the shoulders... ... but for a moment, forget all that. Instead, try watching Stalker as you'd watch, for example, a David Lynch film: think instead about the images presented on their own terms rather than trying to attach a conventional meaning to them, or put them into context. Don't worry about what it means - just enjoy the experience. yetanotherfilmreviewblog.tumblr.com


                
A guide known as The Stalker (Alexander Kaidanovsky) leads two men, "the Writer" (Anatoly Solonitsyn) and "the Professor" (Nikolai Grinko), through an area known as the Zone to find a room that grants wishes.Can you believe the film contains 142 shots in 163 minutes, with an average shot length of more than one minute and many shots lasting for more than four minutes. There is no question that the camera lingers, and no surprise that the picture is considered to be slow by many people (early audiences and critics definitely thought so).Almost all of the scenes not set in the Zone are in a high-contrast brown monochrome. What does this mean? That is for you to decide, but it does add an element of fantasy to the picture.The director reportedly said, "I am only interested in the views of two people: one is called Bresson and one called Bergman." Yes, folks, this is art and not entertainment. If you happen to be entertained, that is even better.


                
I have watched many great movies and with due reverence, I happily add this one to my treasure chest. Tarkovsky, Bergman, Bresson, Bunuel and yes to a fellow reviewer, Truffaut too how much do we, who want to live, to experience and to share owe to you. To the sticklers for genre rules, there are no genre rules. This film offers something to take home with you not simply 1-3 hrs. of wasted time bought for upwards of $12.00 no less. There are images and moods that will haunt you and remain with you. Questions that will arise and even if you can't answer them the question itself will invigorate you.Yes this may be a thinking person's movie but we're all thinking people aren't we.


                
what is really magical about T is how he gets nature to act for him.. to capture what is magically real. sci-fi if you want, but not only. the really good things: three most interesting characters, almost iconized. Wanting to check-out a possibly impossible place. and travelling through absolute surrealism. at some level, game theory does break out. but thats not the point. perfect shots, sublime mechanics all over and aliteral texturing. the actors are like constantly running themes/environments and the women get left behind, never to be seen. there is something deeply natural about this movie. my own thinking often is this way. life can generally beat the bajoobers out of fiction when it comes to perspectives. and their differences. watching this movie triggers off waves of resonant images.


                
I never felt this movie was too long.And I don't see how people can expect a sci-fi adventure either,those who do have completely missed the point.I was submerged into it's dark and dreamy world immediately and I never felt bored. You also keep watching because you somehow hope that you will find out what these two seekers and their guide will find in the Room,never mind you know all the time that the Room isn't really a treasure chamber,star gate or anything like it.It's intriguing and at the same time you find yourself just as intrigued by their motifs and the deserted landscape(which I wanted to plunge into myself)which of course leads your thoughts to a nuclear disaster area. I guess you have to be of a somewhat poetic and gloomy disposition to really appreciate Stalker to its full.But it will take you on a journey you won't want to miss. I hope there will never be a English-language remake of Stalker(like Solaris).It's supposed to be in Russian,let it stay that way.


                
If you dislike foreign films, slow films, or have a misconception of what truly defines science fiction, then I will tell you now, that you will hate this movie. However, if you are fine with a film that actually attempts to do something, instead of aliens shooting at a protagonist who utters "bad-a**" one liners as he wins an impossible fight, then you will in most likelihood, love this one. Stop now, if when I say sci-fi you think of stuff like Battle:LA and Avatar. Stalker is a movie that explores the human condition. Throughout the movie, the scenes are defined by the long, drawn out, even sometimes awkwardly so, harrowing shots. Paired with the intensity with which the shots are taken, switching from a pan showing a lush green with three lonely figures centered within the frame, to tight over the shoulder glances following Writer down the Meat-grinder, the film builds its own unique, ethereal grasp. A common remark made on the lower ratings is that despite how dangerous Stalker keeps claiming the Zone is, nothing ever happens to them. If you have watched the actual movie, then you would know this to be false. Though, tie this to the over arching complaint that nothing happens in this movie. The point of the movie is not what physically happens, they want to get somewhere, they get there, then they come back to the bar, but what they understand due to this journey. The idea that men are, in essence, flawed by their selfishness, the death of hope in society, spirituality/empiricism etc, all are reflected in the resolution of the plot. All the men find that they are unable to actually find out their base instincts, as it is too horrifying for them to want to see. Don't get me wrong, this is an incredibly hard movie to watch, but it is more than worth the effort. It is resounding, deep, and unfortunately for some people, forces you to think.
Following his greatly successful psychodrama, Solaris, Andrei Tarkovsky gratifies us once again with this 1979 post-apocalyptic science fiction epic, Stalker. Loosely adapted from the Strugatsky novel, Roadside Picnic, the writing found in Stalker is amongst the most compelling found in contemporary film. The dialogue seen throughout the course of this film cleverly knits existentialistic riddles through a series of whimsical tiffs between its players, ultimately creating a landscape for intelligent and thematic monologues to still come across as believable snippets of everyday conversation.As in most Tarkovsky films, the acting here is top notch. Aleksandr Kaidanovsky plays the role of Stalker, a deeply inverted bridge between the common world and the surreal Zone, where one's deepest wishes come true. Here we see a dash of religious imagery as the two "loyal" followers of the Stalker, The Writer (Anatoli Solonitsyn), and The Professor (Nikolai Grinko), struggle with belief and faith before entering this holy sanctuary. While these three characters take a good 80% of the screen time exclusively, they are immediately recognized as separate entities and are figures one does not tire of while watching their journey.The excellent performances and execution of Stalker is further complimented by its beautiful cinematography. The common world is introduced in a mish-mosh of grays and blacks to truly raise the impact of the colorfully vibrant Zone when its cast arrives. It seems as though film stocks are changed in mid-shot during a selection of the longer takes providing the ideal suit for what the film itself calls for. Stalker truly builds a foreground for its immense weight for when it finally reaches its once-in-a-lifetime climax. The concluding shot of this film might be payoff enough for its entire runtime as it burns an image in your short term memory that you'll think of weeks later continuing your own ritual.


                
Tarkovsky made a great and calm film about people who do not understand what they want. Most of us do not have real dreams and we try to get pleasure from common treats. This movie asks us if we have a real wish an so it is hard to anwer after watching.


                
A film heavy on atmosphere with our main characters deep in the unknown, and beautifully melancholic, Zone. A dreamlike world where the zone, this unnaturally natural force of nature, treats its visitors as it pleases.Dmitrij gluchovskij (metro 2033) must've been inspired heaps by this film.


                
Stalker is cerebral scifi. If you're not in to that, you probably won't like it. If one is an action junkie, this is definitely not your cup of tea; it is one of the slowest-moving films I've ever seen. The high points of this film are 10-minute monologues. The crux of the film comes in examining the personalities and reasoning of the characters.The concept of the plot: what if you could have your greatest desire handed to you on a platter... but you aren't sure what your greatest desire is? That's the premise of Stalker. Are you brave enough to face your true self, your deepest emotions-- so deep that you may be unaware of them?This is not a film to base on the first 20 minutes and then switch because you're bored. To absorb this masterpiece one has to be willing to sit through the entire film, listening to every word said, watching every nuance presented. Add a rather unique and unexpected ending, and we have all the makings of an art film that's well worth the time.CGI? None. Action /adventure? None? Sex, nudity, gratuitous language, blood gore? Won't find it here. What is found is superb writing, directing and acting in a film that stands unique not only in the genre of scifi, but in movies as a whole.I give it 9 stars rather than 10 because of one reason: it does start out very slowly, perhaps too much so. But if one hangs in through the slow start, then continues to hang in through the continually-slow rolling out of the film, if one endures and pays attention and waits... this film can be quite rewarding.Viewers will either love it or hate it. I'm one that found Stalker to be an uncommonly good film, one that I've watched more than once. I can give a film no higher praise than that.


                
Best cinematography I've seen in awhile. Shots are so beautiful and breathtaking, even more than Children of Men. Great story about our existence and search for answers. Reminds me of Bergman's movies and I see it had a lot of influence on Annihilation(2018).


                
