on modern "boats" life isn't easy- but compared to the living hell that the German U-Boats were, modern submariners have nothing to complain about. People in certain professions don't like to watch movies about those professions (Doctors and Nurses shy away from hospital dramas, for example). Submarine sailors are different. We love to watch every submarine movie ever made, from "Run Silent, Run Deep" and "Destination: Tokyo" to "The Hunt For Red October", "Crimson Tide" and "U-571". Why? Because we can always use a good laugh. For those in the know, submarine movies are usually absolutely hilarious. Except this one. After being in the Navy for four years, serving with around 350 different men, and being acquainted with a further 200-300, all of them submarine sailors, I think that I can state with absolute certainty that this film is the ONLY submarine movie that ALL submariners take seriously. And that is the highest praise a movie like this can possibly get.


                
Das Boot is not just a great war film: it's a great film period. Maybe it is true that epic themes make the greatest novels and films.  Here is a movie that explores heroism, duty, patriotism, hope, fear and the futility of war--all grand themes--explored in the confined, and collapsing, spaces of a German u-boat.I saw this film when I was a freshman in college during a weekend that I later dubbed my "depressing movie festival." (The Wall and Apocalypse Now were the other weekend "entries.")  Of these films, it was Das Boot that haunted me--when I laid down at night, I saw Jurgen Proctow's pained blue eyes.  When I woke in the morning, I felt as if I were escaping through the hatch of the submarine.  I could not shake the images, and now some fifteen years later, I still remember how completely meaningless the movie made everything seem, and the nihilistic message stayed with me for a long, long time.  How few films are there which affect the viewers on this level.  To say this film is "powerful" seems so weak a description.Part of the "power" of the film comes, I think, from a certain restraint in the direction.  So often, films which aspire to move the audience quickly fall into melodrama, over-acting, and overblown images.  Too much.  These often succeed in the immediate response (usually crying) but fail to impact the viewer on anything more than a surface level.  Here, it is the small moments which fill the screen.  Everywhere, all around is War, but for these men as we witness them, war does not begin with a capital "W".  It is reality, not a grand concept.  The director lets the story shock and horrify the audience, not by forcing it, but by letting the story just tell itself. Drama, tension and resolution occur naturally in Das Boot, which contributes to the very real impact of the film.Story is a 10, direction is a 10, acting is a 10 and the cinematography is a 10.  One of the all-time greatest films.


                
What impresses me the most about the film, as the title makes apparent, is that it's a German made film about a German U-boat. Patriotism for my own country would tend to make me hate the crew on this ship by definition (especially if portrayed as typical mindless killing machine Nazis), but these characters are so well developed and played like human-beings facing difficult decisions that I find myself sympathizing with these guys.I love the flow and pacing of the Director's Cut; it takes its time, and does not feel like typical Hollywood formula "first major plot point at minute 12" cookie-cutter routine. Das Boot gives us plenty of time to know these characters, discover how they kill time while waiting for orders, how they feel about their job and each other. Then when the action finally starts: how they deal with the possibility of dying deep underwater, how they react to the sounds of a sub going deeper than it should, the look on their faces as a destroyer is heard pinging them, and dozens of little personality quirks--subtle details that bring the crew to life. It truly does feel like an epic about a submarine crew, and I'm interested in some day viewing the 6 hour TV version.The underwater battles somewhat remind me of Sergio Leone in that Wolfgang Peterson takes forever and a day to get the fights started. Unlike Leone, once the torpedos are launched and the depth charges dropped, the cat-and-mouse game is ongoing and relentless, but never boring.And despite the fact that most of the film takes place inside a cramped submarine, Das Boot is never boring to look at; in fact, it's a visually spectacular film (given the dated special effects, who hold up reasonably well and add to the old-school charm). And the freedom of the camera in those tight corridors came as an incredibly pleasant surprise. The color and composition of the shots in those tight quarters -- particularly upon approaching the first destroyer when we get the first real glimpse of the interior prepped for war -- it is both haunting and beautiful.Jurgen Prochnow delivers the most believable performance of a ship captain I've ever seen on film. All the emotions register on his face--his concern for his own life, ship, and crew; his hatred for the decisions he's forced to make; the disbelieving joy of beating the overwhelming odds--while simultaneously holding it back so the crew sees a strong unmoving man forever in control of the situation. His performance is, in a word, brilliant.The rest of the cast also delivers amazingly believable performances, and trust me, I could write an entire review on the film's characters and their portrayals. It's both disappointing and satisfying that I'm not given enough space to do so (I wish I could state that about a tenth of the films I've reviewed here on IMDb.) I liked the entire crew of this U-boat, the war correspondent and his character arc as he realizes the truth behind these "heroes", the chief and his longing to return to his wife, Johann and the story of his redemption--all well cast, well acted, and believable.Another aspect I adored about Das Boot - the controversial scenes simply rolled by with no more or less emphasis than any other statement the film makes. In fact, I saw the film before really reading anything or researching it and found myself somewhat shocked to hear about these "talked about" scenes. Granted, the film does pose some moral questions, but I felt the film handled it with grace and great subtlety, showing what it needs to get the point across and not a step further . . . unlike typical Hollywood where controversy gets bold print, italics, and a highlighter. Maybe I should move to Germany.I can go on for a long while: Over three hours of wonderful visuals and strong performances, a sparse but great score (this film's lack of music is quite appropriate, making the presence of music much more impactful in its key places). Realistic writing from people who lived the experience first hand. As I said, I can go on for awhile but I'll sum it up and end this review with one statement: Das Boot is the definitive submarine movie.


                
I spent 17 years of my life in Royal Navy submarines. 'T' class, 'A' class and 'R' class. Das Boot is the only submarine movie that shows exactly how it was. It could be a documentary. Bouncing around in the Bay of Biscay with the sea too rough to be able to dive safely and get away from it. 'Goffers' pouring down the conning tower and the control room deck ankle deep in the green stuff. Going down backwards at 500ft and you know there is 10,000ft below you, with seawater pouring in through a burst cooling pipe and one main motor out of action. Existing for two weeks on kai or oxo because your stomach is rebelling against the elements. Laying in your bunk in ultra quiet routine with the sweat just dribbling down. When the sweat starts to dribble upwards you know it's a cockroach crawling up your body. And that Klaxon. 'Hunt for Red October', 'Crimson Tide'. They are just adventure films.


                
While it has been a very long time since I have seen this movie, it is one of the very few that I own. Wolfgang Petersen's magnificent accomplishment in "Das Boot" is reiterating the dictum that "war is hell", no matter which side you look at it from and no matter where the battlefield is located.*** Minor spoilers ***The plot has been well described by other viewers so I won't rehash it again. But my personal observations, as an ex-submarine sailor, are that Petersen probably portrayed life on board the sub pretty accurately. I say "probably" because todays subs are hotels compared with the German U-boats and American submarines. The commonality between yesterday and today is how the crew deals with being closed up in a "sewer pipe" for weeks at a time. More importantly, you as a viewer become an invisible crew member as the crew lives in very cramped conditions (American WW2 subs used to be called "pig boats"), deals with an unfortunately believable political officer, deals with drills, actual torpedo firings, actual ships casualties, and deals, most frighteningly, with retribution from the "enemy". My own experience watching the depth charging of the U-boat was such that I was thinking "stop it, Stop It, STOP IT, STOPITSTOPITSTOPIT...!!!!!" That's how real it felt to me. For the rest of you, I feel certain you will too be dragged in and know what it is like to live on board a WW2 U-boat.This movie also shows how leadership is so important in keeping the crew (and ultimately the sub) together. Petersen's direction for Captain Lehmann-Willenbrock was masterful because it didn't portray the captain as a god. It showed him as a man who knows how to lead, knows his submarine as if he were married to it (and in many ways he is) but isn't perfect at the job. It also shows that even with great leadership qualities, Captain Lehmann-Willenbrock can not do the job alone: he must have both officers and enlisted men who have the knowledge and skill to not just do their jobs, but to also advise the captain. Petersen also managed to give each member of the crew their own separate personalities instead of the predictable cookie-cutter personalities that Hollywood feels is needed.I could go on and on. So I will close by saying that with the plot, direction, cinematography, acting, sound, music, editing all being top notch, this is one of the few movies that I can truly rate a 10 out of 10. I also preferred the German version with subtitles.------------------------------------ I believe that this movie was either the first or one of the first to use Steadicam technology. It was truly amazing for me to see a camera zip its way through a submarine, specifically through the open watertight doors, without a break in the filming. Up until I heard what Steadicam was, I was always wondering how Petersen managed to hide the camera dolly track or the wires the camera hung from.(It turns out I was wrong: "Bound For Glory" was the first.)EDIT (12 OCT, 2006): I have been corrected by an observant viewer. Wikipedia has the following comment on what I thought was Steadicam usage:"Most of the interior shots were filmed using a hand-held Arriflex of cinematographer Jost Vacano's design to convey the claustrophobic atmosphere of the boat. It had a gyroscope to provide stability, a reinvention of the Steadicam on a smaller scale, so that it could be carried throughout the interior of the mock-up. Vacano wore full-body padding to minimize injury as he ran and the mock-up was rocked and shaken." So, literally, a Steadicam was NOT used in the filming of "Das Boot". However, a camera that resembled Steadicam in function (in the way it gyroscopically leveled the filming platform) was used.------------------------------------ Even though todays submarines are far cleaner then their predecessors, and we have refrigerators, freezers, air conditioning, are able to take showers, etc., there is one aspect of living in an enclosed space that still lives on: the smell. While the smell of the "pig boats" of WW2 was truly atrocious, even with todays ability to clean the atmosphere, you can not escape the fact that any smell that is created, from burned toast in the galley, from the smell of the "sanitary gasses" (to be kind), to gasified hydraulic oil and diesel fuel, all these particulates will eventually become absorbed in your clothing. You, as a sailor, may get used to it, but when you get home, your wife will most likely declare that you smell like a submarine and demand that whatever you are wearing get thrown in the wash ... immediately!


                
"Das Boot" is a classic. This film couldn't be more intense and emotionally draining. It is a work of genius. Jurgen Prochnaw gives a spectacular performance as the German U-Boat Captain. The acting is first rate as the cast of characters is as realistic and believable as it gets. Don't watch this film unless you are absolutely prepared to immerse yourself into the drama of life as a crewman aboard a German submarine during war. This is a very rare portrayal of battle through the eyes of our enemy and will actually have you cheering for the "bad guys" at times. This is a one of a kind movie that must be seen to be believed. Words in a review cannot describe the experience of "Das Boot." A tremendous film! A 12 on a scale of 10!


                
The first time I saw this film I could not take my eyes from it. I was mesmerized with the transition of a hearty young crew leaving port evolving as the sheer moments of terror (deep under water battles and personal struggles as well as the final scene) lead them all to rethink their actual cause, and their very own mortality (as well as our own in the perils of war!). I can't imagine another film actually displaying what it must have been like to be on one of Nazi Germany's U-boats - young nationalist boys being plucked from their mother's bosom and cast into the claustrophobic iron wolfs in the heat and height of the second world war, who begin to doubt the cause and victory of the fuhrer they've been taught to love and trust. Very colorful, contrasting characters and a script and plot thick with surprises and emotional drama/trauma. Top-notch direction, action, acting and sets. This is perhaps the greatest movie ever made in my opinion. Sorry I couldn't be more specific with the review, there is just too much to cover without spoiling anything for those yet to enjoy it, and thus I just highly recommend it to anybody, not just war movie buffs. I have seen both the regular version and the director's cut (which I own on DVD now) and I must say that the DC is superior. A masterpiece!


                
Using the term 'authenticity' in connection with any kind of art is rather difficult and daring as well. Sometimes it looks posed or is by certain purposes manipulated. Referring to Petersen´s "Das Boot" however, I consider it justified to call it authentic and true. I think this statement can be strengthened mainly by the fact that Lothar Gunther Buchheim was consulted. He composed the novel this breathtaking movie bases on and he himself was employed as a war correspondent in the Second World War.The entire plot has no weak points. Starting at "Bar Royal" at the very night before the forces living journey of the submarine crew begins, the director fittingly manages to confront the audience with the protagonists and their way of dealing with the pounding uncertainty. Once put to sea, the character of the scenes changes abruptly. Every member of the crew and the audience as well comes into very close contact with the tightness of the action space. At this point it is necessary to underline the excellent work of the cameramen. The fast and partial hectic cuts draw an exact picture of the drama on board. Too do not forget the outstanding lighting. However besides this abundance of obvious suspense, there are also a number of moments going into in-depth psychology and thoughtfulness. To outline only a few of them: At "Bar Royal", when the chief engineer reflects about the uncertain fate of his family, or when the captain, with a kind of 'Weltschmerz' in his eyes, is astound and proud of the unbelievable efforts of the crew. It would probably be too laborious to refer to the decisive symbols the director uses, therefore I recommend this movie to everybody, especially those who are interested in the Second World War.It presumably sounds pretty weird, yet I suppose that mankind gladly participates on the misfortune of others, without being closely involved with it. This closing notion may account for the huge success of this movie.>


                
One of the few movies that shows the war from a German perspective (the more recent "Downfall" is also unmissable) and makes for compelling viewing. You identify with the despair, the youngsters' need to "go home", the loves left behind, the fear of dying, the dawning enormity of their action as they recede from the survivors in the sea, the sheer fatigue of continuing when every nerve yearns to be free of the boat's confines - the pressures of war, and marvel at the courageous human will that keeps defying all odds and surviving.I found myself on edge for the entire movie, feeling as trapped inside the sub as the crew and even cheering as the boat surfaced in the end against all odds and then, mourning the futility of it all. The movie succeeds in showing the war as a very human tragedy, forcing us to not hide behind anonymous "enemy" tags. Among many tragic moments, especially poignant is the scene where the captain recants the incident of watching the survivors cry for help. You can almost see his eyes glistening. Almost.The cast is superb but the captain is outstanding, his eyes brilliantly essaying his emotions.Best version is the director's cut in the original German with English subtitles.What I don't understand is why Das Boot never won any Oscars. Can anyone shed light on this? Was it a political decision? (Btw, I think Saving Private Ryan is highly over-rated as an all-time great war movie).
I first saw this film on the BBC when it was aired in it's mini series format. I was 13 at the time and was totally blown away by it. Up until then, the only war films i had seen were gung-ho movies, with GI's firing tommy guns from the hip at hoardes of evil Nazis. To see a film that showed 'the enemy' as human beings, with hopes, fears and dreams was something else to a 13 yr old kid. As i grew up i began to understand more about the second world war and was able to make up my own mind as to whether the 'evil Nazis' were all that the cinema portrayed them to be, but 'Das Boot' always stuck at the back of my mind as an outstanding example of how to show fighting men, from what ever side, in the best possible way.Lots of people rave about 'Saving Private Ryan' being the ultimate WW2 film. Although good, it isn't a patch on Das Boot. The Boat has everything; Fine actors, an excellent script (which doesn't deviate from the Novel at all) and excellent hand-held camera work, supported by brilliant lighting, and 20 years before 'Private Ryan' too!Das Boot is an excellent example of how to depict the horrors of war without resorting to a blood and gore fest and it remains a film that everyone should see it it's entirity at least once.


                
If you've never seen this movie then beg, borrow or steal a copy. It'll actually make you admire/feel sympathy for the German Serviceman caught up, in what was the most horrific of wars. Tense, realistic and gripping this one off has yet to be bettered in my opinion. The start doesn't really remind you of a war movie but believe me thats armed forces behaviour all right. As WW2 progressed Hitler drew on ever younger recruits and the historical accuracies are in abundance for a change. This film makes modern junk like the new Pearl harbour look limp wristed.As shocking as the statistics are (30000 out of 40000 never returned) It makes you wonder why so many young men volunteered for the Untersee boot 'Kreigsmarine'. Pride and patriotism counts for everything. Its a 10 out of 10 for me.Don't take my word for it. Watch it.


                
In October 1941, the German Capt.-Lt. Henrich Lehmann-Willenbrock (Jürgen Prochnow) of the U-96 U-Boat receives the war correspondent Lt. Werner (Herbert Grönemeyer) to cover the work in the submarine during their mission in the Atlantic Ocean. They sail out of the shipyard La Rochelle and along the next weeks, Werner learns the lives, loves, fear and behavior of the young crew, the veteran Captain and his officers. The skilled captain hunts British vessels to sink and dives to depths below the limit of the boat to escape from the destroyers. Near Christmas, they plan to return to La Rochelle; but out of the blue, Captain Henrich receives an order to cross the Strait of Gibraltar to go to Italy. But the captain knows how protected the area is and plans a means to lure the British Navy. Will the U-96 succeed in crossing the Strait of Gibraltar?"Das Boot" is a German masterpiece by Wolfgang Petersen with 2h 29 min. The "Superbit" director's cut on DVD with one additional hour is a supreme masterpiece of a war (or anti-war) film. It is impressive how a 3h 29 min film is never boring, keeping the viewer on the edge of his or her seat until the very ending. The claustrophobic and tense story increases the drama and the character development in this version, becoming one of the best movies in the cinema history. The German captain, officers and crew are not shown as one-dimension character or sad killing machine like in many war films, but as human beings with families and friends, very efficient in their works but with fear and other feelings. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "O Barco: Inferno no Mar" ("The Boat: Hell in the Sea")


                
Thats right, not even saving private Ryan comes close, this film is a masterpiece! from beginning to end, non-stop action and suspense, never a dull moment!, it has these nail-biting scenes and moments like when the depth charges blow and the UDS (ultrasonic detection system) sounds, just chilling and gut-wrenching! and the scene where the chief is sharing his pictures of him and his wife are heart-warming, simply beautiful a 10 out of 10 rating,the soundtrack is also amazing, so beautiful I even bought the CD, this is a real WWII movie!, my hats of to Wolfgang Petersen!!!.A must see WWII film!
After watching Das Boot for the first time, I have to say that not only was I pleased, I was completely in awe of it! Knowing the Oscar nominations it received, I was only disappointed that the whole cast didn't win one. One lone actor cannot take all of the credit for such an incredible force portrayed by all the men on the ship. Jurgen Prochnow played the part of the captain better than any other actor has ever played the role of a leader of men. He brought to life the drama of leading a group of young men into a possible suicide mission with utter realism and depth. I don't normally get emotional at movies anymore. I did watching this one! All the other actors deserve as much credit for the very different men they portrayed. Not one of them was bad. Wolfgang Petersen is an amazing storyteller, and this movie proved it. I would have to say that it might very well be the best war movie I have seen, heck, it may be the best movie I have seen period!!!
I come from a family of submariners. My grandfather commanded a sub in the Pacific during WW2, and my dad went on to do nearly 30 years as crew and finally skipper in a nuke hunter/killer. So I kinda know the history of subs 1st hand. This movie pulls no punches and is stunningly accurate. It is a work of genius from one of the greatest directors of our time.I must qualify that by saying PLEASE don't watch the dubbed English version. This film has to be seen in German with subtitles, and you absolutely have to see the director's cut. Three and a half hours of laughter, terror, claustrophobia, tenderness, and finally a sense of the futility of war. It's just brilliant.Jürgen Prochnow has made some good films in his career, but he will never better this performance. He is the epitome of a sub captain. Steely, yet sensitive to his crew. Determined and sometimes rash, but always in control, and the love of his crew for him is clear throughout. Even I would follow him until the end!!I kinda feel bad about praising Jürgen Prochnow so highly because, seriously, this is one of the few movies I've seen where EVERY member of the cast is just perfect. All credit to the casting people. You would not change anyone. Bernd Tauber as the Chief is just awesome. Erwin Leder as Johann is just so right, and Herbert Grönemeyer as the raw reporter who grows up is amazing.This film should be up there with the greatest war movies of all time. Unfortunately, I think because it's told from the German side, it will never get the recognition it truly deserves. Very sad, as it never glorifies Nazism. It's simply a tale of ordinary people in extraordinary circumstances - which kinda sums up all wars.Incredible film from an incredible director.


                
What can be said about this epic that has not already been said? Peterson has created the grittiest, most realistic war drama ever. It knocks hollywood epics like Saving Private Ryan on their sorry overproduced, oversentimental behinds, it torpedoes other submarine films before they have a chance to shout "dive!, dive!, dive!".I first saw this in its original form as a miniseries with english subtitles, and if you can find this version then this should be your first port of call, although the Director's cut I now own is also top notch and doesn't miss much from the series.where to begin? The lurking claustrophobia, the dark humour, the gritty reality of the piece. The excellent acting, the perfect timing, the garotte of suspense tightened with every passing minute in much of the undersea scenes. The lack of any known "star" who you know will just save the day and live to tell the tale. The historical accuracy and attention to detail. The lack of a demonised "other" figure for the enemy. The lack of any kind of preachy message in the finale other than "War is Hell". It has everything you could ask of a TV series or film about the era. 10 out of 10.


                
10/10.8/10 for the cut version.This is a superior war film, and I don't want to add to the reviews praising it. It's one of those films that will make you watch if only you can spare the ten minutes it takes for it to grip you.Being British, I thought it impossible to feel sorry for the U-boat crews, especially after what they did to us - but this film forces you to realise that we are all fragile and emotional (despite what Hitler says).I would recommend people watch the mini-s rather than the film (i.e. German subtitled version) to get the full flavor.As a side note, my grandfather (twice decorated destroyer captain) burst in to tears watching this at two points: One was at Gibralta, the other on the straights :| Says a lot.


                
In the entire history of cinema, there have only been two perfect war movies: Apocalypse Now, and Das Boot. I watched Apocalypse Now /Redux several years ago, and yesterday I finished the 3.5-hour Director's Cut of Das Boot.The submarine subgenre goes all the way back to 1915's The Secret of the Submarine, and has not improved much since then. Sweden gave it the old college try in 1952 with Ubåt 39, but nobody's quite sure if this is a good submarine movie or not because it has only ever been seen by the Swedes, who refuse to discuss it.1958 brought us Clark Gable and Burt Lancaster in Run Silent, Run Deep, which Americans thought was fantastic, and pretty much everyone else thought was 'meh' because it deviated so wildly from the plot of the book.The big ones that most people remember are The Hunt for Red October (1990) by Tom 'I-Never-Met-An-Offensive-Stereotype-I-Didn't-Like' Clancy, and Crimson Tide (1995) by Richard 'P' Henrick. These formulaic Cold War paranoia flicks were acceptable for the time, but their clunky plots and simmering racial tensions have not aged well.Enter Das Boot.Wolfgang Petersen's 1981 WWII classic has gone down in history as the greatest submarine film ever made, and is unlikely to be surpassed. Starring Jürgen Prochnow as Kapitänleutnant Henrich Lehmann-Willenbrock, Herbert Grönemeyer as Leutnant Werner, and Klaus Wennemann as Leitender Ingenieur Fritz Grade, this exceptional film is in a league of its own.Filmed entirely with practical special effects using an advanced custom made hand-held Arriflex camera with proto-Steadicam technology, Das Boot took two years to make, and was finally cut from over 330,000 metres of exposed film.With a budget of 32 million Deutsche Marks, it was the second most expensive German film the world had ever seen (beaten only by Metropolis) and remains one of the most expensive today.The genius of Das Boot is its timelessness. Even today there is almost nothing in the film that looks dated, though the colour saturation is a little weak by current standards. The cinematography is astonishingly good, particularly considering the conditions under which Das Boot was shot.The performances are superlative. Prochnow is the standout, but Grönemeyer and Wennemann are not far behind. Erwin Leder deserves a special mention as Obermaschinist Johann, whose steadily deteriorating mental state is a masterclass of method acting.Above all, it is the gritty realism of Das Boot that captivates audiences and keeps the movie fresh. The crew grow beards over time; their faces become drawn and haggard; their eyes become sunken and bloodshot; their clothes become dirty, and remain so.The longer you watch, the more it draws you in. After the first 30 minutes you can already feel the damp heat, smell the stink of diesel, and sense the flexing of metal plates as the U-boat approaches crush depth.There is not a single wasted minute in this film, which (like all the best war movies) is stridently anti-war.I rate Das Boot at 33.3 on the Haglee Scale, which works out as an unbeatable 10/10 on IMDb.
I am not a fan of war movies. I find that war movies, especially American ones, glorify war and portray those who fight as 'heroes'. The typical war movie simplifies war to a struggle between good and evil, though real war is so much more complex. Das Boot is nothing like the typical war movie. It shows World War II for how it was: horrifying, ruthless, and ill-planned. The U-boat crew are ordinary guys, with lives back home in Germany which they long to return to. They are not heroes, they are men who are afraid and are in the line of duty out of self-preservation and patriotism, not because they are psychotic Nazis. (they're not.) It is a story far more complex that good and evil, it is about human decisions and mistakes, and the complex struggle between one's loyalties and one's nature. Watching Das Boot, you forget that the crew is German, which in Western society we are taught is the 'bad team' of WWII, and see them for what they really were: ordinary men. I loved this movie, and I recommend it to anyone who wants to see a film that's really about something, without the warm-fuzzies and Hollywood conventions steeped into most movies. It is gripping and consuming, and once you see Das Boot, you're not likely to forget it.


                
This is an amazing achievement, and it's obvious because it is one of the only German language films to receive widespread distribution in American theaters since the silent era. It was just that good! When it came to America, the movie was cut down a little from it's original HUGE length and it was released in both dubbed and subtitled versions.The film is about a single WWII German U-boat and it follows it through a very hazardous mission until it eventually makes it back to port. While this may not sound very interesting, it certainly is, as the movie is less a traditional movie but an experience meant to instill in the audience the daily life and horror of serving on one of these submarines. For example, when the sub is being pursued, you find yourself tense, on edge and feeling the claustrophobia of the crewmen. Viscerally, it is an amazing film and remains a true and faithful film--the crew is extraordinary but they are hardly romanticized--they are just men doing their best to stay alive! To top all this off, when the movie concludes, there is the most fitting and inspired ending I have seen in a war film. Like anything you've seen from Hollywood? No way--this is like real life in all its starkness and terror.
There are very few moments that I have this feeling and I got that feeling when I watched this for the first time today. Lord of the Rings, The Matrix, 2001: A Space Odyssey and a few others I get that same feeling from. Being a Brit I never thought I would be willing the Germans on, but this film is so intense and gripping that it had me on the edge of my seat the whole way through. The music, the acting and the script are all done to my full satisfaction. Its made like no other submarine movie I have ever seen. I've never done a review for a film before but I thought this film deserved it. I put this on my top 10 of greatest films of all time, if not top 5. If you can, watch the directors cut.


                
This film is an absolute piece of art. Unlike so many war films it does not make heros of one side and villains of the other instead it focuses on the the emotions of the crew and how each one goes from being exhilarated in one moment to terrified in the next. The acting is absolutely first class the characters totally believable and although u do not get to completely identify each of them you really do start to imagine what life on board a WWII u-boat in the latter part of the war must have been like. The sense of fear and anxiety is their for u 2 see in the eyes of these sailors whose faces are covered with a mix of sweat and oil The absolute horror on their faces when they test the sub to depths beyond that of the original trials: just gripping! For me at least this is definitely one of the most realistic war-films ever and also probably the best.


                
My two uncles where submariners in the 2nd WW. Both survived, and I had the opportunity to meet the one that was a commander. Although he would not talk much about his experiences, I was able to extract from him his opinion of the TV Mini-Series when it came out. With the exception of the noise levels that crew members made in the movie (for drama purposes) he told me that it was a very faithful depiction of the life and hardships a submariner lived on a U-Boot.I personally have always admired the film because it depicts war without glorifying any of the participants. You are not guided by the director or the plot to identify with any particular character - you can actually relate to many of them, and therefor immerse yourself in the claustrophobic experience they live.Its an excellent piece of film making that combines drama and action into a very powerful anti-war message. Although I personally prefer the original mini-series, the directors cut with its remastered sound is also a great experience.


                
This is a review of the DVD version of the 1997 "Das Boot - The Director's Cut".I remember, in 1981, when this movie came out and received so much acclaim. I didn't see it, mostly because it didn't sound very interesting, and I didn't like watching sub-tilted movies.I still would not have watched it if my neighbor hadn't brought over his DVD and said, "you have to watch this."I was overwhelmed.  It is one of the very finest movies I have ever seen (I'm in my 50s), maybe even the very best!  Yes, it is about war.  Set in 1941, it is about the German U-boat fleet.  A statistic shown at the beginning says "40,000 German men were sent out on U-boats and 30,000 never returned." This movie is about one of those U-boats, its battles, and the lives of its crew. Two-thirds into the movie the captain says, "You have to have good men.  Good men, all of them."  And that's really what this movie is all about. Even though it is almost 3 1/2 hours long, it never becomes dull or boring. Even if you don't like "war" movies. It is based on actual events, and will probably make you want to never serve on a submarine! I watched half on successive nights.This DVD is the "Director's Cut" which is (we are told in the extra features) almost like a new movie.  All sound tracks were digitally remastered. Scenes were totally re-edited and 60 minutes total were added. New "foley" editing was done to provide 8 tracks of sound (down to 6 on the Dolby Digital 5.1 on the DVD).  And, of course, it has both German and English language dialog tracks.  All the main characters came back to work on this movie to dub in their own voices in English, so they look and sound authentic.  You forget very quickly that it is a dubbed version.And the sound!  You'd better have a super subwoofer, because the dynamic range of sound is amazing. Explosions are the most realistic sounding I've heard on a home theater system. And the perfect surround sound balancing makes it seem like you are really in the submarine.Do yourself a big favor - see the new release of "Das Boot" if you haven't already.


                
Das Boot (The Boat) is film-making at its finest. Not only is this the greatest naval film, it is one of the finest statements on war ever filmed.Jurgen Prochnow is the excellent lead as the Captain of a U-Boat faced with impossible odds. A compassionate man, he is a veteran at the age of 30. His performance really ties the film together and gives it a strong human touch.The tension in this film reminded me of Clouzot's Wages of Fear (especially the last 45 minutes). This is a deeply impacting film because the audience really feels the claustrophobia, the filth, the tension and all the other emotions that the 42 crew members of the U-Boat go through.The sentiments of Das Boot are decidedly anti-war. By showing that it consists of bureaucratic senselessness, German officers living in a fantasy world, the despair of the fighting men - it makes for a touching tale.The director's cut is the version to be seen although it is long. Each scene of the movie is a classic and will show you the realities of war.


                
