I'm an action movie guy. I'm not into drama, so I rented Das Boot for the joy ride. I believe that a movie should be rated for its current impact, and I think many reviewers are reaching into their memories of the past. I've seen it recently. It was disappointing.Was "Das Boot" the original submarine action flick? Well, since 1981 action movie standards have grown a lot. What once may have been original (submarine goes up, down, dodging missiles, fixing leaks) has now been overshadowed by "Crimson Tide", "The Hunt for Red October", and others. It reminded me of "The Poseidon Adventure", which is also now too old to enjoy.As a straight action movie, I would have given it a "6". But there's more.Drama lovers and arty types have the refinement and film school talent of separating the film into its component parts. They can, for example, love the choreography and costuming even if the story is awful and the characters loathsome. I don't have that fine an appreciation.For a regular guy like me, I just can't root for the Nazis. The film is about the German military in World War II and while the film portrays them as "regular guys, decent and fighting against the ocean depths", I just cannot separate that from a sense of right and wrong that these folks (however trapped) are fighting for ideals which (even though some characters in the film say it's all baloney) ultimately they support.So I'm forced to give this film a 3 out of 10. Try watching this right after "Schindler's List" and see if you disagree.Who should see this film:-- Arty / drama types who can get around my unsophisticated viewpoint-- Action movie lovers with nothing better to do on a rainy day, who can get around my unsophisticated viewpoint. There are two ways to do it -- by being overly highbrow or overly lowbrow! :)


                
Applauded by many for how realistic it is for submarine life. But I was surprised at how sloppy obvious details were overlooked. I lost track of how often the sub was in 10 - 15 foot seas and the next scene (elapsed time < 5 minutes), the water was totally flat. Or, vice-versa. In one scene the captain is tracking a destroyer in heavy seas. His periscope is constantly awash in waves, obscuring his view. Instead of ordering the sub to rise a meter or two, he maintains depth. Of course, the destroyer almost rams him. Would a real seasoned captain have made this mistake? Elsewhere in the movie, the sub receives several radiograms on the activity of other subs. Yet, he almost collides with another sub far out into the Atlantic. No radio communication between the two? In the final scene, two fighters attack the port with machine guns. Multiple bomb explosions occur (too many for two one-bomb fighters) *before* the planes arrive where the explosions are occurring. Yes, it's a movie of human interaction and survival, but where were the technical consultants tasked to ensure these kinds of mistakes didn't occur?


                
Literally just six hours of a boot. Kinda hot tbh new fetish lmao
