After eight years in seclusion, Batman resurfaces to face Bane, a mastermind bent on destroying Gotham and has ties to Bruce Wayne's past. Christopher Nolan's conclusion to his Dark Knight trilogy should be treated as a wrap up rather than a third installment. Despite many new characters being introduced, even their conflicts and motives are derived from events that occurred in the previous two films. Such an approach could be seen as a weakness, since the conflict could just end up being sort of a rematch rather than moving the story forward; however, Nolan's approach works terrificly. Over an hour is shot in stunning IMAX, but the film is more touching than it is intense<U+0085> and that's its best quality. Hardy steps in as the genius mercenary Bane, who is slightly bigger, slightly stronger and slightly smarter than Batman, thus making him a challenge best suited for the grand finale. The Joker works best as Batman's arch-nemesis since they are polar opposites, with The Joker standing for everything Batman stands against. Two-Face works best as Batman's most tragic enemy because Harvey Dent is very much like Bruce Wayne<U+0085> the only difference is: Dent copes with his tragedy through revenge rather than seeking justice as Wayne did. Bane works best as Batman's most challenging villain because of his physical and mental superiority—forget the Bane you saw in "BATMAN & ROBIN". Nolan carefully chose all his villains in the series wisely and executed them perfectly. Hardy had big shoes to fill following Ledger's posthumous Oscar winning performance; while Bane is no Joker, Hardy does a satisfying job and should not be compared to Ledger's performance as they are completely different roles. It is Michael Caine, however, that delivers the most memorable and touching performance of the entire film. A wonderful conclusion to a wonderful trilogy.**** (out of four)


                
Not being a huge fan of superhero movies, I didn't have much expectations for Batman Begins. However viewing the 2005 Christopher Nolan production, I was pleasantly shocked. Then after my huge expectations for, "The Dark Knight", Christopher Nolan blew my expectations to the dust. Will the same happen with the 3rd and last film, "The Dark Knight Rises"? Quite simply, Yes! My big expectations were once again, blown away. What a production! This is a true cinematic experience, to behold. The movie exceeded my expectations in terms of action, and entertainment. The editing, sound, score, visuals, direction and action are all top notch. The film contains a fine cast of talented actors. Christian Bale, of course still makes is a great Batman. Michael Cain is fantastic, as he always is. He gives such a powerful performance, he really ought to be considered for an Oscar nomination. Tom Hardy as Bane is utterly terrifying, at times, and completely ominous. Anne Hathaway as Catwoman/Selina Kyle is a scene stealer. She is completely engrossing. Everyone is so great, the dynamic scenes between the actors are so well done, so well written, and so well directed. The Dark Knight Rises is is emotionally riveting and amazing to view.At a running time of almost 3 hours, the film never becomes dull, which is pretty impressive. The movie's action sequences are spectacularly well created and very intense. The dialogue between the character's are intelligent and highly believable. The movie's soundtrack is terrific and really exemplify's many of the movie's scenes. Extremely well editing and sound use really develop many of the movie's action scenes, so it's not just explosions and visuals like in many other movies. Nolan creates a grand, dirty, engrossing world, and his action sequences just hum. In conclusion, this film is a gorgeous reminder that great writing and direction can enhance any movie-going experience, even superhero movies, which are usually thought of as mindless entertainment. I am wholly satisfied with Christopher Nolan's vision and thank all who worked on this film for bringing such an intricate interpretation of its very famous literary source. I cannot recommend this film anymore than I have, I just have to say everyone and anyone should see it. 10/10"


                
The Dark Knight Rises was an outstanding end to what has been the best trilogy I have ever seen.The film to me sums up what the batman stands for, the belief that someone can turn their leaf and become better, the belief that the fear that posses a person can be be destroyed or even help that person rise. what Christopher Nolan has given us in The Dark Knight Rises is not a lazy movie, it's a movie that makes the audience think because for me i had to watch the film many times until i have fully understand what has happened, and isn't that what makes a good movie when we have to watch it again and again and again.lets move on to the acting and the star man Christian Bale who again amazes me with his portrayal of Bruce Wayne, because even though we don't see a lot of the dark knight i personally am okay with that because i like seeing the real Bruce Wayne dealing with problems without the batman costume. another star man was Tom Hardy as Bane, "scary" yes, "intimidating" yes, "witty" yes and this list can go on. the thing that tipped it was that we can only see his eyes, to me he was only acting with his menacing eyes that just captivates any audience. Anne Hathaway as catwomen was a perfect cast as she brings the zing to the film, she's elegant and yet sexy at the same time, which was perfect casting. perfect casting all round including obviously Joseph Gordon-Levitt as Blake (robin).The Dark Knight Rises give audiences nearly three hours of pure excitement, for me i wanted it to continue for another three hours, the film was so good i had to watch the next day because it had every element of what makes a good batman film, such as the villain (bane) because he was the physical match for batman not like the other phenomenal batman films which was more psychotic villains. a good love story that doesn't bore the audience and a great ending. overall this was the ultimate ending to an ultimate trilogy which is a must watch. once again Christopher Nolan has done something special.
The Dark Knight Rises capped off what is probably the best comic book related trilogy of movies of all time. Earlier in the series you had Batman Begins and The Dark Knight with this just being the perfect way to finish off the series.Since the last movie it's been 7 years and Batman has been in seclusion since then. Christian Bale returns as Batman/Bruce Wayne. A new villain has emerged that being the menacing Bane played by the great Tom Hardy.The supporting cast has returning members like Morgan Freeman, Gary Oldman and Michael Caine in addition to new members like Joseph-Gordon Levitt, Marion Cotillard and Anne Hathaway.The movie has a running time of about 2 hours and 45 minutes but it doesn't seem like it at all, the movie flows like a 2 hour movie.
The Dark Knight Rises is the third and final installment in director Christopher Nolan's Batman trilogy. The story takes places eight years after the events of the last film, eight years since Batman vanished into the night and assumed responsibility for the death of D.A. Harvey Dent in the hopes that it would benefit the greater good. But when a new villain threatens to destroy Gotham City and cannot be stopped by law enforcement alone, Bruce Wayne is forced to adorn the black armor once again. The film introduces several new characters: John Blake (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), a young police officer whose loyalty lies in doing what is right and not blindly following his superiors. Selina Kyle (Anne Hathaway), a cat burglar working for Bane in hopes of obtaining a device that will erase a person's criminal history and giving her the chance to start a new life. Miranda Tate (Marion Cotillard), who encourages Bruce Wayne to rejoin the rest of the world and continue his father's philanthropic work. Loyal butler, Alfred (Sir Michael Caine), Commissioner of the Gotham Police, James Gordon (Gary Oldman) and genius inventor, Lucius Fox (Morgan Freeman), also make a return to help Bruce Wayne become the Dark Knight once more. A new villain also enters the fray that is just as intelligent, resourceful and a better combatant than Batman (even breaking Batman's back at one point, depicting a classic scene from the comic series) – Bane (Tom Hardy), a terrorist portraying himself as a liberator of the people.Production staff really outdid themselves in making this film superb in every detail. In regards to the dramatic aspect, filming took place in several different cities across the world including New York, Pittsburgh, Los Angeles, London and Jodhpur. By amalgamating different cities, staff members helped to make his imagination of Gotham resemble the description of the city given in the comics. Costume specialists helped to give Bain the appearance of a lucha libre (masked wrestler), which coupled with his resourcefulness and intelligence helped to create the perfect villain. The Dark Knight Rises takes place in an apocalyptic time with nuclear warfare threatening to destroy Gotham City. Cinematography experts helped to reinforce this doomsday ambiance by having Bane and his henchmen blow up all the bridges that lead out to the city, trapping the entire police force underground and unleashing the hooligans from the city jail in a scene that resembles the "Storming of the Bastille". The federal government also abandons Gotham, leaving the people of Gotham to fight the battle on their own. Even scenes that do not take place in the city show the helplessness of the times. When Bruce Wayne is imprisoned in foreign jail, Bane decides to "torture his soul" by having him watch the events unfold in Gotham on a television set while he is trapped in a virtually inescapable prison. Director Christopher Nolan stated that this film would mark the end of his interpretation of the Batman trilogy. However, the end of the film leaves the viewer with a final surprise: John Blake's legal is revealed to be Robin John Blake, a reference to Batman's comic book sidekick, and inherits the Batcave after Batman's "demise". This leaves the possibility open to an additional installment in the Batman franchise, and with the critical and financial success of the series, it may be a smart move for Warner Brother's to make (copyright owner's to the series).The film also leaves the viewers with a final message: a hero can be anyone. Whether it is placing a reassuring grasp on the shoulders friend, letting him know that things will get better, or helping a stranger on the side of the road who is having car troubles. Nolan's final episode is an earnest attempt to give a deserving end to a much-loved series. With cool gadgets, fast-paced chase and fight scenes, complex characters, and a story line that will keep you on the edge of your seat, fans of the Batman series will not be disappointed.
Christopher Nolan has outdone himself with this one. At 3.30 in the morning, I was tired. Just getting out of it, I've never been so awake. Perhaps what set this film apart from his other films was that it had a genuine emotional heartbeat. I felt that this was a flaw of Nolan's other films - the vision of emotion was there, but it was hollow. In this I bought it. I felt it, hero and villain alike.Christian Bale was typically brilliant as Batman, and I felt that Bruce Wayne was more heavily embraced in this final installment. Bale added emotional depth to the character - a plot point that I think went astray in The Dark Knight - picking up from the development made in Batman Begins.Tom Hardy as Bane was quite simply, terrifying. No longer a dunderhead "enforcer", but one of the criminal masterminds behind "Gotham's Reckoning", coupled with a physical dominance strong enough to send shivers down your spine.Anne Hathaway as Selina Kyle defied my expectations. Hands up who was not entirely convinced that that girl from the Princess Diaries could handle an intensely physical role like Catwoman. But here I am, hugely impressed. She added immeasurably to the value of the film.Marion Cotillard fulfilled the role of Miranda Tate admirably, though I suspect this was the most underdeveloped character of the film - though after watching, I can see why.The unsung hero of The Dark Knight Rises is Michael Caine as Alfred. A heartfelt performance that helps drive the emotional content of the film, helping Nolan sell his most well-rounded film to date. Caine's performance in both presence and absence.Special mention goes to Joseph Gordon Levitt, who is consistently proving himself to be a big player in the Hollywood game. His role as officer Blake felt like there could've been more, but it may just have come all a bit much. It was a great performance, and Levitt sunk his teeth into role. If you can, go see this in IMAX. If any film was to sell the format to skeptics, The Dark Knight Rises would be IT. I'm happy Nolan stuck to his guns and shot in 2D. 3D would have been unnecessary. I suppose at this point, I have to turn my focus on Nolan. If he ever reads this... aspiring filmmaker to filmmaker, I've never been so envious, jealous in all my life. It's a film that leaves me floundering, wondering what I could possibly do to get anywhere near this ballpark. Well done. I think an Oscar Nomination is in order.From here, I'm not sure what to expect of the future. Does our imagination carry us forward, or do the studios? Time will tell.10/10


                
Wow. That's all I can say. I was freaked out about this movie, because I loved the first two. Too often have I gotten into a series, then been horribly disappointed by the last entry (e.g. the hunger games. I hated the third book). That being said, even though I was nervous, I still had high expectations. And it exceeded those. The acting was excellent, consistently to the previous movies. The action was good. The story was great. The characters were diverse and interesting, and despite the longevity of this film, it wasn't too slow at all. This movie was a emotional roller coaster. The ending ( here's where the spoilers start) was extremely sad, but ironically, that was really good. One thing i was nervous about was that the ending would be a typical superhero movie ending: happy because the main bad guy dies or gets arrested or whatever. This wasn't that. Ask anyone who knows me well; I'm a very stoic guy, but this almost had me in tears. (Of course, it could have been the fact that this part came around at 3 AM and my mind wasn't working right.) Basically, an awesome film. My sole complaint was ( another spoiler here ) Bane's death. I'll give it this: it was realistic. I expected his death to be a long, drawn out sentimental thing, but in reality, his head got blown off in a flash. At first, I thought it was stupid, but it's sorta more realistic. Considering it's a superhero movie, anyway.If you're worried that this will ruin the series for you, don't be. I loved this movie. I don't know if it's as good as the Dark Knight, but if not, it's very, very close. Watch it. Do yourself a favor.
After watching Dark Knight Rises I concluded that if there is anybody who can make kick-ass sequels its Nolan. The film contains everything, from brilliant acting, raw action, out of the world one-liners and amazing cinematography. It is already very hard to make a sequel for a film which was just good enough hit but to make a sequel for a film which will always be remembered as the best you have to do a very impeccable job and that is what is done in this movie. From the beginning to the end you have some very beautiful and emotional scenes like the mob fight between the police and the thugs, the rise of the Batman from the prison and the chants "Deshi Deshi Basura Basura" towards the end where Alfred and Bruce see each other for probably the last time and both know that he has made it.
I had the honor of watching TDKR during a screening and was completely blown away! Christopher Nolan's third film in his Batman trilogy doesn't disappoint. The movie is incredibly well made, its huge production is quite breathtaking to view. This is a true cinematic experience, to behold. The movie exceeded my expectations in terms of action, and entertainment. The movie's score high-lites many of its incredible scenes, and at times, it takes your breath away.The film featured excellent performances, by all the cast. Christian Bale, as always is great as Batman. Anne Hathaway was completely engrossing, she became "Catwoman", just like Michele Pfeiffer did, although their interpretations were very different, both were equally effective. Tom Hardy was the main villain "Bane" completely shattered my expectations. One of the best superhero movie villains, I've ever seen. The terror caused by him, is completely believable and quite menacing. Marlion Cotilliard, Michael Cane, Gary Oldman, and others all did well in their respective roles. Now I know most will miss Heath Ledger as the Joker.(I know I do) I hope people don't compare Tom Hardy's performance to Heath Ledger's, its completely unfair and the two characters are very different. Just read the comics.The colossal size of the film is a spectacle to behold, but surprisingly you don't get lost with all the explosions and extravagant action scenes, like in other films,(AKA Transformers, or POTC.) If one were to gripe, and I suppose there will never be a film made that one cannot find a point at which to grip, it is painfully long running time here. I found myself more worried about the pain in my posterior than the emotional final minutes after almost 3 hours that I had spent in a cramped seat, but that's just how I am. However the ending is just fantastic, so emotional and bring the trilogy to a very satisfying end.Sorry if I'm being all fan-boyish and kissing this movie's behind, but I really admire it. It may not be among my personal favorites but generally this seems to be the movie event of this year. As a film though, this is amazing. A true lasting legacy in superhero story telling and summer-blockbusters.


                
I cannot imagine a "Batman" movie after "The Dark Knight Rises" (**** out of ****) without "Inception" director Christopher Nolan at the helm. Warner Brothers and DC Comics got this legendary costume-clad crime fighter trilogy 'right.' Sure, you can nitpick, but Nolan's "Batman" movies differed in ambiance from those of both Tim Burton and Joel Schumacher. Nolan's "Batman" movies trod a thin line turning a vigilante into a hero and scrutinizing the morality of his behavior. Essentially, Nolan rebooted the franchise, recreated Bruce Wayne and Batman as troubled alter-egos, and turned the good versus evil episodes of the earlier films into full-blown spectacles. While sticking slavishly to the basics, he relied on his fertile imagination to give the characters greater depth and examine the issue of vigilantism. Nolan's Caped Crusader movies don't rely on humor as much as slight, off-hand comments. The action unfolds swiftly, and the characters are clearly delineated before the end credits roll. You prepare yourself for the surprises. The films replicate the haunted quality that Burton forged with his Michael Keaton forays, while Schumacher embraced a bright, heavily saturated, slightly surreal comic book quality. Of course, the "Batman" graphic novels of Frank Miller have influenced Nolan. Christian Bale's part in the success of the trilogy is considerable. He is more of a Michael Keaton "Batman" than either a Val Kilmer or a George Clooney crime fighter. Bale is to Batman the same way that Sean Connery was to Bond. Long-time British actor Michael Caine makes a superb Alfred Pennyworth, but Michael Gough was no slouch himself in the four previous "Batman" incarnations. Unquestionably, Nolan steps back from Batman at the Caped Crime Buster's zenith. The ending to this trilogy capper is odd. Indeed, Warner Brothers conceivably could make another "Batman" movie based on Nolan's conclusion to "The Dark Knight Rises."Anybody who tries to top "The Dark Knight Rises" will have a lot to prove both artistically and financially. Christopher Nolan is to the "Batman" movies what James Cameron was to the "Terminator" movies. Stepping into Nolan's shoes will pose a supreme challenge for whoever dares. Nolan approached the "Batman" franchise with reverence, played the plots as close to straight as possible, and shunned clever one-liners. "The Dark Knight Rises" surpasses both the "Batman Begins" origin movie and "The Dark Knight." "The Dark Knight Rises" takes the franchise to the brink of annihilation with what amounts to a Gotham City Armageddon. Batman contends with two worthy opponents that played a part in his origins. The most obvious villain is Bane. A hulking brute of a man, he looks like a cross between of a wrestler and equivalent of a human pit bulldog. Bane wears a contraption over his face that enables him to handle the pain of life. Basically, we never see British actor Tom Hardy's face because he conceals it with a mask. Interestingly, this imbues Bane with a mystery. Furthermore, Bane speaks through this contraption and he sounds quite avuncular. In other words, he doesn't sound as menacing as Darth Vader, but he doesn't mince words. Finally, former Disney princess Anne Hathaway makes a willowy Cat Woman. Just as the Marvel people had trouble getting Hulk right, the DC people have experienced similar trouble getting Catwoman right. Anne Hathaway makes the perfect Catwoman.The sheer spectacle of "The Dark Knight Rises" dwarfs "The Dark Knight." Eight years has elapsed since the murder of Harvey Dent and the disappearance of the Caped Crusader. Guests at Wayne Manor make remarks about the tragic figure skulking about on the balcony in the distance. Bruce Wayne (Christian Bale of "Terminator Salvation") has turned into a contemporary Howard Hughes. He is amazed when he catches a burglar in his side of the mansion. Moreover, she is a delectable burglar. She has cracked Wayne's safe and stolen his mother's pearls. Since Gotham City is largely safe now, the authorities are not prepared when a gang assaults Wall Street and tries to plunge the economy in chaos. Batman makes a triumphant return in top form with a new gadget that resembles a mini-helicopter. Initially, Batman has no trouble licking his adversaries. Against the Catwoman, he seems vulnerable. She likes to let him down. When he confronts Bane, Batman's gauntleted fists exert no more effect on him than they would on a bag of cement. Indeed, Commissioner Gordon (Gary Oldman of "The Fifth Element") is back on the case. He knows the truth about Harvey Dent, even if he doesn't know the identity of the Batman. If you missed either or both "Batman Begins" and "The Dark Knight," you may find yourself in an expositional purgatory. Nolan's "Batman" trilogy fits snugly together, aside from the change of casting between "Batman Begins" and "The Dark Knight" when Maggie Gyllenhaal replaced Katie Holmes as Rachel Dawes in the District Attorney's Office. "The Dark Knight Rises" packs the Caped Crusader into exile. Bane batters him into submission. Nolan takes not only Gotham City to the limit, but also he takes audiences to the limit with an actioneer that clocks in at 164 minutes. Nevertheless, "The Dark Knight Rises" qualifies as the best "Batman" movie ever!
From Christopher Nolan, Director of 'Inception' and 'The Dark Knight', comes 'The Dark Knight Rises' or 'The Best Film I've Ever Seen'.PROS: To start off, the performances of all the actors, from leading man Christian Bale to God himself, Morgan Freeman are all excellent. They make the characters likable and enjoyable to watch on screen. Yes, Bale's Batman voice can get irritating but, let's face it, 'The Amazing Spider- Man' was irritating, too. Just like 'Skyfall', the villain steals the show. Tom Hardy as Bane is one of the years greatest villain performances, it actually surpasses Heath Ledger's Joker, he was good, yes, but the way he was written, we didn't get any depth to the character, he was just a crazy little lunatic who blew up buildings, where Bane acts as a tenacious dictator and actually has a goal. His voice is dominant, load and extremely scary, with a strange mix of a British/Caribbean accent. The grand scale of the film is absolutely huge, and it works perfectly with the IMAX frame and the loud, booming orchestral music by Hans Zimmer. It's just a beautifully crafted film.'SPOILER ALERT!'CONS: My ONE AND ONLY gripe for this film is that Bane's death was very anti- climactic, because I feel that Batman should have killed him. But it doesn't take away the fact that this is a perfect film.So, not only is this the best film of 2012 to me, but the best film I've ever seen. BY FAR.Directed by: Christopher NolanWritten by: Jonathan Nolan & Christopher NolanStarring: Christian Bale, Michael Caine, Gary Oldman, Anne Hathaway, Tom Hardy, Marion Cotillard, Joseph Gordon- Levitt & Morgan Freeman
The best thing about this movie is how satisfying it is. It doesn't leave you frustrated or confused. You can't really complain that it didn't explore certain ideas or follow through. By deciding to have an official ending to this trilogy's story, the themes surrounding Batman are very fresh. We don't know where he'll end up. It's not the same old thing about whether he can continue to be Batman or not, which was already getting repetitive in Spider-man 2. The conclusions are not as important as the feelings they invoke as they come about. Nolan is especially good at capturing the complete tension of actually not knowing what will happen and deeply questioning what you *want* to happen and why.This movie is bigger than the previous two, far more ambitious. There are no obvious annoying weaknesses that usually come with films in general, especially blockbuster action movies. All of Nolan's movies have deep psychological themes and this takes those in another new direction. I thought Inception was hugely original and insightful about the way people think. That level of abstraction and depth is present in this film. Bane bursts into it, his reputation is quickly established. Nolan uses people's expectations and anticipation to the fullest. We are left to wonder about what has happened in the 8 years since the events of The Dark Knight. Why have the characters become the way they are now?In the latter half, it does seem like the movie is trying to pull off so many different plot points and connections, but they all work. The cast is very large and impressive. You don't see "good acting". You see fascinating characters. They're just playing their part in the grand story that's being crafted. There are many unfamiliar faces but they all have a strange, unique look to them. We often see a person's flaws and previous decisions coming back to haunt them. They find out the hard way what mistakes they have made. Where their limits are. Where they lose control.The score is almost tribal, very raw and energetic. You don't get much chance to pay attention to it but many parts of the movie are pounding with excitement. There are countless quotable lines and disturbing slices of dialogue. They cut deep. The Joker was a great character and this is a very different movie but the themes are just as dark, only perhaps indirectly. Underneath, it's very sinister. Writing and efficiency appear to be among Nolan's greatest strengths. The story has many layers that interweave and apparently they came in under budget.Perhaps the most important thing about Catwoman is that she's completely believable. When she beats up men, you don't roll your eyes. She's feminine and powerful in her own way. She fits into the world and we completely understand her motivations. She doesn't have a huge role but a very important one.I didn't find myself moved but maybe I'm too cynical. I was more affected psychologically. Curious about humanity and all the different sides of it you see in this movie. It goes to many extremes. I felt humbled by my complete lack of life experience. What do I know about anything? How could I possibly understand half of the characters? I haven't been through anything or achieved anything compared to most of them. Michael Caine gets a bigger role this time. He was always critical but this time he's very much the emotional core.I thought Christian Bale was overlooked in The Dark Knight especially. The movies hinge on him. Bruce Wayne's just a man but also incredibly inspirational. Bale's famous for completely committing to his roles and it pays off. Tom Hardy is impressive as Bane but I suppose that's no surprise. The rest of the leads are similarly awesome. There are many references to the earlier films. Very few questions are left unanswered. It's always nice when film-makers really think it through and make an actual decision and get all the details right.So anyway, I'll miss Batman (since the trilogy has ended) but couldn't have hoped for a better, more epic and sincere finale to his story.


                
This final instalment in the batman trilogy was the perfect way to end it. The movie was very well scripted, had a gripping plot and the execution of adding Cat woman was very effective. The main villain, Bane, played exceptionally well by talented actor Tom Hardy (Inception) was without a doubt the most terrifying and awesome antagonists of the Batman and most other superhero films for that matter. His voice, charisma coupled with his high intelligence and psychopathic mindset was the perfect combination and he brought a certain gravity to the film. By making him match and even exceed batman in hand to hand combat was a nice touch. What was possible the most impressive scene of the entire film was the opening hijacking segment. It was brilliantly shot, and it effectively established Banes capabilities from the very beginning. The Dark Knight Rises is also depicts the rising of Robin, the character of John Blake, (Joseph Gordon Levitt). As though the film wasn't already good enough, the final twist of who really was the child of Ras al Ghul really was simply astounding, unpredictable and brilliant. Christopher Nolan did well by making Officer Gordan find out who Batman really was. The only flaw of the film was the departure of cat woman and her return which was very predictable. The final scene depicting batman's "death" is an ending unique to Christopher Nolan as we've seen in the ending of Inception. Simply, we don't know if batman lived or died, however there are a number if clues that are pretty useless since they can be used to defend batman's death or survival. This movie is a must watch.
The Batman series by Christopher Nolan was and is probably one of the best superhero series ever. In an industry where very few sequels have been that good, The Dark Knight, I believe was designed by Christopher Nolan to be head and shoulders above Batman Begins; and it was. The Dark Knight surpassed Batman Begins, end of story. Now that you have accomplished what very few have managed, how do you surpass this one. A daunting and mountainous task indeed. Only now, Nolan wasn't even trying to surpass it. He was merely trying to present a movie that would build on its predecessor.The movie is set 8 years after the Joker incident so that anything related to the Joker need not be shown (RIP Heath Ledger). Nolan presents us a completely different Gotham. A different take on it. And how 8 years can change people. How the harvey dent and joker incident can affect people and batman himself. In a time of peace, it is quite easy to plan and attack even an entire city. Everything is taken into concern. And it all adds up to one seemingly invincible villain. The logic is never lost at any point of time. The screenplay is penned to allow the impact of what has happened to Gotham and its people in "The Dark Knight" and what could happen if something goes wrong now.All things said, if you are expecting something better than The Dark Knight, you are mistaken. This was never going to compete or surpass that. This is a very good movie in its own right. As for the series, there cannot be a better conclusion and I really hope nobody else continues this series if Nolan decides not to.TDKR needs to be appreciated for staying true to its roots and still giving us something good, exhilarating and unexpected.


                
There are plenty of elements that made this film work, so I suppose we can tick them off one by one. For starters, the continuation on the focus of Bruce Wayne's story, which has made it all tick. This version of Bruce Wayne and Alfred become the familiar characters we're accustomed with since 2005, and the film invests heavily on the emotional bonding between the two, which deals back to the theme about fear that rears its ugly head again, and how a father figure cannot stand idly by to watch the one he brought up recklessly charge into battle after a long hiatus, and hoping for a life of normalcy with the mantle of the bat given up. Michael Caine may have a shorter screen time than before, but no less powerful.When Sam Raimi had to put the popular and powerful Venom into Spider-man 3 pretty much against his wishes, we all knew how that turned out to be, effectively killing off the franchise until the decision to reboot it. There may be some similar fears with the introduction of a fairly contemporary villain in Bane, but the story gave him more purpose and meaning, and Tom Hardy was excellent par none in this role as the compete villain - with plenty of brawn, merciless, masterful, and with a plan any terrorist would be proud of. If the Scarecrow meant to induce fear, and the Joker to create chaos, Bane is carnage incarnate. Tom Hardy, even being the requisite mask, is fearful, and while the designs of his plan may dwarf the Joker's in complexity, it sure rivaled his in terms of delivery, and execution. Anyone in his path gets shoved aside with deadly consequences, and anyone alive is only because there is of further use. No hesitation, and no compromise.And Nolan continues with the introduction of a lot more villains big and small, behind a mask or otherwise, in his Bat films than anyone would credit him for, especially when having those whose lines are blurred, or corrupt to the core and hiding behind social status and fortune. This in turn provides for another arc that boils underneath the main narrative, where the rich and powerful continue to enjoy their successes at the expense of the have-nots, and the Occupy Movement in a way being a very real parallel to the proceedings on screen. While the mobsters were clearly at the top of the food chain in the earlier Nolan films, this one shifted focus to politicians and the elite community, with their fair share of scandals and corporate greed.While Bane was to the point, Selina Kyle played by Anne Hathaway, is both sensual and a force to be reckoned with herself, being like how she's best portrayed, on the fence. There's a bit of Frank Miller's Year One in this one given the presence of Juno Temple's Holly, and the back to basics as a jewel thief, compared to the mousy secretary in Tim Burton's Batman Returns with Michelle Pfeiffer defining the role, and the garbage that was Halle Berry's. Anne Hathaway nailed this one with what would be a truly memorable outing, and as if a homage of sorts to Burton's second Batman film, that the repartee between Bruce Wayne and Selina Kyle at a party became one of the highlights here, as does her thievery and combat ability. She may lack her whip, but more than makes up for it with her steel stiletto heels, and the very sensual and sleekly designed feline moves that you'd wonder how they got delivered while wrapped under that skin tight suit.And not only is the technology put on screen fictionally impressive, the technical aspects behind the scenes also worked wonders, chalking up serious mileage in having more than an hour's worth of footage shot on the IMAX format. Wally Pfister's cinematography continues to impress with that staying consistent to the gritty look and feel developed for all the Bat films to date, before his departure into a film director's role for his next project. Hans Zimmer also probably developed the best score for Nolan's Bat films, and I dare say without which this film would be less stellar, with the score playing a huge role in adding plenty of character and emotion to the film, lifting it up with excitement during the many set action pieces, with recognizable themes assigned to major players, heightening dangers, and providing a boost to the many feelings in this one heck of an action-adventure. With how things developed at the end, and what I felt was initial horror of sorts with Batman out in broad daylight, secret identity being porous and all, this film ended in what would be the best way possible - with possibilities, and a twinkle of an eye, Inception style with a did it, or did it not. Twists, turns, surprises and sleight of hand, making it a clear favourite as one of the best this year. Do yourself a favour and watch it in the IMAX format, just as it was intended.Because you have just got to believe in Christopher Nolan, and the kind of films he has so far delivered. Take a bow, bat-crew, for a trilogy that has now set the bar for any comic book film, and especially any other follow Batman movie, reboot or otherwise, to live up to.


                
This was the best way to end the Dark Knight Legend and is the best Batman movie ever made!The story starts with Bruce Wayne being scarred and deeply injured whilst the dark knight has disappeared for 8 years, The Dark Knight finally returns as a new villain, Bane (Tom Hardy who is an excellent actor), terrorises Gotham City and wants to rip it apart. Bane wears a mask to keep the pain at bay which happened in the 'pit' (prison) so he cannot use facial expressions to show different emotions. The amount of expressions he can do with solely his eyes is amazing!I have watched this film 3 times and found it gripping and exciting each time. If you have not watched this film yet, go watch it now. Also, how was this masterpiece not even nominated for an Oscar??
The Dark Knight Rises: Movie ReviewWe all know the first two movies in this trilogy directed by Christopher Nolan were phenomenal. We were all worried about whether or not this movie would live up to the high standards set by the first two. Luckily, this succeeded in pleasing us and is an excellent classic. The villain in this is played by the brilliant actor Tom Hardy who gives an emotional and compelling performance as Bane, one of Batman's greatest foes. We liked how they also included Catwoman, who was played by Anne Hathaway. We loved the insane thrills this movie had to offer. For example, Batman's jumping off of buildings, flying in Bat-planes, and much more. We really liked the twist at the end, like most good movies. The final thing that we enjoyed about this movie was this: It's about Batman. In conclusion, The Dark Knight Rises is a must see, and give it an A, or 10/10
I am not going to lie. I was fearful for this movie. Normally when you think of trilogy's the third one is always the weakest one-Godfather part 3, Spiderman 3, Matrix Revolutions. However, this movie is-in my opinion-the strongest of the Nolan Batman Trilogy. Nolan proved to all of the critics that he was right with going of the character of Bane, a terrorist who has great plans to fulfil his destiny in the city of Gotham. Tom Hardy excels in this role and it is one of his best roles in any movie he's done. He is required to do a lot of acting with his eyes and he has great screen presence, it immediately makes you feel intimidated. Anne Hathaway added depth to the Catwoman character, and portrayed her excellently. Yet, the icing on the cake is Christian Bale who reprises his role of Batman. The whole atmosphere in Gotham is created through Nolan's direction of the film. It's a very dark setting, darker than The Dark Knight was, but this adds further to the main theme of the story-redemption. It was the best movie in 2012 and Nolan, I thank you for a superb trilogy!
In 2005 Christian Bale became Batman. Seven years later Christopher Nolan's wonderful depiction of the caped crusader came to an end. For people who have loved the first two movies in the series, The Dark Knight Rises does not disappoint. First of all, you are drawn in from the very beginning with the music thanks to the magnificent Hans Zimmer. Nolan clearly budgeted a lot of money towards the special effects used throughout the film and there are plenty to be amazed by without them feeling forced. The cast chemistry was amazing. Christian Bale for the first time was overpowered by an adversary (Bane) and had to once again find himself. This let Bale have more time to give us a quality portrayal of Bruce Wayne. Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman, and Gary Oldman stuck true to their characters, where newcomer to Gotham, Anne Hathaway, gave a good performance as the cat burglar Selina Kyle. The best performance of the movie, however, came from Joesph Gordon-Levitt. His portrayal of an incorruptible cop got plenty of screen time and blended perfectly with the film. Overall Nolan's vision of Batman is by far the best Batman of all time. The trilogy itself is a contended for best trilogy of all time in any genre. It is hard to complain about this film, but there were two small things I thought could have been improved. I thought Nolan's Bane was a rich, complex character. I understood the need for the face mask, but it was hard as a viewer to understand what he was saying. I felt like he had some amazing lines, but sometimes I simply could not make them out. I also felt he deserved a better death, a more noble death for such a true character. And secondly although Michael Caine's emotional performance was perfect I would have liked to see him a little more and have more award winning dialogue. Overall The Dark Knight Rises is still the best film I have seen in a years. The journey Nolan has been able to take us on shows what everyone wants to see. Someone to rise up and protect those who need protecting. I fully expect Oscar nominations from special effects all the way to movie of the year. If TDKR doesn't win best film of the year I think it is safe to say that no comic book adaption ever will.
Christopher Nolan reinvents Batman in a powerful and much darker way. Batman Begins is a gripping and compelling origin of the hero. The Dark Knight is a lot more serious, realistic, and powerful Batman movie. The Dark Knight Rises is the last of the series. It is ought to be larger and better. It does succeed to be the biggest of the rest of the series. Although, it's not as as superior as The Dark Knight. The Dark Knight Rises is still a fantastic and grand cinematic experience.Every sequel gets bigger and bigger. The threats are getting worse and worse. The Dark Knight Rises is more than just big stuff. There is always suspense that keeps the movie exciting. The best thing about the action is it's not about being pretentiously cool, but it is made to give you anxiety to the fights of Batman between the enemy. Tom Hardy nailed it as Bane. He brings a lot of fear and menace to it. It's different to The Joker but Bane is an intriguing villain.Most of the movie is the anarchy in Gotham and Bruce Wayne's suffering. There isn't much action fighting in those scenes. What matters here is how you can feel the danger of the characters. The chaotic turn of Gotham really looks bleak and gloomy that makes you think everybody is doomed. Compelling and heartbreaking emotions is always there.Much credit goes to Christopher Nolan. Despite of its almost three hour runtime, the film is well fast paced and completely entertaining. His action scenes are totally different to the action scenes of movies these days. He's focused to the thrills than looking cool. Some fistfights can be a little underwhelming, but he's best at the chase scenes. The CGI is obviously good and not excessive.The Dark Knight Rises is a lot more daring than anyone would expect. It's one of those superhero movies that cares more to heroism than just action. The scale is large and it is so explosive. That is the usual formula of all blockbusters, but here, it uses it in a darker and suspenseful way. The Dark Knight Rises is just beyond your expectations. It's also a fitting end of this amazing trilogy. I still think The Dark Knight is the best of the three. That movie is something you can't compare to any other film. Even this and Batman Begins. But hey, The Dark Knight Rises is such an excellent grand experience.
This film was perhaps the best film I've ever seen. I even forked up the extra 40 dollars to see the entire trilogy in IMAX again on opening night. This film was just amazing in every single aspect. The story line was flawless, even leaving 'TDK' in shadows, it was simply blood pumping, leaving you at the edge of your seat every single second. The pacing was perfect for the story, it progressed the plot in such a way for you to be able to see all this writing presented magically. The Legnth was 2 hours 45 minutes, and honestly, I wish it never ended. I wouldn't mind seeing a 4 hour movie. Tom Hardy was able to execute emotion and intimidate the audience using just his eyes and forehead. Christian Bale simply gave the best performance he's ever done to date. Anne Hatheway has gotten a lot of complaints and misjudgments, she was the best Cat Woman to date, BY FAR. Joseph Gordan Levitt was just perfect for his role, and of course Michael Caine, Gary Oldman, and Morgan Freeman brought another great performance, as well as all the other actors. The special effects were breath taking, better than any I've ever witnessed, including Avatar. Hans Zimmer brings another great score for the film, the best work he's done on the entire trilogy. This film will go in different directions then you will expect, and will leave you KNOWING that this is the best film of all. It beats out any film I can think of in all aspects, and I have to say, it is probably my favorite film to date. Please see this in IMAX because it is simply breath taking. I've seen it in a regular theater also, and assure you that the IMAX is worth it. The Dark Knight Rose.


                
There have been a remarkable set of mixed feelings on The Dark Knight Rises. Some people loved it, and strangely enough to myself, some people hated it. I'm going to be honest with you and say that even after the first viewing I wasn't so sure myself about The Dark knight rises. But after repeat viewings and taking in little details from each viewing, I've found the Dark knight rises to actually be a great film that actually grows on you. This unusual quality makes it a film that makes it enjoyable after repeat viewings. No matter what anyone tells you, there's no denying this: Christopher Nolan has made the best Batman trilogy ever. What makes it so great though? You'll hear a lot of people complaining about plot holes or something, when all that should matter is the overall quality of the story. The story of course consists of some very important elements, themes and story arcs of all the main characters. For the first time, Bruce Wayne is the main character and not Batman. His arc with this film is complete and it's glorious. Beyond the obvious metaphor of the pit he is thrown in there is another rather interesting metaphor with the rope and having to climb without it to escape. Did Bruce Wayne EVER really escape that well he fell down all those years ago? What does it mean to escape that hole without the rope? It's a metaphoric birth to something grand, because for the first time in a long time, Bruce Wayne must escape his pit without his bat suit, without all his toys. He must rely only on his own spirit which has been shattered by Bane. That to me is great, comic book stuff that we never see in superhero movies anymore because writers are too obsessed with the whole show our hero in costume aspect of their movies doing nothing but kicking ass. Reminding us Batman as a hero with feet of clay who isn't completely indestructible truly drives up the tension and serves to make the final act incredibly exciting. The buildup is undeniably effective and emotional to the extreme. It's also great to see that this film even gave the villainess Catwoman a complete story arc. The movie portrays a woman who goes from criminal to the antithesis of that, but not in some contrived overnight fashion. Selina Kyle realizes that once she has what she wants, that maybe it isn't what she wanted all along and as a result you can see her remorse, and apparently so could Bruce. It's great to see Catwoman portrayed as a character with great cunning without making her look like a psycho. She is a character with believable dimensions and Anne Hathaway's acting was fantastic. Again, Gary Oldman is amazing as Gordon. He has fallen in a way during this film and is desperately trying to redeem himself for letting Batman take the fall for Harvey Dent's death. Tom Hardy is excellent as Bane. One of the most interesting lines in the film is when somebody in the prison says that Bane wears the mask to keep the pain at bay. Could that be true of Bruce Wayne? Does his mask keep the pain at bay too? Is the same thing true of Catwoman? I tend to think this is very true, regardless of the reason for wearing the mask, it turns the person into somebody else they no longer are. In doing so, the masks they all wear in some respect ward off the pain. But most interesting to consider is the story arc of Blake, because we must consider what is not on screen, the future of his character. What he does in this film, he couldn't do as Robin or Nightwing, but as a man demonstrating his courage and bravery in the face of certain death. He is a worthy successor for Batman's cape and cowl, don't you think? The Dark knight Rises in my view sort of got a raw deal for how it wasn't The Dark Knight. But then again, what film is? In order for Batman to rise, he must first fall<U+0085> and fall hard. This film beautifully captured the superhero spectacle in a way that no franchise ever will for the foreseeable future. It's an incredible achievement and a monument to the sub genre of Superhero film epic.
To stat off I am a Nolan fan-boy so do expect a bit of a bias here - my first impression of TDKR was NOT wow (which was the case with TDK) I mean i loved the movie but it did not have so many things that its predecessor had - no joker, no awesome truck flip or the skyhook scene. no intelligent crosses like when joker sends batman to Harvey dent instead of Rachel. But despite all this, this movie had something else, something which believe lead so many people to not really appreciate it. That was its heart, its a story about Bruce Wayne, story about how he has to keep going, how it shouldn't matter that Rachel is dead or hes past his prime (make no mistake he is an aging man and not a comic character who is stuck in his thirties since over 70 years) He needed to be reminded of his true purpose and bane did just that. It made perfect sense, he learnt of his purpose due to Ra's AL ghul and if there is anyone who can re-iterate that it has to be the league of shadows itself.I think everyone should give this movie another shot, without the nitpicking, I guarantee that you will love it.
Apologies, Dominus, I have done many reviews here but to get this one right took me 5 years and multiple re-watchings.Conclusion? Not merely great, but the "great-est" superhero film of all time. The story is iconic and majestic in scope. The script not merely good, it borders on perfection. The performances are nothing less than stunning.Bale and Oldman could not give a bad performance even if you asked them. Hathaway has never looked this good, her height and frame infusing her Catwoman with a vibe never seen before or since. And the almost-invisible Tom Hardy (one of the greatest actors of our age, BTW) makes Bane as interesting a character, if not moreso, than even Darth Vader himself.So why did this review take me 5 years? To discover the dissonance between the three parts of the trilogy, which is the only flaw, the Achilles Heel of the boxed set.Ordinarily a trilogy should be harmonious and consistent. Look at the original Lord of the Rings as the best example. Each part not only stands on its own but, taken in sequence, the story builds, the characters become clearer, everything works to a conclusion.Like an orchestra reaching a crescendo.Not so here. The whole is weakened by the sum of the parts. Batman Begins is, frankly, sloppy. Great ideas and even great performances are lost in a weak narrative with a unsatisfying conclusion.The Dark Knight has become iconic in its own right but not because of the way it continues the story, but rather because of the amazing one-of-a-kind performance by Ledger.It is only when we get to Part 3 that we achieve perfection. This film is not merely better than than the first two, it may be the best film of its genre, ever.


                
Christopher Nolan has out done himself again, striking not just Batman fans, but fans of the series and movie goers everywhere with his beautifully crafted, last installment of The Dark Knight trilogy, The Dark Knight Rises. The acting has always been well done in the last two, but something about the last one really made me feel the performances were real, quite like the late Heath Ledger's performance as the Joker. The movie ran about two hours and forty-five minutes give or take, but I never wanted it to end. The story progression never seemed to drag on, the movie always kept me on the edge of my seat. This is one that will be an all time favorite of mine, and a true classic.10/10


                
