Don't waste your money, The Dark Knight was terribly awesome, every scene in that film as stand alone is better than this film. It was overcrowded with characters, half of whom don't really add to the story, while taking up valuable screen time of the main characters. It missed Batman, this was essentially a film about Bruce Wayne and his problems. The story isn't just about good versus evil (which worked great in The Dark knight and helps focus the film's plot) but wants to explore all kinds of societies problems such as the stock market, evil bankers ('I have my money under the mattress' ("you evil bankster") and Occupy. Rather then exploring these themes thoroughly it just touches them and then moves on forgetting all about it. Further more, the action is really, really weak! This is a big issue for me since I love action movies, maybe other people will not care as much. But the fighting scenes between Batman and Bane are laughable. Just hitting each other in slow motion, my god, the guy threatens to kill 12 million people but Batman adheres to his code?? It worked great in The Dark Knight, since the Joker was essentially creating chaos, not direct annihilation of a city, but in this film it is totally out of context. That scene where 300 cops run into a fortified position of bad guys armed with AK-47's? OH REALLY?! Where were Batman's gadgets? Not the overblown helicopter thing (my god what an inconspicuous piece of engineering) but the subtle stuff, the smoke, the batclaw, whatever. Just like 007 missing Q, it just doesn't work. They had to repeat some amazing turn with his bike twice in the film just to show something reasonable interesting in the way of action, in Avengers this would have been in the background, once. Blurred. The stadium scene. Mehh, seen it already seventy times in the trailer. Oh.. The film drags on for an amazing 165 minutes! They would have had a better film cutting it with 60 minutes. It would have helped them focus and cut unnecessary scenes (alot you say? Yes!). But the biggest problems with this film is the random stuff that completely sucks: Openingscene: kidnap that doctor? OK. huh whats with the tube and the blood, ehm why do only Bane and that guy hang there after it crashes down when moments before there were like 6 bad guys in the plain on ropes? Huh oh never mind next scene! Why why WHY does Bane hate batman so much? It is insinuated for most of the movie that Batman killed his father, but in the end it shows Bane has no real connection to Batman what so ever? Strange..And that prison/dark pit, in which no sunlight ever shines? ITS LIT UP WITH THE SUN THE ENTIRE FILM! Why do they keep talking on ice where everybody who steps foot on it falls through and dies? Thanks for saving me, lets continue the talk over there where we won't DIE? Yeah let's kill the bad guy, not by batman but a support character, introduce the real villain, and kill her in a car crash 5 minutes later. And damnnnnn the acting in that scene deserves a razzie. Better love story than twilight! Yes Batman, everybody knows you are Bruce Wayne, you can start talking normal, saves you the cough the day after. Bane.. ? Like three people SAY Bane is amazing big etc. But as a viewer, you don't see it, you just don't feel the menace, nothing. Because Bane isn't AT ALL MENACING OR BIG OR SCARY!! His voice, what a failure. Born in the Darkness! .. 140 minutes later, oh no, he wasn't? Or was he? No matter, he's dead. Let's not mention him again in the rest of the film. Robin. Don't get me started. SAVE THE CITY! EXODUS! DRIVE A BUS WITH 15 CHILDREN TO THE BRIDGE AND FAIL IN GETTING THEM ACROSS HAHAHAHAHAHA! Lucius Fox was in this movie?Let's insinuate that Bane's goones are terrible and so committed and 'where does he get these guys?' Oh lets not explain that, lets move on to some surgeon in a prison in a foreign country, whos story we don't CARE ABOUT! AT ALL! PEETIME! Government does not negotiate with terrorists! Next scene, 'they made a deal!' Sigh Etc
That was the exact sentiment I had after watching TDKR. I had been waiting for this movie ever since the first teaser trailer was released. To cut the long and short, I am writing down some first hand reactions I had while watching the movie and the reason I felt that there must be something wrong with me. 1. The great Bane introduction - I failed to see any character development for this character except for towering persona of Mr. Hardy. Well for that matter, it could have been Mr. Dwayne Johnson under the mask. Back to the character, what made Bane, a mercenary, so awe- inspiring that others were ready to die for his words ? Who/what made him an ideologue ? ( especially with the predictable twist at the end ) 2. Our old friend Bruce Wayne - While his limp was rectified by some funky exo-skeleton apparatus, why was his character such a limp all throughout the 3 hours? 1. Letting a girl steal his precious stuff from right in front of his eyes 2. Wallowing over a dead girlfriend 3. Getting cheated by the same gal and getting beaten to pulp by his arch- enemy. 4. Same gal doing the disappearing act before Batman, for him only to manage a cheesy remark " Now I know how it feels". Really Mr. Batman is that all you can come up with ?? 5. Sleeping with you dead arch-enemy's daughter? Woww ..Mr. Nolan might call TDKR having the theme "Pain", I thought it resounded "Loser" better. 3. Butler-Wayne Bro-mance - Everything seen and understood about the importance of Alfred in Mr. Wayne's life. But still I failed to see the entire melodrama of Alfred leaving his master, that too at the opportune moment of Mr. Wayne on the verge of losing everything.4. Everything about Batman has been related to darkness. For me he is a person of the shadows. An ominous dark foreboding demeanor along his incessant internal struggles with his dark demons, everything pointed to a flawed yet enigmatic character that is Batman. I saw the darkness being stolen away from the dark knight. Beats me if I am the only person who saw it 5. The fusion reactor/bomb - Isn't that what it boils down to ? Each time ? 6. Catwoman - In the Matrix movie, in the famous sub-way scene,a program tells Neo about "Karma" and the "purpose of existence". It further added, programs without a purpose were being deleted. Selina a.k.a Catwoman was such a program in the movie. There was no reason, no purpose and no rationale for her existence within the movie, except for being a side kick. 7. To cut it short, one word for some important scenes - the whole autopilot episode on the bat plane - Cheesy, The end of movie twist - Utterly cheesy, reason for Bane's mask - hilarious, the well-prison break scene - cliché,Blake or Gordon - One was definitely redundant, references to the Charles Dickens novel - superfluous, music - jarring and the movie ending - totally disappointing !!!
To everyone who enjoyed the film, congratulations it's always nice to spend a few hours escaping from reality in the theatre.For those of us hoping the creators would build on the previous two films and complete a fine movie trilogy, sadly I left the theatre entirely underwhelmed. The movie was at best a video game with shallow characters and a boring story. At the 2 hour point I heard myself begging for the film to end but it would not.... for another 45 minutes!! How was I rewarded for remaining in my seat for nearly an hour? Batman takes a nuclear weapon out into the Atlantic (after wasting some of the precious last few seconds kissing Anne Hathaway and making Gary Oldman look a bit of a dill) where it explodes. The fact that a cloud of lethal radiation blown by onshore breezes to liquidate the cheering people of Gotham within a day annoyed me but not as much as Batman surviving the detonation!!! I was fine with them planting a headstone and delivering a eulogy but did they need to show him sipping a latte like smug a Goldman Sachs executive retired to the Riviera with their GFC bonus!! The most genuine and believable part of the film was Michael Caines resignation. When he sobbingly explains why he must leave because he can no longer stand by and watch everything he worked for and loves be destroyed in an act of selfish futility..... I couldn't help thinking he made the same speech in Chris Nolan's office! Compared to it's predecessors and the third installments of other film trilogies.... this was a very unsatisfying and poor film.
Whats with all the high ratings... Story was terrible. how can 1000 unarmed cops walk towards the bad guys with guns up an alleyway and not get shot then just start fighting. I fell asleep through this and was dis-appointed with all the hype. Can you trust reviews anymore, I'm not sure.The Dark Knight was very good - i loved it. But this was so bad. Felt tricked at paying to watch this and felt so angry. Batman gets his ass kicked in a fight, then goes away and does a few sit-ups and come back like superman. Batman gets stabbed with a 2inch knife and nearly dies yet he got bullets bouncing of him through the film


                
What the hell is wrong with people these days? Why does every impersonal, cliché, unremarkable movie instantly gets in the top 250? Let alone the top 10? I was rather entertained with the two previous movies, mainly thanks to Liam Nesson and Heath Ledger who are fantastic actors. Overrated movies in my opinion, but good enough movies. But there's nothing to save this movie from Nolan's lack of talent this timeHere are the flaws already present in the previous movie that have not been corrected, or got even worse:-Batman's grunting, worse than ever. Jesus Christ you would think after all the mockery that's been done about it, he would at least try to improve that part a bit, but no it's actually more ridiculous than ever. - The music is omnipresent during the whole movie. It goes basically "tchac boum tchac" for all the movie, including the dialogue scenes. horrible artistic choice. - The action scenes, dull as hell. How can anyone fin this 'spectacular' is beyond me: there's no tension, intensity or drama in all of them. Nolan had too big a budget and decided to blow stuff up just for the hell of it.But there are new flaws as well! - The villain's motivations, which was what made the previous film interesting, are just completely incoherent! I won't say much more not to spoil anything, but believe me you just spend the whole movie asking yourself: why? why do this? - The villain himself. Without spoiling anything, let's just say all his back-story and charisma is destroyed by one silly, silly twist. - The villains' deaths have to be the most underwhelming I've ever seen. - The references about the current economic crisis: awwww look at these evil traders getting pointed a gun at, didn't they totally deserve it? Yawn. - The love interest. Wayne just randomly has sex with a woman he's barely met. Why? no idea.Overall this movie is dull as hell, and while I can see why people would like the first two movies, there really is nothing to save in that one.


                
I for one, seem to be one of the only reviewers who did not see this film in IMAX, probably for the best, for instead of being engulfed in the "Imax experience," I actually got a chance to concentrate on the individual nuances of the movie.First and foremost, the pro's: I must commend the character of Bane, for his physique and menacing intellect do justice to the Bane of the comic realm (Knightfall/Knightsend era). Unfortunately, thats about as nice as I can be with this flick, Anne Hathaway was absolutely ridiculous in her role, I still cannot even begin to fathom how director Christopher Nolan could try to make a "down to earth" style Batman and include such a cheesy character.The imagery in the third installment was incredibly bright considering the dark subject manner. I expect more from Christopher Nolan, for the cinematography in the first two chapters did Batman justice, while this one fell and looked completely bland and boring.The plot holes were many and the movie seemed to drag, almost as if Nolan was trying too hard to out-due his prior installments. A horrid display of an over budget, over zealous mess, that never once even hinted at anything remotely imaginative or new.If you like your movies ridiculously predictable and cheesy than put The Dark Knight Rises on your must see movies, if not, do what I'm going to do, wait for an adaptation of any of the Alan Moore or Frank Miller Batman stories (fingers crossed).


                
After spending the first part of the day rewatching two of my favourites, Batman Begins and then The Dark Knight, we rushed to get comfortable in our seats and watch the 'conclusion' to Christopher Nolan's Batman series. My friends and I had high hopes and formidable confidence that the director would not let us down. Forty odd minutes in I knew something must be wrong. I was not enjoying the film. What was wrong with me? Over an hour passed and I still hadn't swallowed the pill that countless others had. It wasn't me; it was in fact the story. Or questioning lack of. Epic? Maybe in scale of extra's, explosions, soundtrack and length. Einstein's theory of relativity on excellent display here. I really could not wait for it to end. Then it did. For a moment anyway before it pushed up the Return of the King gear and overstayed its encore.Story, that which is so paramount in the first two of Nolan's take on Batman was lost completely in some terrible dialogue and loud explosions. I'm trying hard here not to put any direct spoilers in and ruin it for those yet to see the film, so you will obviously make up your own mind and really be disappointed like myself or see The Emperor's New Clothes.Minor characters from the first two films are either quickly pushed aside or ignored completely. One character in particular, one for the audience to connect with and our moral compass is lost to one half of the film. Greatly missed.Catwoman, beautiful and well enough portrayed by Anne Hathaway with what little story there was to work with, why was she there? The part could have easy been filled by any number of Banes associates be it the brains that pay him to be a thug or the brawlers who worship him.As for Bane, portrayed with such exuberance by Tom Hardy was the high point of the piece. I really enjoyed all his scenes and interactions with Batman. It's hard to find an actor who can convey so much through just with his eyes; Tom Hardy manages it with ease, giving a realistic frightening performance that demands attention.Again, I don't want to put any spoilers in so I'll wrap it up here. If you wanted to see an intelligent, thought provoking story in the ilk of the first two films you will be disappointed. Story and structure are forgotten and replaced with Michael Bay explosions and loud bangs. I have no problem against such films; I just didn't expect to find it here. I was bored and extremely disappointed, for me, there will only be the first two films. This will fall into the abyss with Die Hard 4.0 and Indiana Jones and the Crystal Skull. Oh, and Robocop 3.


                
I sat through 3 hours of this film last night and just could not believe how boring it was, and how it just was not any fun at all. Very little action, lots of brooding and the most boring Batman villain ever. Bane is a third rate Darth Vader, and his voice-over is mixed way too high; plus there is no motivation I could see for what he was doing.My 14 year old daughter was so bored also that she kept asking me when it was going to be over. I personally think this film is an early leader for this year's Razzies. Worst Picture, Worst Director, Worst Screenplay, Worst Acting, and Worst Editing are some of the potential "honors" that immediately come to mind.


                
All right. I've said this before, and I'll say it again. Christopher Nolan is a great director. Few people can put a story on the screen like Nolan does. But the problem is that he's a terrible writer. How many more times does he have to absolutely assassinate a perfectly good story idea or character franchise with his amateurish, ham-handed writing before he and everyone else realizes this? First, he always sets clocks in motion. Really? Is that all you've got? A real writer can create a sense of urgency based on time constraints without introducing an actual clock, especially one that is strapped onto a device that seems to have no other need of a clock than to display its imminent intent to blow everything to kingdom come.Then of course, there's character development, or the lack of it. Batman is conflicted as to whether he should be Batman or not. Bane is conflicted by, oh, let's say puppy love. Catwoman is conflicted by whether or not she really wants to be bad. I mean, I know this whole franchise is based on a comic book, but with a price tag of a quarter of a billion dollars to make, does it have to play like one? Come on, Chris. Hire a writer.Basically, this is a movie that consists of lots of scenes of people either fighting, or walking aggressively toward a fight, with the central characters standing still like a Greek chorus of narrators long enough to tell the story, rather than participate in it, by presenting long, boring diatribes and monologues like a bunch of kids breathlessly setting forth a cowboys and Indians scenario before they run around whooping and shooting, only to repeat, in this case for three tedious, exasperating hours.I love superhero movies when they are able, like all good science fiction, to transcend their admittedly contrived premises by presenting witty and profound issues in clever and unique ways without hammering you over the head or numbing your brain with endless sequences of violence and destruction. Once again, Chris, you have failed in the former by wallowing in the latter.


                
CONTAINS SOME SPOILERS, BUT YOU SHOULD NOT REALLY CARE.I rarely write reviews - but after watching the over-hyped brainwash epically named The dark knight rises - i felt compelled to do so.Beware this movie was dreadful in every single sense possible. Besides, it shattered an image of Christopher Nolan as such an outstanding director for me personally.1. Story This movie is a painful attempt to compress a ridiculously long story into a three hour running time. The basic idea to do so is a surefire way to failure. TDKR consists of a thousand cleverly mixed bits and pieces, which make the plot running, but at what price ? Pathetic plot holes covered with computer effects and glazed in "epic-ness", shallow characters, lack of logic, cliché dialogs (to say the least). 2. Characters Where they came from? Who they are? Their motives? Their feelings? Their beliefs? You see nothing. Only hints. How do they communicate? They exchange clichés and aphorisms. Gets on your nerves after watching half of the movie. Most reviews say that Catwoman was pretty good and believable, well, i just personally, do not stand women kicking ass - it's men prerogative.3. Batman Batman is not a Batman in it's traditional sense. Wayne overcomes eight-year depression in a couple of days and (wow!) he still is in great physical shape - and without any special preparation turns into a commando. He overcomes all the difficulties, out-plays the police, the military, the whole country, beats the bastards, rides the cool battleship - and saves the WORLD!4. Villain & the threat Bane visually was quite impressive, despite the weird voice, yet the context in which he was put completely diminished the power of a character. He safely lives under the city in the sewage, training a giant army ? I mean, one professionally trained police squad could stop him in real life. He walks around as if police snipers do not exist - just imagine him walking out on the stadium field in real life. Next moment you know it - head shot. Well, script writers thought otherwise. A reactor, which could be used as an atomic bomb? Built right under the center of the city? Oh, c'mon - how stupid is that? You can make an epic movie without a pretension for apocalypse. Miranda ? Who the hell is she - she appears a couple of times on screen and in the end turns to be the head of the whole operation. And what happened to the police ? Giant town is guarded by just a bunch (it is said 3000 people, but looks like no more than 50 or 100) of disorganized cops. Military guys looked even more pathetic.5. Emotions Movie tries to manipulate audience to experience certain emotions, but fails with the only exception - it really makes you tense at times. Romantic story between Miranda and Wayne looks more like a cold one-night stand. Sadness and parental love coming from Alfred towards Wayne seem so forced - i persuaded myself to believe it. Robin's background is not entirely explored and doesn't provoke that much empathy as the director probably have expected.6. Music I don't know who's responsibility is that - i believe an extra sound engineer for a movie would do the trick - the never-ending music just drowned out the voice all the time. With all the respect to Hans Zimmer, the accompaniment would suit a medieval battle movie much better.7. The "Epicness" Everything in this movie, starting from the setting and going up to the music is so overly EPIC - it just becomes plain boring after the second hour. Movie tries so hard to exceed all the expectations - it just becomes obvious. I would rate it two out of ten, just for the attempt and the amount of work involved into it's creation. Do not believe the hype!


                
I am not going to give anything away here other then the fact that this is the worst movie of the trilogy. I went into this experience so wanting this to be a great movie. I really did. Needless to say my hopes were burnt to a crisp like the first Wayne Manor.Aside from major plot holes and choices to leave out a lot of back story about main characters who now have new, unexplained idiosyncrasies, The whole story was told without any kind of time-line or rules at all. The rules about physics and the amount of power a human can have and others, just kind of got made up as the story progressed. Furthermore, I saw this at the ArcLight in Hollywood. A place known for it's great sound system and I could barely make out anything that Bain was saying because it sounded like Sean Connery speaking through a sub-woofer.The acting was SOOO bad by Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Anne Hathaway it's almost like they had no idea how bad they sounded or looked and Nolan just decided not to tell then about it. Gordon-Levitt is normally a great actor. I like that kid in pretty much anything he does, but watching him in this movie was torture, bad lines, horrible delivery. I would give anything to watch the movie while sitting next to him just to observe how he reacts to his own acting. I don't blame him, I blame Nolan. If you're going to introduce new lead characters into the story, at least give us a little insight as to where they've been or why they are the way they are.I'll just say that after sitting through the whole movie, I was reluctant but nevertheless satisfied with the more then obvious ending which was explained but did not need to be at all. It made me think about it for about a half an hour before I decided to not like it, whereas up to the very end, I was really angry about how I got duped into sitting through the whole movie up to that point.


                
Reading some of the positive reviews here I honestly feel like I watched completely another movie the other night.The beginning was amazing, but after 20 minutes into a movie, things got cheesy and boring. Lots of close ups, no plot, nothing new... The mask man was interesting for the first 5 minutes and became just plain annoying. Was he supposed to replace the penguin man from the previous batman series? COME ON!!!!!!!!!! No character at all!!!!!!!!!!Cat woman was alright, but nothing special. The connection between her and the batman himself is unbelievable. There was no spark... once again, BORING!I am honestly surprised because I thought it is impossible to ruin batman. I was proved wrong. To summarize, I wish I didn't spend 3 hours watching it.


                
Face it, the only reason anyone is seeing this movie is because the last one was so good. This one is a huge disappointment in comparison. Bane was not the Bane from the comics, which was fine as he was reimagined to fit with the world of this trilogy, except that there was nothing particularly interesting about him. He has no duality, no depth, and no intensity. The plot was paper thin with holes big enough to drive a bat mobile through. Most actions of the bad guys, with some exceptions at the very beginning and very end, made no sense whatsoever except to give time for the good guys to come back and save Gotham from their vague idea of a plan. I kept waiting for Mr Incredible to pop up and make a joke about catching Bane monologing again. The middle act was a pointless return to the first movie where Bruce Wayne picks up yet a couple of more mentors to help him find his way yet again while the bad guys just sit around and wait for him to come back to ruin their plan which they could have finished at any moment after the first act. Catwoman was a bit out of place but was the only character portrayed with any depth and they beat you over the head with it in the repetitive dialog rather than let you observe the character evolve. OK, the new cop was alright as well, but his character growth was a bit forced. Scarecrow has yet another bit part like the second movie for cameo effect. The tech was alright as they give a nice intro to "The Bat" (-copter) but the exact timer on the unstable reactor was rather dumb. The very end was sappy cute, but predictable.Did I forget to mention Batman, fight scenes, and special effects? Well, there wasn't much of any of that, much worth mentioning anyways. Batman makes very few limited appearances as the movie focuses on his alter ego, and the fight scenes were few and lame. The special effects were both good and bad. The good is that they were well done and blended in with the reality of the movie very well. Bad in that there was nothing particularly interesting done. Chase scenes were short and simple, Gotham had little of the outlandishness of the first movie, and the masked characters spent most of their screen time without a mask - except Bane whose character had almost nothing done with the drug dependency.In all fairness, it is really hard to top The Dark Knight, but this doesn't even make a decent follow up. I'm starting to think that the greatness of the second film was all do to Heath Ledger's acting talent and nothing to do Nolan's directing. This movie also directly contradicts the second on in how badly it portrays the people of Gotham as completely selfish and the populous uprising was nothing but criminals, whereas the second movie had Batman's faith in the common man defeat the Joker's appeal to their selfishness, or how the second one had the criminals realizing when things went too far, but this movie made them mindless soldiers, or how the good cops in the second movie struggled with the corruption within the police force where some good cops went thuggish and even bad cops acted out of desperation rather than malice whereas in this movie all cops are so shinny good guys that even the most selfish moron on the force who puts his own career ahead of protecting the people gets hero treatment. The gritty lack of absolutes in any character that made the second movie so noirishly interesting dramatically was largely lost in this final one.


                
The problems with this mess of a movie are endless. Mainly, it's just boring and completely unbelievable...and way too long. There's not nearly enough Batman and, when he is on screen, he mostly gets his ass kicked. Meanwhile the villains are capable of doing everything successfully. As a result, Batman just comes off as tired and lame. The movie's war scenes smack more of Iron Man than Dark Knight. The movie desperately tries to prove how bad-ass Bane is, but he's just...not. Truly, I expected a scene with Bane loading cancer surviving, crippled grandmas into a bus and blowing them up. It was that silly. All the subplots slow things down: I could care less about the backstory of the chick with the accent, Robin (gee, I didn't see that coming two hours before it happened), the corporate stuff, Alfred's blubbering. Dull, dull, dull. Lastly, the sound is amateur. Everything is pushed up front, so it's often difficult to understand dialogue. Just a disorganized mess.


                
Will this add to TDK's legend? Sure, TDK was good but grew to be THE most overrated film of any genre because of the Ledger and Nolan fanboy InterLove. Now, TDKR delivers one of the most unmemorable and downright disappointing sequels ever put to film. Yes, it ranks right down there with Crystal Skull in terms of huge and head scratching let downs.TDK was fine entertainment that may have gotten over-inflated and over-praised with the passage of time. Don't get me started about Batman Begins. The fact is that TDKR is another Batman Begins without the intrigue. Frankly, that makes Nolan's Batman trilogy a dull sandwich when you think about it. TDK is the meat and the first and now especially the third films are nothing but gummy Wonder Bread equivalents. I can't believe how shallow TDKR turned out despite them trying to jam everything in to the film. Unlike TDK, word of mouth will hurt TDKR because this mangled and often dumb film is a mess. A genuinely un-fun mess at that.I know certain Nolan fanboys everywhere are circling the wagons to praise this movie but that in and of itself proves what I'm saying. Fanboys wanted to like it and apparently will look past all of its flaws. Everyone else is saying it's written like a shallow popcorn flick but with dull action sequences. There really is nothing special on display here and it's so much LESS than the second effort. How can a film follow something somewhat good with something this bad? It's not just the high expectations. It really is a bad film all on its own.Yet, thanks to good trailers and a general fondness for TDK, this thing will take in big money early but leave a majority of the audience disappointed to say the least. If the viewer has at least half a brain, it's guaranteed that the actual movie is going to lead to general disappointment especially if you're not already a fan.Overcrowded and cheesy fluff usually fizzles at the box office but TDKR is bulletproof at this point. The real judge of this movie will be general reaction and most are going to correctly label it a disappointment of epic proportions.


                
I wasted $15 because of the hype. IMDb users rate this a 9? Well, I did like the motorcycle. The rest of the CG was boring.The plot? I could complain that the villain Bane sounded like Darth Vader and I couldn't understand 50% of what he said. Same thing for Batman's 'disguised' voice. With loud music accompanying all the dialog, It was like listening to a French flick without subtitles, but that didn't really matter because it all boiled down to some bad guys whose presence in Gotham's sewers I don't understand, vs some good guys who had trouble getting along with each other.Shoot, punch, etc. All ordinary and nothing you haven't seen countless times. It dragged on so long, trying to give personality to action figures, that I started to concentrate on the absurdity of all the separate things going on, as each scene seems impossibly illogical and ridiculous if you stop and think about what is happening.Darn, that 2 movies in a row I should not have paid to see. The other was TED.
This is not so much a comment as it is a letter to the Nolan brothers for whom I will choose to keep respecting albeit them having stolen almost 3 hours of my life and replaced them with over sized crap.I was incredibly motivated to watch Batman Begins (although I was not a fan of the "original" Batman movies) simply due to the fact that Nolan and Bale had grabbed hold of the project. I was not disappointed. Then the Dark Knight came up, and I was absolutely blown away. I decided then to keep some distance from TDKR so as to prevent it disappointing me, and now.. I just wish I had erased from my mind that this movie even existed.Mr. Nolan, I want my money back. The movie was an unbelievable shower of trailers at a nauseating speed and absolutely no regard for storytelling. The interpretations might be flawless but are as well a victim of this absolute rubbish screenplay which left me gasping for air after repeatedly having attempted to choke in my own vomit.Dear sir Mr. Nolan, this is misbehaving.


                
I don't understand how this movie can be liked. It is a hodgepodge of relatively mediocre special effects, standard film cliché, sub-par acting, with an awkward and predictable plot. The only unpredictable part of the film is it's piecemeal nature: almost every character begins as one standard Hollywood persona and without motive changes to another equally cliché person at least once during the film. One can never know what is going to happen next since the sequence of events is only a random permutation of rote super-hero movie themes and events. The only certainty is that the next event in the chain will be as unimaginative and overused as the last. The sound quality is terrible (it is impossible to understand the villain or Batman at several points) and the continuity of the film is awkward as the first hour or so covers plot over some weeks and the last hour covers the events over some months without indication. The finale of the film is most disappointing of as the film descends in the realm of utter cliché, even corniness. The slightly surprising twist which is thrown in is once again completely non-sequitur and seemed to be thrown in as a cheap afterthought to give an illusion of depth to the movie. Of course what is one to expect when the villains are nothing but inexplicable anarchists with unclear motives other than a random desire to blow up the world. They are completely unrealistic as characters, as are the heroes. Strong points of the film include Bane's voice (which though undecipherable is powerfully creepy), and a tastefully low use of special effects. This film is not a special effects orgy; the viewer is unfortunately confined to derive enjoyment from the plot.


                
I had very low expectations for this film before watching it and sadly this rubbish even failed to meet those.An appalling script completely lacking in a moral compass, subtext (imagine what an intelligent screen writer would have made of all of these orphans?) or clear motivations for the cartoon characters involved at the centre of the drama. As a result there was no tension and I didn't care if everyone was blown up at the end or not. The editing was appalling with one monochrome setting shifting to another in a very flat and monotonous rhythm. The action sequences were really dull. When the cops ran at the baddies the fight scene was as intense as two old ladies squabbling over a cardigan in the January sales! The road chase sequence was like a choreographed run through in a "how to do a stunt" video.The soundtrack music was a constant background burble that never actually developed into a theme and was as one dimensional as everything else in the film. Hans Zimmer's score was no match for the epic sweep of Danny Elfman's music in the Tim Burton Batman movies. The acting was disinterested and good actors such as Ben Mendelsohn and Marion Cotillard were wasted in one dimensional stereotypical roles. Ms Hathaway may have been surprisingly good at belting out a song in "Les Mis" but here she is the least sexy Cat Woman ever. To be fair to her that is hardly surprising from a Director as disinterested in sex appeal and human chemistry as Mr Nolan ( this is the guy who even made Scarlett Johansson dressed in corsets in "The Prestige" seem a little ordinary!!). What should have been highly charged emotional moments such as Alfred leaving Bruce or the public realisation of the sacrifice that Batman had made in the Harvey Dent affair were thrown away.The narrative was muddled, full of holes and lacking in tension. Just how did Bruce Wayne recover from a broken back, climb out of the pit and get back to Gotham on foot, with no resources at his disposal, from what I assume was somewhere like China in about 3 days? How did he get back into a shut down Gotham? As for the twist regarding who was Ra's Al Ghul's offspring – well it obviously couldn't have been Bane because we were told his disfigurement and subsequent medical treatment took a much longer timescale well beyond the escape of that character. So that twist was telegraphed and in that situation when dealing with a script as mechanical as this one you always look to the least obvious character so to see Ms Cotilard declared as the offspring was as easy to anticipate as the fact that she wasn't going to finish Batman off when she had the chance. All as boring and predictable as the supposed poignant finale at the restaurant in Florence which you just knew would be the outcome. In Hollywood films the pay off always has to be signposted!Is this really the best we can expect for hundreds of $millions? A lame 140 minutes of nonsense followed by a final 20 minutes reliant on the same old tired device of a clock ticking down on the side of a bomb? Really??Intellectually Mr Nolan has nothing to offer the intelligent cinema goer (IMDb describes him as being "celebral" – yes sure, to Homer Simpson maybe??!! ), emotionally he is clearly pitching his work at the level of a 14 year old school boy who's best friend is his X box and clearly on the basis of this dull waste of time and money he doesn't even have anything interesting to offer so far as technical film making is concerned. That this rubbish achieves 8.5 on IMDb is a perfect metaphor for the mindless consumerism and rampant stupidification of the western world. Honestly if this does it for you then you really need to grow up and read a few non-fiction books about politics, economics or philosophy<U+0085><U+0085><U+0085>.. and perhaps even get yourself a real-life girlfriend.
This review will have spoilers.First off I loved the first two movies of the series. I like the second movie better but the first was also a welcomed gem. Now we're talking about the 3rd movie here and it is a stinker. I almost didn't believe that Nolan directed it and I wondered what the heck happened to Nolan?Why would he allow such an awful movie and here is the reason he did:According to an interview with David Goyer (an awesome writer who worked on this project) him and Nolan got "stuck" halfway through the movie with plot devices and concepts because so many elements were involved in the movie. So Nolan told him to take 2 weeks off to clear his head. In those two weeks Goyer came up with the idea and story for "Man of Steel", the Superman movie coming out soon. Goyer showed Nolan the idea and Nolan loved it. After that Nolan and Goyer pretty much put The Dark Knight Rises on autopilot and worked on Superman because they knew The Dark Knight Rises it would be a money maker regardless of the piece of trash it ended up being.Now the movie itself is trash but Nolan fan boys are being fan boys and eating it up for some reason. I can picture Nolan and Goyer laughing their butts off about that fact. So basically all positive reviews of Dark Knight Rises come from Nolan fan boys or from critics/media people that want to work with Nolan in the future. The rest of us however are not afraid to call this movie what it is, which is an abomination.So finally my review:The reason I gave this film 2 stars is because the last 15 minutes of the movie was good...or had good enough action and because the acting in the movie was solid. It is a shame that such good acting was wasted on this movie. What is wrong with the movie you ask? Almost everything; the plot is easy to understand but so stuffed with details upon of details that are just there to cover plot-holes that are almost unbearable and translate in to a movie that is mostly talking. Talking about plot devices that are only there to push the movie along. Plot devices need to be in a movie for character growth or major themes or something other than pushing the movie along. So basically this movie was just a bunch of outstanding actors standing around talking about stuff. Talking about stuff you frankly wouldn't give a penny about if it wasn't for just movie the plot along. MAYBE if it was a 8 hour movie then this could have been better because it would give people the chance to care about the characters, plot, themes and etc. I hope Nolan learns from this mistake because it KILLED this movie. That is why I am so upset with the fact that people try to defend this movie! Please don't do that! Nolan has to learn from his mistakes.Lets talk about Bane. Bane played by that guy from Inception (he is also playing Mad Max in the upcoming remake....oh boy..), Bane was the guy that broke Batman's back into comics and you would expect him to be a badass in the movie but that was not the case. I felt like I could have kicked his ass (in fact I really wanted to about 40 minutes into the movie.) He wasn't believable as a badass. He didn't look the part and (maybe because of the mask?) he didn't act the part. Another thing about Bane is that everyone seemed to know who he was before he even set foot in the city. I am not just talking about the FBI; I mean literally everyone one! The cops, Alfred, school kids, random old people..omg I hate this movie so much..Lets talk about all the mistakes... or lets not because this review is already long. Let us just say there were so many basic mistakes like magical knee braces, easy to fix protruding spinal discs, magical ice and so many others. The problem was that this movie was frankly so BORING that you notice every single mistake.Lets talk about Alfred. He left Bruce. Umm...yeah... Wait, wait.. lets examine this. Basically they needed a way to get rid of him while Batman was taken by Bane (revenge of the plot device!)Yeah this movie sucked. I could write a book about all the problems with this movie.By the way this movie sucked. If you were lucky enough not to have seen it then wait for it to come out on TNT. Don't even watch it on HBO because you'll need the commercials. I am not kidding I wish I had the commercials during this piece of..
this movie was a big mistake. in so many ways. where was batman ? i almost didn't see him except for a very few times during the long almost 3 hours. and finally when you see him , he got beaten up , thrown away , broke in half , got tired , felt down, lost his voice, loose during fighting, got thrown in some jail , got confused , about crying when he was down. locked up , deceived, etc etc etc. nice nice nice ... NOT.the villain had an irritating voice of a very old and wise university professor , and even when he was standing away 50 feet, it sounded like he was talking right in your ear. is that genius or what ? i say bad job mister sound guy... he looked kind of stupid with that thing on his mouth, but i guess the movie makers had to come up with something original. it also seems this story had nothing to do with the original batman except for his cape , in that case they would have better came up with a new character . and leave batman for the fans. it is like blending seriously spider man or iron man in a scary movie script. a few might appreciate the humor, but it is kind of inappropriate.lets be honest , there were a few good parts interesting to see as well , but didn't save the crap . still waisted my time. i would not have miss anything by not seeing this movie. . and next time make sure batman fans are involved in the production.not just some big shot producer who doesn't care about whatever , just for the bucks. i say it didn't work out , despite the enormous financial success. it was the hype that did it , and batman's good name. i am not specific a batman fan , i just wanted to see a good movie. oh by the way , the end was kind of cheap as well. i started to dislike everything in this movie. 2 stars because i didn't turn it off halfway...(hoping for better).


                
Three questions I have to ask myself:Why? Why do I put myself through such torture as to watch this kind of feeble mediocrity. A couple of years ago I posted a comment on The Dark Knight, and if memory serves me right I grudgingly said it was just about OK. Even then I was being charitable, but hey ho. With this one however I only have myself to blame. I knew it would be pointless, but still I went. Which adjective to choose? I want to say "portentous" but that won't do. Describing something or someone as portentous, however negatively meant, usually means that the target at least has something, some behaviour, some expression, to be portentous about. To describe a nullity like this movie as "portentous', well you might just as well describe strawberry jelly in the same way. I could level criticism at any character, at any plot point, but why bother. Suffice it to ask how could something with so much sound, fury and action, be so glacially slow? When Batman was in that silly prison, only good manners prevented me from leaping out of my seat and crying "for God's sake climb up the damn chimney you miserable ***** !"Second question; What? What do people actually see in this, what are they taking out of it. The movie has garnered a lot of praise and a lot of criticism (not helped by the terrible events in Colorado), but everyone regardless of their stance, seems to take it seriously. Why? What are they seeing that I am so patently not? It cannot be plot, it cannot be acting, it can't really be the action and effects. So, what?Third question; When? When will I ever see another of these ludicrous comic book movies that are being churned out, again? I can answer that one. Never! (at least I hope so!)One last thought; compared to this "trilogy" the Tim Burton Batman was a masterpiece; good plot, well structured, well acted (the two Jacks and Keaton actually knew what they were doing) leavened with humour and real wit, something this latest movie could sorely do with.The only conclusion I can come to about "The Dark Knight Rises" is that in this dumbed down age it offers a offers a totally spurious and bogus level of ersatz profundity and intellectualism that the audience, who are used to no better, lap up and think is the real thing. But actual entertainment (which movies like this are meant to deliver)? No way.
I did not see this movie in films so when I saw it later on DVD I was hyped to no end to finally be able to watch it. Man was I disappointed. I will keep spoilers to a minimum for anyone who still wants to watch it but I will say the fighting scenes are just awkward punches even though Batman and Bane both know martial arts. Bruce doesn't even dress up as Batman until 45 minutes into the movie. There are so many plot holes you could make a drinking game out of it and some people already have. Also, Banes voice is a joke. I just want to laugh at it all day. That is why this deserves a 2/10 star rating in my opinion. If you are a fan of pointless,awkward fighting scenes then this is your movie.
It's no secret I'm dismissive of Nolans Batman. To me, he is to realistic and, taken out of context (or costume) he is no superhero-in essence, they are superhero films by name only. Batman Begins was dull, but TDK was a solid film that was a fine addition to the batman film universe. So how does this film hold up?To be honest, it's pretty crapTo cut to the chase, lets talk about our cast and characters. Christen Bale is boring in this film. Bruce Wayne isn't compelling in the way Tony Stark or Peter Parker are. I say this because in this film, Batman is in it for 33 minutes. It's mostly Bale being quite wooden, which is shame as I remember him in American Psycho being interesting. I can't say much about his batman other then what's been said all ready-yes, I can't understand that voice. His costume again looks like greens goblins with spiderman-only the expression coming from bale is less expressive.Bane was bad. Gone is the superhuman powered by chemicals with a distinctive mask, replaced with our buffed up Joker wannabe-AKA "a villain who has something to say about our society." He's not engaging as he does long gloats like he's the new Josef Stalin-lame. The voice Tom Hardy does sounds like a dodgy crossover between Sean Connery, Jim Carrey from the Grinch and sheogorath. It's also incredibly hard to understand, and scenes with Bane speaking to batman are very difficult to understand because of the voices. I don't get how comic book fans criticise the Batman and robin bane yet praise this one. Sure that one was stupid but he at least had the characters backstory and basic appearance. At he end with a big plot twist, his motivations suddenly make no sense (he protects a young Talia but lets thousands of kids presumably parent less or dead in his takeover of the city?)he comes across as a mere henchman and is shot by catwomen. At worst batmans no gun rule is illogical, but if he can use his brains to defeat the bad guy, its OK. If batman had shot bane at the beginning of the whole thing he might not have lost his money, saved lots of lives, not be beaten to a pulp and not have to live in hiding. Hes pretty crap and not a faithful adaptation at all. The costume designers got a modern day catwomen right, and Anne Hathaway did a fine job in the role. However I don't know if shes a villain, antihero, hero? At least we knew she was a villain in Batman Returns and a (very VERY lame) hero in Catwomen. I blame Nolans writing more than anything else though. Oh, and Hathaway is damn fine in this. Lots of new characters are here along with the old. I swear Joseph Gordon Levitts character was written in just because they hired the guy- and set up a squeal to the "final chapter" of this series. Also how the hell did he know who batman is? Just because? Again, more bad script writing. Gary Oldman bring presence but hes not got much meat to chew into-and his characters decision to send all cops into the sewer is one of the worst pieces of script writing ever. Morgan Freeman and Micheal Caine are wasted here and and could've been edited out of the movie. Marion Cotillard is bland and her character makes no sense-she is introduced as a villain and dies 10 minutes later. Payoff, who needs that?The story is so bad-full of clichés, lazy writing and making references to modern day conflicts and terrorist to make it look clever. After the realistic stylings of TDK this throws any realism out of the window. If a terrorist like Bane was under the sewer, than shouldn't Gordon at least notify the government? If Bin laden was seen hiding in New York the Americans would have sent special forces or something. Also I highly doubt that the plane opening would happen-the CIA have radars that could detect a plane that big and would have identified the prisoners by removing the bags before going into the air. Batmans back can't repair itself like that in real life, and he would've been incinerated by the bomb. Also Gotham would have been hit by the radioactive fallout-thanks for "saving" the day. The script is full of nitpicks that all add up to plot holes. The realism is abandoned for illogical plot convenience- at least Iron Man 3, the least realistic in its series of films, put in a comic book world to explain certain plot elements. Removing banes super strength to make him more realistic but having huge gaps in realism mean that the excuse "its a comic book movie" redundant. The film is boring with horrible pacing problems, having stupid or underdeveloped characters and clunky dialogue that only serves as exposition means this is Nolans worst script ever. The action is boring and half hearted, with clumsy fight scenes littered throughout.Gotham isn't the dark, slightly warped city of the comics any more but the a bland version of new york-again, the modern world aspect of these films means it's not memorable in the way Tim Burtons batman films were. The music is pretty bad, just being loud strings in the background-no tune to hum to along with no tension or emotion.Is this film worse that Batman and Robin? No. Its certainly bloated and boring, but not the cinematic train wreck the B&R is. However while batman & robin can be entertaining because it's bad (evident in it's camp tone) this is a chore to sit through. Its boring, has a stupid script and having very little of it's protagonist in this final instalment, it's a horrible sequel to TDK ,one of the worst entries in batman media and a dull and plain awful "cinematic" experience altogether.
I didn't have too high expectations for this 3rd installment. I knew it can't be better than the Dark Knight. But I couldn't believe how bad it was. So many terrible plot issues and stupidity throughout the movie.1. Bane sucks as villain, no real character development (and anything you thought you knew about him turns out to be about Talia anyway in the end). Just a thug with a mask and big voice. No explanation of how he recruits his mercenaries and why they would die for him.2. All cops going into the sewers because that is such a great idea. 3. Batman's stupid helicopter thingy. Too big and seemingly slow, but easily can evade missiles and of course no one would notice it sitting on a building roof for months.4. The US Army will just sit around on their a$$es not for days, but for months -- because Bane said so. Oh we don't negotiate with terrorists (but we have a "deal").5. The joke well/prison where there is supposed to be no light, but actually sunlight streaming through to help with the filming all the time. And btw, there is no lack of food or healers down there. No siree. Plus there is a nice coiled rope left up top just to help rest of the prisoners escape in case someone got out. How convenient.6. Bruce sleeping with Talia. I guess that's OK.7. And laughable tactics of the police in the "war" -- just walking up to the armed mercenaries to engage in hand-to-hand combat.8. Plus many more I won't list here because you will be so bored if you end up watching the movie, so you can have something to do. What I don't understand are these rave reviews and 8.7 rating on IMDb as of this writing. I really have to wonder if these are fake/paid reviews designed to lure more people into buying/renting the DVD. An entirely avoidable movie -- you will not miss anything (and in fact will save yourself 3 hrs of your life).
