The Dark Knight Rises was a perfect sequel to a masterpiece. Christopher Nolan took a different direction and focused more on Bruce Wayne/Batman. This movie is filled with lots of emotions. It has such great characters and of course the dialogs is so good. The performances are incredible. It was my most anticipated movie of the century. The more I watch it, The more epic it gets. Personally, I think The Dark Knight Trilogy is the greatest Trilogy of all time and this movie gives the greatest ending of all time in the movie history. I remember seeing it thrice and the more I watched It the more respect it earns. Thank you Christopher Nolan, You Sir Are A Master.


                
The Dark Knight Rises (2012) Film Review Cast: Christian Bale, Tom Hardy, Anne Hathaway, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, Gary Oldman, Marion Cotillard, Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman, and Liam Neeson. Director: Christopher Nolan Synopsis: Christian Bale stars as the classic superhero Batman and his billionaire alter-ego, Bruce Wayne. In the last installment of Christopher Nolan's Batman films, Bruce Wayne no longer feels that the City of Gotham needs a hero and goes into hiding. However, when a new villain, Bane, played by Tom Hardy, threatens Gotham City, Wayne decides to pick up his mask again and come to the rescue of the city. Review: Christopher Nolan introduces the final, thrilling chapter in his Batman series, and it certainly is another big adrenaline-filled, comic- inspired movie, which feels right on the big screen. As all sorts of familiar faces keep us grounded and the audience is introduced to a few new characters as well. When crisis threatens Gotham City, Bruce Wayne jumps back into the Batmobile to fight crime. Batman is joined on his quest by a young and eager cop (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), an elusive cat burglar (Anne Hathaway), and the ultimate violent masked villain (Tom Hardy). This film served as great entertainment with its colorful cast and unexpected plot twists. Nolan also used some actors that had either appeared in previous Batman films or in his other major hit, Inception. All of them were shown in their respective roles: a massive Tom Hardy was almost unrecognizable in his Bane costume, while Joseph Gordon- Levitt and Marion Cotillard were both great as Robin and Talia드nd obviously comfortable with the directing style and the overall dramatic tone, similar to that of Inception. The only actor that seemed out of place was Anne Hathaway as Selina Kyle. Typically, Anne Hathaway has been cast as a sort of girl next door, so it came as a shock to watch her steal and fight her way through the City of Gotham. After a few scenes, however, it becomes evident that the casting decision was a good one, as Hathaway portrayed a darker Catwoman role very well. This is a long film, in traditional Nolan's style, clocking in at over 160 minutes. There were a few times when the movie felt drawn out, but the dramatic action scenes and impressive dialogue really held the audience's attention and kept them on the edge of their seats. However, the timeline tended to be a bit confusing at times. Sometimes, throughout the movie, it was hard to tell how long it had been since the last time a given character had been on screen. Left with no knowledge of passing time (days, months, years even) was really the only shortcoming in this film. Despite the minor flaws in this film, The Dark Knight Rises is exciting, creative, and dark드nd certainly well worth a few hours of your time.
Cast: Christian Bale, Tom Hardy, Anne Hathaway, and Joseph Gordon-Levitt Director: Christopher Nolan Synopsis: Christian Bale stars as both the classic caped crusader and his billionaire alter-ego, Bruce Wayne. In this third installment of Christopher Nolan's Batman films, Bruce Wayne no longer feels that the City of Gotham needs a hero and goes on a secluded hiatus. However, when a new villain, Bane (Tom Hardy), threatens Gotham City, Wayne dons his cape and mask once more.Review: Christopher Nolan brings yet another adrenaline-filled, comic-inspired movie to the big screen. We see all sorts of familiar faces this time around, but the audience is introduced to a few new characters as well.When crisis threatens Gotham City, Bruce Wayne jumps back into the Batmobile to fight crime. Batman is joined on his quest by an eager orphaned cop (Joseph Gordon-Levitt), a seductive cat burglar (Anne Hathaway), and a violent masked villain (Tom Hardy).This film served as great entertainment with its colorful cast and numerous plot twists. Nolan used actors that had either appeared in previous Batman films or in his blockbuster hit Inception, and all of them shone in their respective roles: Tom Hardy was almost unrecognizable in his Bane costume, while Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Marion Cotillard were both excellent드nd obviously comfortable with Nolan's directing style and the film's dramatic tone.The one actor that gave this reviewer pause was Anne Hathaway as Selina Kyle. She has historically been typecast as the girl next door, so it was a shock to watch her steal and fight her way through the City of Gotham. After a few scenes, however, we were convinced that the casting decisions was a good one, as Hathaway portrayed the darker Catwoman role brilliantly.True to Nolan's style, at 164 minutes, this film is fairly long. There were a few times when the movie felt a bit drawn out, but the gorgeous action scenes and impressive dialogue really held the audience's attention and kept them on the edge of their seats. However, the timeline was a bit unclear at times. For a number of scenes, it was hard to tell whether it had been days or months or years that had passed since the last time a given character had been on screen.Despite the films minor shortcomings, The Dark Knight Rises is exciting, creative, and dark드nd well worth a few hours of your time.
After the near perfect Batman Begins and The Dark Knight the third and final part of Nolans epic Batman trilogy was always going to be tricky. Traditionally part three of a trilogy is the weakest link, godfather 3,matrix revolutions, return of the jedi all arguably those respective series low points. What Nolan managed to do was provide a satisfying finale that not only wrapped up the themes and arcs that began in Begins it also managed to add more to his Dark Knight mythos. Drawing from popular story arcs such as Knightfall (where Bane breaks Batman both physically and mentally), No Mans Land (which saw Gotham cut of from the world, run by the cities most dangerous criminals while Batman and the police try to take back the city), of course The Dark Knight Returns (an older Bruce Wayne putting on the cape and cowl to battle a new, younger nemesis). Not only story arc points but overall themes covered in those and other stories, a major one the idea of anyone can be Batman as he is a symbol, a big theme of Grant Morrisons post Batman RIP arc known as Batman Reborn where Dick Grayson aka the first Robin became Batman after Bruce was believed to have died. Nolan managed to combine the various elements from these arcs and their themes to create a compelling, and enjoyable movie enhanced by not only great direction but fantastic performances. Anne Hathaway, Tom Hardy, Gary Oldman, Joseph Godon Levitt, Michael Caine, Morgan Freeman and Marion Cotillard were all great in their roles, Hathaway and Hardy especially as the conflicted thief Selina Kyle and menacing yet intelligent villain Bane respectively. The real stand out performance here though was Christian Bale as Batman/Bruce Wayne. Bales performance has been the strong back bone of this trilogy, highlighted in its third and final chapter. The action was great, the liberal use of CGI (another series trademark) was refreshing from the usual action/comic book fare. The movie was well told, well directed, well acted and served as a perfect final chapter to not only the best comic series made, but one of cinemas best trilogies.
I'm sure at this point everything has been written about Nolan's 3rd installment to this trilogy. So, I am just going to add this, I had two major problems with this movie: (1) The dialog audio was periodically buried in the soundtrack. There were many times I had no idea what was being said. I have this on Bluray and had to back it up multiple times, and still some things were impossible for me to understand. Along with this was Bane's audio which was even more difficult for me to make out. I realize it fashionable to emphasize/hype-up the audio for the rock-concert effect. But there was so much bottom-end EQ-boost it made for much of his dialog unintelligible.*Spoiler-alert* (2) Four times in the last 30 minutes someone is on the brink of being killed ( or at least seriously hurt) only to be rescued. Its not always necessary to write in this kind of fractional desperation, and these actions became obvious and annoying to me. Other than these 2 items, I loved the movie and was a fitting end to Nolan's brilliant and masterful vision of this character.
Seven years of appreciation, seven years of hindsight. In 2005, Batman Begins was a critical, creative and financial success. It remains a thrilling introduction to Nolan's brave new Gotham. In 2008, The Dark Knight arrived to thunderous applause, smashed records, earned more than a billion at the box office, and mounted an equally impressive run on home video. It still stands as one of the best comic book movies of all time; a near-perfect culmination of everything the genre has fought so long to achieve. Then came this past summer and the release of The Dark Knight Rises. Could it escape the dreaded trilogy capper curse? Could it surpass The Dark Knight? Would it deliver a satisfying conclusion to Nolan's Batman saga? It's been eight years since Harvey Dent plummeted to his death. Eight years since Batman took the real fall and disappeared from the public eye. Eight years since Gotham City police commissioner James Gordon (Gary Oldman) agreed to allow the city to mourn a villain and forsake its hero. Bruce Wayne (Christian Bale) is a recluse, his butler and friend Alfred (Michael Caine) is his only contact with the outside world, and his father's company is safely in the hands of trusted ally in arms, Lucius Fox (Morgan Freeman). But when a new evil comes to Gotham with plans to level the city -- a terrorist mastermind and former member of the League of Shadows known only as Bane (Tom Hardy) -- Wayne decides it's time for Batman to return. To stop Bane, Batman first elicits the help of cat burglar Selina Kyle (Anne Hathaway), beat cop-turned- detective John Blake (Joseph Gordon-Levitt) and Wayne Enterprises board member Miranda Tate (Marion Cotillard). Ultimately, though, Wayne has to face his greatest fears if he hopes to pry Gotham from Bane's steel grip. Even though The Dark Knight Rises was more divisive than many anticipated -- it is, after all, a vastly different film than mass audiences were expecting -- those who returned to the theater more than once hopefully discovered a more masterfully crafted tale than they may have caught the first time around. Nolan and younger brother/co-screenwriter Jonathan Nolan skip the sort of traditional three-act structure that might lighten their load and divide the film into three grand Acts, each of epic proportion.(Beware. Mild spoilers lurk ahead.) Act I: Bane emerges, Batman is broken and Gotham is left unprotected. Act II: Bruce is locked away, Bane makes his move and Gotham is held hostage. Act III: the Dark Knight returns, Bane tightens his grip and Gotham hangs in the balance. Months pass. Seasons change. Power shifts hands. Forces collide. And the game changes forever. It's almost too much for one movie to encompass. And yet there's just enough time to pull it off. No scene is wasted, no shot is squandered, no moment is tangential. Every piece moves at Nolan's command, nothing slips by the director's watchful eye and every theme, arc and obstacle established in Batman Begins and The Dark Knight is brought full circle. My first viewing was thrilling but bewildering. The initially jarring breaks from one act to the next knocked me off balance, and the sudden lurch into "No Man's Land" territory only exacerbated matters. Wayne's early sluggishness, wounded and ineffectiveness gave me pause as well, Alfred's exile from much of the story baffled me, and the film seemed to lack the strong but steady momentum and ragged-edge inventiveness of its predecessors. It was still an incredible experience, made even more incredible in IMAX, but it seemed to lack the dexterity of Begins and the will, fortitude and raw power of The Dark Knight. But oh what a difference a second viewing can make. Once-jarring breaks allowed previously unforeseen heroes to fill the void left in Batman's absence. Wayne's resignation and fall only enrich everything that follows. Alfred's absence strips the Dark Knight of his greatest ally and leaves him vulnerable to the betrayals to come. The film's ultimate reveal traces back through all three films and unites them more than any other element. And the momentum and inventiveness I craved were out in full force, albeit so radical in comic book nature that I nearly failed to notice the intricacies of Nolan's master plan.Over-analyze and you'll surely uncover plot holes. Resist investing and you'll see little more than a cumbersome actioner. But lean forward, dig in and open yourself to the delights of Nolan's trilogy prestige and you'll come away with few complaints. The action is bigger, bolder and more electrifying than before, the superheroics are grounded but gripping, those wonderful toys are more wonderful than ever, the scope and scale of the story is breathtaking, and the performances are some of the series' most rewarding. Bale drags Bruce and Batman to hell and back, Cotillard is a sly enigma, Caine's work is heart wrenching, Oldman walks a fine line between guardian and charlatan, and Freeman gives it his all. It's Hathaway, Hardy and Gordon- Levitt that steal the show, though, and The Dark Knight Rises is all the more absorbing for it. Hathaway manages to summon every iconic Catwoman from page and screen and create an alluring antihero all her own. Hardy is a presence to be reckoned with, a frighteningly charismatic terrorist and something far more intimidating and intriguing than the brainless bruiser his Bane could have been. And Gordon-Levitt strides confidently into the fray -- the vigilant heart and soul of the third film -- coolly crafting a very human hero struggling to survive a larger than life clash of the titans.The Dark Knight Rises isn't a perfect film, nor does it leave as significant mark on the genre as The Dark Knight. But it comes close, and makes up the difference in ambition, nerve and sheer scale. What will the next Batman project look like? It's safe to say, though, that whatever it is will have an exceedingly difficult time standing shoulder to shoulder with Nolan's trilogy.
Once more and for the final time Christopher Nolan manages to pull it off as we can add another well told story in the Dark Knight Rises.Bruce Wayne(Christian Bale) has left the vigilantly which is Batman behind him and is on the verge of bankruptcy. Meanwhile a new criminal is arising called Bane (Tom Hardy) who's plot will threaten he safety of Gotham. Batman will be forced to come out of hiding and will need the help of a cat burglar but things become more complicated when there is another plotter behind the evil plan. The pacing is slightly off for the first 45 minutes and a couple of plot holes crept in but it did not effect the story overall. Tom Hardy steals the show and the fact that you can barely see his face did not knock the effectiveness of his chilling presence when ever in a scene which just boasts his ability as a actor. It would be a crime to forget Anne Hathaway who provided the key role as Selina Kyle.With some great camera work and fairly decent fight routines between Bale and Hardy the final installment is a overwhelming success.
The plot is very good and unpredictable, the story is amazing just like The Dark Knight. Nolan did a great job doing this movie with a very huge expectations from the movie critics following the huge success from the earlier sequel, The Dark Knight in 2008. The Catwoman role was bigger than I thought it would be, she was an enemy but then became Batman's partner Tom Hardy's Bane look terrific and menacing with his control-freak personality and a bit of Joker's agent-of-chaos. Joseph Gordon-Levitt's role is also bigger than it looks like from the trailer, from a young cops to be the new Batman It's very satisfying how Nolan showed us that "Batman Always Win" and the fact that Bruce Wayne live made my day Overall a very great movie
This is a great movie in line with the last two.Great performance by Gary Oldman. I think the biggest role was from Tom Hardy, shame he wasn't able to show his face for much of the movie.The only fault with it is Bane's super-loud voice, it makes no sense to have that kind of sound in an open space it sounds like it was speaking from a sound booth.It even made me wonder if the voice was from Patrick Stuart. Cat woman's ears were very cool as did the bike used by Batman and Catwoman.Besides that it was great.
An epic end to an epic series. This movie had everything, action, emotion ,every single thing. If Batman would have died, then it would have been a very sad ending.Everybody was so delighted, literally cheering when they saw him alive. The acting of everyone, was just outstanding. This is the best cast there ever could be. Joker was a great villain. But so is Bane. Some would say Joker is better, in my opinion its a tie. Batman is the best superhero there ever could be. This trilogy just seams so real and possible even though its just fiction. Thanks Christopher Nolan for 3 outstanding movies. There were no flaws in the movie. To produce such a great film after The Dark Knight, its just marvelous.
-Minor Spoilers- First of all, why hate so much? The movie is not perfect, agreed. It's not the best movie ever, again agreed. However it's one of the best movies, and it's pretty damn good, even if it's not perfect. The plot is good, the action is good, cast is great, acting is great too, and the atmosphere the movie creates is fantastic! Ignore all the hate, and please go enjoy the film. And I don't understand, why are people comparing this movie to TDK? They're by the same director and they're part of the same trilogy, no comparison. TDK is too perfect, and we all know that. So why did ya all have your expectations sky high. Whenever a director releases a movie which is near-perfect, then it is hard for him/her to beat that movie. Sure he/she can make a movie equal to the other one, but to beat it, think again. Thus my expectations for TDKR were high, but not sky high. And guess what? It crossed my expectations, and it was really close to TDK. Tremendous film!Lately I haven't developed an interest in comic book reading, and I really don't enjoy batman or to be honest I don't enjoy much of superhero films at all. Only a few. However I didn't only enjoy this movie as a superhero film, I also enjoyed it itself as a movie. The reason I don't watch many superhero films is because they're very tedious and repetitive, and there's no message. Here is how your everyday superhero film goes "There is "Whatever" man. Some stupid person attempts to outsmart the _____man, and take over the city, and guess what? He fails, and ______ man gets respect for saving the city...the end". TDKR was out of the ordinary. To be honest, the whole trilogy was "Out of the box" thinking, especially this and TDK. Both this and TDK made it to my Top 10 films of all-time, and many movies at this time don't even make it close.The movie did have its problems as well, it was not perfect. One of the major concerns was the time. The movie had a near-3hr run time which was more than enough. There were some slow and boring parts at the beginning and middle of the film, but as the movie approached the ending, none of this really mattered. Also I didn't really like how Bane died. He was really bad-ass up until the end, where Catwoman whipped him out in 1 second. I was expecting another fight between Batman and Bane, only to find out something else? It was too fast of a death, and not only that, he was the villain of the film, how can you kill a villain in 1 second? And it was not even Batman who killed him, it was Catwoman? I personally wasn't expecting this at all.-Major Spoilers- The movie really kept you glued to the screen near the end. I really liked the plot twists and never expected some of them. Though some were predictable, but others weren't, IMO. For example, Batman surviving, and Talia escaping from the prison rather than Bane was pretty unpredictable. On the other hand, John Black turning out to be Robin, and Miranda Tate turning out to be Talia al Ghul was more predictable. I think there were some more plot twists, but I can't really remember, because I saw the full movie once, and that was 3 months back.At first I thought Bane was the one who escaped from the prison, and was the son of Henri Ducard, but it turned out that it was Talia, and Bane was just a friend. This was the real shocker for me. I didn't really care much for the other plot twists, but this really shook me hard. I never expected this, in fact I even forgot about this up until the end. Also batman surviving? This was the second most unpredictable twist. At first I thought just maybe he survived, but after the funeral, I was sure that he was dead. Then he appears in Florence? This was pretty shocking as well.The second half of the film was the best, because that's when the excitement began. I was very curious about what was going to happen next. After the explosion scenes, the suspense began to rise rapidly. Then the climax came all together very nicely.My favourite parts of the film in the first half were the opening "Plane Hijack" scene, the "Stock Exchange" scene, and "Bane vs Batman" fight 1. In the second half my favourite scenes were the "Football explosion" scene, "Bane vs Batman" fight 2, and the final chase scene. Some of the other fight scenes involving Catwoman and Robin were pretty good too.Final thoughts, I didn't expect much of this movie after TDK. TDK was perfect, and I thought this movie would be no where close, but it was pretty damn close. It was really good too. The action was great. The cast, acting, and dialogue were all fantastic. Especially the dialogue between Alfred and Bruce. Gary Oldman did a great job, not to mention that Joseph Gordon-Levitt did an amazing job as well. Tom Hardy turned out to be a great villain. Even though Bane's voice was kind of confusing, but it was pretty cool. Overall the whole movie includes some great action scenes, and runs a full circle completing TDK legend in an Epic way! Final Rating 9/10.


                
To begin, I was really nervous about this film. Ending a trilogy, bringing in a new villain with Bane, a major new character with Selina Kyle, and an original character/sidekick in John Blake all within three hours. That's a daunting task for any director, Nolan or otherwise. I won't touch on every character or scene, just the ones that stood out the most to me. The shots are wide and grand, some scenes playing out with little to no score - a move that gives complete focus to the screen. The opening with Bane's arrival had me on the edge of my seat. Tom Hardy played the character as few could, showing a strong physique and unquestionable mannerisms. Bane's voice (a source of debate) was unique and brought a different edge to the antagonist. I knew watching this character that he could - and would kill or main anyone in his path and also had the brain to create plans on a massive scale. Selina Kyle is a very welcome addition to the film. Anne Hathaway with her sly personality and actions created a very good character, but the 'suit' scenes were the weak point of her performance I feel. I hoped Catwoman wouldn't be the major focus and I was pleased, she was a burglar, not a superhero. That, actually, is what I feared the most. Adding two companions to Batman's already strong group with Alfred and Gordon could easily dull their screen time. Gary Oldman once again brought a very emotional and strong role. With Gordon being taken out and staying in the background for most of the duration seemed to add weight to his performance. Alfred was placed in a similar role, doing a fantastic job of bringing the tears when he was in the frame. Michael Caine has proved himself to be a master actor, and even in a small role he brings a presence that only he can. Joseph Gordon-Levitt was in a very good showing as John Blake, though how certain he was that Wayne was Batman struck me as a little off. For Gordon not to know with large amounts of face time between both sides of Wayne and Blake to know immediately...it wasn't badly written, just made Blake look exceptionally sharp. Which is likely how the character was intended to be. I did buy him as both an officer and a detective, as did Batman, who took him in almost immediately. I liked their banter and even though the character wasn't 'Robin' as seen in the comics, he was a fitting helper to Batman and one that had his trust. Blake had a triumphant final act, as he was charged to save as many citizens as possible while facing military opposition. Levitt was the standout in a stacked film, as his character gained strength as the film went on. The finale, while in reality three separate endings, was his shining moment. What better compliment to the strength of an actor than to (presumably) place him in line for the next film? Of course, the direction of the franchise remains to be seen and it wouldn't shock me if this canon was disregarded completely. I hope that doesn't happen. The action scenes, especially the fights between Batman and Bane, are jarring and large. That's the moment I wanted to see, and it came much earlier than I expected. The epic showdown between the stars. The nods to Bane's actions in the Knightfall storyline - using Wayne's long layoff being the catalyst for his failing to succeed, goading Batman into a fight he wasn't ready for - these provided the same feeling I had reading issue #497 some nineteen years ago. I felt the time Wayne spent in the prison was a bit bloated, I know that he needed to rehab his back and literally climb out of hell but it did take some time. That's my only real issue with the film, the five months that Bane ruled the city and Wayne suffered in prison seemed lacking as there was no pressing of time. Wayne is successful in making the impossible climb and as he suddenly - and without any type of explanation - reappears in Gotham, the time scale materializes. The final act simply didn't have it for me. Miranda Tate's sudden turn and quick demise did nothing for me, which is why I haven't mentioned her character. Marion Cotillard was fine in her role, but her character disappeared suddenly and I was forced to embrace this new role and back story without the time to fully accept it. By the time I did, she was gone. Batman's ending made sense by the forced ending of a trilogy. Killing two characters while giving a suitable explanation as to how Wayne survived was okay, I had a lingering feeling throughout that Bale would not truly die. Didn't seem appropriate. The act gave Batman brought his credibility to a wounded city, while I assume Wayne would not be mentioned again. Bane's death was anticlimactic, he was moments away from killing Batman when Kyle silently drove up and shot him. The blast would have killed anyone, so instead of an epic end to the villain he was just quickly disposed of. These small issues I had with the film did nothing to lessen its impact, my eyes were glued to the screen both the first and second viewings. For the final film in a trilogy, the plot points were nicely wrapped up and new characters successfully introduced and ended. At the base level, the film is very complete. I have jumped around in my review but in closing, I loved nearly every moment and am fully happy by what I saw. The actors couldn't have been better, Bale is Batman. For all I'm concerned he will be Batman.
First of all, when I was in the theater watching (The Dark Knight) I said to myself that there's no way I'm going to miss the next movie in this series. after the epic nature and the overwhelming performance also the art of directing that makes you live inside the movie as we have seen in The Dark Knight, I expected this one to be at least the same level and I was absolutely correct. Christopher Nolan is the best Director out there, the way he makes you become part of the movie and feel the same feeling of every character you see is just magical, and add to that the fantastic music of Hans Zimmer, not to mention the Perfect Selection of the Actors and Actresses in this movie. Before The Dark Knight all of us used to watch super hero movies and consider them the kind of thing that would never happen in real life but things changed after the epic clash between batman and the Joker, The Dark Knight Rises even make it more reasonable it makes you think that if there was a batman he would be exactly like this. and it is being proved in each scene as you go through the movie, how hard it is to live with the cruelty of bane, how it is really hard to find weapons and devices to use that they use everything they got (unlike other action movies that everyone suddenly have a 100 gun when it is time to fight) it is like what would really happen if Bane came to your city and Batman was to defend it. in other words you can call this movie a masterpiece,if you didn't watch it yet then what are you waiting for?


                
I will unabashedly admit that when I chose my favourite Super-hero, I always tended more towards Iron-Man..but since Chris Nolan decided to start making his epic movies about Batman, my loyalties have faltered a bit. In all the three movies, the way he's made Batman swoop through the differing shades of grey, has made me fall more and more in love with the 'realness' of this character, so to speak. And gifting this role to Bale who embraced it such, he almost made it part of his persona, was a fantastic decision.So obviously, after Batman Begins, the sequel movies always had me expecting the moon, unrealistic but absolutely worth it! Out came The Dark Knight and introduced the world to the purest form of evil, we can experience. The Joker was written with a finesse hard to find in the movies today, and Ledger (silent pause) played it with such passion, I would believe that he could slit a man's mouth right open if he didn't smile. No gory imagery, just pure evil psyche..the Joker carried the movie on his back, while Oldman and Bale were the rocket engines that drove it to its success.Now with The Dark Knight Returns, it was a conclusion I had wished would never happen (too many sequels were ending, all with Harry Potter and all, my childhood was just zooming past!!) yet in the same breath, couldn't wait for it to come out in the theatres. I live in a middle- eastern country and TDKR had released on the exact date that Ramadan had started, so I waited another month till I could watch it...today on Eid! I was nervous, but I entered the theatre, equipped with my coke and a sizeable portion of popcorn. I had read the reviews, heard my friends talk about it..still the glimmer of hope, that this would be everything I hoped for...and more! I was RIGHT! I loved every bit of the movie, it's grandeur, emotions, raw energy, passion...it was right on...the best conclusion Nolan could've created to pacify my geeky-comic-book needs. A masterstroke to bring back Scarecrow and Ras Al Gul....it unfortunately left me wanting to see some part of the Joker (almost like a child!)... I'd suggest EVERYONE must watch this movie at least once in IMAX, it adds to its magnificence, and is the only tribute technology can pay to such a mastermind of a movie.All of us owe a big thank you to Nolan, Bale and Oldman for allowing us the honour of living at least 1 and a half hours of Gotham's life, three times! There are seldom any more super hero movies I looked forward to as much as I did to Batman/ Dark Knight. That you can relate to the sentiments expressed in these 3 movies, is something not many other superhero movies have achieved on this scale. Much respect for that.
Christopher Nolan has done it again. With the same team who worked with him on the previous two parts of the Batman trilogy, he has delivered a classic finale to the one of the best superhero trilogy of our times.This film is a cinematic delight for an avid cinema admirer like me. I could not find a single low point in this movie - direction, story, screenplay, cinematography, editing, music... It takes a master like Mr.Christiopher Nolan to bring it all together.I have been witnessing a trend in superhero movies. When the superhero craze started, these movies were all about special effects based on superpowers which would WOW the audience. But as more and more of these heroes started hitting the cinemas, the audience were lusting for something new - Not just action and special effects, but maybe some more drama. Their call has been answered. Look at James Bond's latest "Skyfall". It was entrusted to Sam Mendes (American Beauty, Road to perdition) who has no history with the action genre. But he is known to add depth to his characters and overall plot. Christopher Nolan did the same to the Batman Franchise in 2005 when he convinced Warner bros to give it to an unknown director like him. This was the first time when we saw Batman as a person before the Batman we all knew. This character has emotions, he was afraid before he rose up to the challenge. Superheroes are no longer with (just) supernatural powers. They are humans like us and they feel. They can go down like any of us, but what sets them apart is their ability to rise. The Dark knight definitely rises in this epic finale!The greatest victory of TDKR is the message which Christopher Nolan has been conveying in this trilogy over and over again - the triumph of the human spirit, the win of good over evil. And this symbolism could not have been possible with superpowers or futuristic gadgets, but only when Batman breaks down and digs deeper to find his inner strength. The Batman had to rise again. Nolan broke down Batman to dust to such an extent that it made the audience actually root for him to stand up. Imagine a superhero being an underdog. Wow! Bringing out the underdog emotion in a superhero story can only be done when a lot of homework has been done on the plot and screenplay.The other cinematic aspects were upto the mark in conveying this message. David Goyer (written Blade series) assisted Nolan with story while Jonathan Nolan did so with screenplay - David has been with this trilogy since batman begins and Jonathan joined in The Dark Knight. The three of them had a fair grip on what they wanted to convey. Cinematography was done by Wally Pfister who has been with Nolan since Memento and was part of all of Nolan's projects (Inception, all 3 Batman, The Prestige, Insomnia). In TDKR, cinematography was not all about picturesque sceneries, but more about lighting and grandeur (when needed). Hans Zimmer (Music) has gained expertise in providing music for grand & action oriented cinema - Gladiator, 2 POTC, MI 2, Pearl harbour, all 3 Batman, Inception). TDKR was no different.The actors could not have better chosen. Christian Bale has been maturing like fine wine and aptly displayed Nolan's version of the Human superhero - he displayed weakness, depth of character, fear, arrogance, dug deep to find inner strength and all this, with few extra grey locks. Awesome ! Tom Hardy was a revelation in this movie and carried on the good work from his previous movies - Inception and Warrior. He was brawn, merciless and fearful. Voted in 2009 as Variety's "10 actors to Watch", I'll be waiting to see more of this muscular 35 year old in times to come. Anne Hathaway and Joseph Gordon-Levitt were the two other actors who justified their characters to the fullest. Joseph is just 31 and is turning out to be the next star. He has already been part of two of Nolan's movies (Inception and this one). Michael had very little screen time but had powerful screen presence.For a superhero movie, this cinema was emotionally riveting. The Avengers had 5 (or 6) superheroes but came no where close to touching the audience as the Batman Trilogy has. The best part is that this movie, like Inception, ended with possibilities - now what, did Leo (Inception) gets left behind, will Levitt be the next Batman or will Christian make a comeback with Levitt as Robin. Mr.Nolan has set the bar too high this time. Cant wait for a reboot.
I have loved the last two movies and was expecting a perfect conclusion to this epic-superhero-crime-saga. This movies is so fantastic. The new characters are well-depicted that are Bane,Catwoman,Talia and Blake a.k.a Robin. As this is Christopher Nolan's movie ,the acting is top-notch but i wanted to see more of Bane,he is good but not as Joker,anyways Tom Hardy did a great job especially physically and that nasty voice. Christian Bale is again the superhero,he is most unique. Anne Hathaway did very nice ,she looks smoking' hot kitty as the role demands. All other actors Morgan Freeman,Joseph Gordon,Gary Oldman,Michael Caine and Marion Cotillard did supported great. There are few scenes which gave us goosebumps like the one where Batman returns with the bat,and Hans Zimmer's music as always epic. but it doesn't feels perfect like the Dark Knight,maybe Heath Ledger Pulled out in that one ,but it's slightly lower that the last movie. Special effects are amazing,everything else is great and finally a satisfying conclusion.
A movie of epic proportions because its time to rise. As Bruce Wayne faces having been gone for 8 years you'd think he'd lost his touch but with a little help and the bane of Gotham making himself known its time for the Dark Knight to rise to the its hype. Unfortunately the hype was a little to much for the movie and in my eyes was a little disappointing but not so much i'm going to downgrade the rating because all in all it was a brilliant film but hard to compare to the second movie because it was an extremely good film with some absolutely amazing actors. Bane was well portrayed as the villain he is. A simply fantastic film that i give a 9.
Wow this brilliant way of ending the trilogy makes me feel that this is just the beginning. I would call the same casting on and on for more adventure.Bane is not my favorite character by far (really not interesting, just a tough guy) but all participate intensely and have a role and feed the story. The casting is incredible: Batman Begins + Inception + Anne Hathaway (she's such a complete and lovable actress and person)I just got the 2 DVD collector edition in Switzerland yesterday. I definitely recommend watching the bonus features, they explain a lot about the concept behind this movie and the connection with the beginning of the story.An amazing production, screenplay, performance !And yet: The whole experience was so different than on big screen. "Duh" you might say and still... let me explain myself:I recognized that some parts are only effective if you watched the film only once. This doesn't necessarily happen with other masterpieces I can watch on an on.When I watched all the interesting bonus features on the second DVD, I started noticing that from many multiple shots (shots filmed from many angles at the same time) the choice of those shots used for the movie weren't the clearest, or the most astonishing. So may things are finally not so clearly seen in the movie. There were many other successful angles that could have been used more effectively.Music soundtrack ? Hans Zimmer did a nice job but I would have preferred James Newton Howard.The fights weren't that clever, too tough and bulky, not necessary, no intelligence around them, plain fist. Not my port of call.Thank you Christopher Nolan for being clever enough to participate in the cinema industry and still deliver ART.Definitely a realistic, surprising and enjoyable film Thanks to all reviews and commentaries.A.real


                
First of all, I like to thank Nolan for making a series of awesome movies. another great film. despite from almost-3-hour length, it was packed into a movie without unnecessary scene and dialog. everything is entangled one to another creating a majestic story, which i think is a proper way to end the dark knight trilogy.I personally a fan of Christopher Nolan's Work, and his batman series. for someone who doesn't watch the first two series, i recommended you to watch it first to fully understand the concept and motivation of batman also to experience this movie to 100 percent.this movie is not an ordinary superhero movies. the batman itself is not a center of it all. its a proper superhero movie. all of the character has a great role to the story. yes, batman itself maybe have not much of mind-blowing action fight scene.. but that is a concept of this movie. where is impossible for one-man to do all the work. Jim Gordon and Blake roles were great. I wish these two character have more roles. kyle performance was good... I thought the "catwoman" gonna be a eye-candy for audience like Megan Fox did in two Transfomer movies, where she did nothing but screaming and running and showing sexy movements but I hardly notices Anne Hathaway sexiness because of all the great scene and suspense. Michael Caine as Alfred, My god he make me cry.. the best acting in this movie. Bane was pure evil.. a nightmare for batman. his strategy for bringing Gotham to ashes was genius. and lastly, C.Bale is presenting Bruce Wayne Character side more often than the batman side in this movie, and I like that. the fall and the rise. the motivation of becoming batman, the return for Gotham City... makes another action-hero not so super.I'm not saying this is a perfect movie.. a little fix could make it perfect. like the sluggish action choreography. and I actually laugh a little at the colossal war between police and revolutionist scene, they could make the "war" more modern. near perfect! but despite of it. it still a great movie.. best of this year so far.. some scene was really great I had goosebumps. I watch it two times, because i miss some details. so amaze for a movie this long doesn't bore you at all. go watch it!!sorry for my bad English
First of all, the Dark Knight Rises in the concluding and final chapter in the critically acclaimed Christopher Nolan (Director) Dark knight Trilogy, and due to it being the predecessor to 2008's The Dark Knight, The Dark Knight Rises was already overwhelmed with especially high expectations. However did it meet those expectations?(Spoilers!)The Dark Knight Rises opens with an overwhelming plane aerial action sequence, an the introduction of Tom Hardy's representation of the character of Bane. Tom hardy's performance as Bane is constantly stimulating, both visually and mentally, possibly as stimulating as Heath ledger's representation of the Joker in The Dark Knight, however I do believe that Hardy's performance is heavily tainted by the way in which the character of Bane was "removed" from the film, during the final act of the film. Among the incredible five star performances of the cast from Anne Hathaway in her fitting performance as Catwoman to the emotional performance of Morgan Freeman, the acting was a driving force in the film's outstanding quality. The intense, emotional performances were essential to the film's sharp writing, great pacing throughout the story. Christopher Nolan's incredible flashback technique used to compose an incredible plot twist during the final act of the Film. It has been constantly noted that the film has an extensive amount of plot holes, however after analyzing the story, I do believe that many of the plot holes mentioned are very pedantic methods used by fans of other blockbusters such as The Avengers, to better their personal opinions, rather than explaining what they enjoyed about their own personal favorite, they would rather slander and taint The Dark Knight Rises. However the film does have some relevant plot holes, which could have been resolved by additional footage, such as a director's cut or a three and a half hour edition of the film, I would have also been satisfied with a two part version of the film in which each part was two hours, or more in length. The film's combination of "the chase",and the "the ticking time bomb", during the final action sequence was an incredibly powerful sequence which kept me heavily invested in the outcome of the story, which climaxed with the most emotionally gripping moment in comic book film history, in my opinion. The supposed death of the Batman in the nuclear explosion, later denied by his alive appearance as Bruce Wayne, was a symbolic way to express how the death of Batman, allowed Bruce Wayne to Truly "live", while also leaving you wondering how he did it? Bruce Wayne's time in the underground prison was incredibly reminiscent of Batman Begins, as Bruce Wayne was forced re build his broken psyche, and truly become the Batman, physically and mentally; this also defined Bane to be both the greatest test for Batman mentally and physically but also the most important factor in Bruce becoming a truly righteous hero that Gotham deserves. And the final gift from Christopher Nolan the audience, was Joseph Gordon Levitt becoming the symbol of hope for Gotham as Wayne did in Batman Begins, leaving the audience understanding that the Batman is immortal in a metaphorical way, anyone with the will to do so can be Batman, in Nolan's cleverly and emotionally investing world. The Dark Knight Rises was a satisfying ending chapter to a greatly weaved masterpiece of a trilogy from start to finish. I would give The Dark Knight Rises 9.5/10, or an A+.


                
I loved the Dark Knight. I loved its complexities, I loved its performances and I loved its direction. It was not only a great superhero film but a great film in general. Did they exactly need a conclusion to Batman's story? That's really not for me to decide, but they did it and in my opinion it ended in the best possible way. Not the best way, but the best possible way. This is an excellent film, it is excellent because it demonstrates everything that made the Dark Knight Trilogy complex, and because of Nolan's direction it made it even better. Christian Bale gives a fine performance as Batman, the theatrical voice is still there, but it's toned down. I could barely recognize Tom Hardy as Bane, the voice is a little much but he still does good nevertheless. I really don't get all the hate for Anne Hathaway, she's a good actress, regardless of what her ambitions might be, she did good in Les Miz but did well here. Joseph Gordon- Levitt did good as usual, and Gary Oldman Michael Caine and Morgan Freeman can do this in their sleep. The Dark Knight was what it was because it had a realism to it, this could definitely happen in real life, in regards to the Joker. The realism fades when Bane comes along but that's not a bad thing if the story is told well (and it is). If you've seen the Dark Knight, go see this, and if you're looking for a great movie go see this.


                
I wanted to write "just see it," but IMDb requires 10 lines, so here goes nothing. There's something in this film for everyone, especially Batman fans. That doesn't mean Chris Nolan and team tried to please everyone -- if you've seen any of his films, you know he's got too much integrity and cinematic love for that. There's romance, real drama and feeling, in contrast to the first two movies. Action fans will dig it, wingnut tech-heads will dig it. There's even a hint of the supernatural in this movie. War movie fans will dig it. I think it's fair to say that most Chris Nolan fans will dig it too. I can't even fault the film for it's moment of garbled dialogue, because those moment just fuel my desire to see this movie again. Just see it.


                
Christopher Nolan's stunning conclusion to his Batman trilogy is a welcome return to form after the slightly overrated THE DARK KNIGHT, which was so obsessed with being all dark and brooding that it forgot to tell much of a story. Despite the presence of a much-hyped (and lamented) Heath Ledger in the cast, I found that film to be less entertaining than BATMAN BEGINS although it still remains an engaging and watchable film. THE DARK KNIGHT RISES (horrible title, by the way), though, blows it out of the water, offering a piece of sheer spectacle that's as involving and as tightly-plotted as you could wish for.It's eight years since the last film, and Christian Bale's Bruce Wayne is nowadays retired and definitely feeling his age. Before long, though, a hulking brute of a bad guy (Tom Hardy, whose sheer physicality in the role will surprise nobody who's seen Bronson) decides to do some very unpleasant things in the city, so it's time to dust off the bat suit and get back into the action. Good news for the viewer.As usual, Nolan surpasses the conventions of his genre, making this a superhero film that looks nothing like a superhero film, instead more like a modern-day epic of dramatic cinema. Yes, at the end of the day it's still about suited guys beating the hell out of each other, and Nolan once again relies on old conventions/clich乶 (such as the 'ticking bomb' trope, which he's repeated in his last three films now) to see him through, but everyone runs so well and so smoothly that you end up not minding.The cast is thorough and involved as ever, Bale as usual going the extra mile to portray the tortured hero and Caine lending emotional support as Alfred. Hardy's villain is a sheer powerhouse who dominates every scene he's in, and Nolan brings back a couple of his favourites from INCEPTION (Marion Cotillard and Joseph Gordon-Levitt) for good measure. There's not quite as much action as you might expect from a film of this type, but the storyline is so involved that you don't care. Throw plenty of stunning special effects into the mix and you have a real crowd-pleaser of a film with real brain as well as brawn.


                
I have always been a massive fan of the Batman comics, ever since I was a child I was asking for the Batmobile for Christmas, and even though it's terrible I'm still a fan of the Tim Burton reboot. (Now you really know I'm a die-hard fan) But with all that said, there was something about The Dark Knight Rises that didn't feel right to me. Having seen it 4 times now I feel like I have a strong grasp on the entire film, and there are definitely some flaws that need pointing out, even though the majority of the film did leave me in awe. First of all I want to say that out of the trilogy; Batman Begins is my favourite. I love The Dark Knight, but it almost feels like 'filler' between Batman Begins and Dark Knight Rises, in that there's no real story to it, it's just what Batman did for about a month that lead to Rachel dying. I loved Batman Begins because although it showed Bruce over a long period of time, it didn't really miss out any details. There were no stones left unturned, every story arc had an ending, every Christopher Nolan placed cheesy joke had it's minute, and even the ending wasn't as clich卜 as it sounds on paper, even if I do hate it for making me wait 3 years to meet the Joker. But with all the hype leading up to 'Rises, I feel like an unobtainable greatness was expected by me and a lot of other fans, and so it would always seem worse than the previous two. That's nothing against Nolan though, 'Rises is a fantastic film that I thoroughly enjoyed, but the only ending to a trilogy I have ever fully appreciated was Return of the King, but that's because it's such a masterpiece that the earlier films were dwarfed in comparison. So based on that 'Rises was destined to fail in my eyes.That said, there were still parts of 'Rises that are truly awesome. Bane, for instance, is one of the best villains I have seen in any film, game, book, TV show, advert, comic or dental commercial ever. He's just so bad-ass, even with the ridiculous voice and perfectly smooth head; Tom Hardy manages to present this 'don' of a character that even Samurai-flipping-Jack would be frightened of, and he does it all with the majority of his face covered up. Anne Hathaway as Catwoman also deserves much credit. The 'Halle Berry Catwoman' was bitter sweet for me and much of the DC fan base, it no-doubt was a very, very poor film, but it was sexy as hell, and this is where I saw Anne Hathaway going wrong; I thought she'd try too hard to make a better character than Berry and end up making a Catwoman that pasty teenagers around the globe couldn't "enjoy". But rest assured universe; she ticked both boxes. Hathaway ended up creating a character with such a sense of mystique around her that I think we all ended up wanting her to have more screen time, just so we could work her out, well that and her uh..'delectable posterior' (to put it nicely). On top of that, there are so many moments in this film that have you on the edge of your seat, making involuntary "phwwoaaaaarrr"-like noises. The bat-pods, for instance, are so much cooler than ever before, with the rolling-sideways-wheels and smashing into and through buildings. The collection of all 5 tumblers also had me giggling like a little girl, and even the small references to 'Killer Croc' made me grin uncontrollably.There are, however, some faults with The Dark Knight Rises that I feel need to be covered. A couple of them are just nit-picking; such as how in hell didn't the football player realise the ground had collapsed behind him? and how did Batman survive the nuclear blast if two seconds from detonation we saw him pushing the throttle forward?! Even if he had ejected immediately after he would have been able to avoid the blast radius. Some of the faults are more substantial though. For example I feel like bringing Ra's Al Ghul back into the picture with his daughter ruined things a tad, having Bane, the man exiled from the league of shadows for being too extreme is enough I think, as they don't really deal with Talia after she escapes, they just kill Bane and dispose of the bomb. Secondly, I feel there were a few too many plot twists for the story to flow properly, I mean come on Nolan; It's the end of the best Batman trilogy ever made; you don't have to keep throwing in changes to make sure we don't get bored. Hell, the majority of us are going to love it even if it's awful.Overall though it's extremely important to remember that this movie is the 'cat's pyjamas', and will probably go in for an Oscar or two if the academy don't act like idiots (again). Bane is one of the best written, most quotable character's of any film I've ever seen, and Bale really comes into his own as both Batman and Bruce in this third and final instalment (he tones down the Batman grumble, and doesn't make Bruce look like such a pansy anymore). So really disregard what I've said above, it's a fantastic film and I'm sure it will be a lot of people's favourite of the trilogy, just not mine. Go out and make your own opinion on it, because it's another of these films that come around once in a while where a review or general rating isn't able to truly determine how great it really is. (9/10)James Asker


                
When Batman begins first came out I wasn't sure how you could do any better than the first Michael Keaton film. How wrong I was! Nolan has done a fantastic job reinventing the series, The sequel was almost as good as the first and gave us an outstanding performance from Heath Ledger which will always be remembered. So he had to get it right again and once again he does not disappoint.There was always a worry for me that putting Catwoman into a comic book film that Nolan has really tried to keep as realistic as possible would add a camp over the top element to it but Anne Hathaway played it brilliantly and looked stunning in the tight leather outfit, I would have said cat suit but it's only hinted as one with a clever use of glasses for ears.Tom Hardy was great as ever, he even managed to show his emotions through a thick mask. Once again another incredibly memorable bad guy has been brought to us. My only criticisms would be that occasionally it was difficult to understand what he was saying, I found myself having to really concentrate hard to follow the dialogue. Also without giving anything away he goes from a menacing, very intelligent force to be reckoned with that was always one step ahead of everyone, to a basic vulnerable thug quite quickly and I feel such a great character deserved a better finale.I also found that if I thought too hard about what the overall logic behind the city destruction plan was there were several plot holes.....but this is not based on a true story and there was nothing too obvious to take you out of the action so it really didn't matter too much.The film is quite long but moves at a relentless pace, with Hanz Zimmers pounding soundtrack to keep us gripped along with some incredible action scenes, sit back, switch off and let Bane and Batmans clash unfold in a nicely wrapped up ending to a fantastic trilogy, it's just a shame it's all over.


                
