High section of people say infinity war is best movie of mcu even they know it is not perfect except thanos character development and nothing more and it dont appeal to every one with the over crowd and lack of character developments and they try to sell the emotion in the movie by the climax but majority people know there was upcoming spideman2 coming 2019 and gaurdians of the galaxy coming 2020 . i agree it is a complete entertainment movie but it doesn't carry the movie to be great movie this is only for the people who say infinity war is best mcu movie. for me i only liked thanos and thor stuff rest is come and go but i loved the movie whole but not in top 3 mcu films if marvel dint announce the upcoming films that's complete different opinion from me. #NoStakesEntertainment
This movie was litterly the same as the avengers and civil war. Nothing new here except that the hype is getting stronger??? By rules of nature hype must die down over time but marvel fanboys want more bad movies? Disney's board of director's and their shareholders are laughing their ass off. They acquire the rights of a universe with some superheroes en then they release 5 superhero movies a year that are complete and utter trash but its fanbase will love it no matter wat. now a cgi war movie (were we all now how of how it will end, it doesn't becouse Disney will keep spitting out these movies until marvel fanboys stop going to these trash movies.) Is considerd better than movies like Silence of the Lambs, Se7en, forrest gump and Leon??? Well if this is the case than i will leave this site and never come back becouse i use this site to see if a movie is worth seeing. But if a crap movie like this is considerd to be as good as THE GODFATHER!!! then i can no longer trust this site and will de-recommend it to everyone that wants to use it for the same purpose as i did.


                
Deserves like not even a 1 star. this movie was nothing but CGI filled with subpar performances and a very mad score/soundtrack. the movie is basically just an ad for avengers 4. and in this film deaths occur at the end but they don't mean anything since all of them will come back. what? this is absolute trash storytelling. you expect audience to be sad and then just bring the characters back the next film.
SPOILER: So far I have enjoyed the MCU.I understand that 31 movies have "led" to this.Nevertheless I left disgruntled at the end and didn't waste any more time waiting for the post credit scenes.There was too much senseless fighting, too little story. Too many idiotic plot holes. Too many characters just killed for the sake of it.Thor gets his ass whipped at the start of the movie, but nearly kills Thanos when he has all the stones.At the end some of the more popular characters like Black Panther, Doctor Strange and Spiderman turn into ashes and you really KNOW that it is not going to be permanent. So why do it in the first place? Why not show how half of the universe is actually "re-balanced" and what that actually means and what the reaction of the universe will be.Avengers are little on that scale and with some many brilliant minds in their rows they were unprepared. Civil War or not...
It totally wasn't how i expected it to be. It's just a silly film with only action. Many cringy dialogues and dumb moments ruined the film. I felt really bad when yondu died in GOTG 2 but in this film never felt anything for anyone. So many died but i don't know why this film was in a rush and that's why their death didn't made me feel bad for them. They should have increased the runtime of the film. One of the worst thing is characters were not balanced. Captain america hardly had any dialogue. Hulk was shown only for 30 seconds in the entire film. There were many ways to stop thanos but hey he should look badass so let's make heroes dumb. Cgi was okay but in many places it looked cartoon-ish. In one scene it looked like Mark ruffalo's face is pasted on hulk buster. The film is full of plot holes.
After ten years of epic waiting, we just got a chance to clarify that The Russo Brothers were an awful choice for Marvel Cinametic Universe. Infinity War, including over 30 main characters, starts with a quick plot without losing time to introduce our heroes. The movie goes on with funny bits popping out of nowhere during non-stop action sequences and sends us back home with a terrible ending. Suprisingly, it is not only bad because of lack of drama, but also the glorious fight between Avengers and Thanos brings out nothing original. The movie may serve as a great entertainment for early teens and comic-book fans, but surely not beyond that.


                
The movie is a great example of kitsch. A definition from web:
"Kitsch is art that's garish, nostalgic, and very low-brow. Some people who love the aesthetics of souvenir culture think kitsch is really cool, while others think it's in very poor taste.Kitsch is a German word that's been adopted into English, meaning "worthless, trashy art," or the quality of that art. A ceramic figurine of a puppy with sad eyes is pretty kitsch, as is a velvet Elvis painting. Of course some people think that kitsch is really beautiful and fill their homes with stuff that other people consider trashy souvenirs. If your painting teacher tells you your portraits are kitsch, that's probably not a compliment."


                
Keep in mind that just because s movie makes billions, that does not make it a good movie. Like most of Marvel movies this is an insipid mess. The entire plot took 10 years to develop and is summed up in this latest entry in 4 or 5 sentences. Acting isn't necessary or required, just grimace and look sweaty and vacant. Meanwhile we'll fill the screen with 50,000 CGI lights and explosions and convince you what is happening matters. Well it doesn't.


                
Unfortunately, computer-generated mayhem is much more important than character development. One-liners is not good writing. There was such hope with the Dr. Strange movie and nice writing....but this "Avengers" film does nothing to add to any of the previous characters' story lines...especially Dr. Strange. It's a jumble, with explosions/death/violence...with little use or reasoning behind it's constant grinding noise. All the tears shed by actors, had no heart behind it. It's sad when money drives a movie rather than writing. Just because something owns Lucas Industrial Light and Magic, doesn't mean it has to be on screen at all times. I thought SE was supposed to be light-seasoning...not complete coverage.The offering lacks in so many ways. Sad...had high hopes.


                
While all of the heroes from across the Marvel cinematic universe united in a joint effort to stop Thanos, so too did all of the problems you can think of unite in a joint effort to bring down "Infinity War."It should be noted that I am not the biggest fan of the Marvel Cinematic Universe. For the most part, I find the movies to be passable while there are a few I have really liked, such as "Black Panther" and "Captain America: The Winter Soldier," and some I have despised, such as "Iron Man 2" and "The Avengers." "Infinity War" could have fallen anywhere on the spectrum for me, and unfortunately, it fell at the way-down low side as the second worst movie in the entire franchise.The opening scene of the movie is the perfect setup for what is wrong with "Avengers: Infinity War." Thanos (Josh Brolin) is attacking an Asgardian ship with all of the main characters from "Thor: Ragnarok" on it. Thanos has killed everyone aboard, except for the few characters necessary to help keep the plot moving. Heimdall (Idris Elba) is left wounded so that he can be killed off by Thanos on screen after using his powers to send Hulk (Bruce Banner) to Earth in an effort to warn the Avengers. It is supposed to be an emotional death scene, but the laziness of the writing and the showcasing of character stupidity for the purpose of plot progression is all too evident. Why didn't Thanos just kill Heimdall during the attack on the ship like he did with everyone else on board? It's simple: the plot would not be able to continue if he had done that.Character stupidity is at an all time high in "Avengers: Infinity War," and it is not just restricted to Thanos. There is a lack of communication between characters for no reason other than for the movie to happen, and Star Lord (Chris Pratt) goes so far as to screw everything up in what is easily the worst written scene in the entire movie.The stupidity of the characters can all be attributed to an awfully written script. So much of the dialogue in the movie is the Marvel quips, but a lot of it comes in the form of characters throwing personal jabs at one another to the point of wondering why these heroes can't set aside their differences and not be annoying for even five minutes in order to stop a villain who wants to wipe out half of the universe's population.Yep, that's right. Thanos' goal is to wipe out half of the population of the entire universe. One complaint that people have had with Marvel is how safe their characters all feel. So, Thanos killing off half the population would seem like it was putting their characters in danger, right? Wrong. All of the characters who are killed by Thanos are the characters who had already overstayed their welcome in the franchise or do not feel permanent because, let's be honest, they are needed for future installments to the Marvel universe. It is ironic that the movie that seemingly takes the most risks is the movie that played things the safest.Even if these deaths did feel like a risk, it would not really matter. With so many characters to focus on, the movie has almost no time for character arcs (which is fine) and instead must show its characters through their speech and actions. However, so many of these characters act so annoying or stupid that you are just wishing for them to be killed off, and then the characters who are killed at the end by Thanos destroying half the population lacks any emotional weight because after nearly three hours of unbearable characters and dialogue, it is just a relief that the movie is almost over.The two things that "Infinity War" did well was not making the story feel jumbled and clustered with all of the characters, and they did do a good job with the characters of Scarlet Witch (Elizabeth Olson) and Vision (Paul Bettany), but that is it. When it comes to everything else, the movie falls prey to a term film critic Roger Ebert used, which is 'idiot plot.'Idiot plot means that the only way for the plot to happen is for the characters to act like idiots, which I already went into a little bit to explain how even the smartest of characters have to act like morons in this movie for the plot to progress, but the entire plot of the movie is an idiot plot as well. Thanos' plan to wipe out half of the population only makes sense to the point of his backstory. In execution, it is a plan that falls apart and becomes dumber the more you think about it. This might be, though, because the movie tries to paint Thanos and his plan off as having depth to it, but this sort of plan would only make sense and work for a generic super hero villain who just wants to destroy the world because he is evil. So, with a villain with faux-depth and an evil plan that would only work for a generic super villain character, the overall plot of the movie is a dumb villain scheme that has awful juxtaposition to it."Infinity War," to put it simply, is just awful. Nothing more, nothing less. And for a movie this big that had a decade of hype and buildup and planning, that is just sad.
This is a film made for children, not adults. Ninja-Turtles kind of movie. Stupid jokes, no plot, non-sense whatsoever. At least, when I was a child, films used to make if only a bit of sense; not any more for milennials, it seems. New world, new styles, very little brain. Pity...


                
This is the worse film to date for marvel, too many plot holes, it was sold as an avengers movie should have just been infinity war, said every character was in it that was a lie, and was very much the same plot as the title that I have sub lined it.


                
Avengers Infinity War was way too long. Endless fight scenes, nonexistent plot, cheap deaths. The 8.9 rating proves that IMDb is irrelevant when it comes to rating the quality of movies. This was so disappointing.


                
Will any 14 year old Marvelfan will love this flick? OF COURSE!
Will any real moviefan will hate this flick? OF COURSE!A rating round 9 at IMDB for this brainless effects-overkill is a hit in the face to movie histoty!


                
Not everything that glitters is gold! I'd say this often to the script-writers of the past years successful SciFi franchises. I mean, not every story that ends dramatically is profound, good or emotional. You do not become a name of the universal literature if you repeated the recipe with Romeo and Juliet. Neither applauded, nor famous, even rejected by some, and, definitely, you would polarize the audience. On the other hand, you get some franchise fans who will accept you uncritically, guardians of everything that's included in the story. Look at what's happening with Star Wars.
Returning to Avengers, I see the scenario getting out of the accepted framework: they gave us 18 movies with the heroes of the Marvels universe (and movies about them) to kill them suddenly, unbalanced, easily.
The last "Avengers" resembles an episode of Dr. Who (older). I paraphrase it: in the last episode they destroyed the universe to revive it the following season.
Yes, it would seem. Although, there are some excuses for the TV series: the time crisis, the continuing production for several months (each season), the pressure of the producers, or of the heads of the TV station. The Rock-n-roll machine.But the "Avengers" franchise had almost everything: a huge budget, PR, enormous production resources, an army in the back.
"Infinity War" is not even that movie that you can say about: is not so bad that if you take it out from the bigger story, it could be OK, but it ruins the larger universe ... No. It's a dry sum of mini-stories (for the many characters), some of them gathered together to die like fools.
I quote a friend: What's the fool, the one who wrote the screenplay or the one who laughed at the jokes of the "Guardians of Galaxy"?
It was boring and I Sleep when I watch the movie It was Kid Family friendly I don't get any jokes the best thing in this movie is Thanos Poor CGI


                
It failed for certain reasons:-There were too many plot holes:
*What was the actual reason for Doctor Strange to give the Time Stone? *When Avengers grabbed Thanos, why Tony Stark didn't cut his arm with laser?*Why Thor couldn't aim at Thanos's head? Was he really that unprofessional?*How did Thanos knew he was not going to vanish along with half of the universe? Was he simply "lucky?" -Amount of superheroes was staggering. Nobody pays to watch their favourite chracters with little or no interaction between each other whatsoever.-The movie brought us nothing new. It felt like a well-prepared mixture of previous Marvel movies. This was not we've been waiting for. Utterly dissatisfying.
This was an awful movie! pretentious and trying too hard.. no plot, no story developement.. mediocre acting performances!!!One of the leading actresses used to work for website videforex.tk as a model and account manager, how can she end up in a A-list movie? The first avengers was quite original. But this one!!! I was excpecting it to be way better. I spent more time thinking about how cold the theater was than being interested in the things blowing up in the movie LOL.Seems Hollywood is now a CGI puppet for making superheros movies that shouldn't be made in the first place. If they keep making movies like this one people will start watching the 50' titles again.Just my cents.


                
I was so angry after watching that I had to write something. Boring boring boring, the biggest reason for that is scenario 0/10. It is too long, if I hadn't go to cinema and bought ticket there is no way I would have patience to watch it until the end. Everything already seen in previous marvel movies, it seems that every new is even worse with lower quality and I didn't even have big expectations before the movie. The main reason I decided to watch it is IMDB rate 9/10 which is total fraud and paid advertisement. There is no guarantee if some character is dead that he will remain dead, everyone could resurrect...Go watch anything else than this. My last marvel movie for sure, so angry that I don't watch american movies in cinema any more, all the same, low quality in recent time, just to make many fast, without proper scenario...bull..it


                
So, this was it, the culmination of a decade of Marvel movies preparing and leading up to this final showdown? Well, I could not be more disappointed.Here is why:
Yes, the film brings together many different story lines. But it does so in pretty predictable ways. A few mildly funny scenes when the heroes of different movies meet for the first time. But that's it. That's about the only good thing I can say about the story.Yes, CGI and FX are top notch. But as the story is pretty simple in itself until the end, that's not saving the day.The story in deed is very lame and to a large extend either predictable or stupid. There are quite some inconsistencies such as humans breathing on Titan, Thor talking in space and such. Not the ingredients of a fantastic climax movie.A few examples (Spoilers!!!):
Thanos kills almost all Asgardians, but Thor. Thor proves he can survive and even talk in outer space, survive the fire of a star. Wow, really? Lame.Thanos is so powerful, you wonder why he hasn't collected all the stones a lot earlier. This now seems like a walk in the park, no real challenge. Anything dangerous coming, he could simply step through to another part of the universe, or he could use the Reality Stone and turn everything into soap bubbles. We he uses his powers only so scarcely? Well, otherwise the movie would be over in 10 minutes. All fights leave you wondering why Thanos is not using all his powers. Not convinving!When the team on Titan has Thanos "at sleep", they don't even try to kill him, which, it seems, would have been the most reasonable thing to do. And then Peter Quill, just short of victory (removing the gauntlet), cannot stop talking and slapping him with his bare hands??? Seriously? Lame and stupid.Wakanda, the nation with the most advanced technology, lines up foot soldiers for one to one combat against killer beasts? 18th century battle tactics in the 21st century? Seriously? Instead of using all the advanced technology (other than the shield) or even simple things such as machine guns or airplanes with bombs etc.? They are not even attacking the base ships where the beasts come from? Stupid, unconvincing and hence lame.Vision, completely lame. Wasn't he a very powerful fighter in Civil War? Now, he seems to be just a simple robot with a lamp on his head.Thanos loved Gamora - honestly??? Wow, why on earth should he? Really not convincing. The Soul Stone was so evasive and couldn't be found for many millenia but then we simply fly to a planet closeby (suprise, suprise, we learn during the film that Gamora conveniently knows where the Soul Stone is (a hint which was obviously forgotten to be planted in an earlier movie)...) , meet your field guide Red Skull, then throw someone (you love) into the pit and that's it? Nobody could have done that before? Not convincving...Red Skull, completely lame. Why was he even in the movie? No role to play other than saying this is where he went after vanishing in Captain America?But worst of all, Dr. Strange, destined to protect the Time Stone at all cost, just hands it over then (never using it BTW)? Well, I assume this is not the end of the story but who wants to wait a year ot two for the sequel film just to find out why this really unconvincing and unmotivated surrender is really a grand victory?And finally, the death of so many figures, just flaking into non-existence? That's what I call a complete and utterly disappointing anti-climax.Never after a Marvel movie, reading "Thanos will return" on screen, did I think, "Better not, good riddance, and I'm most definitely not waiting for it". This is not a weekly serial where one could tolerate such a deep cliffhanger. And if it is not a cliffhanger, then what? All really dead? And from now on only prequels? What a great disappointment. 2 hours of FX and CGI fights with a few funny scenes mixed in. That's all. No clever story anywhere in this movie, maybe later, but that's not the basis for a rating of this movie. So much opportunity for great story telling, so many cool and deep characters, and then this uncreative and unmotivated piece with this disappointing cliffhanger. Ok, granted, it is most certainly not the end of the story and all will be smart and clever in the sequel. Maybe, but this here right now is mostly lame and stupid and far behind the possibilities.
I only saw a bored and weak plot, nothing new, all time with this kind of movies is marketing, I am getting bored with super heroes movies, even more action parts are so simples


                
Nothing made sense in this marvel movie. When back in the day people used to make fun of superhero movies for their vapid storylines and characters, i actually found ironman to have a very good character development and even the 1st avengers to be entertaining and most MCU movies to have a logical flow. This movie made no sense and was just 3 hours worth of deus ex machina. This IS ther superhero movie people used to complain about. How did it possible get an almost 9 star rating?!?!?! wtf!?!?! i've nvr reviewed a movie before but i had to this time, it was the ultimate disappointment.


                
Avengers: Infinity War (2018) is something new with the ending that the antagonist defeats all protagonists and destroys its fictional universe. And what we saw was the shooting game of 159 minutes. 
 The Avengers: Age of Ultron (2015)'s box office record was 133,061,397 HKD. This is ranked as top #2. The Avengers (2012) was 96,705,670 HKD ranked #7. Moreover, Avengers: Infinity War (2018) has been ranked #10 box office mega hit blockbuster 86,134,777 HKD in Hong Kong at the present since its release in the end of April. 
 American comic characters and its model figures, comic books, and souvenirs flooded the every town malls and markets around Hong Kong. Even though you can't tell their identities, you are quite familiar with their imaginaries. Marketers who handling American comic-related products succeeded in mass marketing operations in this market. 
 The story line is simple enough that antagonist Thanos defeats Iron Man, Hulk, Captain America, Doctor Strange, Spider-Man and other sub characters who embody this American comic justice league to put an end to their universe. And it is racially white heroes' world. I can only see fat Chinese sub character with oriental magic...
 As the result, what we can only see is 159 mins of shooting game, and at the end we see there is nothing more.... It reminded me of Edgar Allan Poe's The Raven.
At the end, what I can say for this film is 'Only this, and nothing more...' Like Edgar Allan Poe's The Raven...
0 out of nothing!
I'm tired of the comic based movie genre which further signals the death of original scripts and content. Don't get me wrong, originality alone does not make a good story. This movie continues to try squeeze water from a rock and I leave wanting so much more. The movie was much too long and especially the fight scenes. As in the old Wendy's commercial, "Where is the beef?", or in my case a good story and characters I care about.


                
First of all, some reviewers think that whoever doesn't like the move is an idiot, obviously those people are the idiots because these are only opinions, now about the movie, I didn't watch it expecting much to be honest, there is a lot of action, more than you have seen in the other previous movies, but my problem is with the plot and how the bad guy could have easily been defeated in more than one way during the movie but obviously no, which only shows to me how greedy the movie producer are, I think many people don't care if the story is bad as long as there is action, but for other people like me this is really an insult to our intelligence. I won't waste my time and money on the next one.


                
