Oh man...I was so looking forward to seeing this movie, and so bitterly disappointed when it was done. It might not be the dumbest story I've ever been subjected to, but it sure tried hard.First off, the CGI was magnificent. Most of the cast weren't actually there when they filmed this, and yet you believe. It all looks so real, and when you have a scene with CGI Kroot, CGI Rocket and a CGI background, and everyone looks real and has emotions, it's staggering. Absolutely hands-down the best movie I've ever seen in this regard.Now let's talk about that story. Spoilers from hereon in.Hey, how about that scene where Wong cuts off Cull Obsidian's left forearm with a portal?
Hey, what about Cull Obsidian tearing off the left forearm of the Hulkbuster suit?
How about that scene where Groot cuts off his own left forearm to form the handle of Stormbreaker?Are we seeing a pattern here? What to do about a bad guy who wears the ultimate weapon on his left forearm? Ooooh, I wonder. And Thor with that spanky new AXE and all...Not to mention the master of the time stone choosing not to use it at any time in the movie to make it all better. Yeah, yeah, yeah, halfway through he looks into the future and sees only one way to win (assertion with no evidence) but he doesn't even try earlier?Dumb. Disappointingly dumb.Fantastic dialogue throughout. Clever moves from Thanos's guys in Wakanda, and some amazing fight scenes. But that story...And the second Black Panther (with another movie in the works), Spider-Man (with another movie in the works) and the Guardians (say it with me) start to wink out, you KNOW it isn't going to stick. And Part 2 will involve some form of travelling back in time to undo it all. Good grief.
This is an incomplete film. Thanos is collecting the 6 gem stones, which can magically do anything for the possessor. The Avengers, Guardians and anyone else you can think of are out to stop him. That is the entire crux of the film.
 Thanos' motivation is that he wants to eliminate half of the universe's population under the notion that it will somehow cure poverty and starvation. This premise is asinine, however. Earth was half of it's current population a mere 50 years ago, and poverty and starvation was an even bigger problem at the time, than it is today. If he really was concerned with the ratio between life and natural resources, why not increase the amount of resources? Either way you look at it, the motivation was incredibly asinine and poorly thought out. Regardless, that's Thanos' master plan and the heroes aim to stop him. From the very beginning, however, they fail miserably. By movie's end, Thanos has won; he has all of the gems and half of the universe is dead, including all of Asgard and at least half of our heroes. The End. Seriously, that's the end. 
 Now most folks recognize that the carnage and death in this film will be undone in the next movie. Dr. Strange likely cast a spell on his gem that will start mucking about with time and reality and they will somehow make things right again in time for those Black Panther and Guardians of the Galaxy sequels. But that's a completely different film and that just belies the significance of this film even further, Films should stand on their own. Infinity War doesn't do that. If you get off seeing the heroes getting their asses kicked and dying while the bad guy wins at the end; then this is the film for you. I think that's the sort of story that would only appeal to someone who enjoys tearing the wings off flies.
Suffering hype fatigue, over a year of industry talk about this movie in pre release. It takes away from viewing the movie. In the end it's just more of the same computer generated over the top smash and bash that appeals to 12 year olds or those that are stuck at that age. The first avengers was original. But now what Hollywood movie makers due best, take an original movie concept to cash in until death in franchising occurs. Sorry about raining on your Hollywood comic book Heroes block borer. But the only hero I can see is someone to say enough comic book sequels. They've become boring and predictable recycles. I spent more time thinking about how uncomfortable the theater seat was than being interested in the things blowing up in the movie. Seems Hollywood is addicted to CGI for making movies that shouldn't be made. If they keep going this way they could probably try selling a film of things just blowing up, no story, plot or actors acting just things blowing up.


                
Can anybody explain to me, what was good about this movie other than the special effects? I left the movie dissappointed and with a grudge against Marvel.


                
A movie should stand on its own two feet as an entertainment experience. You shouldn't have to watch 18 other movies first in order to enjoy a film. Unfortunately, to enjoy Avengers: Infinity War, you really have to have seen all the other MCU films or this film doesn't really make any sense. Hell, they rarely even introduce characters by name, let alone give you any clue as to who these people are. It really takes shalllowness to a whole new level of yawn-inducing ennui.It's not like I haven't seen any other Marvel superhero movies; I've seen several. When I was a kid, I read the comic books. And I still had no clue who most of the characters in this movie were! And I certainly didn't give two hoots whether they lived or died.The film is a spectacular, eye-popping kaleidoscope of sumptuous costumes, special effects, and MONEY spent lavishly on just about everything. The salaries for the all-star cast alone must have sucked up a huge portion of the film's budget. But who cares? If you weren't already invested in the characters, you aren't going to become invested in this sea of nameless wisecrackers spewing rather clever (but pointless) dialogue endlessly.I couldn't make it to the end, I walked out about halfway through. I hear the end is the best part but I couldn't summon enough interest to care. They lost me with the meaningless major death early in the picture. Snore! I don't go to a film to see favorite characters bite the dust! Especially since they'll just have to resurrect people so they can make their various contracted sequels in their own franchises. This film is an expensive waste of time unless you're a rabid fan.It's all about the story, man! Without a good story and some time spent up front getting you invested in the main characters, a movie is nothing. Black Panther was terrific because it had a terrific script but this film sucked rocks because its script was a shallow, mediocre snooze despite the witty repartee. Don't bother unless you're a big fan of the MCU.


                
Maybe I'm just sick of superhero movies. But I found myself bored and so sick of the mindless violence in this film that really just lacks a good strong story at its core. 
Superhero movies have overstayed their welcome for me. This is the last one I'll go to see I'm done.


                
I thought this movie was pathetic. Thor has no Hammer, and forges an axe? Are you serious? The Hulk grapples with Thanos and is overpowered to the point where he is afraid to come out through Banner? Are you serious? Where is CA? He lost his razor AND his shield? Are you serious? Most of the things I expect from the Avengers were absent in this film. There was very little working together to defeat a Foe; and way too much about the Bad Guy -- Thanos. Like, why do I care? Thanos is the Bad Guy, so defeat him and move on! Then the Ending --- utterly pathetic!
If you love all the other mcu films, you will probably love this one. If you are an avid film enthusiast like myself, you will probably have similar complaints to what im going to say.
For one, this film tries to focus on more things than what it is actually capable of pulling off. There are so many characters in the film that characters like black widow and black panther are reduced to seconds of screen time. Characters that are actually somewhat integral to the plot are so one dimensional they might as well get seconds of screen time.
On top of that, characters that usually bring forth tons of charm regardless of the movie's quality (like thor or star lord) are completely unlikable in this movie. Actors like Robert Downey Jr completely phoned in their performances, and it made for a dull atmosphere even compared to other sub-par mcu films. 
The direction in this movie is TERRIBLE. It was so poorly handled. For example, Gamorrah's death scene was shot like a low budget sappy music video. The shots were so distracting I actually laughed at some attempted dramatic moments in the film.
Overall this film is not good cinema. If you enjoy mindless entertainment with an underdeveloped villain and hipster captain America then this is the movie for you. If however, you want some form of artistic value in your films, I would skip this one and go watch the hiding place (its much less of a waste of your time).
The comedy was good. The ending was good awfully depressing. Don't take kids it's little to Gorey and seeing almost everyone die. Is not a good thing for kids.
Sometimes when you cook a dish for your guests, you think that you'll make it more tasteful if you keep adding ingredients over ingredients; so, you have made this nice pizza, you have put your tomato sauce, your mozzarella cheese, maybe some ham, then you think why not some mushrooms, and well peppers will be just perfect on top it, and don't forget olives and cappers, hey we have some sausage in the fridge just slam it on top of it....etc. Most likely your guests will spend the night wrestling with your heavy-loaded pizza, trying to digest it.
Well, that is how I feel after watching Avengers - Infinity War; it's not by cramming piles of different super-heroes into one single movie that you make a great movie. It just results in a huge loss of focus and in the inability to pull together a cohesive story as you have to make space for this crowd of stars.
Note that I'm not even complaining about the ordeal of CGI: they have by now become a commodity in contemporary movies and not even only sci-fi, so their abuse in this case was in the expectations. But geeez, the plot....the plot is so thin that one might claim there is not one; just an infinite series of punches, hand-fights, bang-bang, etc...
So I'll go now, I have some work to do tonight to try and digest this nuclear pizza....


                
Whole movies feels rushed . Most of the time fight starts --> fight ends and Thanos gets the stone lets move to next stone .
rushed story elements.
sub par action sequences .
most of the important actions sequences are not even present in the movie.
( fight sequence to get power stone , fight sequence when they capture thor, fight sequence on nowhere ........) it felt like fast forwarding through whole movie. well they ruined the joy of infinity war. too disappointed 
lets hope infinity war get a remake its deserve in future.( and by the time they do lets hope i forget this disappointment)
story in the movie could have easily divided into 2 parts
8 minutes of original banality repeated for well over two hours.


                
When you take 16 movies to build to one - remember to tell the actual history. You can't get to the apex of 16 movies, forget what you said, disconnect the dots, throw all the characters in and call it an epic. You really need a connected story. A team isn't a team when there's no tactics, no strategy, and no unified goal. With the amount of money spent making these films give a little money to the story tellers.
This film was complete and utter tosh. Judging by the way it has been positively reviewed by some other IMDB members, I cannot help but wonder if we watched the same movie. I fell asleep repeatedly during the opening night screening in my city and I lost most interest in it after 90 minutes or so. (The run time was much too long.) While I've enjoyed quite a few of these Marvel big-screen productions in recent years, I didn't enjoy this one very much at all. Unless you're a comic book fan, I'd take a pass on this one.


                
Marvels studios Avengers: Infinity War certainly lives up to the hype it generates.
Now take a slow peek beneath the 'hype' and what do you find?
You will see a repeat of what previous MCU chain movies offered:
Slick action and stunning visuals.
The producers know this mix works very well at the box office and so it comes to no surprise they apply this same formula again here. Supposedly the culmination of previous MCU movies, Avengers: Infinity War is where superheroes gather to prevent the main villain Thanos from acquiring a set of supernatural stones in order to become the most powerful being in the entire universe and beyond.With a disjointed plot, mediocre story line and poor character development for the main villain, Avengers: Infinity War falls below expectation as a standalone movie.
The story line totally fails in building up the viewer's eagerness for their superheroes to give Thanos a good thrashing.
(The exception maybe fanboy's for Bruce Banner)
The supers are made to look as if they are a bumbling bunch, caring more for their kin than saving the entire universe.
 On the opposing side, Thanos is a grey brooding being waiting a chance to tell his (or it's) dull life story....yawn.
Thano's screen presence doesn't invoke anything out of the viewer's emotions. No fear, anger or even sympathy; Nothing! Towards the end of the movie I thought it would have been just super if Dr. Strange opened up a portal from the 'other' alternate superhero universe for the man of steel to come and beat Thanos out of his boring stone hunting life.As of previous MCU movies, nutty one liners are a prerequisite and here in one glaring instance the scriptwriters stooped low for this. Is Avengers: Infinity war a great movie?
Opinions differ on opposite ends and with respect to that, let me say that Avengers: Infinity war is not great and not even good a movie.Parents (If family values are high on your list) with young kids wanting to see this, be aware that Avengers: Infinity War has a dark underlying theme.2 stars, one for Tom Holland and the other for Tom Vaughan-Lawlor.


                
SPOILER: The plot follows Thanos around on his quest to collect 5 stones, achieve control of all dimensions and eliminate half of humanity in an attempt to save planets from population induced ecosystem destruction/annihilation. Each stone quest involves 10 minutes or so of the same CGI fighting. Why 5 stones? Why not, they've got time to fill. Lots and lots of time. Many of the characters are likeable esp the Guardians of the Galaxy, the Hulk and Tony Stark BUT, there are just too many groups involved with too much repetition. The plot is mildly interesting daring to touch on overpopulation crisis. Thanos makes a good point. Though in true Hollywood style, he goes about it the wrong way. He should have sterilized half the planet, not dissolve them.
This movie was kind of like an episode of TWD. Just a bunch of people chit-chatting with each other with boring action sequences. The premise of the movie was laughable and I'm a bit surprised that it's the best Disney/Marvel could come up with. It was like something DC/WB would come up with.


                
Of all the millions of dollars spent on the CGI and the big name actors, someone forgot to hire a decent scriptwriter.
 
The plot was so full of holes I could imagine it looking like Sponge Bob. The attempt to make Thanos as the anti-hero was feeble and the backstory of the love for a daughter held no ground. All the heroes never used their powers the way we have seen them in previous Marvel movies, thereby conveniently handing ALL the stones to Thanos on a silver platter. AND setting up the scene for the next movie....It's bewildering and frustrating that only Thanos knows how to use the stones' power, despite having only gained them for the first time. Yet their previous wielders only knew how to flaunt it in front of him/his henchmen and then easily giving them away. The only reason I gave another point to the 1 I originally planned to give was because Spidey used an Alien reference...I really do want my money and 2.5 hours of my life back...
For those who hasn't watch it yet, I need to do my warning: You will not see anything memorable when you go to the theaters. You will see a movie filmed on green screen from beggining to the end and watch over 60 superheroes jumping planet to planet. There is no outstanding acting, no appealing visuals, no impressive dialogues, no idea, no plot, no message, nothing satisfying! You may like DC style dark and serious superhero movies, you may like Marvel kind silly and funny superhero movies but you are going to hate this in both conditions.Don't be decieved by ratings, I don't know what these people watched to give these reviews but the hype didn't worth it!


                
Lots of spectacle, clever banter & special effects. Lousy ending. It's really just a trailer for the sequel. I wasted my money.


                
Over the years, we have watched so many hero movies from Marvel. Slowly.....they become dull . I'm bored after watching this movie. Also, I'm a little upset and angry at the same time. Too splendid....too much going on and the ending is ummmm ok. Some characters I do love are Iron Man and Spiderman. Now.......Let's get slamed by the Marvel's fans. No offense!


                
...every single frame has so many things...But the story is absolutely lacking, everything seems to happen completely by chance, characters are inconsistent with their comics' or previous MCU movies' personae.
Thanos is immobilized about to be deprived of his gauntlet (why not cutting off his arm, I wonder?) but Mr.Moron Startlord Quill (I don't recall him being such a moron in the Guardians saga) messes all up, Dr.Strange refusing to use the gem of Time and then giving it away becuse, you know, saving Stark is worth sacrificing the entire universe.
And why Thanos is battling at all? After he manages to get hold of the gem of Reality he can just tell atoms, quarks, strings to do whatever he wants, wiping his enemies away by snapping his fingers: he even throws a moon at Iron Man, why not just decompose him and transform him into cardboard?If you love the MCU movies no matter what, go see this one, you will be entertained.
If you've started being disappointed by their storylines for a while, save your money for something else
OK I loved the sequel Age Of Ultron as it focused more on the avengers themselves but I will get into the negatives later. Avengers Infinity War is the prequel to the 2015 film and tells the story of the avengers who are no longer working together and must try and defeat a giant monster human called Thanos who wants the stones called the infinity stones. Each one makes Thano more powerful and it's up to the team to somewhat get back together and join the guardians of the galaxy(chris Pratt, Zoe salvada). Will they stop Thano?The special effects are very good along with the cinematography. However I didn't find it any good. The downside of it was that there was too much going on and I was so dissapointed with the hulk played by Mark Ruffalo as you never see him as the hulk at all this time. Jermery Renner who played hawkeye was absent in this and the film was so hard to follow e.g what happened to Thor's eye. I felt like it was skipping or whatever. Overall do yourselves a favour and watch the 2015 version instead.


                
Really? A super hero epic in which the villain wins, kills half the Universe, and The End? 
Words cannot express my disappointment in wasting these 2.5 hours. Excuse me while I scatter into dust.
Seriously when are these editors going to get their crap together & cut it! Hm? You don't need to drag a film on & on for what seems like an eternity! Cut the crap! Cut it! Get to the point already!!As usual, story-line was confusing, too wrapped up with own issues other than saving peoples lives, which is what these films have missed the point of over time, not to mention bad editing, & poorly executed narrative. They weren't speaking English as I had no idea what they were talking about half the time or should I say most of the time! Maybe if they cut the cra[ & made the film snappy it probably would've made more sense & instead of dragging the climax out in such a choppy changing like manner (what climax, I'll get to that later) anyway, as well as repetitive, the climaxes ending was all over the place! Bad guys gets "killed", comes back again, gets killed, comes back, more chopping & changing, then a slow dragged out scene, then back to the climax! The end outstayed its welcome, & well as soon as it got to the 2hr mark, you knew they need to wrap it up, but it took another 40mins to do that! Damn!And the ending... don't make me laugh!! The ending could've happened much much sooner! So much so they dragged out a climax for this? I mean the ending was an insult alone, without the other reason being that it took them nearly an hour till they gave us this pile of horse crap! Oh my god!!Overall crap! DON'T watch! 2/10
