The first time I saw To Kill A Mockingbird was at a drive-in theater.  I was probably about ten or eleven at the time.  Even at a young age I was captivated by this seemingly simple story told through the eyes of children that I could easily relate to.  Perhaps also it was the fact that the part of the story that dealt with Boo Radley, held a kind of mystery and an eeriness for me, much in the way a ghost story would.  I'm not about to make the pretense that I understood the social significance of To Kill A Mockingbird at the age of ten, or even the greatness of the film.  That would come later in life, after having viewed it in one of it's first network television broadcasts.One of the things that makes To Kill A Mockingbird a truly great film is the love and respect everyone involved in bringing Harper Lee's novel to the screen had for the original source material.  It shows up on screen in every single frame.  Each performance in this film is beyond reproach.  Gregory Peck had many fine performances over his storied career, but none every approached the perfection he brought to his portrayal of Atticus Finch.  As Atticus, Peck brings us the depth of understanding as to how his love for Jem and Scout enables him to treat his children with respect and honesty. He never talks down to them, but approaches them on a level in which children of their age can comprehend and learn from his own wisdom.  Yet, he is still able to retain the same no nonsense approach as other parents. Atticus is also a man who believes in the integrity of justice, yet recognizes the failings of our justice system.  When called upon to do his duty, he does so, despite the hatred and venom brought to bear upon him and his children by the citizens of the town in which he lives.In casting Jem, Scout and Dill, Producer Alan J. Pakula and Director Robert Mulligan faced a daunting task.  So much of the success of To Kill A Mockingbird depended on the pivotal role these characters would play in the film.  For Jem he chose Philip Alford, for Scout, Mary Badham, and for Dill, John Megna.  Alford and Badham were both southern natives who had never been in films before.  Megna was a New York native but was also inexperienced. It is this inexperience and lack of polish that enables all three to shine on the screen.  Mulligan began filming by letting them act as if making a film was like recess, allowing them to play on the set, and only moving the camera gradually as they became accustomed to their surroundings.  It paid off in every way imaginable.  None of the three ever appear as if they are actors acting, and bring a childlike wonder and presence to their roles that I had never seen before, and will unlikely witness again.Brock Peters as Tom Robinson, the black man falsely accused of raping a white girl, also gives a performance which he would never again surpass. You will not find anywhere a more memorable scene in any court room than when he testifies on the witness stand.  Because he dared to care about a white girl, he now faces almost certain death if convicted, and perhaps even if not convicted.  It is the first time I was able to begin to understand the effects of man's prejudice and hatred of a man simply because of the color of his skin.  Just as Jem and Scout came of age, and realized the significance of the injustices of racial hatred, so did I.Equally significant, is Collin Wilcox as Mayella Ewell. She makes it easy for many to hate her, but like Atticus, we see in her a person to be more pitied than hated.  She is a product of not only the times in which she lives, but even more so of her wretched upbringing.  Mayella is what she is, but only because of the deep cutting prejudices of those around her.  To Mayella, being caught enticing a black man into your house for relations, is the ultimate crime and the penalty for doing so is unthinkable to her.
In his screen debut as Boo Radley, Robert Duvall also brings to life the mysterious neighbor that once frightened Jem, Dill, and Scout so much. Though on the screen for a short length of time, without uttering a word, Duvall shows us a man tortured by years of cruelty, mistreatment, and the gossip and whispers of neighbors.  He is a man who wants only to live in his own way, yet the bond that links him to Jem and Scout is significant.  They are the childhood he had never really known.  Just as Tom Robinson, he has never brought harm to anyone, yet suffers significantly just for the right to be able to exist.The care with which To Kill A Mockingbird was brought to the screen can also be seen in the Art Direction by Henry Bumstead and Set Decoration by Oliver Emert.  They indeed bring to life what a small Southern Town would have been like in the early thirties. Cinematographer Russel Harlan's black and white photography brings it all vividly to the screen, especially in the way he captures the foreboding of the Radley house, the moments when Bob Ewell approaches Jem when he is left in a car alone, and even more noteworthy near the end of the film when Jem and Scout are walking home from a school play. Elmer Bernstein's score is never boisterous, but yet is as important to setting the mood of many of the scenes played out before us.There have been many eloquent words written in many of the comments on this board about To Kill A Mockingbird. Many of the words are far better than those that I have written.  Then again, maybe a few simple paragraphs cannot truly describe the significant achievement in film making that To Kill A Mockingbird is.  It will be forever remembered, long after you and I have departed from this world.  It is at this point that I usually grade a film. I will skip that here, simply because there is no grade that I can give that could possibly do justice for To Kill A Mockingbird.
To Kill a Mockingbird is the movie based on the Harper Lee novel of the same name about Scout, Jem and their father, Atticus Finch who is an attorney in a small southern town.  It is both a coming of age story about the children as well as a hard-hitting drama, as Atticus defends a black man who is on trial for the rape of a white woman.  This review is not an easy one to write, despite the fact that I have seen this film at least 10 times.  The reason it does not come easily is that this is one of the most personally important films I have ever seen and is in my personal `Top Five of All Time'.  I'm certain there is nothing that can be said about the film that has not already been repeated a multitude of times, so I guess the best thing to do is explain why the film is so important to me.I first saw this film several years ago and was so profoundly affected by it that I immediately watched it again.  Of course, the defense of a man wrongly accused of a crime is a common story line, but To Kill a Mockingbird stands out as an exceptional example for several reasons.  Among them, the date that the film was released:  1962, on the cusp of the civil rights movement in America, and the fact that it takes place in the south in the 1930's.  It is also far from the first film to explore the experiences of children and their own personal growth, but To Kill a Mockingbird stands out because of its sheer honesty and natural performances by the child actors portraying these rich characters.  But most of all, this film is special because of Gregory Peck's portrayal of Atticus Finch, a true hero.  At the risk of sounding histrionic, my heart aches when I watch him on screen because he is such an incredible man, and is so inherently good.  No matter how many times I have seen this film, I smile when I see his interaction with his children, and I well with tears when I see his incredible strength of character.  (No easy feat to break through the armor of this cynical film geek who, if given the chance would remake at least a few dozen films with tragic endings.) I was sitting in my car listening to National Public Radio recently the day Gregory Peck died, and I'm not ashamed to admit that I sat and cried hearing the retrospective they offered <U+0096> mainly because the man who portrayed my own personal cinematic hero was gone, but also because Peck lived his life with the same conviction as his best known role; a fact that makes Atticus Finch all the more tangible.  The American Film Institute recently named Atticus Finch the number one hero of all time, a choice I consider both brave and insightful in an age where our heroes generally either wield weapons or have super human physical strength.  Atticus Finch fights evil as well, but with his strong moral fiber and his mind.  To Kill a Mockingbird is generally required reading during the course of one's education.  If you have not read it, do so.  If you have not seen the film, do so; and share it with others.  It is an exceptional film that stands the test of time and will remain an important addition to film history for as long as the genre exists.  --Shelly


                
After hearing nothing but critical acclaim for this film, and the book it was based on, I finally got to see it. I am quite amazed at how well done this film is, and how timeless the theme is. I haven't read the book, but I'm considering it, just to see if there are any details that were left out. The story is amazing and exceptionally told. As far as I know, the film is as close to the book as it could possibly be; some call it the most accurate book-to-film conversion ever. The plot is very good, it takes a timeless problem and presents it to us, through the innocent eyes of a naive child. The pace is very good; apart from The Godfather(the first one) and one or two other exceptions, this is the only drama where there was truly not one single moment that I found dull, boring or unimportant. Nothing seemed trivial in the film. The perspective that is forced upon us is that of a young child, naive and innocent. This is a brilliant idea, as the eyes of a child is without a doubt one of the most impressionable things in the world, and the film handles this perfectly. What really makes the film, apart from the brilliant and possibly unique perspective, is the fact that the children are likable, credible and charming. You couldn't help but like them; believe me, normally I really dislike children. I find them annoying, loud and egotistical. But with this film, I couldn't, for one second, muster up any tiny amount of aggression, or even annoyance. They come off as so likable, charming, and, most importantly, *real*. Almost every kid in any Hollywood movie is either a completely ridiculous stereotype/cliché of a brat, who does nothing but destroy things around him, or the exact opposite, a little angel. Everyone knows that no child is the latter all the time, and even I will admit that there probably doesn't exist too many children who are the first, either. In this film, the children are completely real. They are naive, innocent, they disobey what their father tells them, but ultimately, they obviously love and respect their father, and they never do anything, anything at all, with the intent to hurt or harm someone or something. That is what a child is; innocent. They do what they do because they do not know better. This film provides a perfect view into their world, or, rather, their perspective of it. The acting is excellent. The child actors exceed all expectations. I was amazed at how professional and convincing they were. The other actors all give great performances as well. The cinematography is excellent; once again, it gives a perfect perspective on what your surroundings look like when you're a child. The characters are well-written, credible and well-casted. The dialog was well-written. The script was excellent. A very memorable and beautiful film, should be viewed by almost anyone. I recommend this to anyone who likes dramas, and just about anyone who for one reason or another might enjoy this. Don't be scared off by it being over forty years old, or it being black and white; it's an excellent film, and just about anyone would enjoy it. Don't miss this perfect film. 10/10


                
This is why I watch movies. Every once in a while I stumble upon such a masterpiece which moves me to tears, because it reminds me that, all bad things aside, there is good in all of us - we just have to help each other search for it and bring it to light.This is definitely one of the best films I've ever seen. Mary Badham is absolutely wonderful as 'Scout', and I think she deserves just as much credit as Gregory Peck for this picture.The rest of the cast are great as well, and a special mention goes to Elmer Bernstein for his delicate and so appropriate score.I love this movie and recommend it to anyone. 10/10


                
Enough good things can't be said about this movie.  It is undoubtedly one of the best and most moving films ever made.  No other racial injustice or discriminatory based movie can even compare with "To Kill a Mockingbird". This movie not only makes you sympathize with those who were being discriminated against, but also those who fought for those people.  One of the most moving parts of the movie is when Atticus Finch is leaving the court room and Reverend Sykes tells Scout to "stand up your father is passing".Gregory Peck has always been one of my favorite actors.  This is definitely one of my favorite roles that he has ever played, and he does an excellent job at it.  Mary Badham and Philip Alford are excellent as Jem and Scout. Mary Badham became the youngest girl to receive an Academy Award nomination for best supporting actress for her role as Scout.  Although it had a short time on screen, Robert Duvall's portrayal of "Boo" Radley was one of his very first roles on screen and what better movie than "To Kill a Mockingbird" to kick off your acting career.A great movie of all times.


                
Horton Foote's Oscar-winning screenplay is so good, it really supplants the 1960 Harper Lee book. I've recently re-read the novel, and it seemed weighed down and paced with backwoods vernacular and situations right out of the 1930s, that are shockingly removed from the 21st century. My goodness. I hope it doesn't strike others so, because the book is a gem too. It's just in need of ...updating perhaps, which is what the 1962 movie excels at; it translates the Depression Era for us. The characters (played, eg by Gregory Peck and Brock Peters in their signature roles) seem so much better-depicted on screen than merely in my own imagination from having read the book!
Only Arthur/'Boo' Radley (a peroxided Robert Duvall) seems at first a jarring casting choice to me; but in the end all seem terrific.Now THESE child actors, Mary Badham ('Scout'), Philip Alford ('Jem'), and John Megna (as 'Dill'), should've won Oscars. I'm sure they're all better than Haley Joel Osment, who strikes me as 'studied'. These kids are just natural, completely oblivious of the camera. Unbelievable. Actually, I wonder what genius DID do the casting, because the film gives no casting credit. I guess in 1962 the CSA didn't exist yet... That casting director deserves an Oscar too.This is what great filmmaking is all about; when several areas of perfection are jointly present a film that reaches into your heart and yanks you up and down. Those were real acting jobs, not the cretinous drivel passing for 'work' these days. The reason we don't see too many better movies than Das Experiment is because post-modernism has long encamped in Hollywood (it set up a Starbuck's years ago).The first scene instantly captures Scout's world. She's learning fast at the shoulder of her loving widower lawyer father that she shouldn't embarrass people who are even poorer than they are; and Jem is tantrumming up a tree because he can't brag about his dad's non-existent cool to his friends. Jem demands Atticus play football(!) for the Mets, or more uproariously as Scout tells it, for `the Methodists', hahahaha. (Can we picture Methodists in a sackrace? How many Methodists does it take to change a lightbulb?)The Boo Radley story arc is much better paced in the movie than the book; but because I want to focus on the race-relations arc, I will only make passing comment on Boo: he is gently painted in both the book and movie as another previously dismissed but highly virtuous person, who deserves to be analogized with the fragile, hopeful beauty of the mockingbird.
The harrowing exploration of entrenched injustice through various acts of racist violence are adult themes that really couldn't be explored well in a book constrained by the first person narrative of a 7-yr-old little girl. The movie is able to show the Tom Robinson court case much more objectively. Robert Mulligan's direction quickly telegraphs Bob Ewell's shifty creepiness with the scene of his slovenly leering at Atticus' children in the car. Collin Wilcox is also heartrending as Mayella, the ignorant, uneducated and abused daughter of Bob Ewell. Inexplicably, Gregory Peck's cross-examination scene is not quite as sensitive as Atticus is in the book; Peck never reveals that flash of pain at having to destroy Mayella's false testimony.
Little Scout's key scene, where she embarrasses the lynch mob (collectively no better than Tom Ewell alone) just with her amiable child's chatter, is EVERY BIT as powerful and stressful as in the book. Probably more, because body language is a much better form of expression for a scene like this.Brock Peters' Tom Robinson is the archetypal decent black man who, YES, felt sorry for a brutalized white woman, as we all ought to. Don't bother debating `what if he was guilty', because TKAM is not a whodunnit; it's an expose of what used to happen WHEN a black man was innocent. The heartbreaking destruction of Tom Robinson's proverbial mockingbird is our collective shame, even now, because similar dismissive laziness still happens. It's every person's character that matters, not whether they're `Methodists'.We do construct our identities as part of various groups. But no group membership, or belief about it, makes any person categorically virtuous. That still hinges on a person's strengths, and crucially, their weaknesses. A person's bad character will overwhelm whatever beliefs they hold; their good character will enhance them. We are all free to act better, or worse, than our beliefs; we're NOT powerless over them, so no-one should ever die over a belief. Cooler thinking than mere violence must rule, or else objective justice will never materialize. And it's only justice if the judgement is accurate; but accuracy requires the abolition of the sort of intellectual/societal laziness that regularly befalls the weakest subgroups of society. Well, we all saw the intellectual rigour of that lynch mob. Would you trust them to tell the time? You might not feel happy trusting even the sheriff (Frank Overton), testifying in court but no better than a hick himself: `Oh, I guess that would make it her LEFT'. Those powerful imbeciles stood in judgement over some societally fragile people, like Tom, and yes, like Mayella.It's still powerful how Tom's hammering as sarcastic legal argument by the prosecutor (William Windom) served to bring home Tom's societal fragility; and we're humbled at the quiet dignity of the entire black population who soberingly stood in the rafters to honor Atticus' failed attempt. The movie was made in 1961, some 7 years before the martyrdom of Martin Luther King Jr, yet in the light of recent gang-related violence, it's clear there are still many who think their group belonging excuses/masks their brutality as people. It does not. And the brutality came first.This movie needs to be seen by the young, to open their hearts to humanity, and their standards for their own personal character, for the rest of their lives. 10/10.
'To Kill a Mockingbird' is one of the best books ever written but this film does it justice. The performances throughout are stunning, especially that of Gregory Peck (Harper Lee was so impressed she gave him her late father's pocket watch, a prop he uses in the film, to keep). This film will make anyone think hard about how they treat others and it is really heartwarming without being soppy. It isn't necessary to have read the book before seeing this film but it might be advisable. This is one of the classic films of its generation and very few films of nowadays come close to matching it either. A real must-see.


                
Very rarely, it happens that movies are made that are very simple in expression but possess monumental appeals and significant life lessons in a style only of the kind of their own that, we can't expect even. This fact is truthfully exemplified in this movie. It's not just a movie or even just a promising story in general, but all it portray's is "Innocence". A girl's recollection of her childhood days which are still at their full bloom in her mind, depicting the innocence of juvenile as well as as adult minds, a period where mostly immature minds become curious to the racial bigotry and sometimes mature minds become its prey and a time when harsh realities of life like intolerance, hatreds, prejudice and adversities of society gradually dawn upon them.Atticus Finch ( Gregory Peck ) is an absolutely Gentleman Lawyer whose wife has passed away and he has a son and a daughter. A Black man Tom Robinson is wrongly alleged of raping a poor white woman. In fact, he a victim of white woman's effort to hide her guilt by targeting his innocence and utilizing favors of racial attitude of unsocial society towards Negros. Finch decides to defend him on his principles realizing that the narrow minded society will turn against him and so it happened and townspeople started making his life agonizing. The whole story is masterfully out shined by the ingenuousness, purity and innocence of his children with with a unique inspirational interaction with their father.Boo Readly who lives in the town is mentally retarded and is sidelined by the society. He is a mark of fear and curiosity for children because he is different from others. But he is the one who marks the ultimate climax of this emotionally crafted masterpiece.It's a must see movie for all ages in all times because it gives many priceless emotional and touching lessons for those who are sincere and perceptive.A Remarkably Simple and Simply Remarkanble Masterpiece!!!


                
When the American Film Institute polled its members and they selected Gregory Peck as Atticus Finch as the greatest hero on film ever, the selection was met with very few dissenters. I'm sure not going to argue the merits of the choice. But I do have a theory as to why.Gregory Peck for the most part played decent honorable thinking men in his films. A few films like Duel in the Sun and The Boys from Brazil have him as a villain, but the public never accepted him really in those parts.Few of us in our lives can be Horatio Hornblower or spike the Guns of Navarone or command a submarine as in On the Beach. But Atticus Finch in To Kill a Mockingbird is well within our grasp. He's a small town lawyer, raising his children as a single parent and most of all trying to lead them by example. The performances of Mary Badham and Philip Alford show the kids have learned it very well as does the uncredited narration of Kim Stanley as the grown-up Scout.Atticus Finch is a very attainable ideal. It is I believe the secret of the popularity of both the book and the film. To Kill a Mockingbird is the story of Atticus Finch and his family during the Thirties in rural Alabama. The action takes place over several months of a given year. The most important part of the film deals with Finch defending a black man for allegedly raping a white woman. It's a thankless task and Finch knows it, because he knows the attitudes of the people there, those who would make up an all white jury. Still he proceeds with courage and determination. His summation to the jury is a film classic and Peck's innate decency is nicely counterbalanced by William Windom's prosecutor who smirks through out the trial knowing he just has to play the race card to win.Other outstanding performances are Brock Peters as the man Peck is defending, James Anderson as the father of the girl he's accused of violating, and Frank Overton as the county sheriff.This film was the debut of Robert Duvall in the part of Boo Radley who plays the autistic neighbor of the Finches. No dialog at all for Duvall who conveys great and pained emotion with a series of expressions that are unforgettable. Duvall played a similar role in another Peck film, Captain Newman, MD.Gregory Peck got the Best Actor Award for 1962. He was up against some very stiff competition that year. Peck beat out Jack Lemmon for Days of Wine and Roses, Burt Lancaster for Birdman of Alcatraz, Peter O'Toole for Lawrence of Arabia and Marcello Mastroianni for Divorce Italian style. No doubt sentiment did play a part in the final award. Lemmon and Lancaster had already gotten Oscars and O'Toole and Mastroianni were relative newcomers. But I sure think the Academy selection that year has stood the test of time.This film has sure stood the same test.


                
"To Kill A Mockingbird" is truly a much loved and critically-acclaimed film. It is a perfect portrayal of childhood innocence, racial prejudice, moral tolerance and courage. No other words can describe this film except marvellous. The film is so wonderfully done that the audience actually feels as if they were in Alabama during the 1930s. This is a must see for anyone of any age.


                
About ten years ago, a year or so after I was married, I became quite ill and was bed-ridden for almost two weeks. I was in so much pain I could not sit on the sofa and look at television; my eyes hurt so badly from my fever that I couldn't even lie in bed and read. It was Christmas season and my husband, working in retail, worked extra long hours. With no way to entertain myself or even to sleep, the long hours spent alone were almost unbearable. Then I had an idea: I had seen that our public library had books on tape. I asked my husband if he would find something interesting for me, not having any idea what sort of "books" they might have. He chose To Kill a Mockingbird.I had, of course, always heard of the book but apparently it was not on our required reading list in high school. Remembering how I had loathed so many of the books I was forced to read in school, I had mixed feelings when he brought it to me. Still, I welcomed ANY distraction to help pass the time. What an absolutely wonderful book it turned out to be. (If my memory is correct, it was read by Meryl Streep. What a beautiful job she did of it!) Looking back at it now, I'm glad I got so sick that winter, or I might not have had the opportunity to "read" it. What a comfort it was to me during a painful, difficult time.A few years later I ran across the movie on television. I was so very pleased to see how well they translated it to film. No film ever captures EVERY facet of a book (or we'd have an awful lot of eight hour films out there!) but the book was definitely given justice. Having grown up in the deep south myself, even having myself attended segregated school and seen INTENSE prejudice amongst the privileged white upper-class, I applaud the book's writer and the film's producer all the more for producing such works during a time of indescribable social struggle and upheaval.To Kill a Mockingbird is a strong, quiet film of great dignity... qualities that are sadly lacking in almost every film made in this country today. To me though, having first come across the book in the isolation of of sickness, listening to it hour after hour in the dim light of my bedroom, watching the grey winter clouds pass by the window as I listened, it will alway be my own special, personal film.


                
I first saw this movie, and read Harper Lee's prize-winning novel, when I was in High School. And the subject matter has stood the test of time...'To Kill a Mockingbird' would have to be one of the classic on-screen court-room dramas and Gregory Peck once said that his award-winning portrayal of Atticus Finch, a small-town lawyer during the Depression, was his crowning achievement as an actor.The other character dominating the movie is 'Scout', Atticus' school-age daughter, who seems like she would rather be a boy at times. Her adult character (never seen on screen) acts as a narrator, quietly reflecting on and interpreting some of what we see.'Jem' is Scout's older brother. Jem and Scout's mother had passed away previously and there is a touching scene early in the film where the children quietly remember their mother and are overheard by Atticus. At the same time Sheriff Tate arrives to offer Atticus the most difficult case of his career -- that of Tom Robinson.Tom is an African-American and race relations in the 'Deep South' is another major theme of the film. Tom has been accused by a white woman, and will face a white judge and white jury. Some might say that the movie points to social inequalities and the fallibility of our judicial system.The movie is filmed in black and white and this seemed wholly appropriate given the subject matter and austere setting. It's a poignant movie that can be enjoyed many times over...
Undoubtedly a classic hallmark in cinema, To Kill a Mockingbird dealt with social issues when social issues were still very much an issue in society, much more so than today although some of the same basic feelings are still present. Being younger than the film itself, I can only imagine the impact it had on people when it first came out. And seeing how the film has not been forgotten after the decades since it's release, I think it's safe to say that it had quite an effect as it continues to do so. Having read the book in high school, the film seems fairly accurate to the story except for a few very minor things that are mostly the result of a book being condensed into a much shorter journey.Gregory Peck is perfect in his role as Atticus Finch and apparently I'm not alone in that opinion as he won an Oscar for the role. All three children in the movie are also quite impressive and entirely convincing. I particularly enjoyed seeing Robert Duvall in his first film appearance as the ambiguous Boo Radley. It's very difficult to give reviews for older films, particularly ones that were made prior to my existence, mostly due to the inevitable fact that like everything else films also age, sometimes weakening the original potency. But to be honest, the only thing that I can see that has noticeably aged is the music, which is entirely understandable and is to be expected. And given the fact that it's over four decades old, that is quite a statement. It all boils down to a very important film about a very important and popular book in which social issues were dealt with and still holds relevance today. Like many classics, it's not just a movie, but a film with a message. A heart warming classic and an essential notch in the belt of film history.


                
There are two highlights of this film: One is, as could be expected, Gregory Peck's portrayal of Atticus Finch as the rock of his family, the law, and even the entire Maycomb County. The other is the sharp, focused direction by Robert Mulligan. Hopefully, every movie-lover has seen at least one or two films in which every single camera angle is perfectly done. This film is one of them for anyone who has seen it. The silences and long pauses (almost Ingmar Bergman-esque in their magnitude) accompanied with some of the sharpest b & w photography in American Cinema make this a film that sears its images into your brain.The story, as anyone who has read Harper Lee's novel can say, is both sentimental and powerful. The screenplay by Horton Foote is good, but only as long as it follows Lee's clearly stated boundaries.To Kill a Mockingbird is a film with a brilliant lead performance, sensible, savvy directing which, when mixed with Lee's touching, fulfilling story of American values, is not going to be forgotten for a long time after the initial viewing.


                
Exiled to Pennsylvania for four years, I read this book to then later watched the film with my children because I saw it as the best gift I could possibly give them from my heritage. TKAM showed a whole generation of southerners how we might live up to our ideals and grow out of our bigotry. This is film making at its unpretentious best- unlike Kane or the Godfather, or Kurosawa, this film isn't about the director or even the actors; it is about a story whose poetry and truth have the power to change people. In that sense it renders powerful testimony to what film making can be. Cleverness and "genius" in making films will, at best, only rate an "8" from me. This film represents what I think a "10" rating should be about.Gregory Peck's performance fits the intent of the film perfectly- quietly dignified and accessible because of his ability to get himself out of the way. Not every book deserves or even affords film makers the luxury of making a movie that so closely reflects the feel of the book, but TKAM is one of those films that understood the book it was based on and the dream of the author who wrote it.


                
To Kill a Mockingbird is one of the best movies that I have ever seen. This movie shows some of the problems between blacks and whites. These differences between two races make this story so special. The characters adaptation was very interesting, starting with Atticus Finch and his children. Also, I love how this story was told through the eyes of one child.In this movie were many things that make it interesting such as the characters, the theme, plot and mysterious elements. First, the main actors had a very good representation on their characters, for instance, Atticus Finch, Scout and Jem. The theme of this story was based in prejudice and was showing the differences between blacks and whites. Also, the plot was very detailed and exciting because Boo was scary and mysterious. Finally, Tom Robinson also brings to the plot the essentials of the movie.Although the movie To Kill a Mockingbird is very exciting, some things do not show the truth of the story. One of these things is when Mr. Radley cemented the tree's knothole and the children get down without knowing the cause. Also, something needing to change may be the Ewell family because they are an evil family without any feeling toward other people. The trial of Tom Robinson is conspicuous and sad because the movie itself makes him an important character. But knowing all these things, this movie is still great.To Kill a Mockingbird is a great movie where you can find one of the most recognized actors of all time, Gregory Peck. Mr. Peck stands out in all his qualities that are made by his values. One of the foremost qualities of Gregory Peck is his courage to confront the goals of his work and his personal life. Atticus Finch and Gregory Peck have a different life and feelings, but they are both moral men. Finally, both conduct themselves with dignity.In conclusion, To Kill a Mockingbird is a beautiful movie that I will like to recommend to everybody to watch. In this movie one learns about the social class, the good and evil. One thing that I really liked was to know about Gregory Peck as Atticus Finch. Also, I felt empathy with many situations in the movie that reminded me of similar times in my life.


                
I saw this movie when i was a kid. Then again during high school days, then again with my kids. My kids loved it. One of the greatest movie of all time. Even at a young age I was captivated by this seemingly simple story told through the eyes of children that I could easily relate to. Perhaps also it was the fact that the part of the story that dealt with Boo Radley, (ROBERT DUVALL) held a kind of mystery. My daughter kinda got scared of the character BOO. But once she saw the entire film, she too loved it. To me the character, Atticus Finch (GREGORY PECK) remains the top screen hero of all time. The child actors are excellent also- particularly young Mary Badham as Scout, the little girl . One of the most moving parts of the movie is when Atticus Finch is leaving the court room and the Reverend tells Scout to stand up your father is passing. This is a deeply moving and powerful film about right and wrong seen through the eyes of children. Mulligan's direction is flawless. Art Direction by Henry Bumstead and Set Decoration by Oliver Emert are brilliant. They indeed bring to life what a small Southern Town would have been like in the early thirties. Excellent cinematography by Russel Harlan. The use of black-and-white cinematography conveys the mood of Depression-era small-town America perfectly and one of the best things is the music by Elmer Bernstein. Gregory peck's best performance and very inspiring character. Very inspiring movie. Waiting to own it on a blu-ray.


                
I wanted to be a lawyer after I saw this movie. Gregory Peck was astounding ;now that is acting, letting your face, body language, silences and actions speak the entire gamut.I followed the stories here through three different generations, the older generation Atticus Finch's set; watching him try to be a good example to his children while integrating himself into their lives, teaching them values unconsciously while setting standards and boundaries for discipline is a delight to watch. Miss Crawford and the old lady who was dying and Jem had to visit her, these bring an extended family element.The middle set : Boo Radley, whose eyes and vision is what follows the children round the neighbourhood ; living his dreams through them and bearing their heartaches as well.And the children ; Scout Finch is a most poignant storyteller; she relates the most significant things with colour and life. When they find the wax dolls in trees, the importance they attach to it, the feeling that Boo is watching and when she gets to meet Boo, she isn't at all scared, it's been so long that the anticipation of meeting him turns into respect. We grow with Scout at Atticus' knee, with Calpurnia, with Aunt Alexandra, with Jem & Dill, and finally in that epiphany scene with Boo (when she walks him home), she ages and time stands still and even when she returns to the present, she has become an adult in many ways; love, honour, sacrifice and selflessness all hold new meaning for her. She was never going to see the world through a child's perspective again.Boo was supposed to be scary, I'm thoroughly thrilled to know that it was a very young Robert Duvall.The storyline is simple but gripping, racism & prejudice burn long and slow and it takes the honour and faith of men like Atticus Finch and the sheriff to diffuse this or deal with it. When Boo kills Jem's Attacker Tom Ewell, the sheriff fabricates a story to protect Boo's privacy and the fact that he acted in defence of the children. As Miss Crawford says "it's a sin to shoot a mockingbird as they sing all day and give us sweet music" there are two mockingbirds; Tom Robinson and Boo Radley who have done nothing but try to co-exist and bring peace to their little world.The language belongs to the era; the settings are stark depicting the harshness, simplicity and "beauty" of those times. The themes of racism, superiority/inferiority complexes, sacrifice, respect, integrity and honour all resound strongly. It is a lesson in morals but a picture; a signpost for the future!! To Kill A Mockingbird reverberates with hope, while there is injustice, there will be those who believe in justice. Racism may always exist but there also those who believe in free will and equal; opportunities. At times all it takes is the simple voice of a child to remind us who we are.!!10/10
No better movie has been made about character. I believe most students read the book and watch the movie. That's not good enough. It should be required reading and viewing. The movie stands on its own for Gregory Peck's performance, which is my favorite by any actor, ever. Decency, dignity, and character are three things we all need more in our lives.


                
Oh boy this movie is so awesome you will find yourself flying among the Angels when you watch it, or roughly about as high as they fly. This movie is so great it's like finding out your brother is famous.This film is based on a book, but that doesn't mean it's boring like all that other rubbish. In this case it means that the film is even better than possibly all other films based on books, but possibly in a different way to the way you might be expecting.The movie is all about a raper who must face his crimes and stand trial (as was traditional in the time and place where the movie takes place, and in that time too). The man who defends him as his attorney is a man with three kids, only one of them lives next door.The focus is on his kids as they fool around with rubber wheels and various other machinations. The film is told through their eyes, even though they are WAY TOO YOUNG to be attorneys.I have found it possible to think that this film is one of the most beautiful films there has ever been in the world. Even though I cried during the duration of this film and I usually don't like that at all (in fact I hate it if a film makes me cry because I feel like a baby), in this case I can forgive it because when I cried I had a lot of joy in my heart that made it swell up and make me cry from my eyes. But I did have a big smile on my wet face when I was crying. You will feel the same too if you see it, like dancing with your Grandfather.


                
While I must confess to not having read Harper Lee's novel, this movie might possibly rank with me as the greatest cinematic drama ever. It paints a vivid picture of the incredible injustice of racism in the 1930's South, a character study of a very principled lawyer, and a bittersweet view of childhood's innocence.The film relates the story of a widowed Southern lawyer named Atticus Finch, as seen through the eyes of his tomboyish young daughter, Scout. Together with her older brother Jem and their sidekick Dill, the children explore the goings on of their local neighbourhood in Macon, Georgia. They also witness the South's entrenched racism in their own hometown when their father takes on the case of defending an innocent black man, Tom Robinson, who has been accused of raping a local white girl. Of course the jury is all male & all white, and many of the prejudiced townsfolk do not take kindly to Robinson's defending lawyer, even extending their outrage to Atticus's children. Meanwhile, the youngsters are inquisitive about their reclusive neighbour Boo Bradley, rumoured to be a dangerous madman.It would be difficult to imagine a more compelling and personal depiction of racism than this false accusation laid against the harmless, kind hearted Tom Robinson. These trumped up charges in fact result from the victim Mayella's own sense of guilt. Brock Peters perfectly captures the quiet humanity of this utterly sympathetic, despairing defendant who faces a predictable verdict from jury members who see all black people as liars. The scene where he breaks down on the witness stand will haunt you forever. Robinson's humble home and anguished family round out the portrait of this travesty of justice. Atticus Finch is surely the most principled, gentlemanly fictional character ever conceived, masterfully portrayed here by Gregory Peck, himself such an endearing gentleman. He brilliantly captures Atticus's sense of justice and morality as he takes on the unpopular and even potentially dangerous task of defending Robinson. This is a kind and modest man who treats everyone with equal respect...black and white, rich and poor...the white Sheriff, his black housekeeper, his unjustly accused client, his children, his neighbours, the poverty stricken but proud farmer who pays him with vegetables for past legal services. Atticus never appears more dignified than during his controlled response to a churl who spits upon him. He displays patience and understanding with his two motherless children, as he quietly tries to teach them true values of fairness and decency. If only every child had a father with the integrity of Atticus Finch to emulate, this world would surely be a wonderful place.The three children are engagingly portrayed by marvelous, perfectly cast young stars, the entire story depicted through their eyes. Scout is a feisty tomboy, unwillingly forced to don a dress for her school debut and later prone to fighting with any schoolboy who offends her. Her older brother Jem is fiercely protective of his father, displays endless curiosity about neighbour Boo, and mockingly accuses his sister of 'becoming more like a girl every day'. Their chum Dill, a funny looking and comical fellow, describes himself as 'little but old'. What an appealing and amusing trio they make! Atticus's black housekeeper, Calpurnia, is a concerned and respected mother figure, who takes Scout severely to task for her rude manners toward her young lunch guest! The 1930's Southern small town neighbourhood is perfectly captured. Many of the scenes occur on the porches and in the yards, with the kids up to their assorted shenanigans. Their tree house and tire swing bring back childhood memories, and I can still hear those crickets. Unfolding events compel these innocent youngsters to face the sad adult realities of racism and injustice. Boo teaches the children a valuable lesson about the dangers of preconceptions, and gives the adults an unforgettable sense of true justice. Unexpectedly, he proves to be part of the title's mockingbird allusion.The atmosphere in the small town courtroom is brought vividly to life as the spectators fan themselves against the stifling Georgia heat. William Windom (from Murder She Wrote) portrays the smirking prosecutor. The trial is itself gripping and Atticus's concluding remarks riveting and inspiring. During the final courtroom scene, the local black townsfolk reveal with great dignity their respect and appreciation for Atticus. This film is a moving tribute to those who fought against the evils of racial discrimination and an incredible masterpiece that no one should miss. Though tragic, it proves ultimately uplifting.


                
The lessons of To Kill A Mockingbird have stayed with me since the first time I saw it over thirty years ago.  I was young then, but, I related to Scout and Dill having grown up in a small town myself. My own father was more like Mr. Ewell than Atticus.  The lessons I learned from Atticus helped me grow up to be someone other than what I might have in a dysfunctional family.  I learned to stand up for what I believed in, to appreciate others for whom they were and to use the intellect that came naturally to do so!


                
This is an excellent movie. I have seen it at least 10 times.  Gregory Peck was outstanding in it. This movie has suspense in it. It also shows how prejudice can hurt people. I would recommend this movie as a must see.


                
Harper Lee created a classic in her novel. This film adaptation is probably the best novel to film ever. It stars Gregory Peck as Atticus Finch in his Oscar winning role. Mary Badham plays the unforgettable Scout. One of the main reasons that I purchased the film was to see Ruth White in her performance as miserable Mrs. Dubose. Sadly she had a much bigger role in the novel but for everybody involved in this film classic, it was worth any minute of time. Alice Ghostley is also in the film as one of the mother and neighbor. Rosemary Murphy plays Maudie Atkinson. The film is first rate and classic which should never be remade even for today's audiences. It stands on it's own much Godfather and Citizen Kane. Please don't remake this film with today's stars.


                
Harper Lee's novel is required reading for many school students, and with good reason. It is a terrific exploration of childhood, growing up, the individual and what the individual can achieve, the justice system and human values. Atticus Finch is surely one of the most heroic and true characters ever created, and Gregory Peck does a marvellous job portraying him in the film version of 'To Kill A Mockingbird'.His interaction with the kids is the thing I enjoy most about this film-how both the adult and the child grow to understand each other through the course of the film's events. Atticus is a great father figure, in the fact that he isn't perfect, but strives to do the best he can, as a widower, by his children. When I was a child, I used to sit and watch this and pretend Gregory Peck was my real father instead of my own (we don't have a very close relationship), because of his sincerity and goodness of heart. Peck's understated qualities as an actor perfectly suited the role, it is one of the best male dramatic performances you'll see.The child actors are excellent also- particularly young Mary Badham as Scout, the little girl whose eyes we see the action with. The use of black-and-white cinematography conveys the mood of Depression-era small-town America perfectly, and Mulligan's direction is almost flawless. The courtroom sequences are some of the best ever put to the screen; filled with high emotion as Peck, the town's most upstanding citizen, puts his reputation on the line to defend a black man accused of rape. Due to the town's (and America at large)racial prejudices, the trial is a foregone conclusion even though the black man is obviously innocent, but Atticus' true character and faith shine through.This is an amazing film adaptation of a powerful novel.10/10.
