One hates to be the skunk at the garden party but this movie simply isn't as good as its reputation might suggest. It is extremely dated and calculated in ways that are now obvious but probably worked back in 1962. The dialogue has a tendency to go on for too long in almost every scene, as points are hammered home continuously, didactically, but aside from the scenes that belong only to the children the film is dramatically leaden and top heavy in what were at the time 'dangerous' and 'radical' ideas about racism and injustice (though they were fashionable in Hollywood), and frequently the movie feels like a sermon, and a self-congratulatory one at that.As the story of children growing up in the Deep South during the Depression the film works fairly well. It is beautiful visually and the photography by the underrated Russell Harlan is flawless. The performances of the actors who play the children are superb. Had the movie stuck to being their story it might have been a masterpiece. The part about the elusive, ghostly Boo Radley struck a chord, and I suspect that most of us can remember a spooky neighbor or two and the stories we used to make up about them. So far, so good. But when the black man accused of rape entered the picture a different movie emerged: preachy, obvious, self-consciously genteel about bigotry being the preserve of poor, ignorant rural folks, and above all obvious. This is when it becomes a star vehicle for Gregory Peck, who delivers an extraordinarily self-righteous summation to the jury complete with "for the love God!", and I stopped believing what I was watching and I began thinking about some of the shabbier Rod Serling Twilight Zones of long ago, with their 'messages' about 'little people' at the end. The film shifts into high gear in the last act, with the attack on the children, which I still find frightening, but the damage had been done, and even with Boo (blessedly) back in the story the poetic mood of the earlier parts of the movie was recaptured only fitfully, and I had a feeling of having been set-up.
Some of the problem with the film is obviously the Harper Lee novel it was adapted from. Miss Lee wrote a good book but as a writer was a far cry from Faulkner or even Eudora Welty, and having reread large portions of it a few years ago I must say that it dates as badly as the movie. She was trying to do too much with her wistful story, and got her politics and poetics mixed up, and the result is an unsatisfactory stab at greatness, though I must say it's a good try. But alas she missed the mark, and so does the film. There's a good deal of sponantaneous feeling in the stuff about the kids, but when it shifts to grown-ups neither Miss Lee, director Robert Mulligan or screenwriter Horton Foote seems to know how to make things work. Suddenly the story turns moral with a vengeance. It's not easy to treat the issue of a man falsely accused of rape any other way, for sure, but it ruins the magical tone so meticulously built up in the earlier scenes. Yes, the world of childhood has as much to do with imagination as reality, and especially with imagination applied to reality as a means of interpretation, which in adults seems the preserve of artists and no one else. The move from childhood to adulthood is often tragic, as life's unpleasantries become unavoidable. Art at its best provides a respite from this as well as another way of seeing life, of feeling things differently and of thinking deeper thoughts. In art we have the opportunity to recapture at least some of the affect of childhood, but to do so with wisdom and understanding.In To Kill a Mockingbird we see a liberal take on childhood, as imagination is tranformed, in the course of the narrative, into a sense of civic responsibility. Children, mockingbirds and black folks are metamorphosed into a kind of helpless class. Only they, it seems, are truly in touch with nature, truth and the meaning of life. The adult whites are either good or bad, interesting only inasmuch as they have all the power and often use it badly. The trick, as the film implies, is to get these blinkered white grownups to appreciate the pure world of freedom and ease that the children, mockingbirds and blacks enjoy, and all will be well, or at least a whole lot better. But alas the reason the white grownups are so dull and moralistic, in good and bad ways, come from their sense of responsibility, which comes with power, and which children, mockingbirds and blacks don't have. When they do get power (viz. Lord Of the Flies) they prove as capable as adults of doing foul, nasty things. I think that Lee, Mulligan and Foote are aware of this contradiction, if only subconsciously, which is why the prevailing mood of the story is one of sadness.


                
To Kill a Mockingbird is a wonderful movie, which is based on Harper's Lee novel and it is mainly about ''racial differences" through the innocence eyes of Atticus's children ''Scout and Jem''.The film is depicted in a simple way which makes it even more interesting in a sense where the problem is showed in a so implicit way.The story occurs in the 1930 in old Maycomb town, ''Scout'' curious and inspirational daughter of the loyal and humble father ''Atticus'', the latter in charge of the defense of the black man Tom Robinson wrongly accused of raping Ewell's white woman.Atticus Finch famous lawyer of the county had to face the curiosity of his children most importantly ''Scout'', she was disturbed by what was happening and it was depicted in a naive way to show us how stupid the problem was, a problem which come from a grey nothingness that is unacceptable and understandable by the children minds and as it is better explained in the novel ''there is something in our world that makes men lose their heads''.Atticus '' Gregory Peck'' amazingly played the role of the lawyer, a white lawyer who's defending a black man against prejudice during an epoch when the black people suffered an incomprehensible discrimination, The court room scene where Atticus is seen so keen to defend and show that ''Tom Robinson'' is not guilty through a meaningful speech in which he pointed out the evidences.Robert Mulligan did a good job to convert the so famous novel into a wonderful movie even though the novel still has some more interesting discussions and actions but still the movie reflected that climate and image the county was in at that time.All in all, the movie panned out to convey to the audience the racial problems that occurred at that time and making it one of the best ''BLACK AND WHITE'' movies of all time.Highly Recommended!!


                
Spoilers herein.Here is a film that is impossible to view as it was intended. That is because its effect was dependent on the cultural context in which it appeared. It was bold, working to explicitly redefine decency during one of the periodic self-examinations of the country. I saw it in 1962, and both of us are quite different now.Judging it now, apart from its historical significance, there seem some major inadequacies. In my mind, this is very much like `How Green Was My Valley,' which was wonderfully photographed and staged, but which had a hokey, romanticized story and some unrealistic acting. Here too. Peck may have been a loved performer, but he just doesn't have the stuff for this role. Everyone else who is on screen outacts him, is more real. More rooted in place. More naturally motivated.The book uses the thread of the story (sexual frustration, false accusation, cowardly herd condemnation, resentful attack, salvation by an innocent guardian) as mere chickenwire into which is woven many terrific small chunks of language. That language is not poetic in the sense of using the familiar to define the unfamiliar; instead it works the other way and is shocking and effective. To appreciate the book, you have to know Truman Capote's manner of enlarging the small, finding decision points inside characters and stringing them together in an external logic. Lee's approach to writing is to add another layer of observation: essentially she is reporting her view of what his view would have been. (The Dill character is Capote.) The mockingbird is a mimic who reports the songs of other birds found in its territory. It is fiercely territorial and seems to define its own identity as definer/reporter of that place.The film jettisons all this to give us a simple morality play. What a scandal. If the primary tone of the book is the respect for the richness of tradition in place, that respect is trampled by Hollywood. Well, nothing new there.But what we do get is some very interesting staging of the children. These kids are so formally choreographed, it is almost balletic. There is some movement, sometimes rushing movement, but everything is toward the goal of getting them in lovely group positions. Very theatrical, and I must say, very effective. None of their movements are natural, all come from the director's mind. But they perform them naturally, and this carries over the philosophy of how the story is told in the book. Some of the spooky staging is from "Meet Me in St Louis."This film has a very high rating in the IMDB system. I suppose most of these votes come from schoolchildren who are assigned this film as homework. The level of the morality play is just right for them, and they feel enobled.Ted's Evaluation -- 2 of 4: Has some interesting elements.
To Kill a Mockingbird is pretty famous in my household. My mom loved Gregory Peck's portrayal of the integrity-filled, honest, caring, patient father so much that she named my brother Atticus. It was a running quotation when I was growing up to say, "Do you know what a compromise is?" with a little Southern drawl. I know my family is one of millions who have tried to emulate Gregory Peck's clipped pronunciation of "Scout"; that one word is another one of our famous and long-running movie quotations.Unfortunately, there's nothing more American than racism, and in this adaptation of one of the most iconic American novels, lawyer Atticus Finch defends a black man falsely accused of raping a white woman. Since it's the South, you can only imagine the backlash he and his family receive from the community when he steps up to give Tom Robinson his right to a fair trial. As in the novel, the story is told from the point of view of Scout, Atticus's young daughter. Mary Badham plays Scout, and she's not only adorable, but completely earned her Oscar nomination. She was only ten years old, and the youngest actress to be nominated at that time! To Kill a Mockingbird marks Gregory Peck's most famous role, and while everyone knows the famous "In the name of God" powerful courtroom speech, his performance isn't just a "Gregory Peck role". He's a caring, concerned father, and the scenes between Greg and Mary are beautiful. Greg won an Oscar for his performance, and the film also picked up statues for Adapted Screenplay and Art Direction. Elmer Bernstein's lovely theme was nominated, but it was hard to compete against Laurence of Arabia, which took the music, director, and picture awards away from To Kill a Mockingbird. This is a real American classic, so if you're that one person in the country who hasn't yet seen it, rent it so you can join in the conversation with all your family and friends. Even if you're particularly attached to the novel and don't generally like film adaptations, give it a chance. Harper Lee herself loved the movie and thought Gregory Peck's performance was so wonderful, she gave him her father's (the real Atticus Finch) pocket watch. Peck's grandson is named Harper, which is really sweet, and it shows just how much this role and film meant to him and his family.


                
I wasn't yet the movie fan I am today but the first time I saw the American Film Institute's Top 100 heroes and villains, I could recognize almost every name, I expected a few exceptions but certainly not the number one hero: Atticus Finch, played by Gregory Peck, in the adaptation of Harper Lee's Pulitzer-winning "To Kill a Mockingbird". Seriously, who was that dork who had the nerve to be a worthier of the first spot than Indiana Jones or James Bond and that I even didn't know? And "To Kill a Mockingbird" kept popping up in every AFI list and even on IMDb Top 250, so it was an emergency case in my watch-list of fresh new movie fan. So, I saw the film and could see what was so heroic about this noble-hearted white knight of the South, who dared to question racism at a time where it was common banality. And he was played by the noblest of all actors: Gregory Peck. I often criticized his acting as wooden but perhaps this is the one instance where it did fit the character and his Oscar wasn't stolen although O'Toole as Lawrence of Arabia, Lemmon in "Days of Wine and Roses" and Lancaster as "Birdman of Alcatraz" had more complex personalities to play with.But there was something crowd-pleasing in the story of Atticus Finch, something that exceeded the expectations of cinema and satisfied the Hollywood conscience, it was still a time of relative innocence where the problem of racism could only be displayed through a white people centered story. Not that it's a bad thing but I wish the film had kept its original tone, as a story seen from the perspective of a growing precocious tomboy named Scout (Mary Badham), whose perception of her lawyer of a father and of the world of adults is influenced by one of the cases he must handle. "To Kill a Mockingbird" is a childhood story, inspired from Lee's memories the tired Southern town of Maycomb, but the film carries a child-like innocence that doesn't fit the case.Scout is a girl spending time jumping, climbing hills and trees with her brother Jem and their friend Dill, inspired by her childhood friend Truman Capote, and she sees her widowed father as a super-figure who has an answer for every question. And it seems that the film has somewhat embraced this creed and made Atticus Finch the hero of this picture, which is puzzling because he's not the focus for the whole first act. But we're supposed to embrace his nobility and optimism because it is obvious the case he must defend is a sham, and it doesn't even take courage but common sense. It's not much Atticus who's noble but the other people who are downright bigots and hateful. It's an insult to intelligence that Robinson is declared guilty despite Finch' invitation for humanism and empathy, but the real heroism would have been to convert them. But Finch's aura is one of a preacher, powerful, symbolic but eventually, useless.I actually enjoyed the film and it's never as good as when it plunges you in the universe of children, their interpretation of spooky local stories, Scout is like a little sponge trying to understand and appreciate the world as it comes to her eyes, learning from her father, the meaning of words like 'empathy', and the subplot also involves the identity of Boo Radley, which highlights one of these aspects of childhood when you tend to believe the adults, until you realize that they're somewhat corrupted and unworthy of trust. But when Atticus learns the news about the death of Robinson, I couldn't believe he believed he tried to escape. That the film doesn't even exploit the event and makes it look as it really happened that way, that the Black people would just be a sort of passive observers with no capability for action and when the town drunk, evil Ewell, spits on Finch' face, he doesn't flinch, I thought the whole sanctification of Finch was overplayed. A preacher, he might be, but a saint, he wasn't. Maybe in the eyes of her daughter, but at that point, the film was told from the adult perspective, not only it didn't work, but it didn't even fit the character.Finch was genuinely furious during his trial statement, he expected to save his client but he was shot dead in what seems to be obvious lynching, instead of prosecuting the case and serving the cause to the fullest, he accepts the outcome and when he's confronted to Ewell, he takes the spit like Jesus would take a slap. Robsinson was dead at that time, was Finch so perfect that he couldn't even give the guy the punch he deserved, what was to lose anyway? Couldn't one of the black guys do it? No, it had to be the hand of God through the providential Boo Radley (a youngish Robert Duvall) to punish the bad guy as to mystify the whole thing again, and creates some deep symbolism between a sordid case of rape and the local village idiot. An unpunished crime to avenge the first, too much religious symbolism for what should have been a tale from a child's eye.In the movie "Capote", when commenting about the success of the book, Capote says "I don't know what the fuss is all about". Speaking for myself, I can understand why the film is such a celebrated classic, but it doesn't hold up very well in today's context while the masterpiece from Capote "In Cold Blood" says as much as human nature and vileness as the book and is still relevant today. "To Kill a Mockingbird" is a classic, no doubt about that, but not all classics are supposed to be perfect. Maybe I will find in the book, these missing elements of 'perfections', though I trust Capote's opinion on it.
To Kill A Mockingbird, both as a book and a movie, has been hailed as a classic, a masterpiece, etc. I personally don't see what the big hoopla is.It seems that the movie is trying to be deep, trying to be artistic...and while a bit deep with the whole storyline of Tom's trial, in reality, that's all it did-try.They story is set in Maycomb County, Alabama, in the midst of the Great Depression. It follows the life of Scout Finch, a little girl growing up in that county. Basically, it's about what's going on with the town and what's going on with Scout and her family throughout her growth, leading to different "storylines" of events that happens to Scout and the rest of the Finch's.Probably the only storyline I really appreciated was the story of Tom Robinson's trial. Atticus (Scout's father) was defending Tom in a rape case, and since Tom was black, this was taboo in Maycomb. This story really showed unfairness and how cruel prejudice and hate can be. Maybe if the movie was only centered around that story instead of throwing in aspects like Boo Radley, Dill, and others, I would consider calling this movie a classic.I also might've enjoyed it more if they had had a different main character. I personally couldn't stand Scout. I understand that she was supposed to be an innocent, unknowing little girl, but she came off as an annoying, loud, obnoxious brat that I wanted to slap throughout the entire movie. Maybe if it had been from Atticus' point of view, or Jem's, or just ANYONE aside from Scout, I might've enjoyed the movie more.The cinematic work was pretty good, but not extremely artistic. It's a far cry from the fantastic cinematic elements of films such as "Traffic" and "Psycho". While it had some good angle work and good lighting techniques, it wasn't really a great film in the cinematic field. To be fair, though, I suppose that that's not what the movie was going for.I give it a 3/10. The story involving the trial was beautiful, there was some good acting (Gregory Peck, to give an example-although I don't think his performance was Oscar worthy)...but it was such a long way off from all it was said to be, it just turned out to be an overrated bore.


                
It is a classic, and rightly so. Great plot, good twists with multiple strong messages, and for some a questionable moral code. 
7/10 personally beacuse of scout - easyly the most annoying character in film history. Enjoy!


                
The acting all round was believable and superb.
I can't say the story was so impressive although the sentiment behind the film clearly was


                
"To Kill a Mockingbird" is a strange experience viewed with the wisdom of hindsight. It's like two movies grafted together, luckily both being pretty good, but making an uneasy hybrid.It works best as a coming of age tale, told from the perspective of Scout. I wish the whole movie could just have been that. When the perspective shifts to Atticus Finch, played by Gregory Peck, who won an Oscar for the role, it gets a bit creaky. I think coming-of-age stories are timeless. Treatment of racism, however? That gets old and embarrassing quickly.It is a testament to the movie's power that it's treatment of the racially motivated false accusation of rape at the movie's centre is not as bad as it might be, but it is still pretty cringe inducing in the way it resolves to make Finch into a noble white hero at the expense of black extras playing characters who should have gotten speaking roles.The resolution attempts to tie together the coming-of-age story and the legal drama, and is a brilliant resolution for the first, but barely seems to touch the second.It might have worked in '62, and I think the real reason why people still worship this movie is because it reminds us of a time when these queasy issues could be dismissed without too much thought. It's not adored for its agelessness - on the contrary. It's a time capsule. A reminder of a simpler time.


                
<U+200B>'TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD' - 1962Directed by Robert MulliganStarring Gregory Peck, Mary Badham and Phillip AlfordPlot Overview: <U+200B>Scout Finch (Mary Badham), 6,and her older brother, Jem (Phillip Alford), live in sleepy Maycomb, Ala., spending much of their time with their friend Dill (John Megna) and spying on their reclusive and mysterious neighbour, Boo Radley (Robert Duvall). When Atticus (Gregory Peck), their widowed father and a respected lawyer, defends a black man named Tom Robinson (Brock Peters) against fabricated rape charges, the trial and tangent events expose the children to evils of racism and stereotyping.This might be a movie that I am just not understanding in the slightest. It may genuinely be a testament of cinematic perfection. But, as it stands, I was immensely disappointed by this movie. Is it a poor movie? No. Not at all. In fact, there is a portion of this movie that could stand as one of the greatest 'Acts' in Film history. But the meat surrounding this Act was very lacklustre and poor for me. I am very sad to say that 'To Kill A Mockingbird' disappointed me.But what do I actually like about it? The portion between the first half and last 20 minutes was cinematic perfection. I am serious. I won't specifically say what happens but I will say that it is literally perfect. As for the film surrounding that part, that is a different story for me, but that does not detract from the masterful film making shown my the actors and Mulligan during that sweet, sweet 40 or so minutes.I also loved Gregory Peck in this film. He delivers a heartfelt, slow and meaningful performance as Articus. You can really see a passion and intelligence lurking beneath his calm, steady and articulate demeanour. Peck well and truly deserved his Oscar for this outstanding performance.Brock Peters was also incredible in his, unfortunately, minute role as Tom Robinson. Peters and the writers do excellent jobs in creating sympathy for this character and truly showing the injustice of the situation he finds himself in. I was very disappointed that he did not at least receive an Oscar nomination for this role; it was truly excellent. Phillip Aldford was good as Jem. The character wasn't exactly likable or interesting but I do admire their attempt at giving him an arc. Unfortunately, the same cannot be said about Mary Badham's Scout for me. It baffles me as to how she earned an Oscar Nomination because I found her performance to be bland and very poor. And Scout as a character was also very disappointing. I mean, she wasn't likable, interesting and I fail to see a true arc for her. Another flaw that I have with this film is the very mediocre beginning and end. The middle is, as stated prior, true cinematic gold. The remainder of the film is a dull, bland, uninteresting, monotonous mess. I fail to see the brilliance in it and, while the message of the film is strong and prosperous, the execution of it was not. Then there is the very annoying ending. Maybe I am an idiot but I did not understand what was happening in the ending of this film. It was very confusing. I understand WHAT happened but I cannot fathom as to why. Perhaps my attention merely lapsed for those precious couple of seconds for the grand reveal but that doesn't change my distaste for it. That, and that man was absurdly creepy.In conclusion, I was unfortunately disappointed by 'To Kill A Mockingbird'. It's not a bad movie by any means, and when it gets it right, it gets it right. But the overall package did not live up to the expectations I had. It was a little over average and the middle on its own would achieve an easy 10/10. Despite that claim, the middle was the middle, and it had the beginning and end bogging it down. Do see this film, though. The message is very important and it features an impeccable middle and performance from Gregory Peck. Aside from that though, it was not that great. I'll rate 'To Kill A Mockingbird' 7 'Creepy Men in the Corner' out of 10.


                
Most of us remember having to read this book in high school but with the directing talents of Robert Mulligan and a fantastic cast this story of 1960s racial prejudice and childhood innocence is brought to life. The film accurately represents the feelings of the public of the time through the eyes of a child in a setting of racial unrest. The acting is as compelling as the story being told and its no wonder why both the book and film are considered classics to this day.


                
I-like many others-had a requirement to read this novel during the course of my schooling. I loved the book and after seeing the film, my adoration fell deeper. This film is such a classic, and has so many teachings within. Definitely something that everyone should see. I have seen this film over and over again, and it is not one I will ever grow tired of.


                
Director Mulligan did a really good job of keeping true to the book of which this film is based, that was released only a short 2 years prior. Through brilliant framing, subjective pov, and long takes that often included monologues; this told and showed the story that has been a staple in America's history. It was highly culturally significant when it was penned, and it remains something that we look at today, because it dealt with more than just race, but also the stereotypes we place on people and how those are usually wrong (easily seen in Boo Radley's case). The film shows strength, cruelty, bravery in all of the everyday ways in which it as experienced, and that teaching doesn't end at with youth. That the student can just as easily learn, and then become the teacher. The best example is Atticus to his daughter Scout, who then speaks to Mr. Cunnighamn. She does so calmly and casually; she reminds him who he is when he isn't filled with hate and rage, and that her and her family are people just like him, reminding him that his son goes to school with her and of her father saying "thank you" after an act of surprise kindness he had done a while ago. She learns and grows throughout this experience, and is the vehicle through which the learning curve can be taught and seen to an audience that would have been conflicted during those times (the 1960s).


                
To Kill A Mockingbird was fairly engaging considering it was a movie
that was shot in the 1960s. Although I will say that it does start off
rather slow but right around when Tom Robinson's court case starts the
movie starts to pick up and become a more interesting movie. Another
good thing about this movie is that other than skipping a few parts it
was a lot like the book that was written and the book was very well
done as well. I think the only weakness of this movie is that it was
shot in the 1960s so being so old the acting isn't always as great and
it was in black and white which can also be less appealing to some
people, mainly teenagers that haven't been exposed to black and white
movies and might not like them as much. All in all, it was a pretty
solid movie, Gregory Peck did a very good job acting as Atticus Finch,
although the rest of the acting wasn't that great but that wasn't all
that relevant because Atticus was really the main guy to watch in the
movie. I'd say give it a watch unless you aren't interested in black
and white or old movies.


                
Most summaries for this movie say that this is a movie about a white lawyer that defends a convicted black man. Well, this can't be far from the truth. This movie is about Atticus Finch and only him. most other characters are introduced just to show how heavenly the man is.Of course the movie is very joyful and should be commended. Gregory Peck puts on a performance that we never see this days. Their is absolutely nothing that signals his an actor and not Atticus Finch. the photography is breath taking and i am thankful that the movie was shot in black and white and not in color because i think i would have barfed if it was in color.But is is the things that the movie is insinuating that i just don't get. Who is the mockingbird? Is it the black man? Is it Boo? Early in the movie we are told that mockingbird are the only kinds of birds that shouldn't be shot because all they do is good things for us. Are we supposed to believe that the black man or Boo shouldn't be shot because they are creatures like mockingbirds that shouldn't be harmed simply because they know less and do everything for the benefit of others???I have decided to watch the movie another time again but for now all i feel is a 7 out of 10.


                
I loved the music. And Gregory Peck is just amazing, looking into the fact that it is the first movie I watched of his. Fabulous performance. Now wonder the Oscar.Now, the direction couldn't impress me nor the screenplay. But the adaptation fares well, though it loses crisp at some points. To Kill A Mockingbird is epic when it comes to the story just like the book. If you have mindset of the 21st century then you might not like this and won;t enjoy this. But let me remind you why it is epic: the story, the peculiar case, the elements of life that are depicted is mind-blowing and even in today, we fail to shadow such unwanted situations, all blame to the lifestyle.WATCH OUT FOR: Gregory Peck!Can be watched with a typical Indian family? YESLanguage: No | Sex: No | Nudity: No | Violence: No visuals


                
To Kill a Mockingbird is a very enjoyable movie with great acting though if you have read the book before seeing it you will probably, like me, be disappointed that some of the scenes in the book are changed or omitted.For that reason I would recommend seeing the movie before reading the book, if possible. It is filmed in black and white, which is perfect for giving a sense of the time the film is set in.The story is about two young children in small town 1930's Alabama, learning about life mainly from their widowed father. Their widowed father, Atticus Finch (Gregory Peck), is the hero of the film. He is a quietly spoken lawyer but is determined to set a good example by how he deals with people. The plot comes to a head when he is appointed to defend an innocent black man from an accusation of rape from a local white girl. The racial prejudices that were always just beneath the surface in the town come to the fore. The trial scene takes up a good portion of the film. This makes sense, as it is a perfect cinematic set piece and has some great acting from Peck and the supporting cast.A great bonus on the DVD I purchased is an excellent 90 minute documentary titled "Fearful Symmetry". Made in 1999 it has interviews with Gregory Peck, the director Robert Mulligan, writer Horton Foote and producer Alan J. Pakula. There also interviews with other cast members such as Robert Duvall, who played the crucial character of Boo Radley, Brock Peters, Collin Wilcox Paxton and the now grown up child actors. There are some great insights and anecdotes about the filming. This film is also a documentary about Monroeville, the hometown of the author Harper Lee. In the book she used Monroeville as a basis for the town of Maycomb and there are interviews with residents who lived in the town in the period the film was set in. These have plenty of examples of the famous laid back Southern way of life we hear so much about. There also interviews that discuss the significance of the book and the film in highlighting the racial discrimination of the time. At times the narration becomes quite wordy but overall the documentary is well worth watching.
I don't know...but I guess I am sorry for not agreeing with the general opinions about this film. I like it. It is a good film, but I don't seem to be able to see why it is so great. The story don't seem to give many 'arguments' as to why the black man was innocent. After the trial, I still don't know if the man is guilty or innocent. The movie is supposed to be about a discrimination trial. However, it is alittle short for the purpose it serves for the movie. However, the first half is not about that. It is pretty much a perspective from the children...it sort of made it a children's film. However, during the second half, the attention was shifted. I guess one can't make a movie entirely on a trial. But because of this spread of storyline, they couldn't touch deep enough of both of the things they wanted to say. There are also few scenes which I thought was not logical. It is a good movie. But I don't think it is a great movie.


                
...to be honest I expected a bit more: Having heard so much praise for "To Kill A Mockingbird" since my childhood, and with the added fact that it enjoys a permanent position in IMDb's top 250, I had very high expectations for this classic film. However, when I recently watched it, I was somewhat deflated: Expecting a 9/10 or 10/10 film, I could barely give it a 7/10. Here is why:"TKAM" is about the story of Atticus Finch (Gregory Peck), an idealistic lawyer in America's South, who defends a wrongly accused black man (B. Peters) during the depression era; his passionate defense drives him to face the hostility of his racist fellow citizens. Although the story sounds like a courtroom drama, in fact it is hardly such: The plot revolves around the everyday life of the two little kids of Finch (M. Badham and P. Alford), with the trial being rather out of focus, and portrayed in a piecemeal way.This last point is the grave weakness of the film, at least in my humble opinion. Everything else is fine: The acting is superb (with the two children definitely stealing the show, despite Peck's indisputable calibre), the atmosphere of the small city is skillfully presented, and of course, the anti-racist message of the movie is powerful. Yet, the problem is that "TKAM" continuously preoccupies us with the children's games and mischiefs, thus distracting us from following soberly (a) the capture and trial of the accused man, (b) the clash between Finch and his co-villagers, and (c) the clarification of what finally happened and who is responsible. In other words, the film fails to keep the focus on where I believe it should remain from the beginning to end: Finch, the defendant, and the community.I am aware that at the time when this film was produced (early sixties), the issue of racism was still considered a taboo, and thus the launch of "TKAM" probably would touch sensitive cords; perhaps this explains the rather childish and melodramatic approach used by its producers, as they were possibly trying to take off some heat from its core message. This might be OK for the sixties, seventies, or even eighties. Yet, by watching it in 2004, I definitely left only partially satisfied. "TKAM" is a classic, yes: But if it had been produced today from scratch, I believe it would be much more focused and coherent.


                
I liked the film, it is very good but I think that this fail in very aspects and is overrated. I loved all of the performance, but I like in special the performance of Atticus, because I think that in it we can see the real (and deeper) meaning of the film. His performance is the best of the film. Also the story is very good but if we consider that this is based in a book and in a real history, the film was not necessary. In my opinion the film fails with the bad guy, Bob Ewell. The actor makes an excellent job but the character is too spiteful, he won the judgment and spits Atticus, so why he want kill the childs? I don't understand! Despite this, the film is good, the children's make an great and moving work, and Tom Robinson will always be for all innocent. Much to learn from this film...
Heartwarming production is a loving recreation of Harper Lee's novel concerning wicked racial prejudice in a small southern town in the early 30's. It's easy to see that both director Robert Mulligan and screenwriter Horton Foote were much taken by the original source.Having said this, the pair do allow the film too much time to get started and so it outstays its welcome just a touch. Most of the time though it's lighthearted good fun and strong human drama.The children bring us a great deal of laughter in this film, however it was Gregory Peck who was the Oscar winner as the small town lawyer who must defend an African-American against a trumped up charge in a very "white" trial. Peck is assuredly solid as the single father who must explain the ways of the world to his children while trying to ensure justice is served.The winning combination of Mr. Peck's showing and Mr. Foote's Academy Award winning screenplay make "To Kill a Mockingbird" a most enjoyable picture.Sunday, November 1, 1998 - Astor Theatre
There's no doubt that in the time this movie was released, it made quite an impact, an in many aspects it's still a good movie. The anti-racist message this movie carries might not be as bold as when the movie was released, but since racism is still happening around the world, it never hurts to warn against it. No problems here.Overall, the movie also makes a well-made impression. The acting is good (I'm surprised that a movie this old sports such good performances by children), telling everything from the perspective of the little girl work surprisingly well, too, and the movie is very honest and direct, without the sentimentality or audience manipulation you'd probably see in (most) modern movies about such serious themes. However, I think this movie hasn't aged particularly well. By now, we've just come to expect a bit more of movies in terms of plot and cinematography. In "To Kill a Mockingbird" the plot is rather simple, the pacing very slow (with way too much time spent on the children and their games), and the cinematography very static. Ultimately, "To Kill a Mockingbird" is still a well-made, genuinely honest and touching movie with a message that manages to still be quite good in spite of its (when compared to modern movies) cozy pacing, static cinematography, and somewhat simple plot*** out of **** stars


                
I just got done reading this book in class and we just watched the movie today and i think it is good, but it doesn't have all the scenes in it like the book i wish that they would have put the whole story in there, they don't even have half the people there from the book. overall i think its good and they should really like Update it and make a new movie with all the Book in it. The book is very good and making this movie doesn't really show all the great work Harper Lee had put into the book. Her book has a lot of meanings and my teacher taught them to us. I couldn't believe that the movie barley had any of it..that just bugs me.


                
Boy, is this movie confused or what? Almost a movie of two halves, and like all such movies doomed to have one half weighed against the other, a case where neither half wins but both lose, TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD begins as a sort of southern Gothic reverie not unlike Charles Laughton's iconic NIGHT OF THE HUNTER. A pervading atmosphere you can almost smell of hot wet summer nights and a sense of childlike wonder and mystery, that uncanny ability of children to find the macabre in the ordinary, the fantastical in the mundane, which we all return to again and again in our creative moments as adults; this, I think is Mockingbird's biggest asset, its charm and beauty. Not the courtroom scene that hijacks the movie halfway through, not the subplot of racism and smalltown bigotry in a rural Southern community and not even Gregory Peck (whom I find almost unbearable). The real stars here are the children.I have no doubt in my mind that at some not so distant point, the movie was not only educational but important. The message still is. But, having progressed thankfully to the point where racism should really be a non-issue (although often it's not), Atticus' catechism in the courtroom seems to be stating the obvious. That it's not exactly layered throughout the movie, that the movie itself makes such an about-turn when it enters the courtroom, makes it stand out like a sore thumb. As a reminder of what were and could be again, no doubt it's still relevant. But in the context of a dramatic movie it is a bit of a false note.We're lucky then that the movie reverts back to the great first half for its climactic conclusion. I haven't read the book to know how well the story works there as a whole, but this seems to me like a missing opportunity. The world of the adults seems awfully uninvolving compared to that of the children, the one full of magic and possibility. Maybe contrasting the two was kind of the point.


                
I was told that this was mainly a courtroom drama, but from one point, it seems to be more about the kids and family. Also, I wonder why Atticus Finch was voted number 1 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains instead of James Bond or Indiana Jones, he didn't do much heroic stuff. Anyway, basically Atticus (Oscar and Golden Globe winning, and BAFTA nominated Gregory Peck) lives with his maid and two kids Jean Louise 'Scout' (Oscar nominated Mary Badham) and Jeremy 'Jem' Finch (Phillip Alford). All I can say about the court case, which comes a lot later, is that Atticus tries quite hard, but he doesn't win the case to prove a Negroes innocence of raping a woman. The stories that I really am interested in involve the two kids and their new friend, Charles Baker 'Dill' Harris (John Megna) nearly investigating a psychopathic neighbourhood man, but later, you find out he is nothing like what they expected, and turns out to save one of them. Also starring Robert Duvall in his first film role as Arthur 'Boo' Radley. It is a good film, and I guess Atticus Finch is a great hero in some ways, I can't really say this is one of my favourite films, but definitely worth watching. It won the Oscars for Best Art Direction-Set Decoration and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium, and it was nominated for Best Cinematography, Best Director for Robert Mulligan (also nominated the Golden Globe), Best Music for Elmer Bernstein and Best Picture, and it was nominated the BAFTA for Best Film from any Source, and it won the Golden Globe for Best Film Promoting International Understanding, Best Motion Picture Score, and it was nominated for Best Motion Picture - Drama. Gregory Peck was 12 on 100 Years, 100 Stars - Men, the film was number 17 on 100 Years of Film Scores, it was number 23 on The 100 Greatest Tearjerkers, it was number 2 on 100 Years, 100 Cheers, and it was number 34 on 100 Years, 100 Movies. Very good!
