TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD is presented like a play in three acts. It is also from the children's perspective. Through the kids, we find that racism is a learned attitude or feeling. We also see a delightful coming of age drama as the young kids realize that there is no Boogeyman down the street and their father is capable of doing a lot more than they think. The great Gregory Peck plays Atticus Finch, a pillar of nobility, social conscience, and, rare for 1930's Americana, a single parent. Peck is such a strong presence, you believe everything about him. It is something you can compare to America's trust in TV anchorman Walter Cronkite. We always took his word for it.Act one puts Atticus in the background and allows the kids to flourish. Director Robert Mulligan was able to get such realistic performances from non-professional kids. They are amusing and fun to watch. The big mystery lies in the house down the street in this small Georgia town. Who is the monstrous, "6 and a half feet big" legend living in the end house? Some light suspense ensues, while the buildup to a stirring act two is happening. Atticus must defend an African-American man for the alleged rape of a white woman.After threats galore, an unshaken Peck takes to the courtroom jungle in, without a doubt, one of the top 5 court scenes in motion picture history. Brock Peters lends the film its best moments as the accused "negro" on trial. This man has a face chiseled with suffering and deep, deep sorrow. We know Atticus is a good man, a decent human being with a soul. He sees this in his client as well, and in a closing argument that must have roused the civil rights movement, implores the jury to vote justice. An all-male, all-white jury in the 1930's were tough listeners. Peters' breakdown on the stand is one of the most realistic, emotionally saddening moments you'll ever see, especially in Hollywood films of the 1960's. The scene when Peck leaves the courtroom is now legendary as well.Act three produces a tragic death, an unlikely hero, and the bringing together of a family. The filmmakers have such a passion for the material, they seem to handle it with gentleness. Racism is a hard-boiled subject and it is depicted and dealt with through grace and patience. TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD poses the injustice of race relations in the 1930's as a front for the events happening in the 1960's. The film came out during turbulent times and was also an adaption of a literary classic. I am one to judge a film solely by film only. The book is a separate art form and should not be compared to the film, an art form itself. It is important, it is enlightening, and it has not aged. Watch it.RATING: 9 of 10


                
After studying the outstanding book of To Kill A Mockingbird at school, I viewed this film, and was on the whole very impressed. Scout and Jem are portrayed brilliantly, considering the ages of the children who played them, and they, as with everything else in the production, are true to the book's spirit. Gregory Peck is perfect as the unflappable Atticus Finch, and deserved his Oscar. The music is worthy of praise, especially for the climatic scene, and the raw emotion and feeling of the book is amply conveyed. All of the cast are well cast, and it's interesting to ponder how much this film, at the time, would've shocked. That the book explores racism and outsiders in a southern town, through the eyes of a child is genius and works very nicely here. The only problems are minor- much of the book's counter-balancing humour was left out, certain characters are omitted (Dolphus Raymond and Aunt Alexandra), and some of the book's early characterisation is missed. Aside from these gripes, this is a magical film and a "must-see," as a companion piece to the classic novel. 9/10


                
After forty-three years, "To Kill a Mockingbird" (TKAM) remains one of the most effective testimonials to the ravages of ignorance and prejudice ever recorded on film. Asking myself why this gracefully paced narrative has left such an indelible impression on so many, I've concluded it's because the film isn't about what most of its supporters and detractors claim it's about. Not about race or prejudice? . . . No. At its core, TKAM is about "neighbors" and "community", which concept forms the basis for the gravity of its message in the matter of Tom Robinson.Other films have followed on the familiar theme of racial bigotry and its well-documented devastations. These films have been consistently less effective because we are not asked to think so much, or to connect the history depicted with the histories of our own lives and our own communities.I've performed in two stage versions of TKAM, neither of which benefited from the brilliant input of screenwriter, Horton Foote. Both plays focus, almost exclusively, on the racial element of the story. They, like so many films of later years, come off as "heavy-handed" or "in-your-face" regarding this element. Well . . . "If you think this way -- you're bad." End of story. In TKAM (the film), we see a community of poor, unique, and apparently respectable people helping one another through a Depression. In stark contrast (and beautifully prepared by the film's creators) the injustices meted out to Tom Robinson and his family represent a dramatic anachronism of unthinkable proportions. And, it's as routine, in this gentle Southern community, as a child's fear of a mysterious neighbor, or a shy but happy exchange of hickory nuts for legal services rendered. Memorable? Most emphatically. Think about it. It's what director Mulligan wants us to do.


                
Based on the classic novel by Harper Lee, this wholesome adaptation stars Gregory Peck in an Oscar-winning part as Atticus Finch, a righteous defense lawyer during the depression era down South. He's a loving single parent who tries to instill values into his two children, Jem (Philip Alford) and his younger sister "Scout" (Mary Badham). The story is told as a flashback from the perspective of a now-grown Scout (who narrates) during one memorable summer in her youth where her father elected to defend a Negro farmhand named Tom Robinson (Brock Peters). At a time when black people were not well respected in small southern towns, Finch stands alone in his plight to help the innocent young man who has been wrongly accused of raping and beating a white woman. Brock Peters is highly sympathetic as the good-natured Robinson during an unfair courtroom trial, with Gregory Peck as his well-meaning attorney with the odds stacked against him. Fine acting also by young Alford and especially Badham as the children learning about bigotry through their dad in addition to the ongoing trial. Robert DuVall makes his very first motion picture appearance in a small but unforgettable part that remains crucial to the success of the story. ***1/2 out of ****


                
TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD
Although I am not a huge fan of trial movies, TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD was a very different and amazing movie.  To me, this movie was really realistic in that it shows us a little bit of the prejudice that the United States lived back in the 1930's. All students should watch this movie to have a better understanding and learn the importance of fairness and treating everybody the same way. That might be a good method to learn more about realistic fiction.After seeing the movie I understood how important it is to acquire knowledge about different themes that directly or indirectly can affect us. TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD is an excellent movie that was pretty much like the book, written by Harper Lee. It is a realistic film that includes idioms and symbols to give to the audience a better idea of the book and also a better understanding.  The movie emphasizes in the trial scenes but also in the history that was going on with the children and Boo. It gives us an idea of how different the world of the kids is and makes us understand that even though they are children they also understand what is going on around them and with the innocence and truth they can make adults understand them. The characters of the movie were definitely well played. The actors were really into their roles and made all scenes to be realistic to have an impact on the audience.The movie counts with an amazing group of actors that   portray their characters in an excellent way. However, the actor that I liked the most is Gregory Peck as Atticus Finch; who is a great person full of grace, greatness, style, and more. to me the most important virtue is his immense humanity. Gregory Peck was a person that knew how to treat people and was always worried about others. All his efforts brought him to the Kennedy Center Honors in 1991 where he was honored for all his achievements in life. People close to him showed love and respect to this great actor who taught us that we have to have a great heart to succeed in life like he did.Although I really liked the movie TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD, in my opinion there are many things that I would definitely change to make it even better. Something that I think is really important is to include the scenes from the book that were left out, like the part were Mrs. Maudie's house got on fire or when Jem damaged Mrs. Duboses's garden. Personally I think that it would be more interesting to the young audience if the movie were in color, so definitely I would make it in color to attract people's attention and make them interested about the movie. The characters were well played by the actors but over all I would change some of them for others that I think would do it better and more realistically. Making changes in a movie is not an easy thing and might work or not. Some people would think that the changes you made were really good and you would really see the difference but you also have to be prepared to be rejected and criticize, even though those are some changes that I think would work for teenagers.Rating the movies you see is really important because it would help you to know what kind of person you are and what type of literature are you inclined for. As reader of the book I can compare it with the movie and I rated it also as a viewer. The movie shows the most important things of the book and emphasizes really well on the main ideas of it. They use good vocabulary that is easy to understand and itself explanatory, helping the viewers with symbolisms and idioms that are in the book. The movie is definitely better for a person that prefers it instead of a book, however it is very important to read the book first and then watch the movie to compare and understand better.TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD is a great movie that teaches us a lot about life; it shows reality and cruelty that makes us change our way of thinking. Racism and prejudice are present in our society, not as in the 1930's, but still here. I think that by watching this movie everybody would understand that life is hard to live in a society that rejects you and discriminates against you all the time without a valid reason, so I strongly recommend this movie to everyone. you will have goose bumps.


                
For some reason, it took a long time before I ever gave this movie a look, and when I finally did last year I was very pleased and saw why all the fuss was made over it. Then, I watched it again about six months later and got disgusted with some of it. Maybe I should have waited another 40 years between viewings! (Only kidding)THE GOOD - Well, I can start with the fine acting and interesting characters, led by Gregory Peck as "Atticus Finch," one of the more noble characters ever put on screen. He is single father taking care of two adolescents and is a strong moral man who stands for all that is right. The main theme of the movie is racism, and I'm sure this much bigger impact 44 years ago than today. It wasn't long after this that the U.S. was embroiled in numerous race riots. It was a tumultuous decade, to say the least. There also is a tiny sub-plot in this story which involves another kind of bias, one against the mentally-ill or simply against pre-conceived notions we might have of people who are different from us.Not only is Peck outstanding, but kudos to the kids in here, too, beginning with Mary Badham as young "Scout." She only made one other movie and never acted as an adult. She's a great kid in here and winsome in a tomboy-ish way. Her brother "Jem" (Philip Alvord) also is good, and has a wonderful scene in front of the courthouse protecting his dad against a mob. New-found friend "Dill Harris" (John Megna) has a much shorter role but completes the trio of youngsters who all prove to be capable actors. Kim Stanley narrates the film as grownup "Scout" looking back on those days. Brock Peters is good as the black man accused of something he didn't do, and it was interesting to see Robert Duvall in, I believe, his first movie role. He had done TV for a couple of years prior to this film. His role, however, was right at the end of the film and he said very little, if anything, as the misunderstood "Boo Radley." This is a very nicely photographed film with great lighting in here. The whole thing was shot on a Hollywood set. It looks super on the latest special-edition two-disc DVD. I enjoy watching the great black-and-white images in here but then again, it's easier to produce perfect lighting like this rather than going on actual location and adjusting to the conditions. Still, it's a visual treat.BAD - In the filmmakers' zeal to show the ugliness of racism they were insultingly biased in the courtroom finale and unrealistic in portraying the lead male racist. Being "fair and balanced" was not something shown in coverage of the trial since the most dramatic parts - the final summations - are wonderfully and powerfully presented by defense attorney Finch but we never hear the prosecution summation! What happened to that speech? We only hear one side! At least give us viewers credit for having enough common sense to know what's right after we hear both sides. The film world rarely treats the moviegoers intelligently, preferring to hit us over the heads with their agendas instead. And, showing this redneck "Bob Ewell" (James Anderson) going out all alone and ranting and raving in front of house full of blacks late at night is ridiculous. Nobody, but nobody is that stupid: white, black or any color. But, once again, the filmmakers do everything they can to manipulate their audience and this film is extremely manipulative. OVERALL - Nonetheless, despite the obvious bias it's still a good, powerful story with great moral lessons. It also gives us something we don't see much in modern movies: an ideal father figure, not just in the way he handles his kids but all adults, too. You can't find a much better role model. I'd like to see more of this types of people on film.


                
First of all, why people don't make this type of film now? Simple story plot but all credit goes to the director. I mean how one can make so simple and sound film? Child actress performed nicely like she is not acting, she is feeling every moment. This movie has no mystery, has no drama but this movie has soundness that will refresh your mind.


                
"To Kill a Mockingbird" centers mainly around three characters: Scout, Jem and their father Atticus, who raises his children to the best of his ability while defending a black man accused of raping a white women.I first saw "To Kill a Mockingbird" shortly after reading the book in my high school English class. Being born less than 20 years ago I'd lie if I said I was not slightly put off by it being in black and white; how stupid was I. The book itself was great and to my surprise the movie portrayed Harper Lee's story excellently. To those still wondering whether to watch this 1962 classic, do it! The cinematography is excellent, but what really makes this movie is the performance put on by Gregory Peck; our hero in this movie and perhaps the greatest film hero ever!There are some powerful scenes which showcases Atticus's moral outlook on life and the story of how he defends a black man whose fate has already been sealed is sad yet inspiring. One line that stuck to me from the novel is Miss Maudie telling Scout after the trial had been lost: "I thought, Atticus Finch won't win, he can't win, but he's the only man in these parts who can keep a jury out so long on a case like that." This pretty much sums up Atticus's determination to give Tom Robinson a fair trial despite what the rest of the community may think.The child acting was impressive and the characters of Scout and Jem were portrayed as children should. They were naive and silly, doing stupid things and disobeying their father time and time again. But during the three year time spine in which this movie plays off you see them growing, taking more of Atticus's advice in along the way. Scout is of course our main protagonist and she and her brother were highly relatable and contributed to the success of this movie.Conclusion:I recommend this to almost everyone. Young lawyers, movie-lovers and most importantly to all the fans of the novel who haven't seen this film: You won't be disappointed!www.250moviereviews.wordpress.com
In my experience, this may be the best adaptation of a novel that Hollywood has ever produced, the story having been taken from the novel of the same name by Harper Lee. It's a story about racism in the Depression-era South. It's a coming of age story for young Scout and Jem, who watch their father Atticus doggedly defend a black man accused of beating and raping a young white woman. It features magnificent performances from pretty much the entire cast. Young Mary Badham was actually nominated for an Oscar for Best Supporting Actress for her performance as Scout - but then, perhaps surprisingly, she went on to do very little acting. And what can one say about Gregory Peck as Atticus Finch. This may well have been his best performance; when I think of Gregory Peck it's certainly Atticus Finch who comes into my mind. There's an incredible mix of well known names in the supporting cast: Brock Peters, William Windom, Paul Fix and even a very young Robert Duvall. And there really isn't a weak performance among them. Most of the attention around "To Kill A Mockingbird" is usually focused on the performances, and especially Peck, but I want to pay special tribute to the directing.Director Robert Mulligan did a superb job as well, and while he went on to direct a number of other movies, this surely was his finest job. There's a very good pace to this movie. It starts out slowly, painting an almost idyllic picture of life in this small town in the South, focusing on Scout and Jem and their friend Dill. It's summer, school is out and they're just kids having fun. It's a casual and carefree existence, they spend most of their time outside, sometimes getting into mischief, sometimes investigating some of the town's mysteries - one of which revolves around the story of Boo, a local boy supposedly kept chained in his basement by his father. You get the feeling that if there was anyplace you wanted to grow up as a child, it was right here in Maycomb, Alabama in the 1930's - Depression or not. Until Mayella is attacked, and Tom Robinson (a black man) is accused, and Atticus is assigned to defend him. Then the story becomes dark, the racism starts to be seen; the gulf between black and white must be a shock to Scout and Jem, whose exposure to black people to this point has been to friendly Calpurnia, who kept house for their widowed father and looked after them and was more or less part of the family. Mulligan picks up the pace of the movie once the trial starts. The trial proceeds at a frenetic pace - seemingly it all takes place in a single day, which perhaps makes the point that even with Atticus doing his best and making clear the truth of what had actually happened, there was going to be no long consideration of the facts - just a rush to a pre-ordained judgement, followed by a tragedy. Then there's the suspense of what happened to Scout and Jem on their "longest journey" - as the adult Scout (who serves as kind of the narrator) calls it in a voice over. But once that finishes, Mulligan changes the pace again, and the story slows down as the mystery of Boo from the beginning of the movie is revealed, and the film concludes on a very gentle and moving note. Just superb pacing from Mulligan. He was nominated for the Oscar as Best Director in 1963, but lost to David Lean's turn directing "Lawrence of Arabia." Both were fine movies, but I'd have given the nod to Mulligan.You could criticize the movie for downplaying to an extent the reality of racism. It really doesn't give us any glimpse into what it was like to be black in Maycomb - it gives far more of a white perspective on the issue of racism. But that's exactly what the novel was of course - a depiction of life in small town Alabama using Harper Lee's own upbringing as a model. I also thought that the combination of the depiction of small town life (and especially the focus at the beginning and the end on Boo) was perhaps a bit awkwardly combined with the rape trial and the reflection on racism, although Boo himself becomes an example of yet another misunderstood figure in the town. Atticus comes across as almost too good to be true. But, really, there's very little to criticize about this movie, which deserves to be thought of as a classic. (9/10)


                
I remember reading the source material for the movie, the Putizer Reward book of the same name by Harper Ferry when in middle school. The film removes a few sub-plots, but still, very faithful to the book. It's still long with a few boring moments, but whenever, the character of Atticus Finch (Gregory Peck) got on screen, it was a joy to watch. This is Peck's best role. A lot of people might remember, this film for the court-room drama, as Atticus Finch find himself defending a black man, Tom Robinson (Brock Peters) accused of rape, but the movie directed by Robert Mulligan and written by Horton Foote; is also a coming to age story, teaching tolerance and decry prejudice. Without spoiling too much, the story covers three years of the 1930s, showing Jean Louise "Scout" Finch (Mary Badham) and her brother Jem (Phillip Alford), undergo big changes in their young lives. I like how Atticus Finch help them on the way, being a good father figure. As a Southern Gothic and a Bildungsroman, the primary themes of 'To Kill a Mockingbird' involve racial injustice and the destruction of innocence. You also see the movie dig deep into the issues of class, just/unjust laws, and Southern morals. A lot of woman believe it, touch on women's rights. I can see it. The patriarchal South does have a history that kinda made white men the dominant group, and women and blacks deemed in more subordinate roles. A lot of LGBT supporters believe that the book is gay or lesbian "coming-of-age" tale. Indeed, the movie dealt with gender roles in the American Deep South. Scout does acts more like a tom boy and show more a masculine side that feminine. She does not respond positively to anything girly, but it's really hard to prove that she is a closed lesbian or not due to the age. Scout hasn't reach adolescence yet. If Scout was based on Harper Lee's childhood, we still wouldn't know because Lee was an extremely private person and there is little information on her even in major biography databases. It's hard to prove, if Harper Lee is gay or not. Others people have look at this theory, by using Dill as an example, because Dill was supposed based on Harper Lee's childhood friend, the openly gay Truman Capote. While, there is no clear evidence supporting this, other than the fact that Capote was a childhood friend of Harper Lee. I really don't really know. After all, Lee, in turn, is the model for the Idabel character in Capote's first novel, 'Other Voices, Other Rooms,' which seem more like a heterosexual heroine. While, Dill and Scout seem to have a somewhat romantic relationship during childhood, who knows where their sexuality lies. A lot could change if a sequel to the book was ever written, which Harper Lee most likely, will not do. She hasn't wrote a book in years. This issue also brings the rumors of authorship. Some people believe it was written by Truman Capote; while others believe Harper Lee wrote Capote's best novel, In Cold Blood. Who knows? One thing for sure, is the plot is based on the unsuccessful legal defense by Harper Lee's attorney father, during the 1931 landmark Scottsboro Boys interracial rape case. The movie has a lot of heart & humor, despite dealing with dark themes. The film is widely considered to be one of the greatest films ever made. The film won three Academy Awards, including Best Actor for Peck. In 1995, To Kill a Mockingbird was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being "culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant'. Still, some people might hate this film. After all, it has a scene where Atticus shoots a mad dog. Some people see that scene, as he basically is a hypocrite, because he just killed a mockingbird; because Tim Johnson wasn't doing anything it was literally standing there. It wasn't charging at him or the kids. I can see where they are coming from, but the dog was suffering. I know PETA wouldn't like that, but it had a lot of symbolism with the dog scene. Perhaps, it's just one of examples of Atticus doing tough things he doesn't want to do. Is rabies supposed to represented racism? Atticus does refer to racism as "Maycomb's usual disease." In addition, while Atticus does not protect the children against racism, he does shoot down racism. Is the dog shooting, an allegory? Is it saying black people are dogs? Is the film saying it's alright to kill black people if they're suffering? Who knows? Maybe, I'm oversimplification it. Perhaps it's just the feeling Scout has. The sick horror at what's happening in front of her and how over complex, violent can be. Was this scene, needed? Maybe- not. Despite its good themes, To Kill a Mockingbird has been subject to campaigns for removal from public classrooms, often challenged for its use of racial epithets. The film does stereotyped blacks as superstitious, poor, and poorly education blacks who to some critics believe were "contented slaves". Some criticized the movie for focusing less on the blacks, and more on the story how honest, white man save them for racism. Surprising, there is some truth to that in the film, but the white savior narrative in film since this movie had indeed, went a little overboard. I didn't mind it, too much in this film. In recent years this idealization of Atticus Finch has been challenged. He is accused of having an élitist and paternalistic attitude towards his client and women, while some have asked how this "father-knows-best" could have so casually overlooked the Depression South's appalling record of racism, sexism and class exploitation. Still, there is no greater good guy than Atticus Finch in my opinion. Atticus Finch served as a moral hero for many readers and as a model of integrity for lawyers. Overall: It's a must watch.
With three wins among eight Oscar nominations, this is one of the best pictures of all times. Gregory Peck won one of those Oscars for what is certainly his best performance.It was Mary Badhams first film, and she received a well-earned nomination for her performance as Scout. It was also Phillip Alford's first film. Both of these children performed as well as many actors with years more experience. Of course, Horton Foote's Oscar-winning screenplay, based upon Harper Lee's novel contributed immensely, but the two young actors really made you believe you were watching real characters.In an interesting note, it was also Robert Duvall's first film. He was the "Boo" Radley referred to throughout and not seen until the end.The summation given by Peck has to be one of the greatest of all times, and he truly was, in the words of Miss Maudie, "born to do our unpleasant jobs for us..." Which, of course, includes reminding us of when we fall from what we should be a humans.


                
While enjoying many novels that I read during my stint in the public school system, Harper Lee's classic To Kill a Mockingbird was always one of the most memorable. The story was beautifully told and showed a great example of moral fiber. Atticus Finch is the epitome of class and trust. He sees past age, race, intelligence and instead views the soul. After watching this film you might start believing that people really are inherently good.Perusing through the list of films that director Robert Mulligan sat behind the camera on shows me that maybe this film was his masterpiece. I have never seen nor heard of the rest of his filmography, (not to say he doesn't have any other gems in that list, I just wouldn't be able to tell you their names). He seems to be a very capable director, however, as the movie is shot quite well. The contrast of the black and white during many night scenes is effective and he does a good job framing the actors as they do their thing. There aren't any effects shots or skewed angles; Mulligan allows his cast to carry the film and that is a good move. The story is strong and the words are what matter most.Gregory Peck is just as good as everyone says he is here. He embodies Atticus completely, as a strong willed man of the community, a shrewd and moral man of the law, and a caring, loving father. Peck displays the many facets of his character as he treats all with the same care. His children call him by his first name and wander around the town alone. To Atticus, they are just as independently responsible as him<U+0097>how can he second-guess his own children? Speaking of those children, it is hard to believe that both Scout and Jem are played by first-time actors. The kids, Mary Badham and Phillip Alford, are amazing. They act well beyond their years, showing the teaching that goes on at home behind the scenes. Not only are they intelligent, but they can watch out for themselves. Scout is not afraid to pick a fight if she believes someone close to her has had his/her honor called into question, and no matter how much Jem chides his sister for being too much of a girl, he is always there to defuse hostile situations and make sure his sibling is unharmed. Both child actors are very effective in their line delivery and most noticeably in their facial expressions. It sometimes appears that their reactions are about to go over the top, but they have the ability to keep it all grounded to reality. The most fun is their stubborn fear of neighbor Boo Radley, whom they've never met. Although shown very briefly, and without a single line of dialogue, Robert Duvall, also making his film debut, (which surprised me as I thought his premiere was THX-1138 since it almost seemed like a collegiate film, but in fact was filmed nine years later), is very convincing as the troubled young man who has come out of seclusion to help resolve the incident which takes place at the movie's finale. Talk about speaking and emoting through only your body language; one knows exactly what Boo is thinking thanks to Duvall's performance.To Kill a Mockingbird never drags throughout its duration. Even for someone who has read the novel, everything occurs with suspense and spontaneity. While yes, the climax in the courthouse is the shining moment, all that bookends the sequence is just as enjoyable. Gregory Pecks' closing statement to the jury is magnificent however. His powerful performance almost made me want to stand with those watching on screen as he left through the door upon the verdict. Atticus Finch truly is the greatest screen hero of all time.


                
To Kill a Mockingbird has always been a favourite of mine. I may have done myself a favour years ago when I decided to read the Harper Lee book before watching the film. It still amazes me to this day how exactly similar Robert Duvall's Boo Radley was to the one I pictured in my mind.Mulligan directed a fine film using a well established movie-star (Gregory Peck) and two children who hadn't been in any films previous to this. The performances of the children is of something beyond acting and it is this aspect that makes the film work so well. The film isn't overly long (which it could have very well been) especially throughout the courtroom scene.The issues dealt with during the film were still very touchy at the time this film was released. Perhaps the fact that this film is seen from the young girls viewpoint helps to be almost completely unbiased. The scene in which the lynching mob tries to get at Atticus and Tom shows the innocence of Scout, especially during her discussion with the father of one of her classmates. The whole basis of this film is the innocence of the children and how they make their way through the adventures and fears of the summer.I fully recommend this film to all.9/10 stars.


                
To Kill A Mockingbird is a Classic Drama that is based on the book by Harper Lee. The theme of the movie is preconceived notions and there are two examples of this in the theme: 1) Boo Radley and 2) Tom Robinson. Both are viewed as dangerous as violent due to preconceived notions that the townspeople have about them. The main character is Jean Louise Finch. Her father, Atticus Finch, was appointed by the judge to defend Tom Robinson. Atticus believes that Tom is innocent and is a victim of racism and false accusations. Both are incredibly interesting and the acting is done well. The casting is magnificent and is very close to what was described in the book.I don't like this movie quite as much as the book, as I almost never do, but I still really enjoyed it. You can gain a lot more from the story by reading the book but if you are looking for a way to see the story in a short amount of time, this is a great film to watch.


                
TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD is a crime drama about family love, racial intolerance, ignorance, playfulness and acceptance in the difficult times after the Great Depression. Film is based on Harper Lee's 1960 novel of the same name.The two young protagonists are brother and sister, who lives in a fictional town in Alabama. The story covers three years, during which, they undergo changes in their lives. They begin as innocent children, who spend their days happily playing games while imagining a subject of their lush imagination. The children's widowed father is a town lawyer and has strong beliefs that all people are to be treated fairly. However, the racism and evil in their city are exacerbated by poverty. The children's need to grow up very quickly. A local judge appoints their father to defend a black man, against an accusation of rape of a poor white girl. Their father accepts the case, that will stir up passions in the entire city. The children's will finally meet their Mockingbird...This emotional story is full of innocence, positive energy and charm. The young protagonists are like drifters on the street, which are trying to play relentlessly in a very dangerous world. An excellent cinematography takes us into a mystical world of the American South. Everything is very close, and yet, everything is so far in that world. This is not a strong human or courtroom drama. The magic is present in those little moments that change our everyday lives. That magic is visible through the voice of a young girl, the smell of ripe melons, laziness of the summer heat, wind that sways a swing on a porch and a friendly face in the night. Mr. Mulligan has added these segments in a line with the social crisis in a community. A man, as an individual, is completely helpless in this melodrama.Plots are constantly alternating, so we can think that their social whirl does not have its place. The consciousness about good and evil is a part of a harsh knowledge in the eyes of two young children. Mr. Mulligan has balanced this story between children's fetches and serious themes. The essence is in the relationship between a father and his children. This story did not show, in a credible way, trouble with growing up, first encounters with evil people and situations in a society that is far from an ideal. But those are minor shortcomings in it.Characterization is excellent.Gregory Peck as Atticus Finch is the embodiment of a tolerance, compassion, understanding and courage. Mr. Peck has offered a convincing performance. John Megna (Charles Baker "Dill" Harris), Mary Badham (Jean Louise "Scout" Finch) and Phillip Alford (Jeremy Atticus "Jem" Finch) were excellent, along with the fact that little Mary has definitely stole the show as a curious girl.Brock Peters as Tom Robinson was impressive in a small, but very significant role. He is like an injured beast, which is aware of the fact that no one will be able to save her. Robert Duvall as Arthur "Boo" Radley is an invisible monster and fallen angel at the same time. His character has contributed to the strong finale of this film.Everyone has, given the time and place, met a Mockingbird.


                
To start with, the book is absolutely wonderful with great characters and a moving story. To Kill a Mockingbird is one of the best adaptations of a book, it is not only faithful to the source material but it almost improves on it. Do I have any criticisms? Not really, other than to say that the film is a tad overlong for my liking. But it is a brilliant film, with a beautifully crafted story that still maintains the emotional punch of the book about a lawyer in the Deep South and the effect of the rape trial on his children. The film is beautifully shot, the whole film is incredible to watch, and the score is sensitive. The script is effective and sticks closely to the book, and the direction from Robert Mulligan is very impressive. The acting is really good, I have read that Henry Fonda would have been better for Atticus Finch, although Fonda was a great actor, Gregory Peck does give a superb and career-best performance in this film. And he is very well supported by an excellent Robert Duvall as disturbed Boo Radley, while Mary Badham and Phillip Alford are very well-cast as the children. Overall, a wonderful and faithful adaptation and just an excellent film really. 9.5/10 Bethany Cox


                
When judging a film based on a spectacularly popular novel, there are two things that I usually look for: 1. Does it stick to the compelling themes of the source material reasonably well? I don't need word-for-word and I don't even mind little changes here and there, but it should be faithful to the themes that made the literature iconic. 2. Does it add something unique to the equation? Print literature and film are too entirely different beasts to tame (just ask Stephen King about that!), and one doesn't necessarily (or even usually) translate well into the other. In essence, you can't just expect a movie to be successful because the book was likewise. The film-makers need to make sure the translation is fit for the big screen.On both of those counts, "To Kill A Mockingbird" receives a solid "A" grade.For a basic plot summary, this film focuses on a number of events transpiring in the small community of Maycomb, GA during the 1930s. Atticus Finch (Gregory Peck), a lawyer, is called upon to defend a Negro man, Tom Robinson (Brock Peters) over allegations of rape from white woman Mayella Ewell (Collin Wilcox) and her father (James Anderson). While this race-fueled trial grips Maycomb, the children of Atticus have their own coming-of-age adventures. Jean- Louise, or "Scout" (Mary Badham) and Jem (Phillip Alford) make a new friend in out-of-towner Dill (John Megna), obsess over the neighborhood legend of Arthur "Boo" Radley, and try (as best they can) to come to terms with their father's work.In terms of capturing the iconic themes of the novel, this film is able to accomplish that heady task, of which much credit can be given to director Robert Mulligan. In terms of getting the "gist" of the story, I could recommend either the book OR the novel (though I would highly recommended both!) and feel confident the message would come across in either format. It is also a film that can be enjoyed by children and adults in equal measure. Children will feel akin to young Scout, while adults will be taken in by the solemn themes interspersed with recollections of more "innocent" (or were they) and youthful days.What makes "To Kill A Mockingbird" truly special, though, is that Peck's Atticus Finch is easily one of the most iconic film characters of all time. I can't imagine reading the novel now and not picturing him as Atticus. He's the father figure of all big-screen father figures. While Atticus was a powerfully-written character even in the novel, one could argue that Peck even transcends that literature and brings more depth to the character. The courtroom scenes featuring Atticus in this movie are truly riveting no matter how many times you see them.Thus, I have to consider "To Kill A Mockingbird" to be one of my favorite all-time films. Even having seen it and read the book a number of times, it can still bring a tear to my eye and stir some pretty deep emotions. Both film and book complement each other perfectly.


                
I am a movie buff, a movie lover to the fullest and I don't know why I had never watched this film. I watched it last night and it kept me hooked.I cant say anything great about it that hasn't been said but this drama had so much to offer.I honestly didn't even know the story, I thought it was about a black man being on trial for something he did to a white person and he was falsely accused. That is what the movie is about, but that is not the story the movie tells.I am all about hating racism and wanting the world to see the ugliness in judging people, this movie taught a lesson in that but I also admit I don't think you can tell someone that something is wrong without telling them why its wrong and what is right. This movie did a great job of showing so much about a man, about a human being and about how little we know about people. You cant know a man unless you've walked in his shoes.A movie with no horror, no violence, no romance, no big banner telling you what its about, but you walk away feeling that you understand it better than anything spelled out for you or explained to you. Its not deep its not complex or complicated, it is not simple or taken at face value either, it is just an emotion, an innocent look at something we never see in the people around us...the soul.The accused can be innocent yet be guilty of seeing himself through the eyes of his accuser and letting fear make him feel he is guilty. A child can be scared and yet brave because curiosity is stronger than fear. A shy man can be a hero and people can turn their backs on doing whats right in favor of doing whats expected.I cant talk about the movies plot without telling too much, I just tell people to watch it. The movie makes you want to like it. The characters are likable and you watch all that goes on and it just sucks you in. A drama with suspense and a touch of comedy and a lot of heart.The acting was perfect, those kids were just great and Peck was in this movie what every actor in Hollywood wishes they could be. The directing was so good the way it used the light to build up suspense and the way it took a movie made in the 60s and made it feel like it was made in the 30's. The music was great and it was just a wonderful experience.Boo Radley is one of the greatest characters ever in a film, I was on the edge of my seat wanting to know more about Boo and I was right there sneaking around and breathing hard with the kids, I was in this film feeling it, I was in the courtroom and in the woods and in the schoolyard...I liked this film a lot.I found a few little flaws in this film but thats always gonna happen and I know I shouldn't bring that up without explanation but I had to say it wasn't a perfect 10 to me but it was close.
I really like the book To Kill A Mockingbird. It is very good and very socially conscious. The first time I sat down to watch this movie I was thinking "there is no way that they could have fit every aspect of the book into a one or two hour movie." I was wrong. This movie is without a doubt a masterpiece. Atticus is played perfectly. We also have the rare, unexpected, and perfectly executed knife scene with Boo Radley, which is every bit as good as The Shower Scene(thats saying something). There are only two other movies that have caught the courtroom and made it as dramatic as this movie. One, obviously, is 12 Angry Men, and the other is A Few Good Men. There is one enexerable truth, this movie deserves every bit of the hype given to it and more. I would recommend everybody(even people who do not like movies) see this movie.
I guess balance would be the right word to sum up this movie. Be it direction, screenplay or acting, everything seemed to be balanced in this movie. I had read the book before watching the movie and doubted if the movie could live up to the book. But it certainly does. Gregory Peck is as though he was born to play the role of Atticus Finch. More like he's not acting but just living the role. That dash of subtlety needed for the role was perfect, at the same time maintaining Atticus' dignity without coming across as too stern or adamant. I thought he was amazing. The kids did marvelous jobs too. Their acting didn't seem forced or exaggerated. All in all a nice movie to watch. Not to be missed.


                
Most of us are familiar with Harper Lee's classical novel by this name about depression-era racism in the south seen through a child's eyes, so the first question that comes to mind about this movie is 'does it do justice to the book?', and the answer is a resounding 'yes!'.Gregory Peck delivers a great performance as Atticus Finch, the conscientious lawyer who defends a black man against false rape allegations. His children, Jem and Scout, played by Philip Alford and Mary Badham are extremely well-cast and act very naturally. Brock Peters is right-on as the accused Negro, with James Anderson doing a phenomenal job as the villain, Bob Ewell.Although this a story which is probably better fitted for a book than a movie, it does not lose any of its heart on-screen, thanks in part to screenwriter Horton Foote. Although filmed on a Hollywood set, the rustic ambiance of the old southern town is brought to life very vividly.The Bonus Features on the DVD include the academy award best-actor acceptance speech by Gregory Peck, as well as an interesting recent interview with Mary Badham.In the Two-Disc Special Edition the bonus features include an extensive interview with Gregory Peck, as well as a long documentary about the movie and its production. Almost the entire cast comments on different aspects of the film-making, including Philip Alford and Brock Peters.


                
I always thought that "To Kill a Mockingbird" was nothing more than a court-drama. A predecessor of "A Time to Kill" if you like, however the movie turned out to be much more than a court-drama. The movie is truly about and told from the point of view of the children, growing up in the depression-era of the '30's in a small racial divided Alabama town.The story is told beautifully and takes it time to tell the story in a good suitable slow pace. The emotions of the movie are truly gripping and all have a very real, realistic feeling. The fact that the story is told through the eyes of a child makes it even more effective. All the scene's with the children feel very realistic and should bring back some childhood memories. The way their playing outside with each other should is especially recognizable.The movie has several subplots. The scene's with Atticus Finch and his defense of the black man who is accused of raping a white woman is one of them but the movie never looses its focus on Atticus his two children Jem and Scout who truly are the main characters of the movie. The children have to deal with the loss of their mother, their fears and prejudices. The way these things are handled make "To Kill a Mockingbird" a powerful and important movie.Gregory Peck is mostly excellent as the ordinary but yet highly admirable Atticus Finch, who besides his own personal problems and that as a lawyer also fights to hide the ugly things of the world for his children. Also really excellent were the child actors. Especially Mary Badham as Scout deeply impressed me. It's no wonder that the then 9/10 year old received an Oscar nomination. Peck received a nomination and unlike Bedham he also got the take the statue home with him. Other Oscar wins for this movie were Best Art Direction-Set Decoration, Black-and-White and Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium.Also of course worth mentioning is the very good musical score by Elmer Bernstein. This one is among his best work of his lifetime.Is there nothing wrong with this movie? Unfortunately yes, even though I still consider this a classic and one of the most memorable and impressive movies it is not a perfect one. It's obvious that this movie is based on a book and some typical book elements are present throughout the movie that don't really work out the way they're supposed to, such as the entire 'Boo' Radley (played by Robert Duvall, in his very first movie role!) story at the end of the movie. Also the whole 'Boo' Radley thing feels a bit old fashioned and perhaps a bit too over-the-top.A movie that you should experience at least once in your lifetime.9/10http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/


                
TO KILL A MOCKINGBIRD; 1962, ROBERT MULLIGAN  (9 out of 10)The film deals with racial relations in the American South in the shadow of America's peculiar institution, about seventy years after its formal demise. It manages to condemn racial bigotry without being preachy or demonizing the victims of culturally instilled racism who are otherwise decent and reasonable people.  The leading protagonist, Atticus Finch, played by Gregory Peck is a father of two (a young boy and a girl), a widower, an attorney and one of the town's most respected citizens, who defends a black man falsely accused of beating and raping a young, poverty-stricken white woman.  At the trail it becomes obvious that the accused is innocent (indeed, that a rape did not even take place), and without directly accusing anyone, Atticus makes it abundantly clear to all who is truly responsible for beating the poor, illiterate woman.The background story is about a mysterious recluse who lives in the home next to Atticus', an obviously kindhearted and generous person who leaves gifts for Atticus' son to find in a rotted-out knot in a tree on the property. The story is sparsely narrated by Atticus' grown daughter in voiceover, so we only see her as a child as she describes her life, the people around her and the events that take place over a period of roughly seventeen months. Ironically, the little girl's older brother has the more prominent role in the story, and since it is he, not she, who is present at some of the story's most important happenings, we must assume that her brother later described these events to her when they were children.
This is a story about the magic of small-town life in America and the sweet blessings of healthy familial love in the face of human nature's irrational tendency which drives people to fear and to envy those who are different than ourselves.   It suggests that  loving kindness is our only effective weapon against this dragon though the outcome is always uncertain; that we must be wise enough to see the world as it is and foolish enough to live our lives as if the world were something else.


                
This is a brilliant adaptation of my favourite novel. Harper Lee's To Kill A Mockingbird has lost very little in the film version and lives up to the book. Gregory Peck is brilliant as Atticus, I couldn't picture anyone else playing him. Brilliant Adaptation...Brilliant Film.


                
Based on a Pulitzer Prize winning novel of the same name, To Kill A Mockingbird deals with the serious issues of racism and tolerance.  Told from the perspective of a 6 year old girl the story is told with innocence, without bias and without obvious moralising which can easily plague a film dealing with such sensitive issues.  It is simply a good story well told.Peck's performance is solid.  As is that of the supporting cast, including that of the children who, although extroverted, never seem overly precocious or annoying.The movie starts slowly but, after the introductions and scene setting, it picks up nicely and should keep most all movie fans entertained.A satisfying movie experience.  9/10


                
