This is one of the best films of all time, not necessarily because of its story but because of the acting, direction, cinematography, lighting, and just the way that the story itself was told. At the time the film was released, the idea of revealing who the killer was in the opening scene was virtually unheard of, but it ended up being very effective because it allowed the audience to concentrate more on other elements of the film, which was the goal of Billy Wilder, the director. Instead of trying to figure out who the perpetrator was, there is more emphasis on how the crime was pulled off, what mistakes were made during the murder, who betrayed who, how close Barton Keyes (the insurance investigator) was getting to solving the case, and, probably most importantly, what kind of person Walter Neff is and whether or not sympathy should be felt toward him.
Barbara Stanwyck, in one of the most remembered performances of her extensive career, represents (with nearly flawless ease) the cold and ruthless manipulator who has no difficulty in ruining other people's lives in various ways (including death, if necessary) in order to get what she wants. Known in the film community as the `femme fatale,' this is someone who uses her sexual prowess, seductiveness, and emotional detachment to drag an unsuspecting person (generally an interested man) into a scheme from which she is expected to benefit heavily and he is most likely headed for destruction. In these types of films, the man often either finds his life in ruins or ends up dead, as is often (but not always) also the case with the fate of the femme fatale. Barbara Stanwyck (as Phyllis Dietrichson, the murderous femme fatale in Double Indemnity) and Fred MacMurray (as Walter Neff, her <U+0091>victim'), have amazing chemistry on screen. Their attraction is incredibly well portrayed, and the development of their relationship with each other is so convincing that what happens between them almost seems normal. Besides that, their mutually calculated interaction, although it seems at first like it has been rehearsed endlessly and ultimately brought unconvincingly to the screen, is exactly as it was meant to be, because it represents each character's intentions, even very subtly foreshadowing their future betrayals against each other. Phyllis has gone through every word she ever says to Walter in her head. She has practiced what she wants to say when she brings up the idea of life insurance to Walter in the beginning and she knows what she wants to say whenever they interact with each other because she has been planning for quite some time the prospect of murdering her husband in order to collect his fortune. Walter, conversely, methodically makes amorous advances as though this is something that he does regularly, and then ultimately he also plans out his conversations with Phyllis because he begins to suspect her and is sure to tell her only what he wants her to hear. This seemingly stiff dialogue brilliantly represents Phyllis and Walter's precise (and sinister) intentions, and it's quick pace creates a feeling of urgency and restlessness.Probably the most fascinating and entertaining actor in the film, Edward G. Robinson, plays Barton Keyes, Walter's friend and employer at the insurance company where he works. Keyes is a very suspicious man who closely investigates the insurance claims which come into the company, having a striking history of accurately isolating fraudulent claims and throwing them out. His handling of Phyllis's (and Walter's, technically) claim and the way that he gets closer and closer to the truth create a great atmosphere of tension and drama. Double Indemnity is nearly flawless. From the shocking and unexpected beginning to the already known but still surprising end, the audience is held rapt by the excellent performances, the brilliant and imaginative direction, and the flawlessly created atmosphere. This is excellent, excellent filmmaking, and is a classic film that should not be missed.


                
This is one of the best-liked classic films of all time and I am among that large group of fans as well.Few movies have ever had dialog this entertaining.....at least the conversations between Barbara Stanwyck and Fred MacMurray. I think it's a big appeal to this movie, except to younger folks who look at it as "cheesy."I read the book, Double Indemnity written by James Cain, and was surprised that the film's snappy dialog was not in it. This is one of the rare times when the movie was far better than the book. That's not a shock after you find out that literary giant Raymond Chandler and Hall Of Fame director Billy Wilder combined to write the screenplay,For a murder/suspense story, there is very little action, almost none, yet there are no boring lulls. The three main actors - Stanwyck, MacMurray and Edward G. Robinson, are what make this so good.MacMurray's narration is fun to hear as he tells the story in flashback, from the beginning by dictating into an old Dictaphone to his co-worker Robinson. The latter is almost mesmerizing in his performance, the way he delivers his lines. He can even make a speech about something as boring as insurance and still keep you riveted to the screen.Stanwyck was no sex symbol (at least to me) but she looked great here in the most seductive of 1940s clothing and, like Robinson, has a distinctive voice and accent that keeps your attention.This film was the inspiration for the 1980 movie, "Body Heat," starring William Hurt and Kathleen Turner. That, too, was a very, very good movie....but not many films are in the class of this one.


                
There are occasional times when all the elements come together to make a great film that will stand the passing of time. "Double Indemnity" seems to be an example of this phenomenon.First, there was a great novel by one of America's best mystery writers, James Cain, who created these characters that seem will live forever in our imagination. Then, the lucky break in getting the right man to direct it, Billy Wilder, a man who knew about how to make a classic out of the material that he adapted with great care and elegance with Raymond Chandler, a man who knew about the genre."Double Indemnity" works because it's a story we can relate to. There is a greedy woman trapped in a bad marriage, who sees the opportunity when she encounters an insurance agent who is instantly smitten with her and who has only sex in his mind. The manipulator, Phyllis Dietrichson, doesn't need much to see how Walter desires her. His idea of having her husband sign an insurance policy he knows nothing about, thinking he is doing something else, will prove a fatal flaw in judgment.Mr. Wilder achieves in this film what others try, with disastrous results. The director, who was working under the old Hays Code, shows so much sex in the film with fully clothed actors, yet one feels the heat exuding from the passion Walter Neff feels for Phyllis. He is a man that will throw everything away because he is blinded by the promise of what his life will be once the husband is out of the picture.In life, as well as in fiction, there are small and insignificant things that will derail the best laid plans. First, there i Jackson, the man who shouldn't have been smoking at the rear of the train, contemplating the passing landscape. Then, no one counts in the ability of Barton Keys, the man in the agency who has seen it all! Walter and Phyllis didn't take that into consideration and it will backfire on their plan.We try to make a point to take a look at "Double Indemnity" when it shows on cable from time to time. Barbara Stanwyck makes a magnificent Phyllis. There are no false movements in her performance. Phyllis gets under Walter's skin because she knows where her priorities lie and makes good use of them in order to render Walter helpless under her spell.Fred McMurray makes a perfect Walter. He is consumed by his passion and he will do anything because of what he perceives will be the reward for doing the crime. Walter Neff was perhaps Mr. McMurray's best creation. He is completely believable and vulnerable.Edgar G. Robinson, as Barton Keys, makes one of his best performances for the screen. Keys is a man that has seen all the schemes pass by his desk. He is, in a way, Walter's worst nightmare, because working next to Keys, he gets to know how wrong he was in the planning of the crime.The supporting cast is excellent. Porter Hall, Jean Heather, Tom Powers, Richard Gaines, Fortunio Buonanova and John Philliber are perfect.The music score of Miklos Rosza gives the film a texture and a dimension that capitalizes on the action it intends to enhance. Also the music of Cesar Franck and Franz Schubert contribute to the atmosphere of the movie. The great cinematography of John Seitz, who will go on to direct films, is another asset in the movie. Edith Head's costumes are absolutely what a woman like Phyllis would wear right down to her ankle bracelet.This film shows a great man at his best: Billy Wilder!


                
Double Indemnity is a film which fully embodies its genre, all the classic noir elements are present: venetian blinds, diagonal lines, a femme fatale and a victim of fate.Fred MacMurray takes the central role as victim of fate, Walter Neff; cast against type, MacMurray gives a thoroughly convincing performance as a typical insurance salesman transformed into a calculating killer.The estimable Barbara Stanwyck also delivers a typically faultless performance as the coldhearted and seductive Phyllis Dietrichson who enlists Neff in a plot to kill her husband and cash in on the insurance money.Although this film may seem clichéd today, as many thrillers since have offered similar plot lines, rarely has the story been told so well. For fans of Film Noir, Stanwyck or MacMurray, this is an absolute MUST SEE!
Double Indemnity is based on a novel by James Cain adapted to the screen by great novelist Raymond Chandler, who made here his most important contribution to the cinema history in his career, though somehow matched by following screenwriting work for 1946 Howard Hawks' classic The Big Sleep, and Billy Wilder, who previously worked as a screen writer for Ernest Lubitsch and had been already nominated three times for Academy Awards in the process before making Double Indemnity, which nevertheless played the key role in establishing him as one of the best writer-directors in Hollywood, and giving him his fourth Oscar nomination as a writer and his first one as a director.Double Indemnity was the third feature Wilder directed after 1942 The Major and the Minor and 1943 Five Graves to Cairo, but it was definitely the first film, his primary American tragedy where the author for the first time revealed his black and somehow hopelessly pessimistic view of the American society and of the human society in general, blackishly desecrated in the film simply by populating it with exceptionally sordid characters, who independently of being a victim or victimized, of being the protagonists or just simple supporters are never really able to transcend the utterly low and devilish motivations in theirs as a consequence sordidly painful lives and reach such a state where the viewer might get relieved by considering one of them as a positive element. Instead the characters' lives shown in a continuous noir flashback of Fred MacMurray's not-a-confession are driven from the start to the very end by an utter greed in a form of double and not only indemnities with consequential and inherent to it risks and fears in a rather unsure world of insurance.An insurance salesman Walter Neff (Fred MacMurray), a man with `no visible scars', starts to lose his already shaky dominance over his mind's yearnings when glimpses on a horizon a possibility of becoming a recipient of a monetary fortune along with no less seductive desire from a part of unhappily married and as devilishly beautiful as resourceful in pursuing her zany in its deadliness schemes, an ultimate femme fatale blond Phyllis (marvellously portrayed by Barbara Stanwyck).Initially apparent as a romantic, the relationship gradually mutates into double confrontation of the two fears of the two characters in their greedy and ambitious pursuits, a conflict which at one point apparently results in a sort of humanization of Phyllis' character, appearing hiding the eyes of her soul behind the sun glasses, a humanization which is let to happen by her only to accentuate later her unchangeably fatal nature.The double confrontation gradually evolves into a triple one when the threatening presence on the scene of no less and probably more resourceful character of Barton Keyes (Edward G. Robinson) becomes more and more evident, as a result of his continuous and obsessive investigation conducted with different but nor less ambitious motives. A motives which find its ultimate revelation in a most touching, but finally most hypocritical scene of declaration of love (I love you - I love you too) between Walter Neff and Barton Keyes in the end, exactly reflecting the same nature of previous interactions between Walter and Phyllis, where such moments with the very words used, such as the supreme word of loving affection - Baby lowered to an unthinkable extent, only were a mere preparation to struck another blow in yet another outburst of hate caused by a new misfortunate complication in carrying out so well devised and apparently perfect plan.
Permeated right from the start to the very end with the flavour of unstoppable fatality in an extent that a few other film-noirs achieved, accentuated by the wonderful music score by Miklos Rozsa, Double Indemnity's story is motored by the money like in nearly all of Billy Wilder films. But in this case all the misery produced by it as evident as never before resulting in utter corruption of already corrupted characters and their descent into a such a deep abyss of human misery as probably never before or after in a Hollywood film history, an abyss with no exit, with omnipresent hypocrisy, with no place for sincere human feelings of love, friendship or affection, an abyss to where the characters descent under the monotonous tune of Miklos Rozsa's score, which serves as a reflection of their monotonously hypocrite and ultimately doubly doomed lives. 10/10


                
This is a dynamite piece of filmmaking by Billy Wilder.  Wilder is in my opinion a very underrated director, much like John Houston.  The acting is in top form from all of the players.  The cinematography is crisp, and beautiful.  The sound is nice and clear, and the direction is arguably some of Wilder's best.  However, the real star is the screenplay.  First off, it was taken from excellent source material.  James Cain is always great for a story where nobody wins out.  Check out The Postman Always Rings Twice for an example.  But it is Chandler who I think really put this one on the map. Chandler has a way with dialogue that makes it all ring in your ears.  The lines are smooth, and the characters always say something that makes me wish I could be that clever and smooth in everyday situations.  Chandler knows dialogue, Chandler knows LA, and Chandler knows how to deliver a story. Check out any of his novels, and you will see this.  This is a teamup that I really wish would have happened again.  Oh well.  If you don't mind voice over narration, then this is a film for you.


                
Barbara Stanwyck (multi bw movies "Lady Eve", many others) and Fred MacMurray (also many bw movies, then the dad on My Three Sons TV series) meet as an insurance salesman attempts to sell an insurance policy to a California housewife. They both play dark, sinister roles, unlike what they are both known for. I love the playful banter as they flirt and tease each other before things get more serious. Plot also has several clever twists, and the viewer squirms several times when the investigators almost catch people in compromising positions in a Hitchcock manner. Edward Robinson is MacMurray's boss helping to track down the clues. Billy Wilder directed. Movie was remade later in 1973 with richard crenna, but stick with the old b/w version.


                
Barbara Stanwyck changed the trajectory of her career with her ruthless, icy performance here. Fred MacMurray, however, would never again allow himself to duplicate anything similar to Walter Neff's troubled, doomed portrayal again on screen. Playing against their dark alliance, it is left to Edward G. Robinson to win the audience over as he struggles to shed light on the insurance fraud and murder.
This script should be studied by anyone who plans to write for TV or movies. Note the significant changes Wilder and Chandler made from James Cain's original novel - changes Cain admitted were improvements.
Especially worthy of mention is the level of artistry displayed in the final minutes when, after an hour and a half of of bitter nastiness, Wilder gives us just the smallest spoonful of sugar that wraps everything up perfectly. There's almost something criminal when evil is such a treat to watch.


                
people who best remember fred macmurray from my three sons will certainly be caught off guard wiith this classic  james m. cain film noir flick. macmurray plays a cool, sleazy, somewhat desperate conniving dupe, while barbara stanwyck plays the femme fatale, and edward g. robinson does a fine job in a somewhat subdued role. a must see!


                
In 1943, director of the film, "Double Indemnity", Billy Wilder, was painstakingly determined to complete a motion picture about this compelling novel written by James M. Cain. Cain is known for other great novels such as "Mildred Pierce" and "The Postman Always Rings Twice". In the process of creating this major motion picture, several actors, including George Raft and Alan Ladd, turned down the job as the sinister leading male role in this movie. Finally, the part was offered to squeaky clean, Fred MacMurray, this appointment is literally, out of character for MacMurray! Barbara Stanwyck received the honor for the lead female role in "Double Indemnity", and Edward G Robinson was given the third billing as a star in this picture. This post of third billing was something that had not happened to Edward G Robinson since his prior acting days before "Little Caeser", which was made in 1931. Robinson capitulated to a third billing spot because he had a great admiration for the concept that the film "Double Indemnity" so intricately purported! The whole genre to "Double Indemnity" was set up flawlessly, as it orchestrated a deliberately contradictory dynamic. Behind the sunny pleasantry of Los Angeles, there lurked a deep rooted and conniving chicanery amidst a couple of masterminds who began implementing a horribly dark aspect of human behavior. The film, "Double Indemnity" manifested the rough exterior that the United Staes was besieged with because of their involvement in World War II. The American movie goer had become a little less naive since the advent of WWII, and, this reflected itself accordingly with regards to the type of movie they wanted to see. The film noir captivated the American public, and, now, the movie industry encompassed a myriad of wry depictions that were germane to the pejorative side of an individual. This dubiously sensationalistic technique by the motion picture industry was perceived as intriguing by the newly enlightened movie audience of the early 1940's!! The film "Double Indemnity" epitomizes the entire film noir pique, right alongside with the uncanny masterpiece "Maltese Falcon". "Double Indemnity" did not win for best picture in 1944, that year, the Academy Award was given to "Going My Way". As we all know, there are times when life simply does not make any sense, especially since a prominent Philadelphia critic rated "Going My Way" the worst Academy Award winning film in the whole history of the American cinema! "Double Indemnity" is considered to be Billy Wilder's best directing effort! The next year, Billy Wilder's directorial ability was totally vindicated, as he received his rightfully deserved acclaim with the film, "The Lost Weekend", which won for best picture in 1945. Billy Wilder received the Academy Award for best director that year as well. The film, "Double Indemnity" is truly remarkable!! The itemized and avaricious intensity to this movie was something that had not been depicted in films before the movie "Double Indemnity" was made. This film's wiles of malice and deceit were not expedited with a derivative and visceral disposition, rather, these antics were carried off with a dedicated fervor and paramount gratification. Fred MacMurray's character was perpetually afflicted with a relentless angst that infiltrated an acrimonious reveille to him about the primary repercussions of personal greed! His character, Walter Neff, endured a narrative agony which perpetuated a compulsive pontification about how people really are, as opposed to the way they are suppose to be! Barbara Stanwyck established her formidable status as a revolutionary femme-fatal in the Hollywood world of movies, with her performance in "Double Indemnity". Charismatically charming while wearing her diverse onslaught of angora sweaters, her beauty and allure became a necessary ingredient to the making of this film! The wig that Barbara Stanwyck wore for this movie, signified the overall mendacity to her heinously lethal and obsessive persona!! Stanwyck's intellectual ambiguity to this role was attributed to her overtly callous set of pecuniary priorities! Edward G. Robinson's character was the perennial voice of reason. Robinson was the legal eagle who would ultimately prevail in his tenacious quest to resolve all of these dubiously manufactured and felonious escapades! The final scene with MacMurray and Stanwyck was an all-time noir classic. This last scene with MacMurray and Stanwyck was one of the best scenes of any movie whatsoever, definitely head to head with the extraordinary last scene of the movie "The Killing". A respected production company ranks this ending the sixth best ending of any and all movies ever produced! The dramatic ending to "Double Indemnity" was rated right above "Casablanca" and right below "City Lights". The heightened glamor to the final scene for MacMurray and Stanwyck exuded a zenith within the realm of the classic film noir mystique. The emphatic, yet subtle, overtone to the song "Tangerine" playing in the background, became a melodic element to this final scene which was conducive to a sexually sedate form of apocalyptic doom and despair! Throughout the entire duration of this movie, Fred MacMurray and Barbara Stanwyck were always seducing each other with salacious innuendos! This ending wound up emulating a philosophical perspective used by writers of ancient Greek tragedies! Filming a movie in black and white is primarily advantageous to the quality of a film, as it obviates any disorientation to the impact of the characters' emotions!! AFI (AMERICAN FILM INSTITUTE) ranks "Double Indemnity" the 29th best film out of the top 100 American movies ever made! This website ranks "Double Indemnity" 53rd out of the top 250 films ever produced. Last, but certainly not least, America's Writer's Guild East, ranks "Double Indemnity" the 26th best written script ever in the history of American films!! The director, Billy Wilder, does a tremendous job with consummating the aggregate megalomania and rancor to this movie. The acting was sensational. "Double Indemnity" was up for seven Academy Awards in 1944! Without question! "Double Indemnity" is one of the greatest films ever created... FIVE STARS... PERFECT TEN!!!!


                
Billy Wilder's cynical self came to public attention in this classic noir film about a luckless insurance salesman and one coldhearted dame. Double Indemnity skirted the very edges of Code morality and it took years before someone brought James M. Cain's novel to the screen.According to a book on Billy Wilder the casting of Barbara Stanwyck was a must for Phyllis Dietrichson, otherwise the film might never have been made. Barbara Stanwyck was that rarest of players, one who could be good and convincing in all kinds of parts. Look at the films she got her four Oscar nominations besides Double Indemnity, Stella Dallas, Ball of Fire, and Sorry Wrong Number. Not one of those is similar to any one of the others and Stanwyck was acclaimed in all of them.Fortunately for Wilder and for Paramount's budget, their leading man was right on the lot. Fred MacMurray who has been playing comedic foils for folks like Carole Lombard, Claudette Colbert, etc. up to that time, made the most of playing the feckless Walter Neff who gets sucked into a homicidal scheme through passion.Double Indemnity is a landmark film in that it's two leads are really rotten people. Barbara Stanwyck has a husband in Tom Powers she can't stand and would like to bump him off for an insurance settlement and MacMurray's the insurance salesman she beguiles into her plot. Funny thing is that when the mechanics of the murder plot are discussed and formulated, the ideas are all MacMurray's. Billy Wilder made two other films similar to Double Indemnity where a weak protagonist gets caught up in a filthy scheme. In Sunset Boulevard William Holden plays the gigolo way to well and can't break from unto pain of death. And Kirk Douglas's scheme about exploiting the tragedy of a man trapped in a cave brings him down all the way in Ace in the Hole. I'd be hard pressed to say which of the three men was worse.The man who brings them down is Edward G. Robinson, the claims investigator in the insurance office where MacMurray works. Robinson is gradually putting the whole thing together and Wilder is at his best with the scenes of Robinson explaining the progress of his investigation to MacMurray with Fred trying to stay one step ahead.Robinson doesn't usually get enough praise for Double Indemnity. He's got a little man, Hercule Poirot has those little grey cells. Either way both are up to the challenge of solving what looks like a perfect crime. Lot's of Agatha Christie's Belgian sleuth in James M. Cain's Barton Keyes.Wilder for the one and only time in his career worked with another great mystery writer in Raymond Chandler on the script. It was not a pleasant experience for either. Chandler complained about the working conditions of Hollywood and Wilder complained about Chandler's dissipation. Both were probably right.Among the supporting cast look for a nice performance by Porter Hall who turns out not to be as valuable witness as Robinson originally thought. The man from Medford may not lie, but he's not above a little chiseling.Double Indemnity is one eternal classic it will be studied and dissected by film students for centuries.


                
It's all story. There's not an ounce of superfluous material anywhere in this tightly plotted film classic about a wealthy middle-aged woman named Phyllis Dietrichson (Barbara Stanwyck) and an insurance salesman named Walter Neff (Fred MacMurray). The two of them conspire to kill Dietrichson's heavily insured husband, to cheat the insurance company out of a fortune. "Double Indemnity" is my all-time favorite noir film.The film's entertainment derives, in part, from the fact that we, as viewers, get to peek into their murderous scheme, and then watch both of them squirm, when their scheme starts to unravel. An undercurrent of paranoia permeates the plot, as the two incessantly look over their shoulders, as it were, to see if anyone has picked up on their plans or actions. And there are plenty of plot twists and turns. The dialogue is brisk, decisive, and memorable. Walter Neff gives one of my favorite lines: "How could I have known that murder could sometimes smell like honeysuckle?"The film's excellent structure is organized around Neff's confessional, spoken into a Dictaphone and directed at his insurance company boss, Barton Keyes, played by the inimitable Edward G. Robinson. Much of the story is then told in a series of flashbacks from Neff's POV, as he narrates his liaison with Dietrichson.The film's terrific B&W cinematography, with its use of lighting texture and shadows, adds to the dark mood, and to an overall feeling of danger and deception. The visuals neatly correspond to the inner lives of the two main characters. The film's direction and casting are perfect. All of the acting is top notch. And the score is edgy, erotic, and at times appropriately menacing.There are a few minor plot holes. But who cares? The concept, story, characters, structure, and dialogue are so cinematically strong that they overwhelm any slight defects. And with topnotch film direction, casting, acting, cinematography, editing, and score, the result is a powerhouse film that will entertain viewers for at least the next ten thousand years.


                
The super deluxe 2-disc DVD edition of the 1944 film noir classic DOUBLE INDEMNITY (DI) rocks! Director/co-screenwriter Billy Wilder's flair with suspense and black humor works so perfectly with James M. Cain's novel about adulterous lovers plotting to murder the woman's husband and scam the man's insurance company, that it even improves on the book (which I read years ago). The dark tone and scandalous subject matter freaked out Hollywood so much that it took 9 years to get DI from the printed page to the big screen. Fred MacMurray was the only leading man in Hollywood with the guts to take the role of insurance salesman-turned-murderer Walter Neff, though even MacMurray needed convincing at first. None of the other in-demand male stars of the period wanted Barbara Stanwyck's conniving, money-loving, hubby-offing temptress Phyllis Dietrichson to make a chump out of him on screen. Their loss! (I'd first seen MacMurray when I was a kid. Back then, he was best known to my generation as a Disney movie star and the lovable dad of TV's MY THREE SONS, so it was quite a revelation to me when I saw him playing underhanded types in DI, THE APARTMENT, and THE CAINE MUTINY. MacMurray had more range than he got credit for!) MacMurray and Stanwyck are dynamite in this, one of the most gleefully, unapologetically black-hearted films noir ever made. Their dialogue, especially in the first half of the movie, contains many of my fave movie lines of all time (if I start quoting them all, I'll pretty much be transcribing most of the script). The chemistry between Stanwyck and MacMurray blazes like the Chicago Fire as the wily, spellbinding Phyllis draws Walter into her web. As Richard Schickel points out in one of the DVD's 2 excellent audio commentaries, Stanwyck's Phyllis is always reacting in the moment, so you never can tell whether she means a word she says, making her all the more fascinating. What cynical Sam Spade says to the equally slippery Brigid O'Shaughnessy in THE MALTESE FALCON could also apply to the quicksilver Phyllis: she's good, awful good! Edward G. Robinson is DI's crabby yet kind-hearted Voice of Reason in his portrayal of Barton Keyes, the Pacific All-Risk Insurance Company's ace Claims Manager. As Keyes, Robinson is irresistible, with his zeal for detail, the "little man" in his gut giving him indigestion every time an insurance claim seems fishy, and his gruff affection for Walter. Heck, at times, there's more tenderness between Walter and Keyes than there is between Walter and Phyllis! :-) IMO, the biggest crime in DI was the failure to nominate either of the male leads for an Oscar, especially scene-stealing Robinson, though the Academy was smart enough not to overlook the mesmerizing Stanwyck. (For that matter, Robinson was never nominated for an Oscar for any of his superb performances. He was eventually given one of those special career Oscars, or as we like to call them, the "Yikes, He's So Old He Could Croak Any Minute and He Still Hasn't Gotten An Oscar? *D-OH!*" award. :-) DI boasts plenty of wonderful character bits, too -- really, there isn't a bum performance in the bunch! Our household's DI faves include Fortunio Bonanova as Garlopis, whose phony claim Keyes chews to bits "like a slice of rare roast beef;" and Porter Hall as Jackson from Medford, Oregon, the jovial train traveler who innocently throws a wrench into the murder plot when he turns up on the train's Observation Car while Walter pretends to be Phyllis' injured, crutch-bound hubby. (Speaking of the crutches, is the opening credit sequence with the silhouetted, fedora'd figure on crutches one of the coolest credit sequences of all time, or what?). Any fans of THE THING FROM ANOTHER WORLD who might be reading this shouldn't blink when Walter lets Lola (Jean Heather) into his office at one point, or you'll miss Douglas Spencer (with hair!) as Walter's associate, Lou Schwartz, coming out at the same time.If you love the movie (and why wouldn't you? :-), you'll go gaga over the nifty commentary tracks and extras. Among other things, we learn about the censorship issues in bringing Cain's juicy, lurid tales to the big screen. For example, there were several European film versions of THE POSTMAN ALWAYS RINGS TWICE (including Luchino Visconti's OSSESSIONE, which works very well in its down-to-earth way and recently turned up on Turner Classic Movies) before Hollywood brought it to the big screen with John Garfield and Lana Turner in 1946. We're also told about how the different writing/working styles of Wilder and Raymond Chandler (who was hired to help adapt the story when Cain was under contract elsewhere and Wilder's then-collaborator Charles Brackett nixed the dark material) turned the experience into a collaboration made in hell. For the record, I wouldn't be surprised if Chandler was mostly to blame, since there are similar stories about him being just as tough to work with during Alfred Hitchcock's 1951 screen adaptation of Patricia Highsmith's STRANGERS ON A TRAIN. Hitch eventually brought in Ben Hecht's assistant Czenzi Ormonde to finish/polish the script when Chandler took a hike. Disc 2 contains the 1973 TV movie remake of DOUBLE INDEMNITY, which is worth watching if only to appreciate how much better the original is! This DVD set belongs in your collection!


                
This is my favorite movie. I think Fred MacMurray gives his best performance ever. Barbara Stanwyck and Edward G. Robinson also stand out. The script, co-written by the film's director, Billy Wilder, and mystery author Raymond Chandler is crisp and tough. MacMurray's lines are memorable.It is a story of greed, fear and lust. Greed so intense that it drives the mild-mannered MacMurray to murder. And fear, grasping at his senses, that it permeates his ability to think reasonably. And, of course, lust, the kind of lust for the equally bad Stanwyck that drove him to commit evil in the first place.If you like old films, especially film noir, see this one. It is absolutely perfect.


                
This film hits the screen like a well trained Olympic runner with comfortable shoes who can feel the gold around his neck before his heels are even in the blocks.  It's what they call `film noir,' because from the opening frames you know that the guy doing the talking is looking at a no-win situation, that he's going to lose and lose big.  Oh, sure, he knows it now; everything you're about to see has already happened, his goose has already been cooked, and now he's going to tell you about it, let you in on what went down, how it went south and why.  He'll even give you the heads up on the irony of the whole thing right out of the chute, how like our Olympic runner he could feel the gold in his hand before the ink on the insurance paper was even dry-- yeah, that's right it was an insurance scam, see, and a good one too-- all the bases were covered and checked for chinks, but in the end-- and here's where the irony comes in-- in the end, he didn't get the money and he didn't even get the girl who put the whole thing in motion.`Double Indemnity,' a classic `noir' thriller in anybody's book, was directed by Billy Wilder, a guy who knows all the ins and outs, ups and downs and double shuffles of the business better than a short jockey on a tall horse.  He's the `go to' guy in a game like this, because he knows all the angles, he knows the lingo and more than that, he has the insights to make it play out like it was the real deal; this guy knows what makes people tick, what motivates them and it's an ace up his sleeve that he plays like a trump card when the chips are down or even if a stack or two looks like they're about to go over.  He knows the whole layout, from top to bottom and side to side because he wrote the script along with another guy you might have heard about, Raymond Chandler, another member of the club who just happens to know his way around the block and back again.  This is a guy who doesn't need a road map to tell him which way to go; he's the guy who `invented' the map.  And when a couple of the boys like Wilder and Chandler get together to make it up and put it down, it's as good as in the can, especially when they're getting the skinny in the first place from James M. Cain, who it just so happens wrote the novel this movie's based on.  Besides which, they got the names Fred MacMurray and Barbara Stanwyck down on the dotted lines, the ones that count, the ones that say they're the ones who are the stars of the picture, see?  Let's face it, that's like having Ruth, Mantle and Mays in the outfield at the same time with Sandy Koufax on the mound and Don Drysdale warming up behind him in the bull pen.  The opposition might as well climb back on the bus and take the long ride on the short pier, because Wilder's team already has the big `W' next to their name in the box score.Like I said before, and I'm going to say it again because if there's one thing I've learned during my time on the planet it's that sometimes people just don't listen, or maybe there's some things they just don't want to hear.  But like I was saying, this story's about an insurance scam, a dirty deal that all starts when Mr. Walter Neff (MacMurray), a salesman with a head a couple of sizes too big for his hat, makes a house call and runs into a dame, and not just any dame; her name is Phyllis Dietrichson (Stanwyck), a woman with the kind of beauty that stops traffic, turns heads and makes monkeys out of guys like Neff, guys that think they got it knocked when all the time they're standing in quicksand and don't even know it till they're in up to their ears and gasping for that last breath.  But that's the name of the game; Neff isn't the first guy to find his tiller on the wrong side of the mule because of a pretty face, moist lips and the sweet smell of perfume that sells it all like the siren's song, and he won't be the last to have the deal closed by promises of something that never will be and never has been, though it's victims are heaped along the side of the carefree highway like mounds of bark dust just waiting to be spread or lost in the wind.Maybe that's not a pretty picture, but everything can't be a glossy print on Kodak paper, and you can take that to the bank because history's full of stories like this.  Let's face it, Monet didn't have good eyesight, Van Gogh was down an ear and neither Mona nor her sister Lisa knew how to smile.  And when a pair like Walter and Phyllis get together to cook a stew, there's always a Barton Keyes (Edward G. Robinson) waiting in the wings for them to screw up, take a wrong step or flash a tell that attracts a guy with a nose for fraud like a metal rod drawing lightening.It takes some real `pros' to play the game at this level, and that's Wilder's team all right; but he needed some support to win this big, and he got it from the likes of Porter Hall (Mr. Jackson), Jean Heather (Lola), Tom Powers (Mr. Dietrichson) and Byron Barr (Nino).  This film will give you the kind of ride a Six Flags park could only dream of, and that's what makes `Double Indemnity' one you're going to remember like a first kiss on a warm night in summer.  10/10.


                
This wonderful film, with its brooding 1940's atmosphere and superb black-and-white photography (by John Seitz) is one of Hollywood's best. Fred MacMurray's performance, as the insurance man besotted with Barbara Stanwyck, and Edward G Robinson's as his boss help make this film memorable. The turns of the plot and the highly-charged suspense ensure that the viewer will not be disappointed. Another of Billy Wilder's hits. Well done!


                
In 1938, the experienced salesman of the Pacific All Risk Insurance Co. Walter Neff (Fred MacMurray) meets the seductive wife of one of his client, Phyllis Dietrichson (Barbara Stanwick), and they have an affair. Phyllis proposes to kill her husband Dietrichson (Tom Powers) to receive the prize of an accident insurance policy and Walter plots a scheme to receive twice the amount based on a double indemnity clause. When Mr. Dietrichson is found dead on the trails of a train, the police accepts the evidence of accidental death. However, the insurance analyst and Walter's best friend Barton Keyes (Edward G. Robinson) does not buy the version and suspects that Phyllis has murdered her husband with the help of another man.In my opinion, Billy Wilder was the greatest director of Hollywood ever, directing many masterpieces including "Double Indemnity" among them. This is the second time that I see this magnificent film-noir, now on DVD recently released in Brazil (the first time was in the cable television, since this masterpiece has never been released on VHS in my country). The story and screenplay are stunning, disclosing a sordid story of lust, love, greed and betrayal. Fred MacMurray, Barbara Stanwick and Edward G. Robinson have magnificent performances. The cinematography is simply spectacular, with an awesome use of lights and shadows and the music score completes one of the best movies Hollywood has ever produced. My vote is ten.Title (Brazil): "Pacto de Sangue" ("Pact of Blood")


                
I consider this to be one of the best movies ever made. The lines in the movie are classic and create an atmosphere that top most other movies. Fred MacMurray and the other actors are brilliant and the chemistry between Fred and Barbara is sparkling. All in all this is a great movie that everyone should see and be amazed by.


                
Wilder's astute direction, a cracking tale of murder and deception taken from James M Cain's pulpy novel, an appropriately dark atmosphere, and the lethal combination of Stanwyck/MacMurray and Robinson in support combine for a stunning film noir.MacMurray gives possibly the best performance (definitely the most well-known) of his career as the insurance representative Walter Neff, a weak-chinned chump who lets himself get talked into a murder-for-insurance scheme by the duplicitous double-crossing dame Phyllis Dietrichson (Barbara Stanwyck), who's not very fond of her older hubby at all.Stanwyck's femme fatale performance is pure dynamite. She's fake and trashy yet alluring with her tart blonde hair (Stanwyck wore a wig), sweetly seductive voice and mesmerizing (to Neff, anyway) anklet. This girl's motives are purely selfish, covered by a pretence of romance, and she is apt to quickly change her line of attack to get what she wants. One moment, Stanwyck is "crying softly" on MacMurray's shoulder like a lost little lamb- the next, she is spitting venom like an angry cobra.'Double Indemnity' possesses an amazing script filled with plenty of juicy, hard-bitten dialogue and double entendres. Stanwyck and MacMurray's interactions always have a smoky sexy undercurrent punctuated by cracking one-liners.MacMurray's protagonist provides the voice-over so common to the noir genre. It is one of the best you'll hear, with MacMurray narrating the circumstances of his own downfall with a resigned, yet smooth manner. Great use of lighting and shadows- this film has amazing visual style; it looks foreboding.Robinson is a great in a supporting role as claims manager Keyes, who, after the couple commit their crime (knocking off Barbara's old hubby), quickly gets wise that his death was no accident. It was murder- and Keyes is determined to snuff out the criminal. He suspects Stanwyck from the start, but is oblivious to Neff's involvement. Here, with Robinson and MacMurray's characters, we have possibly the first open declaration of love between two males in the cinema. When Keyes finds out about Neff's involvement, there is no vicious air between the two men. Instead, a kind of hurt, disappointed sadness.One thing I found really nice amidst the dark deeds was Neff's relationship with Dietrichson's daughter, Lola (Jean Heather). As his world is crashing down around him, Walter finds some sort of ironic comfort with the distraught young girl, whose mother and father have both died under suspicious circumstances (Hello, Phyllis) along with her boyfriend being suspected in her father's murder. Ironic indeed, as Walter was one of the perpetrators of her pain. But one feels that their relationship has an underlying purity to it, so we accept it. She is the girl Neff should have taken up with in the first place. After all, Neff is our resident "poor sucker". It's that black-hearted witch Phyllis who we have to blame.Or is it? Neff could have backed out of the plan at any time, he was just weak and caught in the clutches of a powerful woman in control. Stanwyck merely activated MacMurray's long-held desire to crook the system. Phyllis does redeem herself to a degree near the film's conclusion, but it's too late for both lovers.The original of a type of crime flick that has been copied relentlessly over the years, 'Double Indemnity' is definitely one of the best, tightest noirs I've had pleasure to view .
The long silent street of film noir, a street where it is always night, and where the songs are always sad. That street is usually a dingy urban alley or a dank sidestreet, but in Billy Wilder's Double Indemnity, it was a deceptively quiet suburban avenue. "Down these mean streets a man must go who is not himself necessarily mean," wrote novelist Raymond Chandler, and as a screenwriter, he joined Wilder in sending one Walter Neff, insurance investigator, down the crookedest of these dead end lanes of the spirit.The streets of Los Angeles are busier and deadlier than they were in Chandler's heyday. Yet Chandler's disquieting, existential take on the City of Angels transcends fashions in both transportation and crime. Those mean streets remain mean, and mementos of Double Indemnity can still be seen all over the city. The Hollywood Bowl where Walter and Lola Dietrichson meet; Walter's apartment at the Château Marmont; the Glendale train station where the "perfect crime" begins... And the "death house" of Double Indemnity, where Phyllis and Walter meet, plot murder, and where their strange love finally reaches its apocalypse, still stands, secluded and quiet, high in the Hollywood Hills, at 6301 Quebec Street, in Los Angeles. Exteriors were shot there, and sets were modeled after the inside of the house. The house seems to rear up in the summer twilight, remembering the night fifty years ago when a cruel woman brought her husband out to a big LaSalle sedan idling in the garage, with a killer in the back seat. The house's silent, stuccoed cloisters look gloomily down on Quebec Street, while Walter Neff's disembodied footfalls echo off the asphalt.
Some cinematic matches seem made in heaven, no matter how discordant they may prove on Earth. Such was unquestionably the case with legendary writer/director Billy Wilder and author Raymond Chandler, when paired up to craft a film adaptation of a dark, seedy novel by James M. Caine, dealing with such rich cinematic potential as deception, double-crossing and murder. While the feuding between Wilder and Chandler was legendary, each despising each other's methods and taking any possible opportunity to ridicule each other, their cinematic concoction, Double Indemnity, was even more legendary. One of the most pitch perfect noir thrillers of all time, each component of the film fits together seamlessly to create a flawless slice of dark movie magic which has lost none of its atmospheric punch and poignancy when viewed in a contemporary setting, over sixty years later. Double Indemnity proves unlike any other films of its time, as the film's tension is extracted not from the question of whether or not the lurid scheme of the central characters will succeed, but instead through the sickly knowledge that they are fated not to, inviting the viewer to watch the whole sordid affair unfold, to see each piece fit disastrously into place. From the opening titles, the film positively drips with fatalism between MacMurray's grim voice-over to the sublime noir lighting, all creating a pitch perfect mood of unease and despair. The masterful technical work is matched by the perfectly honed screenplay by Wilder and Chandler, delivering an engrossing treatise on greed, lust and their abilities to ensnare and corrupt while cleverly mixing cynical introspection with snappy banter and the kind of exquisitely stylized lines filmmakers simply could not pull off now (see the dynamic, thinly veiled "speeding ticket" sexual innuendo exchange between Stanwyck and MacMurray). The idea of walking an audience through the planning and execution of a murder was a virtually unprecedented one, but the ingenious daring of Wilder and Chandler does not stop there. Not only does the film empathize with the murderers, Dietrichson for personal gain and Neff as much to shake up the prescribed order of things as his sordid infatuation with her, but also demonstrates how exhilarating and, crucially, entertaining the act of killing could be. Bathing the viewer in a seedy world of secret encounters, lurid sexual acts and casual violence played up as darkly fascinating as opposed to downright immoral, Wilder and Chandler choose to side with characters who ordinarily would have filled the roles of cinematic villains, with the lawful figure Keyes instead played almost as grotesque antagonist, blithely subscribing to a system revolving around asphyxiating order fated to collapse. Though evil is eventually punished, not only is it seemingly predisposed to overcome good, the film seems to silently state, but it is more interesting anyway - a pitch black, endlessly captivating moral stance which has lost not a shred of potency. The casting of lead character Walter Neff carries a similar parallel story of infamy to the film itself; a series of successful stars passing on the role, concerned about the implications of humanising an unrepentant killer. The final casting choice, perennial nice guy Fred MacMurray playing decidedly against type proved simply brilliant, as MacMurray inhabits the role like a cool leather glove, his fast talking salesman veneer carefully concealing a deadness in his eyes, a forever looming darkness barely veiled. MacMurray accomplishes the truly laudable feat of taking a downright unsavoury character yet still retaining the audiences' sympathies despite each unethical act, perfectly essaying the moral crux of the film. Of course, the simply stunning performance by Barbara Stanwyck as one of the most memorable femme fatale figures of the era proves a lurid highlight, as Stanwyck arguably steals the show with her searing, sultry yet devious intensity, far too charismatic and cunning to ever be reduced to a simple object of desire. The two powerhouse leads are well supported by character actor Edward G. Robinson giving a deliciously repellent performance as an order obsessive insurance agent increasingly suspicious of the insurance scam presented to him.Despite the hefty competition, there can be little doubt that Double Indemnity marks its place as one of the most emotionally gruelling and captivating film noirs of its time, and arguably in the history of the industry. Each flawless element of the film melds together to create a truly mesmerizing work just as grimly entertaining as it is technically laudable. For any in search of a taut, hard hitting piece of staunch film-making, few films would prove more fitting than Double Indemnity. -10/10


                
This film was nominated for seven Oscars and probably would have won them all if it had not been going up against Going My Way.Billy Wilder wrote and directed this outstanding film with Fred MacMurray, Barbara Stanwyck, and Edward G. Robinson in a role that has to be seen to be believed.Robinson to me is a gangster (Little Caesar, Key Largo, Larceny, Inc), but he is apparently more than that because he was simple incredible as a claims adjuster in this film. The lines Wilder gave him were brilliant and he delivered them without flaw.McMurray was the original Absent Minded Professor and, of course, the father on My Three Sons. he plays the insurance salesman who gets over his head with Stanwyck (The Big Valley). Here she is a hot blond and McMurray falls like a rock.This is one of Wilder's best and one not to miss.


                
I have a new favorite movie. If it's not Double Indemnity then at least it's the whole film noir genre. Double Indemnity was THE greatest story I have ever have had the pleasure of seeing. It had it all. It was black and white, it had a great theme song and it had such deep characters. Characters you really feel with. This was my first REAL film noir. I had seen Chinatown before this one but that is classified as neo noir because it's in color.Did I mention that the acting in this movie is the best acting I have ever seen in a movie? And I mean real acting. Not like real acting like you'll find in Mockumentaries where the acting is so natural only because it's improvised. No, the acting in this movie is in the scale of stage actors. The best there is. The lines are all delivered in such a natural way because they are natural. Meaning that there isn't a single line in this movie that I would even think about changing.The directing and cinematography were the best I have ever seen. The opening credits feature a man in crutches walking towards the screen in Silhouette while dramatic music plays over the soundtrack and credits appearing and disappearing on the screen. From there on the movie had me. How could I stop watching after a credit sequence like that? As the movie plays out we keep hearing the same theme. And I wouldn't have it any other way.This movie is recommended. Recommended to everyone by me. If you like any sort of cinema. And if you don't laugh at Adam Sandlers jokes then go and get this movie. Get it and never sell it. Because it is the greatest piece of cinema I have ever seen.


                
"The Maltese Falcon" is generally considered to be the very first film noir, but Billy Wilder's "Double Indemnity" is the first GREAT noir. With actors that perfectly understood Wilder's penchant for black as tar humour, this film is as seedy, dark and many times funny as they come. Barbara Stanwyck is a knockout as the classic femme fatale, complete with cheap blonde wig and ankle bracelets. Fred MacMurray makes a terrific dope, his silly machimso preventing him from realizing that Stanwyck is one step ahead of him through the entire film. And Edward G. Robinson shines as usual in a small but important role.For me, this film breaks new ground in the hard-boiled/detective/murder mystery genre. I believe it was a bit of a flop when it came out, but that's easy to understand. Films that in retrospect prove themselves to be cutting edge are frequently dismissed at the time of their release. "Double Indemnity" doesn't have the look of other studio films of its period, not even other gritty detective films of its period. The lighting is stark and grimy; you can almost see every speck of dust in the shafts of light slanting in through the windows. Wilder gets the feel of a corrupt L.A. just right. But even more than its look, the film is years ahead of its time in its moral tone. Not only do the characters in this film not find redemption, they appear to be unredeemable. Each shows him/herself to be colder and more cynical than the other, and there's a "Bonnie and Clyde"-like inevitability to their eventual fates.Simply sensational. And watch for the list of "supposin'"s MacMurray and Stanwyck throw back and forth at each other in one scene. It's hilarious and perfect, and those who've seen the film will know exactly what I'm talking about.Grade: A+
Simply the apotheosis of film noir. Twisted plot and irresistibly quotable dialogue, courtesy of Billy Wilder and Raymond Chandler. Atmospheric cinematography. Stupendous suspense, even after multiple viewings. La Stanwyck gives a masters class in Diva that Callas could have taken a page from.Fred MacMurray crushes his nice guy image like a sweaty fedora left on the passenger seat on a hot night.Edward G. Robinson is. . .even more so than usual.If you haven't seen Double Indemnity, I envy the film-going experience that lies before you.


                
