Classic tale of double-cross and scheming is done to a nicety. Never mind the fact that the script is formulaic and predictable, and the characters are all selfish and self-serving. Just sit back and enjoy some great acting and smart direction.Billy Wilder knew exactly how far to stretch this tale of an insurance salesman who fatefully falls for the femme fatale who would spell ruin for him. He knew the strengths and weaknesses, and he let it ride from there.Fred MacMurray gleefully overplays his stereotype hero guy. He's got the smarts, the looks and he's almost got the dame. As said beauty, Barbara Stanwyck is a must, and few could do this sort of thing better. Cap all this with the dry, witty performance from Edward G. Robinson who lives and breathes insurance claims. He gets all the best lines and devours them.In a nutshell you have here a must for any 40's film buffs.Sunday, November 1, 1998 - Astor Theatre
It was interesting watching this movie having already seen so many movies that clearly used this as source material. The fast talking, witty dialogue, woman with a money making scheme, and the use of romance/feminine wiles to achieve those means are all things that became the cornerstone of film noir. It's easy to see why this movie had such an impact given how perfectly each was executed. It was interesting to watch their so called perfect scheme unfurl bit by bit, especially in regards to how the characters reacted to this. The only thing that I wish is that I had gotten a little more invested in the romance and the characters themselves. Some later film noir films really nailed making me care about the plot through the eyes of the characters, which is my favorite approach to film. That is just my personal preferences though, and setting that aside, this was an incredibly well constructed film.


                
Everyone knows this film and everyone loves it.I tried to observe some flaws if there are any in it. The actress playing the daughter looked too old for the role. Stanwyck was 37 when this was made and Mc Murray was 36.I agree with the reviewer who stated Mc Murray's later roles in TV sit coms and so forth tainted his image. It's true it was hard to take him seriously.A new Cadillac driving around the rail road tracks might attract some notice especially in 1939 (the year this is supposed to take place).Also you have to suspend disbelief that Mc Murray would be so smitten by Stanwyck he would attempt anything like this. She is not especially at 37 (or any age!) the most attractive woman in the world. The blond wig? I guess was supposed to make her look ?? maybe cheap or tainted. She can carry any role though plouging through it like a bulldozer.But these are so minor. I loved the movie watch it and read the other reviews.RECOMMEND HIGHLY


                
This film is not a timeless epic, it has aged badly. One whom describes it as a must for film-noir fans is probably doing so for all the wrong reasons. Sure, it has a snappy dialogue, the dame is desirable, the hero both lovable due to his sentimentalism, and exciting due to his high intelligence, the narration is very well done. The acting is not, contrary to popular opinion, that good. The main characters were not so hot, the best piece of acting was actually the portrayal of Keys, his character was almost Holmes-esque. The plot is very generic. Of course, this film may well have been one of the first to carry out such a plot, it may have been a real trend-setter, but I'm sorry that doesn't make it a classic by any stretch of the imagination. Regardless of how it received and how influential it was, it is not a great in its own genre. I adore film-noir and found this a let down.


                
Interesting plot of this thriller. An attractive woman (Stanwyck) married to a man much older than her, who was previously married or was widow, with a daughter from his first marriage, live in a very tense relations. She did not want to continue living with his husband and detested his daughter. At this point, an agent from an insurance company (MacMurray) thrived as an 'angel' for Stanwyck, he proposed different assurances, one of them foresaw insurance in case of an accidental death, but he also felt in love with Stanwyck. This passion led to a planned murder that was committed nearly perfectly. But another intelligent person (Edward G. Robinson), the boss of MacMurray in the insurance company, step by step started to discover the plot for murder. This is a film with very modest means if you compare with those presently in use, but it is of a very high quality. Barbara Stanwyck and Fred MacMurray showed their class, but the best acting came from that 'monster' of the screen named Edward G. Robinson, who acted perfectly. Looking the way he did one may think that he was not an actor but simply the real boss of the insurance company.


                
Along with maybe John Huston's 'The Maltese Falcon', Billy Wilder's 'Double Indemnity' is considered by a majority of critics and audience to be the film that pioneered the rise of the film movement that later came to be termed as Film Noir. 'Double Indemnity' has all the tropes and clichés that became an integral part of the subsequent films of the aforementioned genre. It has the shady and morally crooked characters, the voice-over narration, the seductive and vicious femme fatale, a gloomy look and cinematography which involves a constant attention to the use of shadows and darkness. No one can ever deny how influential a film 'Double Indemnity' is. One has to only see the number of remakes and rip- offs that have been made of it to grasp its legacy.For me, the greatest part of the film are the characters. There are no flawless characters in the film. Everyone is shady. Yes, Phyllis is the femme fatale who initiates the journey towards the dark side. But watching the film, I have always thought that Walter was not completely upright from a moral standpoint when he entered the Dietrichson mansion. Of course his sexual attraction towards Phyllis was the factor that was responsible for his initial interest in her, but I don't think that was the major reason why he decided to devise the plan and commit the murder. I think there was always a hidden urge in him to use his know-how of the insurance business and manipulate the rules and the system to his benefit just like the analogy of the roulette conductor who ends up wanting to rob the house which was mentioned in the narration. He always had this darkness in him, but the chance encounter with Phyllis actually brings that darkness out. Billy Wilder had a dark and cynical side to him, however even in his dark films, he always used to throw in some humanism which is apparent in this film too. We find that although Phyllis is a 'gold digger' and a master manipulator, but Wilder's representation of Phyllis' cranky, husband who doesn't care about his wife's future does provide some justification for her motives. Walter also gets humanised through his great friendship with Keyes. As a matter of fact Wilder himself stated that the relationship between Walter and Keyes was the only love story in the entire film. The way both Walter and Phyllis meet their respective ends in the film also humanises them.The film is directed with meticulous precision. The film uses exaggerated shadows and darkness reminiscent of German expressionist cinema but in a meaningful way in the context of the plot to visually portray the darkness that lurks inside the central characters. The cinematographer uses Venetian blinds expertly to give the illusion of a prison that Wilder wanted. In a way, 'Double Indemnity' uses the plot structure similar to another Wilder film 'Sunset Boulevard' where a man enters a big mansion and meets a woman who ends up making his life a prison. In 'Sunset Boulevard' the mansion itself becomes the prison, while in 'Double Indemnity', the prison is more figurative. Barbara Stanwyck is fantastic as Phyllis. She expresses a lot through her eyes and effortlessly shifts from innocent to seductive throughout the film. It is very difficult to play a character who remains a mystery for the viewer as well as the other characters in the film and she does it very well. Fred MacMurray expertly plays a man who thinks he has everything figured out while the viewer knows that this is just his overconfidence. It is fascinating to see his facial expressions change from one of confidence to one of extreme paranoia over the course of the plot. Edward G. Robinson puts in a dynamic performance as Keyes. His character is cynical and unsentimental, but his scenes with MacMurray are probably the most humane in the whole film and these scenes exude a sense of mutual respect which lacks in the scenes with Phyllis and Walter.The screenplay written by Wilder and Raymond Chandler keeps the film moving at a brisk pace. What makes the film a little less effective in my eyes now after all these years is the lack of a gradual rise in the sexual tension between the two characters. I think this was well executed in Kasdan's 'Body Heat' which was a remake. I thought the relationship felt slightly rushed, but of course the strict censorship of the 1940s also plays a role in this. Another aspect is that the plot of the film has been reused on so many occasions that it no longer has the same impact that it once had. This is not a blot on the film, but that's the honest thought that I had watching it in 2016.'Double Indemnity' certainly deserves its recognition and acclaim as the film that led to the rise of Film Noir. It is well acted and brilliantly directed. But unfortunately due to the umpteen number of remakes and similar films that have appeared subsequently, the impact of the basic plot of the film might feel a bit diluted at this day and age.
I imagine when this came out it was a great new thrill. However this film doesn't really hold up to well 60+ years later. As much as this is a good film, it really doesn't deserve to be in the top 250 of all time. This is a very solid film but there isn't anything great about it. I would recommend this to those that like good ol' fashioned noir flicks, but not to those that want something really original. I shouldn't say it's not original because it was then, but it has been done a lot better since. If anything else the acting is the best thing going for it. Especially the always excellent Fred MacMurray although Barbara Stanwyck ain't no slacker either.


                
"Double Indemnity" is pretty much the archetypal film noir that DOESN'T feature a private detective. It's the story about the guy who gets led by the femme fatale into killing her uncaring spouse. But how do these people know they can trust each other? They are, after all, murderers.This has been done many times since, though arguably, never better. Regardless, we are familiar enough with the story that its effects are a little bit muted. Furthermore, the climax of the picture is confusing. One person gets shot, then another one by the same gun, which somehow changed hands in an embrace?It is, regardless, a must-see for anybody interested in the genre.


                
If you are a noir fan then this film is an absolute must see. The screenplay itself is a work of art in its character construction, plot structure and dialogue which is delivered by an ensemble of first class actors divying up first class performances. Barbra Stanwyck as the deadly, smouldering, scheming Phyllis Dietrichson turns in a performance that is right up there with Mary Astor's Brigid O'Shaughnessy. Fred McMurray delivers a performance of a smart but desperately lovelorn patsy and Edward G. Robinson is perfect in the role of Barton Keyes and just about steals the moment every time he appears on screen.I personally love a good Noir film and this is right up there with the best of them. Billy Wilder should be proud of this work even though the Academy didn't see it fit to reward him for his efforts, however I personally think this film is an absolute winner.


                
We begin at the end. Double Indemnity is a film which tells you its ending right at the start. And then the flashback begins and we spend the rest of the film seeing how it is we got to that ending we already know. It would seem that under these circumstances there may not be much drama or tension in the film but that could not be further from the truth. We may know the film's ultimate destination but the journey never fails to be compelling. It is fascinating to watch this classic film noir story unfold. It is a film which will hold your attention throughout.Fred MacMurray has the lead role in the film, that of insurance salesman Walter Neff, an ordinary man who will find himself entangled in an extraordinarily complex murder plot. The drama begins when Walter meets Phyllis Dietrichson, a woman quite eager to see her husband meet an untimely demise. A demise which will prove to be quite lucrative for Phyllis if only she can manage to take out a life insurance policy on her husband without his knowledge. Here of course is where our insurance salesman enters the picture and the plot will very quickly be put into motion.Barbara Stanwyck plays Phyllis in what would come to be one of film's most famous femme fatale roles. While Walter initially is not at all interested in murder he certainly is interested in Phyllis and it does not take long for her to entangle Walter in her web. The fact it takes her so little time to convince a man she doesn't even know to murder her husband does strain credulity a bit. One moment Walter meets Phyllis and seemingly a moment later he's willing to kill for her. It is very obvious who the stronger of the two characters is. Phyllis is cold and ruthless and apparently has her ways of convincing a weaker man to do her bidding. Since this is a film produced in 1944 we're not going to see explicitly what those ways may be but you can hazard a good guess. Walter never stood a chance.The story always captivates and it is fascinating to see the seemingly perfect murder plot play out. But the movie does have some flaws. Much of the dialogue seems clipped and forced. MacMurray is the biggest offender in this regard, so often speaking in a tone which seems completely unnatural. His insistence on referring to Phyllis as "Baby" every time he speaks to her wears thin quickly. It's as if Walter is trying real hard to be the cold, hard tough guy but it never convinces. He's no match for Phyllis. In fact while MacMurray is obviously playing the key figure it is Edward G. Robinson in a supporting role as insurance company investigator Barton Keyes who really shines. Watching Keyes try to unravel the plot, the plot we already know inside and out, is great fun and Robinson does an excellent job with his role, creating a truly memorable character. And of course Stanwyck is excellent as well. MacMurray's OK, just not up to the level of his co-stars, which is exacerbated by the fact that it is he who narrates the story throughout the film-long flashback.All in all, director Billy Wilder did a magnificent job creating a wonderfully atmospheric thriller. The look and feel of the film are perfect, adding to the great tension. The fact there is so much tension and drama even though we pretty much already know what's going to happen is remarkable. Yes at times the film seems a little dated, most especially with its dialogue. But there is no denying the film is very well done. It's not a perfect film by any means but it is one which rightly will stand the test of time.


                
Fred MacMurray is a southern California insurance salesman who stops by a client's house one afternoon to renew a contract and meets the client's wife, an anklet-wearing, glinty-eyed dame with blonde hair styled like a lascivious doll. They flirt a little, but when she starts inquiring about taking out a life insurance policy on hubby without him knowing about it, MacMurray gives her the brush-off; no matter, she looks him up in the phone book and winds up on his doorstep! Canny, clever murder-plot concocted by director Billy Wilder and Raymond Chandler, via James M. Cain's novel "Three of a Kind". Cain, who also penned "The Postman Always Rings Twice" (which this plot has a faint trace of), masterfully knew how to create sultry, no-nonsense broads who get what they want, and Wilder's handling of Barbara Stanwyck in this role is sensational. MacMurray, on the other hand, always looks about to blanch, and his character (savvy on customer relations) falls prey to Stanwyck mighty quickly. As Fred's boss, Edward G. Robinson does well with a sketchy character, though his wordy summations and 'intuitions' are just plot contrivances, pushing this story along to its inevitable conclusion. "Double Indemnity" is not without flaws, and has become overrated in the previous two decades, though it is ripe with scintillating, low-life dialogue and does build suspense even though we all know where these characters are headed--to the cemetery! *** from ****


                
An early Billy Wilder film where a jaded insurance salesman, Walter Neff (Fred MacMurray), ends up becoming smitten with Phyllis Dietrichson (Barbara Stanwyck), a trophy wife to an oil businessman. Together they start to plan the murder of her husband in order to collect a sizable sum from the insurance they railroad him into signing. The only real threat to their plan being Neff's immediate supervisor, claims adjuster Barton Keyes (Edward G. Robinson).A very shocking movie for its time. In fact various people had been trying to make this movie for years, but the early 20th century censorship would not allow two criminals as the main characters. By today's standards the movie is of course relatively tame, but even today it would be odd to see the two leads planning the coldblooded murder of an innocent man. At the very least the victim would be shown to be a total monster in order for the murderers to earn our sympathy.The film has not aged with total dignity. The romance between Walter and Phyllis starts out of nowhere, the locations don't vary much and can feel a bit stiff, the dialogues feel rehearsed, even during their most heated moments, and the plot is relatively straightforward. Then again, at least for me, that's part of the charm.And the film does have some really good things in it as well. I like the framing story and the acting is superb all across the board. I especially liked Robinson's Barton Keyes. What a character, what a performance. Robinson is most well-known for his tough gangster characters during the golden age of Hollywood and some of that has slipped in here as well.One of the very first film noir films with its characters archetypes, crime-filled plot and its heavy shadows, both literal and figurative. A great watch for all fans of the genre.


                
This film noir is nominated for seven Oscars, considered one of the best in the genre, and even one of the best movies overall. It is undisputedly good film, but I wouldn't place it so high. The story is very good, but quite predictable, and the performances of the leading actors weren't convincing enough to me. It's like they didn't know their lines by heart, as they struggled too much. Maybe it's just me, but I simply didn't buy it. Wilder, on the other hand, nailed it as usual.7/10


                
One of the earliest example of Film Noir. The third film in Hollywood by Billy Wilder that he co-wrote with Raymond Chandler who brought the hard boiled dialogue to this thriller. This film made Wilder's name.Fred MacMurray is the insurance salesman who falls for the femme fatale with the anklet, Barbara Stanwyck. Fatally wounded he tells his tale in flashback, confessing to a Dictaphone so the company's investigator, Edward G Robinson will know that the guy across the desk was the murderer.Stanwyck was the nurse who might have bumped off the first wife and then married widower, an oil tycoon. Now bored or just wants to be on her own with the wealth, she wants to get rid off the husband. MacMurray is smitten enough to help her do the deed. The proceeds of the accidental death insurance policy she has just taken out is I guess just a bonus. Once the husband is dead he realises that he is a dead man walking.This is a cleverly constructed thriller. It really is a relationship between MacMurray, Robinson and Stanwyck. At the end it is Robinson he lets down.MacMurray is the every-man, the insurance salesman good at his job but bored and wants to runaway with a hot woman. Stanwyck is the cold, icy one. You know she is using MacMurray, he is just a sap to her. The film belongs to Edward G Robinson, the bloodhound who knows all the tricks in the books and he has volumes of them on his shelving.


                
Up to a point I can understand why this is a classic, but it didn't work all that much for me. I think that has mostly to do with the leads, whose roles did not speak to me as they should; as humans drawn into a dark corner and plotting a deed that seems to be none other than a necessary evil.The plot seems especially silly nowadays; a smart, hard working man (we can only assume) falling for a dame that hard and that fast... Well, okay then. Then, to top that off, it turns out he had been scheming all his professional life (that's why we must never assume, I suppose) and comes up with such a weird plan: a million things could have easily gone wrong... and a couple of things did, of course.Apart from that, which means 'consider it a good old film noir with a lot of atmosphere, posture and clever dialogues', it was good enough fun to watch.A small 7 out of 10.P.s. E.G. Robinson never disappoints.
What's striking from the beginning in Double Indemnity is the quality of the dialogs, as often happens with Wilder. Granted, this was made in the 40's so some turns of phrase seem a bit pompous or outdated, but lines fly and follow each other with a remarkable fluidity, without any downs. As for the rest, the movie comprises every characteristic of the film noir genre whether on the form or content, from lighting to the voice-over or the typical characters. The plot is implacable but some elements are not very credible, like the emerging romance for example. The Machiavellian scheme and the investigation that follows it lack suspense, tension, and the outcome turns out to be a bit disappointing because it's rather telegraphed although it perfectly concludes this noir which probably remains Wilder's most iconic.


                
After just having watched this film, what initially sticks out to me is all of the suspense. There were a few instances when I was just sitting here, wondering what was about to happen. What were the characters going to do now? Even by the end I'm still asking myself questions. For what I thought film noir to be, it was pretty much as I imagined. There were higher contrasted scenes and shots of characters shadows and things. Not throughout the whole thing, in day time shots, but it was still there. But it did seem like that whole stereotypical noir feeling with the narrating by the main character. I feel like parodies of film noir in todays culture base everything off a movie like this one. A cool sounding guy sitting at his desk, telling you how it all went down. That feels very "noir" to me.


                
The movie is about greed and seduction with a plot that probably won't fly in the modern film era, as it would be ripped apart by forensic evidence and detections; but in the 40s such science was not that much available so the plot was just right. The plot is about an insurance salesman (Fred Mac Murray) who got lured (which was quite easy due to his greed) into insurance fraud. The story was simple he taught, all he had to do was kill the lady he so desires husband and make it look like an accident, while tricking him to sign an accident insurance policy where everything goes to his lady friend, so he will get the girl and with her comes the money. The movie is best put using the word nice, and a classic as it has come to be. Double Indemnity is beautiful and captivating, based on a 1943 novel of the same name by James M. Cain. This movie was the height of film noir in the 40s spring out many copycat B movies from other producers.The screenplay is penned down by Billy Wilder, who also directed the movie, and from the way the movie drove you just have to appreciate the work of the screen writer, I while watching I was so eager to know if they will get away with it or not. Fred MacMurray narrated and starred in the movie, although the movie was a huge critical success and was nominated for seven Academy Awards but did not win any. Billy Wilder's writing and directing of this movie is a masterpiece worth treasuring and a work of art worth owning.The movie and the book's idea is based on the Double indemnity clause provided in life insurance or accident policy whereby the insurance company agrees to pay the stated multiple (double) of the face amount in the contract in the case of death caused by accidental means.The movie was a box office success making over 5 times its production cost, and the cinematography used "venetian blind" lighting which became popular in later film noirs. Double Indemnity was well received by the American Film Institute, in AFI's 100 Years<U+0085>100 Movies (10th Anniversary Edition) it was rated 29th; it also got other American Film Institute recognitions. This movie is wonderful, so if you have not seen or heard about the movie now you have so go see it.www.lagsreviews.com


                
I'm not one to bash television. Yes, it has plenty of fluff, but it also has some pretty decent programs, as well. There is one thing about t.v. that sometimes makes me a little sad -- that it diminishes the reputation of serious actors that (usually later in their careers) turn to television. That can certainly be said for Fred MacMurray, who could do a great job in films as diverse as "The Egg And I", "The Miracle Of The Bells", "The Caine Mutiny", and this film. Comedy, melodrama, war, and film noir -- all done quite nicely. Because of "My 3 Sons", MacMurray's reputation suffered, and many have forgotten that at one point he was one of the highest paid and most popular actors on the wide screen.This is an excellent film for a couple of reasons. If you don't know the plot in advance, you still know the murdering couple is going to trip up somehow, and the trick is guessing how. And this film does keep you guessing for quite a long while...and that's the suspense of the film. MacMurray, as I indicated, is excellent here, as is Barbara Stanwyck...and this was quite a departure for her...cheap blonde and all. But a sometimes unsung hero of the film is Edward G. Robinson, whose role really is critical to the picture. Taking third billing, this was a step down for him, but one in which he earned significant praise.It's difficult to find much to criticize here. Of course, with today's crime detection, this plot really wouldn't work. But it's nice to savor a very fine crime film of yesteryear. Highly recommended.
A classic from 1944 still holds up despite some campy 40's dialogue.  Dark lighting and shading sets the mood and a convoluted plot sucks you in immediately.Love Wilder's direction and was interesting to see McMurray in a much different type of role than we are most used to seeing him in.I don't see Stanwyck as a sex symbol and McMurray is burdened with some very dated dialogue but the characters are still interesting.  Edward G. Robinson is excellent as Keyes, a very interesting and underrated character in the film.I gave the film a 7 and easily could have given it a 7.5, I can see why it received multiple Academy Award Nominations.


                
One reason I wanted to see this film was because it was directed and written by Oscar nominated Billy Wilder (Some Like It Hot), another reason is because it is a film noir, and Femme Fetale (aka attractive woman seducing men), and it becomes a crime partnership or something) film, and many people have recommended it. Basically smooth talking insurance agent Walter Neff (Fred MacMurray) is confessing his story to his best and suspecting friend, detective Barton Keyes (Little Caesar's Edward G. Robinson). Walter met attractive Phyllis Dietrichson (Oscar nominated Barbara Stanwyck) calling to renew the automobile policy for her husband, Mr. Dietrichson (Tom Powers). The pair become very close, and eventually they plot to kill the husband, who is tricked into signing a double indemnity accident policy (i.e. Phyllis gets cash if he dies), and they kill him to look like an accident. Barton doesn't believe it was an accident, and links the murder to Phyllis, and never to his best friend. Walter meanwhile believes Phyllis has dumped him for a younger man, and he ends up stabbing her in the end. Also starring Porter Hall as Mr. Jackson, Jean Heather as Lola Dietrichson and Byron Barr as Nino Zachetti. I can see why the critics gave it five stars, and it is definitely not one to miss, and Stanwyck's character is a true bitch, but it is one of those classics I don't want to see much, but it is very good. It was nominated the Oscars for Best Cinematography, Best Music for Miklós Rózsa, Best Sound, Best Writing, Screenplay and Best Picture. Phyllis Dietrichson was number 8 on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, the film was number 84 on 100 Years, 100 Passions, it was number 24 on 100 Years, 100 Thrills, and it was number 38 on 100 Years, 100 Movies. Very good!
Double Indemnity has all the ingredients to make it a good noir. Directed by the masterful Billy Wilder, A suspenseful plot, Intriguing central characters, and A riveting end. The moment Phyllis and Walter meet, Sparks fly. She is deadly and she knows that she has got him in the palm of her hand. He is mesmerized by her and he knows that he is doomed. Yet he agrees to commit murder, Knowing that she is not what she appears to be. This is what I don't get. And this is what stops the movie from being perfect.
Very suspenseful, and well done. I wouldn't call it a new favorite, but it was still a good movie. The acting was good, very dramatic, and the actors had really good chemistry as lovers. It was appropriately dark as a crime movie, and there was good use of light and shadows in scenes that were serious or dark. There were also a few good scenes of cinematography that were shot, it really added to the suspense of the movie, there was one part where the woman was so close to the man that wanted to arrest her, only separated by a door it was full of that thriller feeling while watching it, really directed and shot well. The entire movie was thrilling and I would recommend it.


                
From director Billy Wilder, Double Indemnity is a film film that hits on a very real subject that has occurred through the years. the setting and lighting really contributed to the true film noir feel to the movie and the role of Phyllis, played by Barbara Stanwyck, as a femme fatale gave the movie a deceptive presence. the role of betrayal in the movie plays a huge part as there are many temptations provided throughout the film. The filmmakers used darkness terrifically to set the overall mood to the story and present a sense of mystery to the movie. Fred MacMurray's character, Walter Neff, gives the film a protagonist that is albe to be transformed from a straight and narrow person to one that falls down a darker path and the casting for the film was brilliant.
Double Indemnity was another one of your average Film Noirs. I found the movie to be rather enjoyable, but a little over the top for my taste at points. One aspect of the film that I enjoyed, somewhat surprisingly, was that fact that they revealed the murderer right at the beginning of the film. I also found the filming of the film to be pretty great throughout. Other than that though there were some humorous parts to the film that kept it interesting. And the soundtrack to the film was very good and I felt that it really went with the scenes of the movie throughout. Overall, it was a good movie; I guess I'm just not the biggest fan of the Film Noir styled films.
