Despite the impressive credentials this so-called thriller is nothing more than quality exploitation with highbrow pretensions, none of which can patch the many plot holes and jarring improbabilities. The script presents an awkward adaptation of what must have been a much fuller (if equally unpleasant) novel, compressing the material with too many transparent narrative gaps and shortcuts, including some amazing FBI deductions worthy of Sherlock Holmes.The idea of using one psychopath to help catch another is intriguing, but having two serial killers dilutes the impact of the story, especially when it focuses more on cartoon cannibal Anthony Hopkins, already in custody until his illogical, unlikely escape. Nothing much is learned about the other killer-at-large (an apparent reject from a David Lynch freak-show), and the film ends as a typical damsel-in-distress drama with haunted house shock effects.The screenplay is overloaded with bogus psychological significance and padded with irrelevant flashbacks, and the film was shot entirely in blunt, video-format close-ups, with director Jonathan Demme apparently trying to get inside the mind of his characters by simply shoving the camera in their faces. The manhunt is also highlighted by a gratuitous excess of explicit gore, but that doesn't stop it from having a happy ending, for everyone involved, including cannibal/killer Hannibal Lecter.


                
Revisiting movies from years ago, I watch this movie again. As I move forward, I see her getting older and older. Many things in the script that pass them over and are not answered.Both Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins are sublime, for me it's better than her. He has a character that gives much more play and squeezes to the maximum.It is still an action thriller more, yes with two huge actors, but with the passage of only a few years has become very old.I do not know the others but to me the constant use of the foreground and even the actors looking at camera, has taken me much of the film. The management does not seem very good, but the opposite, if it is true that entertains and does not bore, but if you do not realize that it abuses those plans, bad.The picture is quite normal, although at times it is quite good.If it is true that it has a huge setting. Especially the jail and the murderer's house are very well made.Spoiler:The scene where Anthony Hopkins bites the cop, for my taste, is very badly shot, does anyone believe that moment?
Movie adaptations of novels, even pop bestsellers with the imagery masticated for us, are a tricky business to cinematically get right. Some find a good translation by falling backward into it, like "Jaws". Rare birds like "2001: A Space Odyssey" transcend previous visual understandings, and overpower the written word. You can include this movie with "Presumed Innocent" or "...Cuckoo's Nest": in each case, the wrong path was chosen. The novel hinges on Lecter's perspective -- here Hopkins plays a mere boogey man. All we get is the cheap device of haunted houses. In the novel, Lecter moves physically and psychologically wherever he wants: in Harris' words, 'as if he chose the distance' from the protagonist/detective. He occupies his own universe of perception, based mostly on sight and smell -- Demme might have really done something by recreating the world sensed by Lecter. Instead, he spends all of his time lovingly gazing into Foster's face. If you want a better construction of a world, stay with "Manhunter".


                
This movie is just a mess from beginning to end. First of all, actors and actresses have a tendency to overact, so writers and directors will always try to throw realism out the window so that they can indulge themselves! While the character of Dr. Lecter is not technically impossible, it is highly unlikely. Sociopaths in real life are much more likely to be low functioning, impulsive, and not very good book learners. So this movie starts off with a bad premise. I'm not a very big fan of Jodie Foster movies to begin with, and her character is very annoying to me. The best part of the entire film is the Buffalo Bill (Ted Levine) scenes. The idea that Lecter would give Starling such highly intellectualized clues is improbable, but I suppose I am being overly critical here. This is still less annoying than Manhunter, but not by much!!


                
this movie is just implausible... i know movies do not need to always reflect reality to be entertaining or good, but this movie rode the "realistic" trump card at the time of its release... i'm sorry if i don't believe the FBI would field an investigation in remotely the same fashion as the one in this movie... hopkins hams up his performance as lecter, and i cannot buy into him for one second...i admit i have a faint bias against jodie foster but i still think this movie is irreparably damaged by the unlikeliness of the story... it's further hamstrung when you consider the BRILLIANT portrayal of lecter (who is not a very realistic character but wow! does cox do a good job bringing him to life) by brian cox in the older and superior manhunter... i think it's a mistake to give lecter the amount of emphasis he gets here, as he should not be the focus of this story...if there is any redemption, it's the fine, almost secondary performance of ted levine... he acts in a manner i might expect from a serial killer, and is at least somewhat interesting... too bad he plays second fiddle to a pointless, distracting and inexplicable main story...when compared this to similar serial killer thriller movies (ie. movies that ground themselves in fiction and twists) this film comes off rather badly to offerings like the bone collector, which is just a good old fashioned yarn... SOTL is at best boring, at worst silly...


                
I really didn't find this film "thrilling" at all...in fact it bored me so much I ended up nodding off...This has always been one of these films that always gets good reviews and is always high up in "The top 100 scary moments"...but up until a few weeks ago, I had never watched this film properly all the way through...and now I know why.I decided to give this film a chance seeing as so many people have such good things to say about it...but quite frankly, I want my 2 hours back. I mean, I won't deny the fact that the acting is brilliant...because it is...the cast is close to perfect...but it's such a shame that the dull, anti-climax story lets them down.Nothing happens. I can't understand how people are disturbed from this film...it's predictable and it is a complete let down.I do have maybe one good thing to say about the film itself...and that is that the night vision scene towards the end is abit un-nerving...but thats it. Other than that, I feel like i've been completely mis-lead.Go ahead and watch it though, as my review is probably in the minority. I'll let you decide for yourself.


                
Well, I had only seen this film once, back in high school, and was quite drunk the first time, so I didn't remember it very well.....so, I thought I'd check it out with its new "special edition" release and see what all the hoopla is about.  I mean, it was named Best Picture, it has two excellent lead actors (Foster and Hopkins), and it's gotten nothing but praise and good ratings on the IMDb site, so why not take a look?Here's why:  it was very poorly shot.  The script was a pretty good idea, but very, very predictable and formulaic.  Foster's performance was overstated, and, while the Hopkins role was very well-done, every single other character in the film was VERY poorly played.  The dialogue was ridiculous.Half of the movie was shot without any actual "acting" going on; people were just talking to the camera in close-up, and their editing was supposed to make us feel like these people were actually having an exchange of some kind (does anyone think that Foster and Hopkins were ever on the set together, simultaneously, at any point?).The actual villain of the film, "Buffalo Bill," is given no background at all except for a few very unrealistic newspaper clippings, from which we are expected to gather something.  This is the equivalent of countless crappy Lifetime movies establishing past relationships between people by panning past photographs of people standing together, while piano plays in the background.  This guy isn't frightening, menacing, or even suspenseful in the slightest.The largest amount of actual entertainment in the film consists of how all the cops act.  If the rest of the movie weren't so poorly made, I'd like to think that the director was making them so comical and silly on purpose; maybe trying to make a point of some kind.  But, judging from the rest of the film, Demme probably thought he was portraying these people accurately."Silence of the Lambs" isn't one of the worst movies ever made, but it is certainly much farther from being one of the best.  All the little details thrown in, the ones that actually let us see just what the director is actually doing with the film, are stupid (like the cat waiting in the window when the girl gets kidnapped----it growls as the van drives off.......ridiculous).  What little action there is in the film is purely by-the-book, industry-standard, average garbage (save for the scene where Hopkins grabs the guard and sucks his face---that was far below average).If you've never seen this movie, but you've seen some other detective/killer/suspense film sometime in the past 20 years, don't bother. It's certainly not up to the level it's touted at.  If you saw the movie once, while in junior high or high school, and you think maybe your film tastes have matured since then, watch it again.  I think you'll see what I mean.I just can't imagine what the people (those that consider themselves to be knowledgeable film critics) were thinking in 1991.  Best Picture.  Doesn't speak well for the other movies released that year.  I wonder.........


                
Spoiler       I can watch a movie and let the unbelievable bend, but this movie went way to far.  At least Hannable is mean in this film unlike the new movie entitled Hannable.  When Hannable can surgically chew some guards face off and put it on his perfectly and no one notices, thats just to lame for me.  How can this guy figure out what other criminals can do and whole room of FBI profilers can't.  Would you trust him even.  Jodi Foster and the guy have these weird deep conversations all the time.  Boring I can her the same weirdness on the bus on my way to work.  Like all copies of a copy this movie is awfuller then the original and then next version is even more stupid, and if they make a fourth, Hannable will probably be on the space shuttle. I give this a 3.
Why this movie is listed in the top 50 escapes me.  It's probably one of the most disgusting pieces of art I've ever seen.  I did give it a 3, however, because it at least had some good acting.  But I'm rating the movie as a whole - the best acting in the world couldn't make this trash worth watching.This film is filled with violence and filth.  Jodie Foster went from the cute Freaky Friday to an adult in no time.Anthony Hopkins does a great job as a psycho, and he fits the part perfectly.I wouldn't recommend this movie to anyone except those who are interested in learning more about murderers.


                
This movie is awful. What most people don't know about this movie this that it is a sequel. This is based on the second book Thomas Harries wore about Hannibal L.e.c.t.e.r. His first book Red dragon was fist made into a movie in 1986. It is called man Man hunter. It is very scary. And this one is just overrated crap. The third one Hannibal is better. And that one is pretty bad. There is the Man hunter remake that people think is a prequel Red dragon. That is one of the scariest movies ever made. And this just crap. The prequel Hannibal rising is better. And that was not very good. For a movie that was supposed to be scarier Then A nightmare on elm street (1984) and Friday the 13th (1980) I was very disappointed. The best thing about this movie is that it is a precursors to Red dragon. This movie is badly written and has an awful ending. They was good actors in it and they wasted there talent being in this crap. The only reason any one a generation older me like is because of who is in it. Anthony Hopkins can do no wrong in the eye of a lot of people. This movie is not scary at all. It is just stupid. It is a pile of pooh pooh. Do not wast time and money. Don't see this awful movie.


                
