This review contains spoilers, for a spoiler-free version of what I think of this movie, please read the conclusion only. The idea? Pretty good. The acting performances? Definetively great. But, *SPOILER ALERT* am I supposed to ignore that all of a sudden everybody changes their mind about having Lecter under maximum security at the moment he escapes? Hannibal Lecter's escape is one of the most ridiculously unrealistic and stupid things that I've ever seen in a movie as acclaimed as this one. Let's ignore all the stupid things that happen after he kills the two cops and let's just focus on the situation that makes everything "possible", in the first place. Just two cops were watching over Lecter. No camera camera surveillance, they didn't even have a radio to immediately inform the rest of the officers if something goes wrong, that or, for some reason, they didn't used such radio when things eventually went wrong. The rest of the officers, ten or more, were just hanging out in the lobby of the building. That's already very stupid and inconsistent with the way the authorities had been treating Lecter all the rest of the movie until that point. But things get even more ridiculous, both officers, totally unconcerned, enter the cell at the same time to give Lecter his meal. The following sequence is so immensely stupid I can't express it correctly with words. If you are of the popular opinion that this movie is one of the greatest thrillers of all time, please, re-watch this scene. After Lecter easily opens his handcuffs with a pen, he proceeds handcuff one of the officers and attack the other with a very effective attack (please note the sarcasm), he bites his face. Yeah, no way to defend against that, especially if you are an armed and trained police officer. The rest of the escape, including the idea of ripping off one of the officer's face and using it as a mask, is, again, immensely stupid, and would obviously never work in real life. This movie is full of ridiculous plot holes that insult the intelligence of the viewer and everything regarding Lecter's escape is beyond stupid and unrealistic. CONCLUSION (spoiler free): Great performances by the leading actors, well directed, and plenty of good, high-tension, entertaining scenes, but if you care about plot consistency and you need this type of films to have a minimum level of realism, this movie isn't for you, and it certainly wasn't for me. 4/10 not worth it. Thanks for reading and sorry for bad English.
For me, this movie was a pretty blah experience. That it managed to grab the top five Academy Awards is a mystery to me; 1991 must have been a truly dismal year for the movies if the Academy chose to honour this rather average offering. I've been really anxious to see the film after I've heard so many good things about it, and as I sat through the first rather unremarkable half-an-hour, I kept saying to myself: "Ok, it should get brilliant any time soon now... shouldn't it??" But it didn't. It wasn't involving, it wasn't chilling or scary or compelling in any way. I usually adore Jodie Foster, but here she gave an unremarkable performance and I didn't care for her character one bit. Anthony Hopkins almost saved the movie for me with his truly brilliant turn as Dr Lecter, but I felt that it was a supporting role at best. Overall, Se7en is a way better movie than this so-called "masterpiece".


                
Allow me to gingerly dip a toe into the chill waters of dissenting opinion here."The silence of the lambs" was nothing more than a risible schlock horror meets pop psychology movie that rode to huge success on the back of a quite brilliant advertising campaign.Mr A.Hopkins,on his way to becoming v.v.rich,slums it up gleefully with some jovial serial-killer quips,lending like Richard Burton before him,his glorious voice to the Studio paymasters.His character,a repulsive homicidal maniac,a lover(of course) of classical music with dialogue direct from the Smart-alec Hollywood Writers' Handbook,,a Lord Byron amongst serial killers,seeks amusement by manipulating young and inexperienced FBI trainee (Miss J.Foster) at will.Of course in real life any inexperienced FBI trainee after her first meeting with such a nutjob would have told her bosses where to poke their badge and gone on a long holiday as far away from Quantico as possible,but this isn't real life and plucky moppet that she is,Miss Foster takes him on at his own game.Really,how likely is that? With plenty of ripe ham from Mr H. and some Nancy Drew like behaviour from Miss F.,the movie trundles over familiar ground with lots of shocks that aren't shocking for people who remember them from the first time around.Mr H escapes and eats somebody.Excuse me whilst I repair my split sides. They should have given an Oscar (T.M.) to the publicity department.
There's one good thing about this movie and that is Hopkin's riveting performance as the inimitable Dr Lecture.The scenes with him in our one of those rare treats in the movies where everything in character from their look to their voice and their lines reignites your faith in acting as a genuine necessity to good film making.It's the rest of the movie that palls. Some arbitrary maguffin with the transexual killer, Jodie Foster's stoney copper and a generally disjointed narrative make this a flimsy picture with worked in jewels.


                
Look, "overrated" doesn't necessarily mean bad. I liked this film when it first came out, and I found it very entertaining. But the extremely high amount of praise that this film gets, makes no sense to me at all. The supposedly menacing and creepy Hannibal Lecter, who ate his victims and is now locked away from society, sounds totally ridiculous with his cheesy one-liners about cannibalism and killing. Jodie Foster, who plays our main protagonist (an elite FBI agent in training) looks and sounds about thirteen years old, and the entire time I was watching, she kept reminding me of an actress from a television after-school special playing dress-up and pretending to be a cop. The pace of this film was rather dull as well, unnecessarily long with hammy characters that seem like they belong in a Troma movie rather than anything highly rated. It still blows my mind that a brilliant film like "The Killing Fields" has never been selected for national preservation, but this corny crime thriller was. Honestly I've seen low-budget slashers better than this thing... so why the high reputation and constant fans saying "oh god, this film is awesome! Hannibal is soooo sexy!" and all that? To each their own, everybody likes different things, but with this one, which currently has an 8.6/10 overall rating on IMDb, how did that even happen? Was this one of those "right place at the right time" kind of things where it hits a generation by doing something innovative for the time, thus becoming popular? Or is there seriously something here I'm missing? I've watched it several times and I don't find it complex or overly intriguing in any way whatsoever. And I really like Foster and Hopkins as actors, from Hopkins' role as the grieving father in Audrey-Rose, to Foster as the dying little girl on a Nova Scotia vacation in Echoes of a Summer, but in this film it tries to put them together in some sort of tragic love story, which really plays out strangely. I kept cringing at Foster's character's pretentiousness and show-off attitude and Hannibal Lecter's pointless riddles and games, which are interesting at first but quickly become boring and stupid.
Sorry, but... I'm with Gene Siskel on this one, though I didn't dislike it as much. It was a rather well acted film, but the glowing reviews made me expect too much... When I sat down in the cinema, I said, 'Scare me.' The movie went along. I said, 'Scare me.' The climax came. 'Scare me.' The movie was about to end. 'Scare me.' And then it was over. I didn't find it scary at all... I mean... Boyz In The Hood should've won the Best Picture Oscar... That one had a heart. This one... It's not the worst film, but it wasn't my cup of tea. 'Dream much, Will?'


                
It seems to be a favorite hobby for some Christian-minded thinkers with superficial world view to take on books and stories that are written from and only understandable from a specifically non-Christian and anti-psychiatric almost satanic frame of mind.It's as if a Priest pretended to be interested and infatuated with the philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche and made a documentary of his philosophy attempting to manifest the nature of good and evil within the philosophy of a philosopher that is famous for tearing down the very idea of good and evil.The main idea in the Hannibal books is supposed to center on the depth of their own human nature that the detectives are forced to face when they confront Hannibal. How justice itself revolves around the concept of murder just like being an adult involves the symbolical need to murder ones parents. (Symbolical murder of the idea of parents is needed for the idea of parents as actual separate people, other adults.) One cannot have a view on justice without a willingness for a symbolical murder of injustice.Where in Clarice Starling do we see this soul of a murderer that is supposed to be depicted in this story? Nowhere. Because the story of "The Silence of the Lambs" is not included in this movie. If you want the story read the book or watch the older movie "manhunter" to catch a similar spirited story made as a movie. If you want to read the bible, read the bible instead of watching a bible-fied version of "The Silence of the Lambs"...


                
Such a boring movie.  Not much seemed to happen until the end, which was OK. The reason behind why the guy was killing the ladies was the stupidest thing I have ever heard.  Hannibal Lecter's character and his escape scene were really the only things I liked in the whole film.  It pretty much sucked.


                
I'll confess, I prefer reading a good book to seeing a movie. There's something about the way the words come alive in my head that will always beat out even the best of movies. But when a book I love is turned into a movie, I have to see it. Call it morbid curiosity if you like; I always wonder if the story will survive the transfer from book to movie and if the director will be true to what the book does. Sometimes, the transition is better than other times. Lord of the Rings was spectacular. This movie<U+0085>was not, I'm sad to say.I think the fault does not lie with the actors, at least not entirely. Anthony Hopkins shone as Hannibal (how could he not?), but his scenes were handled badly. The scene that stands out for me as the worst in the movie was, unfortunately, the first meeting between Clarice and Hannibal. This is most unfortunate because that particular scene is one of my favorites in the book. I wonder if the director actually read the book this movie is based on. To the director: with all due respect, Hannibal is a gentleman. He would not shout for Clarice because gentlemen do not shout for women as if they were dogs. According to the book, he called her name repeatedly as she was walking away, and only her desire for advancement brought her back. Also, this scene was horribly abbreviated, as were all the other scenes between Clarice and Hannibal.Part of the blame is on the shoulders of the director, but Jodie Foster in the role of Clarice must take some of the blame as well. There were moments when she made Clarice shine, and I saw in her face all the strength and courage that I loved and admired in the book. The final showdown, however, ruined it for me. Jodie may have won an Oscar for this performance, but I suspect that those who decide on those awards never read the book. Jodie showed good emotion, if the director asked for fear. Shaking hands, fast breathing, fumbling for bullets, the whole spiel. But that's not the character of Clarice. In the first place, Clarice was at the top of her shooting class; she'd practiced taking her gun out of its holster four thousand times (according to the book). She was smooth in her draw, not fumbling. In the second place, Clarice doesn't show fear. She's fully aware in the cellar that Buffalo Bill could be around every corner, and being a female and showing him fear is giving him the advantage. She knows that. According to all I've read in the book, she knows how to control her fear.Now, I'll admit, I'm biased about this movie because I love the book. And there were moments when there was a definite shine in the movie: Crawford was brilliantly good, and while Jame Gumb was a little too retarded, he did well. But what made the book brilliant was sadly lacking. I'd never buy this movie.
