It's impossible to comment on SILENCE OF THE LAMBS as being a mere film . Its release was a watershed in popular culture and has influenced a myriad of imitations that are far too numerous to mention . Much of this success is down to director Jonathan Demme who has made the film so effective by coming up with the strikingly simple idea of filming everything in dim lighting which gives SILENCE a moody and brooding atmosphere that was absent from movies in the previous decade . Ironically enough this is as typical of 90s film making as MANHUNTER was of 80s movies . Howard Shore's score also helps the proceedings and Jodie Foster gives a sublime nuanced performance as vulnerable heroine Clarice Starling . Watch the scenes closely when Clarice is in the company of men , don't you get the feeling she has a phobia about the male of the species . Is she a victim of sexual abuse in her childhood ? A lesbian ? We never find out but Foster's performance is multi layered and it's a pity this aspect is never explored in HANNIBAL which sadly deletes this aspect to Clarice Sadly SILENCE was released with a tidal wave of hype which the film doesn't live up to . Who can forget the stories that upon seeing this at the cinema certain audience members wanted armed escorts back to their cars ! I'm sorry but despite being a good thriller it's not that good and I fail to see how people were turned into quivering jellies unable to sleep with the lights off . I'm also afraid to say that much of the awards heaped upon the film aren't that well deserved either . Foster deserved the Oscar as did the film and possibly Demme too but did Ted Tally for his adapted screenplay ? All he seems to have done is to copy the best bits of Harris's novel wholesale into the screenplay without making an effort to improve anything . and i'll probably be accused of sacrilege but the more times I see this film the more times I ask myself how did Hopkins win the Oscar for Best Actor ? I don't even think Hopkins should have qualified for the Best Actor category since the role isn't on screen long enough and his performance is slightly hammy . Hannibal as played by Hopkins resembles something along the lines of a paedophile rather than a serial killer who has maimed , murdered and munched on adults . Despite having some reservations of Brian Cox as Hannibal in MANHUNTER you do believe his burly presence does have the physical strength to overpower his victims , not so Hopkins I know it's very difficult , perhaps even impossible , but the best way to enjoy this movie is to erase from your mind the fact that it's one of only three movies to have picked up the Oscar in all five main categories , the fact that it made headlines about being the most terrifying film committed to celluloid , and the fact that it stands as the 28th best movie ever on this website . It is a very good thriller but one that is ultimately disappointing after hearing of the hype surrounding it


                
Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) an FBI cadet is hired to try to interview Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins). He's a cannibal and VERY dangerous. Also there's a psychopath named Buffalo Bill kidnapping girls and skinning them alive. Lecter hints that he knows who Bill is and Clarice tries to find out...but Lecter is playing serious mind games with her. I caught this back in 1991. I liked it but I thought Foster was just OK and I found the story pretty confusing with glaring lapses in logic. Seeing it now some 17 years later I still feel the same way. The film is somewhat slow and I wasn't that scared or upset by it. Also Foster (who's Southern accent comes and goes at an alarming rate) is just OK. I'm really surprised that she won the Oscar for this. PLOT SPOILER AHEAD!!!! There was also a lot of gay groups who complained that Buffalo Bill was a transsexual. As a gay guy I wasn't offended but other people were just horrified. END SPOILER!!! Still the movie isn't a total washout. Hopkins is just superb as Lecter. He's downright terrifying at times. He's only on screen about a total of 30 minutes but you always feel his presence. Also his breakout (while completely illogical) is one of the scariest sequences I've ever seen. The whole movie is well-directed especially during the final sequence. Also it's the first horror film since 1932 to win an acting Academy Award. Heck, it won quite a few! Best Picture, Best Supporting Actor (Hopkins), Best Actress (Foster), Best Director and Best Adapted Screenplay. So, it's a very good thriller worth catching...but Academy Award material? I think it was a little overpraised.For horror fans there's an extra kick of seeing Roger Corman in a small role!"...I'm having an old friend for dinner."
'The Silence Of The Lambs (1991)' balances its two key story-lines remarkably well, allowing them to bounce off and twist around each other until they become one inseparable narrative. The incredibly disciplined way in which the film restrains its two most flamboyant aspects - those being the serial killers Hannibal Lecter and Buffalo Bill - to always maintain the perspective of its rookie FBI protagonist as she navigates her way through her newfound world of silver-tongued devils and elusive monsters is both impressive and necessary in elevating the piece above what could've been simple shock value. The feature is gripping right from its opening moments and always maintains a tight grip on its psychologically complex characters who remain fully rounded no matter on which side of sociopathy - or the law - they sit. Thanks to a mature treatment of its audience, it never feels as though it is pandering or dumbing itself down, rather elevating the viewer to its own level of intelligence. The picture also knows when to pull back on the reigns too, making for an experience far more cerebral than visceral; this is something perhaps unexpected from a thriller where a serial-killing cannibal is, for all intents and purposes, one of the 'good guys.' 8/10


                
I first saw "Silence of The Lambs" soon after it was released, as a schoolboy. It was one of the first "mature" films I saw and to this day the movie is kind of a benchmark against which I measure films. The creepy feeling it leave you without trying any of the cheap tricks (sudden loud noises, shots of copious amounts of blood ) that other thrillers do. I saw it years later in 2005 and still loved it.The movie's strong point is Jodie Foster and Anthiny Hopkins' acting skills ,again the benchmark against which I measure acting. The two make a great team and that was missing in the sequel "Hannibal".This is a movie of many skins its a thriller, a detective movie, a horror movie an entertainer and it deals with the nature of the human psyche too. Not an easy feat to be so many things at once but the director and cast pull it off.Certainly one of the best movies ever made.


                
The Silence of the Lambs is one of the rare horror films that convinced much of the American public, and even the Academy Awards, that horror doesn't have to always be about gore, excess violence, and extremism. In fact, horror can stem from many different aspects, one of them being psychological, which is the subgenre that the film caters to. Through use of strong acting and an interesting story, the film manages to explain why it etched itself into the list of greatest American films ever made simply by existing and going what nobody thought its own genre could do.The film stars Jodie Foster as Clarice Starling, who is pulled from her training at an FBI academy by Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn), who works for a unit in behavioral sciences. Jack grants Clarice the honor of meeting one-on-one with former psychiatrist and serial killer Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), who is also known for cannibalistic crimes. Lecter's knowledge is requested because of a serial killer nicknamed "Buffalo Bill" currently running rampant in the streets, who is highly-publicized and known to skin the corpses of his female victims.Upon arriving at the Baltimore State Hospital for the Criminally Insane, Clarice meets a surprisingly mannered and well-articulate man that is Hannibal Lecter and not the psychotic murderer one would believe. What unravels is a strange relationship between an FBI trainee and an insane mental patient. Starling has to get close to Lecter for his knowledge and insight into the crimes of "Buffalo Bill," but also must refrain from dangerously close connections which could instantly spark something detrimental to her well-being.The first thing to marvel at with this film is how it utilizes its talent, plunging Foster and Hopkins into a story and set of circumstances that need to be well acted in order to be believable and gripping; both veteran talents do not slump here. Foster gives a very solid performance as Clarice, that is mostly successful at avoided the often alienating tropes that result when we focus on cops or undercover investigators for two hours. Then there's Hopkins, in a role he has become known for for good reason. Hopkins instantly clicks here as Lecter, provoking fright and unsettled nerves with viewers. Rather than over-the-top zaniness, Lecter relies on quiet, mannered acting techniques that are all the more frightening because of how out of the ordinary and unexpected they are from a man of his caliber. This leads the viewer to ping-pong back and forth with the idea that Lecter is really a misunderstood victim or an amazingly talented con-artist.Then there's the mounting tension on display here, largely thanks to Jonathan Demme's direction and Ted Tally's screenplay. The film plays like a true detective story, utilizing slowburn and patient tension in order to achieve a great, suspenseful result. These kinds of films hold up because they deliver something new each time one sees them. This being my first time viewing The Silence of the Lambs one gets the idea that even after seeing it, watching it again would be a great experience because it would allow you to pay more attention to the serene details of the film and how the end result came to be.With strong work behind the camera, and equally strong work in front, there's really no shock that The Silence of the Lambs came out the way it did, a strong and capable psychological thriller/horror film that beautifully relies on nuances and mannerisms rather than shock and awe. The fact that the film may have lead some to look at the horror genre with a bit more respect in the short-run would maybe be a stronger statement if horror didn't go south in the long-run. But that's another blog/review for another time.Starring: Jodie Foster, Anthony Hopkins, Scott Glenn, and Ted Levine. Directed by: Jonathan Demme.


                
I felt like this was a bit over-hyped, but not overrated. I know those sound like the exact same thing, so I'll explain myself. The overall quality of the movie was about what I'd been led to believe it would be, but it didn't come in the way I had expected. Pretty much everything I'd heard about this movie before seeing it had something to do with Hannibal Lecter. Now, he's definitely a noteworthy and intriguing character, but not as much as his reputation seems to give him credit for. On the other hand, the serial killer plot with Buffalo Bill was more interesting than I thought it would be. Fortunately, this combination made it so that I wasn't disappointed by the hype, but that is something to be conscious of if you have high expectations for this movie, or any for that matter.I won't go into too much detail with the plot to reduce spoilers. The external plot with Buffalo Bill is the most prominent, and has a good progression that will surprise the audience at times and likely won't confuse them so long as they pay attention. Hannibal Lecter is important to this plot since he gives Clarice information about Buffalo Bill, but his pathological nature takes prevalence whenever he is on screen. If you're somebody who has a hard time following complex plots, I would recommend doing a little preliminary research on the plot beyond watching the trailer. And if you are one of those people but think this will be the movie where you are "really going to latch on to every detail", keep working at it, but be honest with yourself and don't be afraid to ask a friend or blogger or FAQ page. It's not necessary to do that, but I think it will improve your experience and it's something I wish I had done.Our protagonist is an FBI agent-in-training, Clarice Starling. She's confident in her abilities, but also aware of her youth and inexperience in the field. Both of these qualities are brought forward by the probing, vampiric, and insidious Hannibal Lecter, who seems to feed on people's souls as much as he does their bodies. He's got a lot of the qualities we love in our psychological villains in his ability to overcome the authority controlling him and the way he makes people like they are more prisoner than he is. I rather wish we got a closer look at how he deals with people he doesn't respect since Clarice seems to be one of the rare people that interest him. We see Buffalo Bill from a bird's-eye view, much as Clarice does. Most of what we/she know about him are based on second-hand accounts or evidence. Fortunately, the buildup of his off-screen reputation proves not to be disappointing in the few scenes where we see him at work. He seems to be quite as interesting a character as Lecter, though in a less psychological way. The second-tier characters consist of Dr. Chilton and Clarice's superior Jack Crawford. They're developed somewhat impressively for minor characters and have a decent amount of screen time and plot relevance.I didn't find the acting hugely impressive, though the dialogue ranks among some of the better material I've come across. The directing is pretty good, creating suspense effectively throughout. The couple of action sequences might not have come off well in a strictly action movie, but since this is a thriller it worked just fine.Regardless of your genre preference, I would recommend that pretty much everyone give this a try, unless you're an extremely casual movie fan that likes to watch movies passively. Otherwise, there aren't many reasons not to watch it. There aren't really any disgustingly disturbing images like you might expect, though it is certainly an intense film. It won't be as appealing to modern audiences, but don't let it's age turn you away. Just be willing to pay attention and you should be able to enjoy it. Overall Rating: 8.5/10.


                
This movie won the Oscar for best picture, best director, best actor and best actress. Now I know why.
This isn't a typical horror film but you'll feel so unsettling. Trust me.


                
All-round solid movie at every angle. From Cinematography, editing, lighting to the acting and writing.
I must add that it was a first for its time in the way it used "profiling" of the criminally insane and engulfing us in their world. That gives it a lot of headroom in my book.What I didn't like is how it built up to the easy escape of Mr Hopkins. I mean, he went from a maximum secured, 24 hour survelenced prison to a two guards on that entire level without any camera surveillance- that's definition "contrived" if you asked me.
This film is by no means a typical low budget slasher. This film is a unique brand of crime and investigation where FBI trainee Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) is assigned the deadly task of hunting down the notorious killer Buffalo Bill. However, to do this she'll need the help of another psychotic mastermind, Dr. Hannibal Lector. Lector is a clever but mad criminal, and this is made evident as soon as the trainee and criminal meet. The acting is fantastic and Anthony Hopkins makes the movie addicting. Buffalo Bill is also disturbingly creepy, and his scenes are very difficult to watch.The Silence of the Lambs is a brilliant gem from start to finish, sweeping four of the Oscars for 1991. Best picture, actor and actress, and major Academy Awards are just some of the awards collected over the year from this film. The film is definitely worth viewing not just once, but multiple times as many people already have. The Silence of the Lambs is a stellar, suspenseful, and altogether thrilling horror film. To this day it is looked upon as one of the most disturbing and horrifying films ever created. Everyone should see this movie, it's well worth your time.


                
Agent Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) enters into a relationship with Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), a brilliant but deranged flesh-eating psychiatrist. He may be her only hope in catching Buffalo Bill (Ted Levine), a new serial killer who strips women of their skin for his own nefarious purposes. Can she trust him? "Silence of the Lambs" won a few Academy Awards, and it's plain to see why. Everyone involved does a wonderful job, and even after several viewings the movie remains fresh and enjoyable. I still haven't figured out what kind of accent Jodie Foster has, and I probably never will. Anthony Hopkins is perfect as Lecter, and I think it goes without saying that this will be the role he is remembered for. Maybe not his best role, but certainly his most widely received.The film has a timeless quality to it. Of course, we can tell the year the film was made from the clothing styles and production quality of the film. But there's nothing glaringly time-specific about it (compare it to "Manhunter" with the pastel jackets). Some things may seem silly and unintentionally comedic (there are excessive amounts of close-ups on Lecter that make me chuckle) but overall it's a good, smooth showing.I'm not going to get into detail about the film, director Jonathan Demme's vision or the changes from book to film (such as the number of Lecter's fingers). The film has been combed through a hundred times by critics and fans, and I'm merely adding an opinion that's been voiced before. But I will say this: as of 2008, the film retains all the qualities and positive aspects attributed to it when it first arrived in theaters. One suspects it always will.


                
Not an easy film to watch, but gripping all the same. Anthony Hopkins delivers one of the most complex and disturbed characters in the history of cinema, while a young Jodie Foster shines as the ambitious and smart Clarice Starling, on the trail of a deranged psychopath known as Buffalo Bill. But in order to find this man, she is going to need Hannibal Lecter's help...The horrifically disturbing manner of Buffalo Bill is powerfully delivered by Ted Levine, and in no doubt set the standard for how other thrillers are measured.The dreadful consequences of being a victim of a deranged psychopath is displayed to graphic effect in this now legendary award-winning film as we witness the horror and evil of this person's mind which in no doubt will send shivers down the spine.I've awarded The Silence of the Lambs eight points, which may mean nine to everyone else!


                
The silence of the lambs is undoubtedly one of the finest movies of the nineties.....with brilliant performances by both Foster & Hopkins.A young FBI agent(Foster) is assigned to take the help of a psychic murderer & a very cunning Dr Hannibal Lecter (Hopkins)to catch hold of a deadly serial killer named Buffalo Bill(also a wannabe trans-sexual),who has been brutally murdering young girls........Although Hopkins has a short role,but the way he carries his role is really commendable.....Foster is equally charming......and Ted Levine also fits to his role perfectly.One of my favourite movies...but unfortunately i haven't seen 'Hannibal' & 'Red Dragon'.


                
This is another film in which so many aspects of it have been written, critiqued, and analyzed that I seriously wonder why I am even bother writing a review of it. Based on the best-selling novel by Thomas Harris, LAMBS is film that manages to successfully play to both cerebral and visceral senses without slighting one for the other. In other words, those looking for an intelligent psychological thriller will be rewarded with an articulate script and strong performances, while slasher fans will reveal in such genre staples as a transvestite killer who skins bodies. Jonathan Demme's taunt direction ties all the elements together flawlessly, and delivers outstanding performances from his stars.Jodie Foster brings her innate intelligence and charming naiveté to her role of FBI agent Clarice Starling, and she should receive major kudos for portraying her character's strength as stemming from her brain rather than any pumped-up Sigourney Weaver-esquire physical prowess. Anthony Hopkins also delivers a tremendous performance that and belies his relatively brief screen time with immense effectiveness. He is so menacing that it feels like he's everywhere, even though he is only on-screen for roughly one-fourth of the picture. Scott Glenn and Kasi Lemmons are fine, but underused - this is the Foster and Hopkins show all the way! The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences were certainly fans of the film, as SILENCE OF THE LAMBS swept the Academy Awards, deservedly winning Oscars in all five major categories. This was only the third film in history to do so.A perfect motion picture.


                
I do not believe there are movies which are perfect, but some are close. 'The Silence of the Lambs' is damn close.I like every second of this movie and that never happens to me when I watch movies. There are always scenes which could have been better or just thrown away. This is where 'The Silence of the Lambs' is different, here you can definitely talk about quality and not quantity.The main reasons, in my opinion, for the success of this movie are; the excellent light- and sound effects, the psychological manuscript and the professional actors such as Jodie Foster (Clarice Starling) and Anthony Hopkins (Hannibal Lecter).'The Silence of Lambs' did not, in any way, scare me physically but psychologically and that's why I believe this one of the best.


                
Silence of the Lambs, a masterpiece in cinematic history. I did not see this movie until last year because i would always go to rent it but it would not be in, I almost bought it(which i wish i did then) because it was only $10.00(CDN). I am glad that it was in when i did rent it because i was really starting to get mad. I would not say that this was the best of the trilogy,I would have to say that Red Dragon is the best, most people do not agree with me but that is their opinion. Hanibal focuses way to much on trying to make you vomit so it is pretty bad.Wonderfuly acted and directed, Demme created something so great and Hopkins and Foster were excellent. This may have been disgusting at some parts but at least it didn't focus on only gore(like Hanibal), this movie had a great climax and an amazing way to build us up to it,a must see thriller.10/10


                
I think it's gotten to the point where most people don't really care about the Academy Awards anymore, because they're not for individual achievements, but for appreciating an actor or a film because it cost a lot of money. But back before those days, when the Oscars meant something, it was a huge honor to win the five major Academy Awards-picture, actor, actress, director, and screenplay. The Silence of the Lambs is the third, and most recent, one to do that. Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins won acting awards, Jonathan Demme won the directing award, and Ted Tally won for best adapted screenplay. Was it deserving for all of those awards? For the most part, more or less.Hannibal Lecter (Hopkins), a serial killer/cannibal who has the identity and the whereabouts of notorious serial killer Buffalo Bill (Ted Levine), is being interviewed by rookie FBI agent Clarice Starling (Foster) for information on Bill. But Lecter's more cunning and demented than first glance, and has fun playing with the mind of Starling as she's interviewing him.Since I don't really know what to say about this movie, I'll go my fail-safe way and go over each award it won and why it should have won for that reason. The screenplay, based off of the book by Thomas Harris, has a slow build-up (one that originally turned me off), but as soon as Lecter is introduced, it's paid off. The script takes us inside of the head of Lecter, making him one of the most interesting celluloid characters of the 1990s. The screenplay also doesn't really waste that much time with unimportant characters, although a little more on Jack Crawford would have been nice. But the screenplay is tight and holds together well, throughout the hit-or-miss directing career of Demme.Demme won an Oscar for best directing. I have mixed feelings about this one. On one hand, many scenes in Lambs aren't boring, but not really that exciting or involving. He does have some good style (I love that night-vision scene), and does build up some good suspense as the movie comes to a close. The suspense is laid on thick at the end, and I suppose it makes up for the still entertaining but not thrilling rest of the movie. Demme does set up some mystery, too, as we follow Clarice's adventures. There are also some very disturbing scenes ("It rubs the lotion on the skin or else it gets the hose again!"), which fit in with the tone of most of the movie. Disturbing, yes, but actually impacting? Not really.Both Foster and Hopkins won acting Oscars for leading roles. Foster's character, as I said before, began as being annoying to me, but soon became a person I could tolerate. But was she deserving of an Oscar? A nomination is even a stretch, mainly because of that awful accent of hers. Hopkins was great, but with total screentime being around 16 minutes, he was more of a supporting actor (although, I guess the awards were crooked then. They wanted to give an award to both Jack Palance for City Slickers and Hopkins, but they were both supporting roles). I think we got the gist of Hannibal in those 16 minutes, and Hopkins put in a memorable performance in that time.Lastly, Lambs won best picture. Is it the best picture of 1991? I'm not sure, I haven't seen every film from 1991. But it's a damn good one.My rating: 8/10Rated R for language, violence, and disturbing themes.


                
The Silence of the Lambs directed by Jonathan Demme is close to a masterpiece. Expertly shot and acted this is another in the line of Hannibal Lectar films and arguably the most well-known. Anthony Hopkins will forever be known for his chilling portrayal of Lectar(he won an Oscar for this) and Jodie Foster once again shows why she is such a fine actress. The pacing is good and Buffalo Bill is a maniac you want caught, even if it means siding with a cannibal. To Demme's credit the film makes Lectar far more interesting than any other character despite the fact that he isn't in the film much. Great watch.


                
This is one of the most disturbing films of last century next to the exorcist. Hopkins acting is perhaps too flawless in this psychological cannibal thriller


                
A very disturbing film and taboo area for the time. I loved Hopkins in this. I felt some of the violence was a bit gratuitous but didn't detract from it being a well acted and well written film


                
When this movie came out in the early 90's -1991 I reckon- it was met with critically and commercial success. Films reviewers all over the world saw in this American picture the perfect encapsulation, embodiment of terror or fear, which along side a great and interesting plot was more than enough to get me hooked. This one and Nightmare in Elm street gave me so many sleepless nights it was a miracle I continued to play and went out to play with my friends.The other day that ever-changing and faceless monster -nostalgia- payed me a visit and trick me into watching The Silence of the Lambs once again. While the child in me died a long time ago (he's not coming back any time seen). As fresh and pure as the first time, a knife of fear and shear terror plunged into my very soul. Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster are a great pair of actors who do a brilliant job, to the extent they have gone down as one of the great couples in the history of cinema. Nor even for one moment did I felt their performances was contrived, it was just natural and solid acting. Besides, the stark contrast between the self-conscious and the cannibal Lecter is astonishing.


                
I loved the mystery progression, every single new bit of clue got me trying really hard to figure everything out. And that last segment was so tense I got a sore throath. Loved it!


                
The classic, standout film in terms of tension and arguably horror I've took my time to get round to this but it was well worth the wait. Now available on Netflix the film still holds after roughly 28 years or so. A gripping tale of cat and mouse and back and forth between a killer and FBI agent is fantastically well executed and there's a constant overbearing tone of dread. With Foster & Hopkins, the 2 leafs there's amazing performances and quite frankly the frequent use of direct to camera address is enough to make the skin crawl, and is extremely unsetttling. Tense, creepy and a sound film all round, there's a lot on offer to a potential audience especially those interested in the likes of "Prisoners" which has a very similar structure/plot, I highly recommend


                
It was nice although I'm so late watching this in 2019. What made me watch it is that I was interested is Hannibal lecter's mind since I watched the TV show and started reading Thomas Harris' books. The thrill was there, a nice plot and an excellent acting . I'm sure it was an excellent movie in 1991 in the eyes of everyone. But from my perspective, there is nothing exceptional about this movie. The plot, although it was good, it was simple. In my opinion, a movie should have something new, something special that attracts everyone but again maybe it was a good new idea in 1991. Overall, it's a worthy movie that's good from every perspective that's why I gave it an 8


                
The silence of the lambs is about a man named Hannibal Lector. The thing that I find fascinating with the show, and why I rated it an 8, is that they show a completely objective reality of a man.He has strives for what most people want. Money and knowledge, or at least in the earlier stages in life. Hannibal turns out to be not much more than a genius with the same thought process of a young child.Overall, it was an amazing movie and would definitely recommend it.
How can you review this film without first talking about the amazing Anthony Hopkins? He is absolutely magnificent. He perfectly conveys the charming sophistication of Hannibal Lecter. In fact, I think he was so good that he outshone Buffalo Bill (Ted Levine) as the true antagonist of this film. This is no disrespect to Ted Levine who was great in his own right, but Anthony Hopkins was even better. Although I was very disappointed with Scott Glenn as Jack Crawford. He was very bland and nothing special compared to Harvey Keitel in Red Dragon and Laurence Fishburne in NBC's Hannibal. Read my full review here: http://goo.gl/MNVquh


                
