If we're in the mood to do film genealogies, and I am, then Lawrence of Arabia is probably the inventor of the modern biopic, the perennial awards-bait genre. (You could maybe posit Citizen Kane as the originator, but that's really a different kettle of fish.) It examines a fairly recent historical figure at the prime of their life, dedicating numerous scenes and most of the dialogue to hammering home that the central character is a Very Special Person Unlike His Short-Sighted Bosses, and in this way the film spends a good amount of time justifying itself. This genre obviously has strengths and flaws, and they're apparent in Lawrence: the striking personal power as well as the kind of historical oversimplification and tourism that goes along with it.Lawrence of Arabia's main claims to being a great film are David Lean's gorgeous cinematography, stopping the action at several points simply to capture the desert in all its cold grandeur, and the film's final hour, in which Peter O'Toole turns his larger-than-life hero into a desperate, wild-eyed man who can no longer control the violence he's created. The biggest points against it are its indulgent four-hour running time and its unavoidable racism (having two of its major Arab characters played by white actors in brownface is really one of the lesser offences.) With this in mind, it's hard to say whether a contemporary viewer will really enjoy this film. I found it fitfully interesting but ultimately had trouble engaging with it, and felt kind of exhausted by the film. On the other hand, I've been told that it needs to be seen on a big screen for true appreciation, and not my modest laptop monitor, so I don't want to say anything definitive. Whether or not it "holds up", Lawrence of Arabia is a pioneering movie that manages, despite everything, to capture a kind of beauty, and that makes it worth slogging through for anyone genuinely interested in film.


                
Lawrence Of ArabiaThe writers' affection towards the protagonist is crystal clear in here and also the soul reason that helps one survive this overlong feature running for more than 200 minutes. Michael Wilson and Robert Bolt; the screen writer has done a decent job but the adaptation isn't as smart as they think. David Lean; the director, is the savior here that executes this character driven feature and is not only supported but celebrated by a beautiful cinematography (not often one encounters a horse riding on the land that looks like water). Peter O'Toole is convincing as T.E. Lawrence and is supported well enough by Alec Guinness among other supporting actors. Lawrence Of Arabia is a brilliant attempt to pull it off on such a large scale which works here for the most part of it but the rest of it, does raise question here and there.


                
The definition of an epic must surely be a film that is annoyingly too long. So many of the classics are so long and take so much time for anything to happen, that you are put to sleep before a word is even spoken.
"Lawrence of Arabia" is no exception, and for all the brilliant work that was put into making the film, it was all undone in taking 222 minutes to view it. If Lawrence could fit into 120-150 minutes, we would have had a winner. For Lawrence "6.5 out of 10"


                
Lawrence of Arabia was a bit spotty, IMO. There obviously were brilliant and gorgeous elements but there were those that prohibited me from being completely won over as well. Some of the latter were idiosyncrasies of many movies from that era, therefore, I tried to keep those in perspective. After the music, which was at odds with the movie and which I tolerated only so long before skipping, the early scenes were witty, absorbing and charming and everything I love about older films (especially the magnificently droll, British ones) as were many subsequent scenes. But as I grew knee deep in suspension of disbelief I found myself questioning the director. Not necessarily the people Lawrence happens upon in the desert but the way he happens upon them, the anachronistic and totally miscast Anthony Quinn (who can be such a hack and was in this movie - IMO), etc... all contributed to me finding the movie a bit too inconsistent to be considered great. It lacked a degree of internal logic. I also must admit to a prejudice against the residual self-conscious mannerism from stage and silent film that some early performers exhibited in dramatic roles. O'Toole's operatic manner toward the end made me ever conscious that he was acting and not going mad. It's like watching Parsifal. Omar Sharif, on the other hand, was BRILLIANT. His entire performance was flawless.I do believe the way Lawrence was portrayed with the two boys was a hint that he was suspected of being gay. I kept thinking of Batman and Robin and all the adolescent sidekicks superheroes have. I did not go into this movie with any preconceptions and don't think the thoughts these scenes evoked was arbitrary.Oh, and the voice Alec Guinness used for the prince was goofy, almost like a Peter Sellers spoof.All in all it was a very good movie but not a great one.


                
The strongest element of this film is the camera's capture of the landscapes and the detail that was put into the visual elements of the film. By proportions, this film is an epic and certainly in a league of its own, similar to the title character himself. 'Lawrence of Arabia' is a film about an English soldier who helps the Arabs fight the Turks in the 1940s because he has a strong love for their culture and country. The film follows this man and how he influences others around him. The only downfall of this film is that it is often difficult to follow the story and to understand exactly the different players and reasoning behind some of their actions. (However, I do not think that this is a fault in the acting but probably a fault in the script.) Despite being a long film, this film is engaging - more-so for its visual and striking portrayals of landscape and battle scenes. Do not miss this film if you enjoy historical epics.


                
When considering the history of the relationship between the Arab countries and the West, it would be worth your while to watch this movie. This movie portrays a moment in history when the Arab people and the West were actually ALLIES, fighting together against a common enemy. Here a British soldier, Lawrence, actually risks his life in the cause for Arab independence. This is am incredible revelation. Peter O'Toole play Lawrence. Although O'Toole is at least a foot taller than the actual T. E. Lawrence, he nevertheless gives an outstanding performance as the enigmatic and heroic figure. Of course, one should not confuse this movie with a documentary, so don't cite this movie if you're doing a paper on the subject. But if you want to watch a credible dramatization of historical events and characters relating to the role of the Arab people in World War One, then this is the movie for you.


                
This is a film generally hailed as great that I believe is merely good, and at times mediocre. Yes, Fred Young's photography is magnificent, Robert Bolt's script far more intelligent and clever than the average screenplay, and David Lean most definitely had an flair for spectacle. All this is true. Many of the actors are good, too. But it goes on too long and doesn't explain enough of Lawrence's personality. Mostly, though, what ruins the film for me is its pretentiousness. Lean is simply trying too hard: for beautiful effects, stunning shots of the desert, sweeping moments, ironic ones, lovely shots of pretty things and ugly shots of evil things, all captured to perfection by his beloved camera. The movie is funny and disturbing and true to life, at other times larger than life, it is a history lesson and an action picture, a thinking man's spectacle...but it's shoveled down my throat and I resent it, and half-way through I want to spit it out. Art is to a large extent made up of artifice, however, artificiality should not be the main thing but rather one of the many things one likes about a work of art. Lawrence, it seems to me, is pure artifice, and not much else. Let me give an example. There is a scene near the end of the film when the various competing factions among the Arabs are debating over what to do in the post-war world. Suddenly, the lights dim in the great hall where they're all gathered. At first I thought nothing of it, a nice touch, maybe even true. Then, as I pondered the matter, I got angry with the scene and the film for the obvious symbolism: the lights are England, the hall is the Middle East, the sun is setting on the British empire, on the West in general, and the Third World shall triumph despite its lack of much technical know-how (the lights). Instant term paper! Moments like these, and Lawrence is full of them, turned me off,--how shall I say--big time? To make matters worse, Peter O'Toole's prancing-mincing-detached-ironic-aristocratic posturing wore me down early on, as I found him increasingly repulsive as the film dragged on. Nothing in Lawrence is natural and alive. It all seems so thought out. I agree that a tremendous amount of talent went into the making of this overrated so-called classic, but the result is just a lot of, well, hot air. (Sorry I didn't go into the story itself here, since I am assuming, probably incorrectly, that most people are at least casually familiar with the life and times of T.E. Lawrence).


                
Having read the book "Dr. Zhivago" many times and also having watched the
movie of the same name many times, I obtained a DVD of "Lawrence of
Arabia" and proceeded to watch it. I figured that since this movie had received
many good reviews, it would be an excellent movie.After watching the first hour of the movie, I was not all that impressed with it.
I did finish watching the movie and probably will never watch it again. The
actors did a good job but the movie reinforces my belief that ALL WARS are
not about establishing peoples' freedom but are instead about making rich
individuals richer and furthering the economic and political interests of the
participating (winning) countries.This film certainly added credence to my opinion of WARS that much more.
I do NOT watch TV and if I was to go into any movie rental business, I would
not recognize 99% of the titles because I have never watched them or even
heard of them.I am a 67 year-old retired industrial electrician and I like watching movies
that are "believable" or possibly "could have happened." Obviously, I am not
a movie "critic" by any means.


                
A wonderfull background movie
Because this movie can be seen several times and it show with a style corresponding to that time way of making movie, this film can be display in background and will please all your audience.
Even if they discover it, for the first time or came accross into the middle of the movie your public will enjoy discovering this movie is Lawrence of Arabia.


                
I enjoyed this movie but not as much as others.  I think the first problem with it is that Lean spent too much time showing us Lawrence's character.  What I mean is that instead of showing only the non-violent side of Lawrence he also shows us his nice and polite English man side which didn't have such a major role in the picture.  Personally, I thought Anthony Quinn and Jack Hawkins were really the ones who controlled the movie and gave that nice smooth flow.  The fighting scenes in the desert are excellent and so is the acting, directing, filming, and story.I have to say that this is an excellent movie and the reason I it enjoyed a little less than others is probably all a matter of taste.  However, I have to recommend this movie-classic to any movie lover.


                
I watched this film because of the high ratings on IMDb.The film was great, excellent, terrific, but boring.This film was great because of its strong story, strong acting, and great scenes.But one disturbing thing was that it was boring.The long shots of the deserts was quite annoying.Three hours of watching the desert, Arabs, and camels walking.While I was watching it I even fast forwarded the scenes of the desert where there were no deluges.Good film but boring.Strong but boring.


                
Some time back I read, ' The Uncrowned King of Arabia ', Michael Asher's BIO of T. E. Lawrence. In the book, Asher traces Lawrence's history, his sexual conflicts, his motives, as well as the geo-politics of the region, in great detail.So as visually breathtaking as Lean's film is, it is still nonetheless frustrating to watch, for me at least, because it makes little if any attempt to touch on any of the above topics.This frustration starts right at the beginning, when Lean devotes several minutes in the main title sequence, to a static shot of Lawrence's parked motorcycle (???). Then, after we are shown Lawrence crash, and his church memorial service, we are abruptly transported back in time.Now those of us with some familiarity with the story will of course know that this is WW1, in which Lawrence is serving as a young British Intelligence Officer, & where he started out as essentially a map clerk, somewhere in Arabia.Yet the uninitiated are basically just left to guess.And soon, and again abruptly, Lawrence is assigned to make contact with the nomadic Arab tribes, in order to facilitate revolt against the enemy German-allied Turks.Did Lean not believe that any back story was necessary to explain how Lawrence arrives at this point in his life? Such as:-How he came to serve in the Military? -How he came to speak Arabic? -How he came to be selected for such an esoteric assignment?Moreover, as I watched the film, it was striking to me that there was not a single subtitle or voice-over to provide the date/location/details of any of the events.Contrast this with other historical films such as, ' The Longest Day ', or, ' Raging Bull ', or even, ' Chaplin ', which provides such info, and also makes its significance clear.The absence of this info creates the effect of a circular panoramic mural: Beautiful to look at, but challenging to follow, without a clear beginning, or clear direction, or clear ending.So IF this, ' Panoramic ', effect was in fact Lean's intention, then he succeeded brilliantly, but I would have preferred more clarity.M
This film features some of the best cinematography ever done, you really get the feeling for the vast expanse of the landscape, the heat of the desert. The scene where Lawrence returns from the desert, slowly appearing, first only as a speck, in the boiling air - brilliant and not a second too long. And you can't beat hundreds of extras running and riding through giant sets. (btw, there are some blue-screen shots with o'Toole and Sharif on camel-back, those don't ring true) Peter O'Toole is amazing, but I have to disagree about many of the other roles - OK, it was a different time, but some of the performances were plain cheesy or over-the-top, even Olivier and Sharif. Also, while I'm skeptical about today's PC-brainwashed stories, the different factions were presented in a very one-dimensional way, the running time would have allowed for more nuanced characters. Not a film I'd watch very often, but definitely worth the money if you can catch it on a big screen, preferably a 70mm copy. Look for those detailed sets with the tiny mosaic and wood inlay works, or the wide-angle landscape shots! Amazing ...


                
In terms of why I watched this I am in the middle of watching what is considered top of the range classics, that and out of all the ones in the early days that stretch to around 4 hours long... This to me seemed like the most accessible before watching the other ones. All I do have to say is that this is worth the watch but I would suggest to keep certain things in mind.The plot is that T. E. Lawrence is a Lieutenant back in the time when high ranking English soldiers were based on wealth and the more experienced ones were on the front line. He is tasked with talking diplomacy to an Arabian prince (Alec Guiness, one of my warnings is that he's in brown-face) and convince them to lead an army leading towards getting the Turks out of the entire area for the English to take, although the Arabs don't know this. He manages to trek 50 men across hundreds of miles of nothing but desert (if not thousands) and wins against the Turks in taking control of the city of Aka-bah (I probably spelled that wrong, Arabian geography is not a strong suit of mine). When returning the English are completely flabbergasted that he managed to do something that honestly would have killed a lot of others if they even attempted the journey to get there. However, the more he wins battles against the Turks the more he feels conflicted about what The English will do once the army succeeds.If I am to name my complaints I'll say there is almost nothing to some of these Arab characters (in a movie that's 4 hours long... I don't really see an excuse for that) and in the DVD I have it has an intermission and I feel that while it was important back when this movie came out to have an intermission for 5 minutes to get up, refill the popcorn or whatever I don't see the need for it in a format we can just as easily pause. I'll also say that after the intermission the film isn't really as good as it was before and while I do like the second half (although to be more accurate... the last third) I just preferred the whole "They attempt something that is almost impossible and succeeds" part of the movie more.Onto the compliments. I honestly don't think I've seen a desert look as good on film as it does here. The cinematography in every scene is beautiful and I'll ALWAYS have respect for someone making a large scale movie this long. While I'm on the compliments Peter O'Toole is considered to have given one of the best first-time performances in history for this movie and it's warranted. I even like the conflict Lawrence has with promising freedom only to have his commanding officers metaphorically laughing at the notion from far, far away, I mean while I said there isn't much to these characters it is all perfectly paced, which for a movie this long you'd expect there to be some filler with this kind of thing but there isn't.It is worth the watch, the sheer size and spectacle of the thing is absolutely worth it, has brilliant cinematography and one of the best first-time performances. While there are problems with the movie I will say what's there is worth it.


                
My reaction after seeing this desert epic is one of conflicted perception. We have a grandiose visual story that is written for a man who leads men into the untried and untrue. Most cast were standouts and need no further immortalizing here. I enjoyed their clear approach to their characters. But while T.E. Lawrence was certainly not Moses, as was adeptly noted by his detractors, the role certainly was one of a leader, a defiant one, but still one whom men would follow into battle. How it was cast with Peter O'Toole, and effeminate English boy trying to be noble beyond country affiliation, seems to be a contradiction of that absolute requirement. I wouldn't follow him into a bar, no less the dessert. Who does he serve? Petulance, adventure, intuition and self-righteousness. A well-spoken scholar with ideas outside of the box makes for a great strategist, not a war general. Politics are also in the same realm of books read by Lawrence, yet he was so overcome with himself that the subject of oil could not be breached? Who could be so naive to think the English would leave Arabia to the Arabs once they had it in their hands. I watched the film as a boyish fantasy, and enjoyed it as the mis-cast adventures of T.E. Lawrence


                
Probably the most visually stunning film that I have seen in my whole life. The visuals in this one would put to shame the visuals in the greatest of Westerns. The grand vistas are the grandest ever.But PETER O TOOLE's sanctimonious portrayal of Lawrence got on my nerves. There is no other way of putting it - he was too feminine and irritating (I checked on wikipedia and apparently LAWRENCE was a homosexual). Brando (to whom the role was offered initially) would have done a better job even with his mumbling. ALEC GUINESS was also a real pain, I mean he was hilarious. Apparently DILIP KUMAR was offered the role played by OMAR SHARIFF (who was brilliant).And the story doesn't get really interesting until just before the interval. The film does offer some terrific insight into the Arab psyche. Basically the Arabs were parasites who had no interest in democracy and could not run a country properly. They depended on the British for various systems to continue and the moment the British retreated, everything fell apart completely.The British were no better. Their flexible morals and deceitful imperialistic ambitions made them play one side against the other quite easily.The film had this very sanctimonious tone throughout, the main character was completely unlikeable and I don't think TOOLE played him very well. And nor were the filmmakers successful in showing what a nefarious person Lawrence really was.LEAN might have made some visually stunning films but I guess he always worked with a big budget. he is no KUBRICK or POWELL/PRESSBURGER.The film did make me wonder about the remarkable men produced by England and what the country has become today.(7/10)


                
With it's epic sweep and stunning visuals, "Lawrence of Arabia" has earned it's position among the greatest films of all time. That's a subjective fact I can live with, but at the risk of offending some of the more eloquent supporters on this site, there wasn't a lot that I could warm up to in this movie. More than once I wound up saying to myself 'I get it already' after repeated close ups of the baking desert sun and the limitless expanse of sand. Nor was I inspired to empathize with Lawrence's cause to unite the Bedouin tribes. One might contend that the story is far enough removed from modern history both chronologically and geographically to be of interest, but I would point to two films of the 1930's that took a similar tack and worked for me a whole lot better - 1935's "The Lives of a Bengal Lancer" and 1939's "Gunga Din", both taking place on the Indian sub continent.Nor would I characterize the performances of the individual leads as less than significant. Peter O'Toole's portrayal of T.E. Lawrence is singularly noteworthy in capturing the essence of the man, while Alec Guiness, Omar Sharif and Anthony Quinn are all credible. Still, I had difficulty in relating to these characters, who seemed neither likable nor meaningful beyond their relationship to their tribes. What was essentially a defining moment in the story, the defeat of the Turks at Aqaba, seemed to be glossed over entirely as if the enemy simply rolled over and gave up.Perhaps the thing to do would be to give the film another chance, but at an investment of nearly four hours, I don't feel that's going to be a priority. I've considered the argument some have offered as to viewing the film on the big screen for it's maximum impact, but that opportunity doesn't seem likely. I'd like to keep an open mind about it, but for now, I'll have to remain a member of the minority on this film.
This is a long movie, in fact this movie is so long when my dad Watched this movie, in 1962, at the drive-in the sun started to rise.   Its a real life story from a book, and I find real life more interesting then fiction.  We do not no if Lawrence went mad, or was brilliant.  The story is entertaining, and the film ages well.  The acting is exceptional, other older films acting appears hackish or cornballish.  This film is a bit long, and I watched it over 2 days; furthermore I thought the war scenes would be bigger, a little disapointed with that.  In the end it a good movie and I gave it a 7.


                
With only a few television credits and bit parts in Hollywood, Peter O'Toole made his breakthrough performance in Lawrence of Arabia. Lawrence of Arabia is one of those movies that everyone remembers a scene from even if they haven't seen the four-hour epic all the way through. Between the famous theme from Maurice Jarre, the iconic rooftop silhouette, "No prisoners!", the appetizing order of lemonade, Omar Sharif's entrance, Peter O'Toole's beautiful blue eyes sparkling in the middle of the desert, and the hundreds of fight scenes, there are plenty of memorable moments to choose from when you relive the movie as you talk about it with your friends.In case you don't know, David Lean's sprawling, dazzling epic is about T.E. Lawrence's time fighting in the Arabian Peninsula. This is much more than just another WWI movie. Peter O'Toole is not a gung-ho commanding officer who joyfully leads his men into battle. He's incredibly conflicted and disgusted by war. To him, a dead soldier is not a statistic, it's a man. During the famous "No prisoners!" scene, in which he only utters those two words, his face shows an incredible array of emotions. If you watch that scene and don't simultaneously think he was robbed of his Oscar and fall in love with him, well, watch it again. Guys, feel free to develop a man-crush; no one will blame you. After all, Noel Coward famously quoted, "If *he* had been any prettier, the film would have been called Florence of Arabia."Unfortunately for Peter O'Toole, this incredible epic was released during the same year as To Kill a Mockingbird, and no one else stood a chance come Oscar time. He was in pretty good company, though, since Burt Lancaster and Jack Lemmon also lost out that year after giving excellent performances in Birdman of Alcatraz and Days of Wine and Roses, respectively. The good news is Lawrence of Arabia did win Best Picture, Best Director, and Best Cinematography, among others. This a great compromise movie for date night, if you don't mind a four-hour running time. Ladies will get to drool over the ridiculously handsome Peter O'Toole-as Robin Williams said in Aladdin, "Pick a feature!"-and gents will get lost in the endless fighting and strategy scenes with nary a woman in sight. This is definitely a man's movie, and if it weren't for the perfect piece of eye candy, no woman in her right mind would probably watch it. If you're considering renting it, check out the preview. Usually, old movies were chopped into terrible previews, but this one is pretty good. It gives a pretty good representation of the film and shows off the supporting cast, including Omar Sharif, Anthony Quinn, Alec Guinness, Jack Hawkins, Arthur Kennedy, Jose Ferrer, Anthony Quayle, and Claude Rains.


                
Stunning and ground-breaking cinematography. (Restored to brilliance in the 50th Anniversary BluRay edition) Gorgeous soundtrack, with its familiar, enigmatic theme. Spectacularly bravura and camp performance by eye-lined Peter O'Toole (of whom Noel Coward noted, "If he'd been any more beautiful they'd have had to rename it 'Florence of Arabia.'" (Omar Shariff may have had the same eye-liner clause in his contract, BTW.) I wanted to watch this with the family a) to see a movie classic and b) to see how the story of Britain's carving up of the middle-east post Ottoman empire was presented and finally c) to revisit the story of a remarkable (and controversial) man. The first thing to note is the length of the film - 3 hours and 18 minutes. Blimey! You're not gonna take this one in one sitting. The second is that you may struggle with the plot and context if you don't gen up before (or while) you're watching. e.g. Q: The Arab Bureau? A: A department of the Foreign Office responsible for overseeing the political machinations of the regional players; Turks, France, Britain, local Arab emirs, independent tribes and whose representative decides to support the maverick Lawrence. If you don't know he'd been an Academic already in Arabia for two years or more, spoke fluent Arabic, was well respected by the locals and so on, you might wonder why the Arab Bureau was keen on having him work for them. Indeed, the historical accuracy is very variable, so don't expect a well structured history lesson. There were some hefty arguments at the time about the content, and how it portrayed the film's prime antagonists. What it does very well is show the brilliant madness of a man obsessed with his own destiny and special nature. This is probably an accurate representation of Lawrence, at least it concurs with what he autobiogrpahically wrote in his 7 Pillars of Wisdom. But in watching it, you too will probably be puzzled by his motivation - why he takes many of the actions he does. Questions remain about Lawrence's sexuality and the film makes nods in this direction as well as his potential sadism, for example when we see him apparently revelling in unnecessary killing (instead of taking prisoners). Lawrence clearly was an extraordinary man and Peter O'Toole's performance was pretty darned amazing. But for me the narrative doesn't hold up. It's fragmented and sporadic and fails to give the personal or historical insight it deserves. The panoramic shots of expansive desert are indulgently long, as is the whole film.So, a ground breaking, historical film, with some outstanding performances and truly stunning photography. But it is flawed in its accuracy and proportions and is unlikely to get a great deal of attention from future generations other than film aficionados, for whom it will continue to be a classic and formative.


                
David Lean's LAWRENCE OF ARABIA, a 4-hour desert epic telling the true story of T. E. Lawrence, a man who united the Arab tribes against their Turkish enemies, is considered an epic for a reason. It has wonderful vistas and backdrops brought to life by some splendid widescreen cinematography; it boasts a stirring score and stunning production values in which everything is catered for. It's the kind of film that makes modern movie-makers, with their green screens and CGI armies, look lazy.The story itself is both intriguing and compelling, working on both the individual and the expansive level. There's action here: desert crossings, battles, sabotage and war, and yet it's much more complex than that. The script carefully draws out the nuances of the various Arab tribes and the tribal complexities preventing peace in the region, as well as providing a fitting introduction to the modern-day Middle East.The only thing that really dates the movie is the acting, as these are the kind of stiff, mannered performances have long since gone out of fashion; Alec Guinness for example acts in a way long out of fashion. But the calibre of the cast is epic in itself and there are lots of supporting actors giving decent turns, such as Omar Sharif and Anthony Quayle. Peter O'Toole and his role both stay an enigma throughout, but that's no bad thing; instead, it only adds to the wonder of the piece.


                
Overall, Laurence of Arabia is just that. A beautiful directed film. From its long shots of the deserts to the dramatic close ups of Peter O'Toole, the film is beauty. Winner of the Best Picture for its year, Laurence of Arabia is a winner of taste and enlightenment. All you have to do is shut up and gaze at its wonder of a film. The scenes speak for themselves. Why would you need dialogue.


                
