The story of T. E. Lawrence as he fights for the Arab cause becomes a sprawling screen epic, magnificently photographed under the keen eye of Lean. The film made O'Toole a star and boasts an all-star. This is a fine film, but is extremely overrated. The plot, what little there is of it, is generally uninteresting and rambling, causing the middle part of the film to drag terribly. An hour or so could easily have been trimmed from the middle, thereby producing a tighter and more compelling story. The acting is uneven, with Guinness underacting and Quinn overacting as Arabs. Ultimately, though, the cinematography and score manage to compensate somewhat for the weaknesses in the script.


                
If you are looking for desert vistas, sharp action, excellent acting, directing and camera- work, this is the film for you. But take everything you see with a pinch of salt: the filmmakers based the script entirely on Laurence's memoirs, and are thus guilty of perpetuating a number of myths, among them:1 the Arab revolt. Myth: the Araba as a people, rose up in revolt against their Turkish overlords. Truth: only those tribes Prince Feisal, and later, Hussein, had direct influence over rose in revolt, the myth of the Arab revolt was largely conceived and perpetuated by Laurence.2 leader of the Arab army. Myth: Laurence was the only Britisher leading Arabs. Truth: Laurence was only one of a number of British and Australian officers assigned to lead Arab forces, although he was arguably the most successful.3 Allenby. Myth: General Allenby was a demanding, unscrupulous man who used Laurence and the Arabs without a second thought. Truth: Allenby had a great deal of respect for Laurence and the Arabs, and vice-versa.4 British inaction. Myth: while the Arabs were busily fighting the Turks, the British were lazing around in Cairo, accomplishing nothing. Truth: at the time of the Film's opening, the British army had already fought the first and second battles of Gaza, and the vast majority of British and Imperial troops were up at the front, closely facing the Turks5 Damascus: The greatest myth of all, and quite libelous. Myth: Laurence and the Arab army made it to Damascus a day and a half before the British got there. Truth: The Australian Light Horse, having crossed 400 miles in 6 weeks, made it into Damascus a day ad a half before Laurence and the Arabs got there.Conclusion: This is not an historically accurate film, so don't watch this for history class, but if it's a good war movie you want, you should try this one out.I give it 8 stars(9 if they hadn't spent a quarter of the film on desert vistas)
I finally decided to watch the classic Lawrence of Arabia in my attempt to catch up on film classics I have never seen. Now I don't for one minute intend on talking down about this film. It is easy to see why Lawrence of Arabia stands the test of time as a classic. The absolutely stunning breathtaking cinematography, the incredible 'would be' special effects that probably had to be done with man power and the thousands and thousands of extras used in stunning battle scenes and traveling across the desert. You can't get more spectacular than the scenery in this film. Hands down a huge 10/10 for what they did with the cast and scenery. The story is simple enough and based on a true story of World War II British soldier who finds himself conflicted on who he is truly fighting for when he becomes entangled with the Bedouin armies of Arabia. I also realize that this is an epic and that being said and being filmed in the sixties, historical epics were known to be lavish productions. I watched this film on a 2 disk DVD and at the end of the first DVD I was so pleased, I almost wanted to watch it again and again and slap a perfect score on it. I would have been just as happy to have it end right there. But as it turned out there was another disk with an hour and a half on it adding the total running time to an outstanding 3 1/2 hours and I have nothing against that unless it's not necessary. I found the last part of this film very unnecessary, it dragged, it bogged down the story and I found it quite confusing. Yes I understand that it brought about T.E. Lawrence's conflicted opinions about the war but it just almost felt like an anti-climax and sadly brought the film down for me.Veteran actor in his screen debut Peter O'Toole plays Lawrence. I think O'Toole perfectly captures everything Lawrence was meant to stand for. O'Toole as Lawrence is conceited, young, naive, bull headed, and has great delusions of grandeur which he uses to win over the Arabians. On top of these less than desirable traits Lawrence has incredible charisma and leadership qualities and O'Toole is the same way. At first he seems almost smug and monotone but the more you watch him the more he electrifies the screen and you become enamored with him. I don't know if that's talent of a gift but either way he makes the film what it is. The incredible Sir Alec Guinness plays Prince Feisal, the leader of one faction of the Arabian army who leaves his men to the trust of Lawrence after becoming enamored with him. It's not a big role but when Guinness is on screen he makes it larger than life. Anthony Quinn is the opposite leader Auda abu Tayi whom Lawrence brings together with Feisal's men to take Damascus away from the Turkish army. Quinn is much like Guinness who doesn't need a lot of screen time to make an impression. They are both worthy of royalty. And Omar Sharif is brilliant and intelligent as Sheriff Ali who becomes Lawrence's wing man and friend.The cast are all brilliant together, the story is of epic proportions and the direction which was Academy Award winning by David Lean is nothing short of brilliance. It might possibly be one of the best directed films I have ever seen. It's simply breath taking. But so much extra is added that I'm just not sure it was necessary. Lawrence becomes so conflicted and ends up leaving them and it just seems to contradict everything he had done. Perhaps I am just being petty about it and I didn't like the ending but nonetheless the last hour and a half was too much for me. Still I don't regret for a minute seeing it and I encourage everyone to see this because even now it's spectacular to watch, imagine how it felt more than 40 years ago. 8.5/10
This movie has been the most praised movie by David Lean and is a favorite of Greek television which plays it every year especially during religious holidays. It is a memorable film and has many affinities with A passage to India in the sense that it presents the picture of an unconventional Briton who defying his prejudiced superiors sides with the native underdogs,underdogs from the point of view of the British of course, for, for their own people they are the elite. But differences exist: while Fielding in a passage to India makes a temporary alliance with a falsely accused Indian middle-class doctor, Lawrence forms meaningfull relationships with simple Arabs as the camel boys and the Arab whom he saves with danger of his life. Of course the main course of action is the relationship of the British agents with the indigenous ruling class. The movie is based on the life of a historical personnage T.E. Lawrence, a British archaeologist,spy, adventurer and larger than life personality.The historical veracity of the movie is questionable since as Steven Spielberg said in an interview, this movie genre is not a documentary but creative use of existent historical material- creative logistics comes to mind. Of course art always has to uplift the mundane realities of life, in that case of colonial power politics. As far as we know Lawrence was not the ardent arabophile the movie presents him to be and he was loyal to his country's imperial interests which did not identify with those of the Arabs, that is of the dynasty of Prince Feisal since no institutions as referendums were utilized to express the will of the average Arab, if such a life-form existed then. While the politics of the film is unreliable and murky, its' artistry is great with unforgettable performances of the major and minor protagonists of this drama that was the Arab Revolt.Lawrence, general Allenby, Prince Feisal, the hauitat chief Abu-tayi, the American journalist are all portrayed unforgettably, although I suspect that if one was to meet those personalities in private after having seen the movie(which of course is impossible) he would be disappointed. But of course the role of art is to create role models and icons not to copy mundane reality.
I'm doing this review despite not having seen the movie in a number of years but what I remember best is some fantastic desert cinematography from the point when "Lawrence" (Peter O'Toole) arrives in the desert until about the last third of this 3-and-half-hour film. There are just numerous spectacular desert scenes and, of course, this was a must to be seen in widescreen. Fortunately, that has been available for many years, even on VHS. Between the direction of David Lean and the photography of Freddie Young, this is a fabulous visual treat, one to be treasured.Unfortunately, the story as well as the great visuals, seem to dissipate in the last hour-plus of the movie. It just kind of peters out, like Lawrence's desert campaign.The acting is superb with the possible exception of Anthony Quinn, who overacts. Two of the all-time greats - Alec Guiness and Omar Sharif - also added life to this monumental epic story. This was O'Toole's first role, too, and probably his most famous and some think his best. After this film and for a short period afterwords, O'Toole was looked upon as the premier actor in the business.For a film this long and with such little action, it's amazing it entertains as well as it does. For those who need some pretty women to aid in the story, forget it: in fact, there are NO women that I can remember. It gets by with the cinematography, O'Toole intense acting portraying a real-life vain, courageous, stubborn and obsessed Englishman trying to unite the Arabs to fight the Turks.Another very memorable and impressive aspect of this movie was the soundtrack. Is it my imagination or were soundtracks (like this one) more important and remembered better than movies in the last quarter of a decade? The main theme song is played throughout the film and I still remember it 44 years later.


                
Everything about this film is bold, clean, striking, vivid -- most apparent in the magnificent visuals. The landscape might as well have been Mars. Desert scenes convey a wonderful sense of sterile beauty, pristine and natural: blowing sands, the sun, the sky, and not much else, uncluttered by modern techno-jumble that renders cities ugly by comparison. The presence of a few humans on camels magnifies the grandeur of this spiritual place.So spectacular are the desert scenes, they almost swallow up the story, about an eccentric, quirky Englishman named T.E. Lawrence (Peter O'Toole), on a mission to help Arab tribes come together against the Turks in the early part of the twentieth century. Although not entirely factual, the film at least offers viewers a sense of real-life historical figures including not only Lawrence but also Prince Feisal (Alec Guinness), among others. All of the major characters are interesting in their own ways. All convey a sense of intelligence and enlightened vision, even as their cultural or socioeconomic backgrounds clash.The script's dialogue is rendered potent due to its sparseness. Visuals carry the story effectively; minimal dialogue needed. And when it is present, it's sharp, crisp, striking. At one point a character asks Lawrence: "What is it ... that attracts you personally to the desert?" To which Lawrence responds in two words: "It's clean." Yes indeed. And so is the film's plot: simple, straightforward, bold, uncluttered.Costumes and prod design are detailed. The score is pleasantly haunting, though it does get repeated a bit too often. Casting and acting are acceptable. I especially liked the camels; they are fun to observe. Color cinematography is brilliant, especially outdoors. The use of day-for-night camera filters is obvious in some scenes, giving the production an antiquated look, at times.My major complaint is the runtime. I could have wished for a shorter film by about one hour. Some scenes are not really necessary; other scenes could have been shortened, all without losing character development or status as epic. It's a serious problem for this film, in that the resulting impression is one of pretension. I have no doubt that Lawrence and his Arab adventures are film worthy. But his story is hardly so earth-shaking as to merit nearly four hours, complete with "Intermission.""Lawrence Of Arabia" was much better than I had expected, owing mostly to the visual grandeur. It's a very well put-together film, runtime notwithstanding. The film gives us historical and cultural perspective, and does so in a way that makes the desert landscape as much a character as the film's protagonist.


                
I should probably throw on a pair of asbestos overalls if I plan to insult the classics. It just needs to be said that the old movies are dull.I tried liking the Manchurian Candidate, but it didn't get my heart racing. Citizen Kane almost put me to sleep. Even some of the newer "must-sees" like Marathon Man were less than appealing.But finally, I can give an solid 8 out of 10 to a classic movie. While Lawrence's running time has put a dent in my free time, I can honestly say that the adventurous story was well worth watching. There were grand scenes and great fights. While melodramatic in some parts, most of the acting was good.Lawrence of Arabia is the best classic I've watched so far. I recommend it to anyone who's a fan of the epic adventure movies.


                
Wow, a great epic movie.  L of A show's T.E Lawrence, not purely in a heroic light, but the complex figure the man was.Lawrence was a confident leader of men, but also arrogant & naive, the last two qualities becoming more evident as the film wears on.The Acting in this film is brilliant, especially Peter O'Toole & Omar Sharif.  A film that is a must see for all film lovers.


                
I first saw this movie when I was 11 years old. A shy girl in a country town, I knew little of men and war, however this movie etched itself so profoundly in my memories, that when I watched it again in my 30's I could recall every scene, every word, every nuance of the actors so clearly I felt that I had been there in the desert, breathing the dry dusty air. A movie that moves the soul, both with sound and vision. A superb cast of actors, a moment in time we are fortunate to have forever. I knew nothing of homosexuality when I was 11, but I did understand love, perhaps this movie helped me become a little more tolerant. Now I am 52, I cried 41 years ago and I know I will again when I next watch Lawrence of Arabia.


                
Undoubtedly this is very good film. Filled with iconic images, scored with some of the most rousing music and anchored by O'Toole's deeply charismatic performance this is the film most people think about when they hear epic film making. If the 2nd half was as engaging as the 1st half I would wholeheartedly agree. As it stands I only halfheartedly agree. The 2nd half runs out a steam as the screenplay repeatedly decides to make Lawrence fit into the disillusioned soldier tropes. Worse the tensions and ironies of the character, say his love-hate relationship with violence, slowly and surely get resolved. By doing so the film is robbed much of narrative momentum.As scripted the story needs to be tightened up as the last hour or so simply crawls to a stand still. In particular a reworking of the Deraa assault should have occurred. While that scene is the impetus for Lawrence to be humbled and to realize he was "ordinary" it stands out as utterly unwarranted in the narrative. The film only hints at T.E. Lawrence's masochism and it doesn't imply that scene was an invention of his (as it probably was). It makes Lawrence's eventual descent into barbarism and setting up his disillusionment to pat and straight forward. This is especially true as the 1st half resists giving easy answers.Nonetheless this is a grand film that everyone should see once. It has a so much pure cinema in it.


                
With not many good biography movies nowadays, Lawrence Of Arabia really stands out as one of the most important films in the history of film-making. This adventurous drama accurately depicts the achievements and the life of T.E. Lawrence during the first World War through a political, military and psychological perspective. It is a movie with excellent directorship, perfect acting and full of stunning scenes with no flaws in the quality of image and sound despite being a very old movie. However, as exceptional as it can be, I can hide the fact that it is a very slow movie, which is something that many will find tiring.
All in all, Lawrence of Arabia is a movie-landmark which everyone should watch!


                
Lawrence of Arabia (1962)Funny, but this epic masterpiece starts with a bit of clumsy direction, an almost (almost) corny motorcycle crash. And then the movie begins in more earnest with the rise and triumph of the title character. The production values seem to never flag from the moment we arrive in Africa (shot in Morocco and Jordan, mostly), with embracing scenery, huge casts of extras (and horses), unusual levels of excitement that seem historically about right, and some intensely wonderful acting.This is a gutsy, highly polished British movie from the end of the great Golden Age of this kind of great dramatic style. The story is fascinating and grand, and the scenery is absolutely one of the central points throughout. You get sucked in and swept away with all the huge wide and often silent desert landscapes. And most of all, the story is astounding. It's about a man who is exceptional--a real man, not Bruce Willis in some office tower.Peter O'Toole is at his best here. David Lean, the director, seemed to know how to keep him both rebellious and restrained. (If you see a later film, like "The Ruling Class," you'll see a typical overcooked performance from O'Toole, equally remarkable I suppose but less finessed.) This portrayal of the daring British military officer in the Arabian desert is not meant to be perfectly factual (there are lots of battles about the facts, online and even in the opening scenes of the movie), it's meant to be moving and historically significant, and historically close enough.And it's personally impressive. This is a story that takes place on two main levels. One is the man's new understanding of the politics of the mideast in the 1910s and 20s. The other is the man himself, this wild and cunning and sometimes fearless and sometimes almost insane man who is able to adapt to Arab life and enter its problems from within and yet still remain thoroughly British in his attitudes. It's quite something to see, and O'Toole makes it believable more than you'd expect. If you met the real Lawrence of Arabia you might object that he's not playing his part quite right.The movie also has lasting importance as the Arab world (or the Middle East as it is still called) goes through more political change. It makes what Lawrence accomplished all the more profound. You might say that if he hadn't done it someone else would have, that the rise of Arab power we inevitable. Maybe. But that's not what happened, and this is. In a way, the whole movie is about Lawrence trying to unify the Arabs. His goal at first is to defeat the Turks who are occupying Arabia, but it eventually becomes more personal. He identifies with the plight of the Arabs but never quite becomes one.There are things that bring this down to earth a little, especially the playing with clichés (the photographer is good but sort of patched on, and some of the Arab characters are thinly sketched). But there is a host of wonderful actors, the one true Middle Easterner being Omar Sharif (he's Egyptian by birth, and he's quite good here). The other main ones are such good actors you don't quite remember they are English to the core--Alec Guinness and Claude Rains (quite old here, but still wonderful). Anthony Quinn (originally Mexican) is really good though his fake nose needed some better color--a weird thing for them to mess up on in a hugely complicated movie like this.Most of all it's O'Toole and more O'Toole, appropriately. A penetrating, original, almost possessed performance within a gorgeous, long but not too long film.


                
Worthwhile for any number of reasons, David Lean's filming of "Lawrence of Arabia" is a memorable, very entertaining, and expertly crafted epic. Peter O'Toole's portrayal of T.E. Lawrence works even better than you could have hoped for, and the entire cast of talented actors is given first-class material to work with. The script, settings, and the entire production are of fine quality.O'Toole's distinctive, original style is a good match for such a complicated and unusual figure as Lawrence, who was one of the most complex historical figures of his generation. Even in the nearly four hours of running time, you could not cover the entire life of such a man, yet because of the way that O'Toole is able to capture the character so memorably, you come away from the movie with the feeling of understanding more than just the events themselves.The rest of the cast likewise could hardly be better. Alec Guinness, Anthony Quinn, Jack Hawkins, Omar Sharif, and all the rest bring their characters to life believably, and they are an indispensable part of creating the world around the main character.Lean's own ability to film this kind of large-scale story was never put to better use. When watched in widescreen, there are times when you can almost feel the sand and the desert heat, because of how carefully the scenes and settings have been rendered.To be sure, it's a very long movie, and it defies a lot of the movie conventions that normally apply to such a large-scale production. And as a period piece, it shows us some things as they have not been for a long time (yet that still have some significance). But because of all this, it rewards careful viewing, since many of its subtleties can be even more satisfying than the exciting action sequences.


                
Because of its length, I always postponed watching this film. But now that I've finally seen it, I regret postponing it. This film is visually a masterpiece. The scene where the army rides through the town is extraordinary. It is real, no CGI. Pure film. If you want films with realism, you'll love this.


                
Epic in every way.The story of TE Lawrence, the English officer who united and lead the diverse, often warring, Arab tribes during World War 1 in order to fight the Turks. This unity and fight for freedom ultimately lead to the independent Arab states that we now know.Grand in its ambition, grand in its scale, grand in its scenery and cinematography, grand in its running time. Director David Lean captures well the adventures and achievements of Lawrence, as well as his personality, contradictions and inner conflicts.Superb cinematography - the desert vistas are a key positive of the movie.The running time - 3 1/2 hours - does make the movie a bit of an endurance test though. Not that it is ever dull, it is just the sheer amount of time you need to set aside to watch it. Usually I would say, for something like that, that a bit of editing is in order, but there is very little that can be edited out. Almost every scene is integral to the plot. Towards the end, however, there were one or two scenes that could possibly have been cut though.Great work from Peter O'Toole in the lead role, for which he received an Oscar nomination. Good support from a cast that includes Omar Sharif, Anthony Quinn, Alec Guinness, Jack Hawkins, Jose Ferrer, Anthony Quayle and Claude Rains. Omar Sharif received a Best Supporting Actor Oscar nomination for his performance.


                
"Lawrence of Arabia" had been on my must-watch movies list for a long time. There was so much I had heard and read about it. A lot had been written about this epic saga of T.E. Lawrence as being one of the greatest and most influential films of all time, revered by many great directors including Martin Scorsese.I finally got a chance to see it recently, and considering all the good things I had heard about it, I must admit that my expectations were quite high."Lawrence of Arabia" tells the story of Lt. Colonel T.E. Lawrence, focussing on his war experiences in Arabia during World War I. A topic of such vast proportions needed an equally ambitious project to pull it off, and indeed, the filmmakers have put in a lot of efforts in painting this huge canvas and achieving what they'd set out to. Peter O'Toole plays the eponymous T.E. Lawrence. The film starts out with the accidental death of T.E. Lawrence in the present. The film then flashes back to narrate the story of how Lawrence was sent on a mission to evaluate the situation in Arabia, pertaining to Prince Faisal and his revolt against the Ottoman Turks.Rest of the film then shows Lawrence's own involvement in leading the Arabs in the battle against Turks. So needless to say, you are presented with extravagant battle scenes, and long, never-ending desert treks, Lawrence's new-found friendships, his emotional ups and downs and some difficult choices that he is presented with. The director heavily indulges in showing off the beautifully shot desert landscapes (with the excellent Super Panavision 70 cinematography by Freddie Young)."Lawrence of Arabia" lived up to my expectations during most of its long running time. In fact a lot more during the first two hours of the film. But something happened in the final act. Somehow the whole film seemed to go a bit awry and disoriented for some reasons which I am finding difficult to put in words. Suffice to say that it wasn't the overwhelming experience I thought it would be. For one, I think the film could have easily been cut short. A lot of time has been spent on desert treks and their long journeys through it. Yes, these scenes do require detail to show the hardships these men must've faced while crossing those perilous desert lands. But I somehow feel the director went too far in his attempt. So much so that the events taking place in the final 30-45 minutes seem too abrupt and disconnected.There have been films as long as this and longer, but they have enough substance to fill those long hours. There are sufficient examples ('The Godfather Part II', 'Schindler's List', 'Seven Samurai' to name a few). "Lawrence of Arabia" has enough substance, yes, but a running time of 216 minutes, was simply not necessary.That aside, the film, of course has plenty of plusses: As mentioned earlier, Freddie Young's cinematography is superb, so is Maurice Jarre's inspirational score. David Lean does a great job in directing this script by Robert Bolt and Michael Wilson, but falls a little short of expectations in terms of distribution of the content. Nonetheless, this was in itself a magnificent, ambitious project and a difficult one at that, so it is not fair to nitpick too much.The cast: Peter O'Toole's performance is widely talked about. For me, frankly it was somewhat inconsistent. Not to take away any merits from the Legendary actor's acting talent. He was, in fact, great in some scenes. But I was slightly put off by the sometimes nervous, sometimes excessively confident behaviour. Then there were some scenes in which he went way over the top in displaying his emotions. Maybe it was the director who wanted O'Toole to act like that and O'Toole gave the director what he wanted.The supporting cast is great, especially Omar Sharif, Anthony Quinn and Alec Guiness. I had seen Anthony Quinn in Fellini's "La Strada" earlier and it was great to see him display such versatility.All said, "Lawrence of Arabia" is a great film, but falls a tad short of being a masterpiece in my book.However, it definitely deserves to be watched at least once by any serious lover of cinema.


                
With a stellar (male) cast, this movie can deservedly call itself an epic. The scope/cinematography (I saw the 70 mm version of the film), the storytelling, the grand music that is used and acting of course, elevate the whole experience.While I had my fair share of problems with film music before (see There will be Blood), I do like the composition and the use of it here. The acting could be called overly dramatic, but it fits very nice with the grand scope of the whole story(line). One of the most interesting facts and something people mostly don't realize: There's no speaking role for a woman in this movie. Not that it matters or makes the movie less effective, it's just a nice little piece of trivia. If you have the endurance to watch a long movie/drama, than there is no reason to miss on this one!


                
This sweeping, highly literate historical epic covers the Allies' Mideastern campaign during World War I as seen through the eyes of the enigmatic T. E. Lawrence (Peter O'Toole, in the role that made him a star).The film follows the eccentric British officer as he tries to united such desert leaders of Arabia such as Sheriff Ali (Omar Sharif), Prince Feisal (Alec Guinness) and Auda Abu Tayi (Anthony Quinn against the Turks during World War I.Director David Lean orchestrates sweeping battle sequences and breathtaking action, but the film is really about the adventures and trials that transform Lawrence into the so-called legendary man of the desert. The film is packed full of just fantastic image after another. For instance, the transition, of the match being blown out into the desert.... the mirage sequence. The film simply stands alone as one of the best films ever. My favorite scene is probably the one where Lawrence rides along the sea, after just having captured Aqaba.Equally important to the film is the psychology of Lawrence, who remains an enigma not only to the Arabs, but also his fellow British officers. There was a quote at the end of the film given by Prince Feisal (Guinness) that really summed this up. It had to do with the both of them being glad to be rid of him.One half of Lawrence was a scholar, a thinker, and gentle. But the other half was of that of a man of action, harsh, and decisive, and must of all flamboyant. No one is ever able to discern what Lawrence's motives really are in this matter: Sheriff dismisses him as yet another "desert-loving Englishman," and his British superiors assume that he's either arrogant or mad. In fact, some could even wager that the man was insane & that he carried around with him a sadistic god complex. In fact, in several scenes he claims that he will personally " give it to them" referring to the Arabs freedom. Yet, what happens at the end of the film? With the common enemy now gone, old tribal hatreds simply spring back into action. They may have been able to conquer Damascus, but they couldn't run it or conquer centuries of hatred. As noted from the film. " The Arabs? Who or what are they? I only know of tribes!" In fact, one may just see the real Lawrence's whole ' labor of love' as hopeless.
It's funny how the production of some films actually goes onto mirror the subject matter. Fitzcarraldo was the story of one man's attempt to bring something beautiful to the masses, at whatever count. The adventures of Baron Munchausen was the story of an aging dreamer, trying to ignore defeat and go on one last escapade before he was crushed by the higher powers, and then we come to Lawrence of Arabia. David Lean's look at a man consumed and fascinated by the desert.In his story of the life of British lieutenant T.E. Lawrence and his quest across the Saudi Arabian desert, David Lean realised his true cinematic power for the first time. Painting his epic on the biggest 70mm canvas, filling it with hundreds of extras, every performance on the mark, this wasn't just a film to Lean, it represented himself, the single minded vision of Lawrence struck a cord with Lean.And despite the fact that this is undeniably Lean's film, the cast should not be ignored. This was back when an epic meant, EPIC, in every sense of the word, and Lawrence has an epic cast to die for. Peter O' Toole, Omar Sharif, Anthony Quinn, Jack Hawkins and the mighty Alec Guinness, there's also Freddy Young and Nicholas Roeg's stunning cinematography, making the vast and empty desert seem almost claustrophobic.This is full of memorable moments and images, the huge black locomotive moving through the desert, Sharif's first entrance as a shimmering mirage, Lawrence's questioning... And even if it does slump a little in the middle, and it's length will mean this isn't a film you will want to watch every week becomes enough for it lose points, Lawrence of Arabia is still a true classic, too often ignored by today's' MTV standards. See it once, and you will never forget it, and there's a good chance you'll be humming that Maurice Jarre theme tune for weeks.8/10 masterpiece marred by a weak mid section.


                
This so-called masterpiece ( if this movie was a masterpiece, even Blair Witch 2 would be a masterpiece ) is a very bad movie, because it is way too long and too uninteresting. if you read the comments on Titanic, you will notice, that many people think it´s too long, but this is even longer, and no one complains about that point !?! I thought it is the worst movie of all time, but then I saw "Blair Witch 2" and I changed my opinion: That is even worse than Lawrence o.A., it should not be called a movie. But if you like those movies ( Ben hur, Cleopatra, Spartacus or something ) , you will maybe like this one too, but I do not like those movies, so I hated this one. If you want to watch a good monumental epos, watch "Gladiator" ( that is a great movie ). the average vote of LoA should not be 8.1, but 1.8, because it is so bad. Does anyone really think this is better than "The Sixth Sense" or "The Matrix", which are ranked on 28 or 31 or so??? I recommend watching it, because you will hate it, and then it will leave the Top250 anytime, because it does not belong there above "THE SIXTH SENSE" or "The Matrix" or "THE TRUMAN SHOW" or "Terminator 1&2" , or "THE FUGITIVE" or "FULL METAL JACKET" or "Monty P. and the Holy Grail" or "Braveheart" or "Alien 1&2" or "The Shining" or "2001" or "Toy Story 1&2" or "Life is beautiful" or "FIGHT CLUB" or "das Boot" or "Lola rennt" or "Apocalypse Now" or "The green Mile" or "American History X" or "GLADIATOR" or "LEON" or "Star Wars-Episode 6" or "SE7EN" or "Indy 3" or "platoon" or "Die hard" or "Forrest Gump" or "The Exorcist" or "Trainspotting" or "The untouchables" or "E.T." or "South park". Those are either GREAT or good movies, let´s say : these are at least movies. A definite 1/10.


                
As far as classics go, Lawrence of Arabia carves a mark in the epic genre as one of the best epic movies out there.Based on the life of T. E. Lawrence, this movie depicts in full detail Lawrence's experiences in Arabia during World War I, with focus primarily on his attacks and conquest of Aqaba and Damascus and his involvement in the Arab National Council.The movie has well rooted scenes that take you through a journey of self discovery, we get to see the emotional struggles Lawrence faced and how the resulting violence caused by war can change a man completely.The desert scenes were shot in Jordan and Morocco.During filming Peter was having difficulty with the camel saddle so he bought rubber foam and placed it on the saddle, many extras copied him and it has become wide spread even till today.Later, during the filming of the Aqaba scene, O'Toole was nearly killed when he fell from his camel during the charge, but fortunately, it (the camel) stood over him, preventing the horses of the extras from trampling him.Many Arab countries including Jordan banned the film. Egypt, Omar Sharif's home country, was the only Arab nation to give the film a wide release, where it became a success.Peter O'Toole who played Lawrence delivered a much awarding performance; although he didn't win the best actor role in the Oscars he was nominated.Broken into two parts each over an hour and 40 minutes long, Lawrence was a British soldier whose flamboyant attitude made him popular among his fellow colleagues, he was sent to the desert plain to see to the Arabs, and from there he made friends with the Arabs.He fought with them and led them to victory, but his loyalties come into question as he was cutting across two territories the British government and his new found love, the Arabs.The script of the movie is well plotted and the screenplay is marvelous, add to that the cinematography, the musical score and the directing.Lawrence of Arabia is a complete package, a masterpiece waiting to be seen by anyone.What I really love about the script is how we get to see Lawrence move from nothing to hero, from hero to god and from god back to man.This movie launched Peter into the limelight and the character that catches your fancy may end up being Omar Sharif who played Sheriff Ali ibn el Kharish.The movie is fun to watch, I recommend it.


                
I finally found a day when I could sit and actually watch this enormously long film. Was it worth it? Umm. Yes.I think it was an enjoyable movie. It certainly had this amazing quality to it that made it seem grand. Perhaps it was the 70mm film that they used. While watching it, I kept wishing that I could stretch the picture to fill up the whole wall. It's one of those films that really just needs to be seen on the big screen.It's a film with a very large scope and an interesting story that speaks about culture and identity. Destiny and chance.?A lot of interesting stuff in there. It also has beautiful pictures of the desert.All in all, I rather like it. It doesn't over-dramatize too much (at least for a film made in its time period). It doesn't try to wrap things up too neatly. It takes the time to show how a character changes, doesn't have a problem exposing his flaws.It's not the kind of movie you'd want to watch over and over again (unless you have a lot of free time), but it does what it wants to do. And I enjoyed it. And I got to see some desert. And some Arabs. And not one mummy in sight. Nice.Good stuff. If you have a nice block of time to catch it, I'd say it wouldn't be bad to try. 8/10.


                
Epic film is splendid for the first half, but slows down in the second half and almost to to a halt in the last quarter. But this film is still very watchable thanks to great acting, a brilliant score, excellent directing among other things. 8/10


                
10 nominations, 7 Oscars won and not single one female role. I did not notice that at all while I was watching this great movie, but then I read that fact somewhere and started to rewind the movie in my head. Three and a half hours of movie and completely without any women in it. It must be very good movie if I didn't notice absence of women lol.


                
I watched this movie for the first time about 2 days ago, and id like to share my thoughts on the film. first allow me to explain my summary comment. (I'm not giving away any spoilers because i don't think there are any to give away) L o A was made during a time when movies had the word 'epic' rubberstamped all over them, in 1962, only three years after ben hur, 2 years after spartacus, 6 or 7 years after bridge on the river kwai, you get my point, when movies were made not necessarily to satisfy audience cravings, when visionary directors like David lean wanted to tell a story and the studio gave them whatever they wanted in order to achieve this. the movie runs in at very nearly 4 hours long, and i wont lie here, sometimes it feels like it. the length of the movie is, however the only criticism i can find, as acting, script,and cinematography are quite frankly out of this world and the sweat will run off you as lawrence frazzles in the heat. my point is that a great deal of young people will be unaccustomed to such attention to detail in a movie, when the answers are not thrust down your throat and somebody is not slaughtered every 5 mins. i realise I'm been cynical but the days when you could whack out a four hour masterpiece and expect your audience to lap it up are long gone.. but that does explain the low ratings, obviously from youngsters who viewed (part of)the movie and were bored stiff. well what did you expect? independence day? if your over 65, this movie is probably one of your all time favourites, but if your under 25, well, just avoid.


                
