It is, in a way, depressing to watch this movie today. One winds up contrasting it with the sort of technologically slick and aesthetically shallow spectacles, like "Titanic", that garner the sort of adulation that a truly great movie like "Lawrence" received in its day, and one realizes how far we have fallen.Ignore David Lean's painterly technique, the way he fills the screen like a canvas. Ignore Freddie Young's stunning cinematography in fulfillment of Lean's vision. Ignore the fabulous score by Maurice Jarre. Ignore the stupendous cast. Ignore the topnotch script.What we have, beyond all this, is an absolutely gripping and psychologically perplexing character study of a uniquely enigmatic individual that keeps us on the edge of our seats for the full length of the movie. "Lawrence", at over 200 minutes, goes by faster than many a movie of half its length, due to Lean's brilliant pacing and direction, and superb acting all around. To make a comparison in the world of music, this movie, like Mahler's 8th symphony, is a universe contained within itself.Of course, it is an exercise in self-denial and philistinism to watch this movie in anything other than the wide-screen - or "letterbox" - format, due to Lean's complete use of every inch of the wide screen. To watch it otherwise is to miss half of Lean's intention.To use a hackneyed phrase, they simply don't make 'em like this anymore.


                
I am not one of the guys who can sit and watch a 3 hrs epic film just like that. I have to be in a proper mood and have to be willing to get on a journey or an adventure, if you will, to another place and time. Happily, the conditions were right for me to watch an epic and I did watch Lawrence. A lot of things were intriguing about that film: The amazing cinematography, the framing of shots, the impeccable crowd control, and, you know, all the technical stuff. Although not as good as Lawrence's, these qualities are present in other epics as well. What really drew me into the film was T.E Lawrence's character in the film. Usually in epics, the characters take a back seat for the sake of the action or events. But here we see this intimate personal story of a man who, for some reason, challenges and tests himself: Burning his hand with the matchstick, standing in front of a man firing bullets towards him and almost killing him, and constantly going to dangerous battles with the Arabs. For what? He's not doing it for his country and most probably not for the Arabs. He is trying to prove something to himself about himself. He is a deeply self-destructive character and to have such small exquisite story of a man within the epic canvas of the wars and the desert is just extraordinary. I can't believe that Sam Spiegel really took a chance on this madly genius (and very risky) film. I give credit to him, to Robert Bolt and Michael Wilson for the amazing screenplay, to the terrific Peter O Toole and Omar Sharif and , of course, to the man himself, one of cinema's greatest filmmaking artists, Mr. David Lean.
Mighty motion picture of action and adventure deals with Thomas Edward Lawrence , following this brilliant , flamboyant and controversial British military figure and his conflicted loyalties during wartime service . He was renowned for his liaison role during the Sinai and Palestine Campaign, and the Arab Revolt against Ottoman Turkish rule of 1916–18 . This blockbuster is a huge accomplishment in every respect . It is a groundbreaking epic that is also literate and intelligent . Tremendous scenes , spectacular battles , intense drama , lots of action and awesome production design and art design from John Box and John Stoll . Still , the only way to really appreciate it turns out to be in Super Panavision and on big screen . Overlong though still knockout and resulting to be an immortal film . Based on T. E. Lawrence's book , ¨Seven pillars of wisdom¨ with interesting screenplay by Robert Bolt and Michael Wilson . The breadth and variety of his activities and associations, and his ability to describe them vividly in writing, earned him international fame as Lawrence of Arabia . Peter O'Toole is splendid in his film debut , and made him an instant star . Colorful and impressive cinematography in Technicolor by Freddie Young . Unforgettable and classic musical score by the great Maurice Jarre . Lavishly produced by Sam Spiegel and masterfully directed by David Lean who bring us an overwhelming show delving deeply the complex personality of the British , semi-Arab leader who led the revolt against Turkey in WWI . Reissued in 1989 , a stunning version which restored a lot of cuts made over years . As many scenes of dialog were missing and as a result Peter O'Toole and a number of living principals returned and re-recorded dialog from more than 20 years previously . An ultimate thinking people's spectacle .Adding more biographic elements about this rich character T. E. Lawrence (16 August 1888 – 19 May 1935) , he was a British archaeologist, military officer, and diplomat . Lawrence (Peter O'Toole) was born out of wedlock . He became a practising archaeologist in the Middle East , working at various excavations and in 1914, before the outbreak of the Great War , Lawrence was commissioned by the British Army to undertake a military survey of the Negev Desert while doing archaeological research . Lawrence's public image resulted in part from the sensationalized reportage of the Arab revolt by an American journalist, Lowell Thomas (Arthur Kennedy) , as well as from Lawrence's autobiographical account . In 1917, Lawrence arranged a joint action with the Arab irregulars (Omar Sharif , I.S. Johar) and forces including Auda Abu Tayi (Anthony Quinn) against the strategically located but lightly defended town of Aqaba. On 6 July, after a surprise overland attack, Aqaba (it was recreated in a dried river bed in southern Spain, consisting of over 300 buildings) fell to Lawrence and the Arab forces . After Aqaba, Lawrence was promoted to major, and the new commander-in-chief of the Egyptian Expeditionary Force, General Sir Edmund Allenby (Jack Hawkins) , agreed to his strategy for the revolt . In1918, Lawrence fought in the battle of Tafileh, an important region southeast of the Dead Sea, together with Arab regulars . The battle was a defensive engagement that turned into an offensive rout and was described in the official history of the war as a "brilliant feat of arms". Lawrence was involved in the build-up to the capture of Damascus in the final weeks of the war. Much to his disappointment, and contrary to instructions he had issued, he was not present at the city's formal surrender, having arrived several hours after the city had fallen. Lawrence entered Damascus around 9am on 1 October 1918 but was only the third arrival of the day; the first was the 10th Australian Light Horse Brigade, led by Major Harry Olden, who formally accepted the surrender of the city from acting Governor Emir Said . In newly liberated Damascus —which he had envisaged as the capital of an Arab state—Lawrence was instrumental in establishing a provisional Arab government under Faisal (Alec Guinness) . During the closing years of the war Lawrence sought, with mixed success, to convince his superiors , General Allenby (Jack Hawkins) , General Murray (Donald Wolfit), Colonel Brighton (Anthony Quayle) in the British government that Arab independence was in their interests . The secret Sykes-Picot Agreement between France and Britain contradicted the promises of independence he had made to the Arabs and frustrated his work . In 1935, Lawrence was fatally injured in a motorcycle accident in Dorset.


                
This film is a classic and an important tool for understanding current upheaval in the Middle East. Aside from the unbelievable cast, haunting score, and superb acting (particularly O'Toole's Lawrence... even better in the director's cut which shows additional facets of O'Toole's character development), the film demonstrates the most effective tactics employed in asymmetrical warfare... hit and run strikes on soft targets like Aqaba and Turkish railroad/supply lines. These are the tactics currently being utilized in Iraq, and we could learn valuable lessons, namely that the Sykes-Picot agreement and its arbitrary national boundaries, combined with the dishonesty of the British has been a great factor in the ever-present unrest that has plagued the region since the days of Lawrence. Perhaps we would also be wise to note that a superpower has NEVER defeated a well-established insurgency. Even ignoring its intellectual provocation, this is an epic that effectively balances the sweeping vastness of the Arabian peninsula's awe inspiring deserts with the (certainly exaggerated) grandeur of the fascinating character that was T.E. Lawrence.


                
Lawrence of Arabia is oftentimes listed as one of the greatest films of all time. Not only that, but many say Peter O'Toole's performance as T.E. Lawrence is the greatest piece of acting ever to be captured on screen as well. Being that the movie was made 45 years ago, I wasn't going into it thinking I would agree with either statement necessarily. Whether the four hour run time was too daunting to get my hopes up or not, I knew that no matter what, I needed to finally see this film. I was going to go for the ride from Cairo to the Middle East along with the band of Arab tribes trying to take back their land from the Turks.On a technical level, Lawrence of Arabia has few equals. Director David Lean has created something with true epic focus. There are no advanced computer graphics multiplying fake people into huge battle scenes, this had to be done with real extras, sweltering in the desert heat waiting for their opportunity to fight amongst the movie's stars. The scope is wide and Lean is never afraid to show the desert as a desolate wasteland because the shots are beautiful to behold. The British didn't understand what Lawrence saw in the sand, but viewing the landscape shots here, the audience can see the tranquility and beauty that it truly holds. This was a big-budget movie and it shows by the settings besides the desert. When we arrive in Cairo and see the excess with which the soldiers live; its affluence is on display. Not only by the material objects, but also by the soldiers' utter ambivalence to the fight while their Arab counterparts are trekking through the sun-ravaged desert to claim victory.It is this juxtaposition between the British forces and Arab fighters that backbone the film. Yes, T.E. Lawrence is the focal point and his journey from army outcast to Arab liberator is the story arc we follow, but it is the fact that he tries to live in both worlds which really defines the course of actions on display. Credit does have to go to Peter O'Toole for his ability to grow his character throughout and display the emotion and conflict living inside him. Lawrence saw an opportunity to help the Arab tribes regain control of their land despite Britain's refusal to give them artillery. Even at this early moment, he might have suspected this lack of true support as a sign of future motives, but he was so focused on his cause and the fact that he could do anything he set his mind to, he just didn't care. When he finally succeeds with his first mission, he returns a broken man, having killed and seen things he never wanted to see. He knew it was all for the best, though, and needed to stick by his word of setting his new friends into a free land. Only when the men at Cairo, who once laughed at his expense, praise him with accolades and promotions does Lawrence first start becoming a man without a clear purpose. A man that was accepted by no one now finds himself loved by two distinct cultures, and must somehow cope with the success or eventually fall as a result.Besides the excellent performance by O'Toole<U+0097>intense, sarcastically humorous, and heartbreakingly real throughout<U+0097>we are also treated to an acting clinic from the supporting players. Omar Sharif is fantastic as the Arab Sheriff Ali who agrees to accompany Lawrence on his suicide mission to take a Turkish outpost. Sharif gives Ali a realistic progression from a man who cannot see a white man surviving anything in their future, to one who would follow Lawrence into Hell if asked. Anthony Quinn is also great as Auda abu Tayi, a leader of a tribe that can be bought by whoever offers most. His interactions with O'Toole are some of the best moments in the film because Lawrence always knows what to say to persuade Auda into doing something for his own interests and not for monetary gain, (although he still likes to take something as a souvenir for his troubles). Even Alec Guinness brings an effective performance despite playing an Arab Prince. There are many moments where the allusions to his later Obi-Wan Kenobi character come through making me smile, but the accent is hidden nicely into a British educated Arab speech that helps me forget he is as much an Englishmen as O'Toole is Irish.In the end, however, it is the story which truly leaves a mark. During the runtime, I was slowly seeing some redundancies and wondering if an hour could have easily been chopped off without a second glance. Disappointment was setting in and I was thinking I might have to give it a 7 or 8 rating as a whole. Once the final scenes play out though, you realize why we needed everything that came before. It is Lawrence's success in battle that both leave him broken but also ripe for persuasion into continuing on. The British were looking for a way to have Arabs do the work but eventually swoop in and take the Middle East for themselves, and with Lawrence, they had their man to rally the troops. Lawrence was neither British nor Arab, but instead a man beyond his dreams and ideals. The Arab tribes would never be able to live in harmony for a peaceful unity, and the British were just waiting for the implosion to occur. When all is said and done, Lawrence realizes he is not the God that people, and himself, saw him as, but a pawn that has been played from the beginning. His sanity and drive for good is sucked out of him because while it seemed he was accepted by both worlds, he really didn't belong to either.
Sound: Excellent orchestral score. 
100/100 Narrative: Circular narrative, with heavy fictionalization of Auda abu Tiye and some of the battles; especially the battle of Aqaba. The story is still told well though. 
80/100 Technical: Exquisitely shot, framed, and edited. Excellent use of montage and landscapes. 
100/100 Acting/Character: All parts well done. O'Toole brings out Lawrence's eccentric behavior well. Alec Guinness' King Faisal gives us a dyed in the wool politician playing against experienced Machiavelli's 
100/100 Did I like it: Yes, viewing this film on the big screen I felt like I could step out from my seat and into the scene. 
100/100 Artistic merit: Historical films need more factual accuracy to draw their weight; but the overall craftsmanship keeps the films power. 
95/100
Final score 95.8/100


                
To put the running time of 'Lawrence of Arabia' in perspective, it is like watching four 55-minute programs in a row.  I watched it in three segments, last night, this morning, and this evening. Then I watched the opening scene (after the dark screen musical intro) again, which had much more impact than seeing it the very first time. The DVD is just marvelous. The original movie was shot in 70mm film format, which gives a remarkably beautiful picture, and the transfer to DVD was done very well. Even without a good story, the photography alone can keep one interested. However it is a good story, about this misfit, under utilized as a map maker in the British military in WW-I, sent to Arabia and, much like a modern day 'Joan of Arc', motivates them to unite and defeat the Turks. Peter O'Toole creates a memorable 'Lawrence of Arabia.'SPOILERS follow, tread carefully.  The very opening scene is years after Lawrence came home to England, he is on his motorcycle, going down a narrow country road, increasing his speed, until cresting a hill sees two bicyclists in his lane, he swerves and brakes, highsides, goes off the road, and is killed. The irony is, after surviving unbelievable conditions and savage tribes in Arabia, he died near home in a silly motorcycle accident. As the movie itself develops, we see in his first desert crossing, his compassion for human life. Near the end of the movie we see a changed Lawrence, one who says of the enemy "take no prisoners, no one lives." We don't exactly know what caused the change other than the craziness that comes with war and brutality.A very worthwhile movie, with stars like Peter O'Toole (T.E. Lawrence), Alec Guinness (Prince Feisal ), Anthony Quinn (Auda abu Tayi), Omar Sharif (Sherif Ali ibn el Kharish ) and José Ferrer (Turk officer). However, it probably would not come across very well on a small screen TV. It is best viewed in a theater, or on a wide-screen, HDTV.
You'll be thirsty for more action after watching this blistering vision of cinema. O'Toole was born to play Lawrence....The desert comes to life in pure visionary delight. Please you must watch this on the biggest screen you can find. For it is a truly "BIG" movie. I saw it as a kid in 62' and as an adult in 2002---40 years later its still a masterpiece--The scene of the wanting and drinking the glass of water you can feel running down the parched throats. You can swear there is sand in your eyes and the smell of camels running down the isle's of the theater. This is a must see for anyone who wishes to understand the plight of local bedouins and the might of the British Empire at the turn of the century.


                
Truly good, one of the best films ever and one of the greatest masterpieces of the 60s. With fantastic special effects, incredible scenes, a fabulous casting, a very good storyline and a very good sound mix. I highly recommend it, one of the best movies ever.


                
First the plus points :-1- David Lean's superb direction is a masterpiece for other directors to learn and copy. 2- The screenplay/cinematography is excellently penetrating and the desert in shown in its full splendor, vastness and magnificence. 3- Great actors like O'Tool and Omar Sharif make a memorable debut in this enigmatic rising of the Arabs.The negative Points :-1. Peter O Tool's frail and feeble physique does not hold true to the legend of Col. T.E. Lawrence. A warring protagonist should had been a physically strong actor. 2. The legend of T.E. LAWRENCE IS OVER BLOWN, because the Ottomon Empire was on its own decline, since the mid-19th century. The death blow to its bygone glory had already struck during the WW-I. Mr. Lawrence merely aided a natural and native Arab uprising against the self defeated Turks. The British have made the movie to create a national hero out of nowhere. 3. The movie is too long making it boring at times. 4. The End is nor evocative neither captivating.


                
Although having just watched Lawrence Of Arabia again though I am bowled over by the size of the epic, I still can't believe that for the entire length of the film, the word oil was not mentioned. If it were done today it sure would be.T.E. Lawrence's story fascinates people today more than ever because he was in the center of the events that gave us the Middle East we have today. In the previous century and a half questions about that area revolved around the Ottoman Empire, the so-called sick man of Europe for that conglomerate of territory spilled into quite a bit of Europe. What's to happen if one country gets control of the place should that aging and decrepit empire falls apart. The question was postponed right up to World War I when Ottoman Turkey committed itself to the Central Powers. It was time then for the various peoples still under Ottoman control to rise and rise they did. In Arabia a young staff officer named T.E. Lawrence gained the trust and confidence of many Arab leaders and had a lot to do with uniting them and forming an army to chase fellow Moslems, the Turks out of the area and helping the British and French win in the Eastern theater of World War I. If going native which was the expression used by the British for one of their's who starts to identify with those he's supposed to subjugate than T.E. Lawrence went native in a big way. When his fellow countrymen did not keep pledges made to his Arabs he opted for a life of obscurity which is what he got until his death in 1935.David Lean when he couldn't get Marlon Brando for the part, opted instead for a young Irish player named Peter O'Toole who he had seen in the Walt Disney version of Kidnapped two years earlier in a small role. It was a felicitous choice as O'Toole became the star he remains to this day as a result of Lawrence of Arabia.It's a complex role and one you have to keep the audience interested in for over four hours. O'Toole runs the whole range of emotions here. We see him as idealistic, as arrogant, as humble, as honorable, as a stone killer, even a bit of a fathead at times. Sometimes a few of these mixed together at different points. Although David Lean got him a stellar supporting cast, if your Lawrence isn't any good, the film would flop. But Peter O'Toole was up to the challenge, he got the first of seven Oscar nominations. In this particular year he had some stiff competition with Burt Lancaster for Birdman of Alcatraz, Jack Lemmon for The Days of Wine and Roses, Marcello Mastroianni for Divorce Italian Style and the eventual winner Gregory Peck for To Kill a Mockingbird.Omar Sharif also making his first film for a world market got an Oscar nomination for Best Supporting Actor. Such Lean veterans as Alec Guinness, Jack Hawkins, and Anthony Quayle got plum roles. Anthony Quinn and Arthur Kennedy are the Americans in this film. Kennedy plays the fictitious Jackson Bentley who is really Lowell Thomas. Presumably Lowell Thomas did not want his name used here, but Thomas got his career started in the news field by reporting on T.E. Lawrence in this backwater theater of World War I, making his name famous and launching Thomas's own career in the process.One thing ever so gingerly hinted at was T.E. Lawrence's homosexuality. You can see it in his relationship with the two young men Daoud and Farraj played by John Dimech and Michel Roy. There is the alleged incident of gang rape when he's taken by Turkish soldiers led by their commander at Deraa, Jose Ferrer. It too is part of Lawrence's story though if Lawrence of Arabia were made today, they would be far more explicit.They would also be more explicit about oil instead of these unnamed 'British interests' that Lawrence is supposed to be really concerned with. You do get the idea that all they're interested in is the right of transit in the Suez Canal and the right to say who has the right of transit.Still Lawrence of Arabia is one sweeping epic both capturing the grandeur of the Arabian desert with the complexity of the issues and the man surrounding the desert campaign in World War I.


                
I have finally sat down to watch the entirety of Lawrence of Arabia, David Lean's 1962 classic film.Watching this film, it is easy to see how today's epic films (from Braveheart to Lord of the Rings) owes so much to David Lean's brand of storytelling. This film is a lesson in how to make an epic film. He sets the standard and shows us how it's done.The cinematography in LoA is absolutely stunning. Shot setups are superb, and the beauty of the photography belies the fact that desert shootings represent some of the worst possible lighting conditions. And Lean really uses the scenery, the desert setting is really a character in the film. Shot choices in this film have been used in other desert films ever since, you cannot help but say "Oh, they copied this shot for Hidalgo" as you watch this film.The action sequences are also superbly shot and exciting. Again, David Lean sets the standard for such sequences, and without all the high-tech gadgetry available today. The cavalry charge on Aqaba show real mastery on the part of the wranglers and stunt coordinators, as does the train attack. This action seems "toned down" by today's standards, but is perfect for this film: it is exciting to watch but does not distract the viewer from the story or the key characters.For it's not all about the epic, it's really all about the characters (in this case, Peter O'Toole's T.E. Lawrence). Lean doesn't forget this film is about this character, and does a great job keeping that focus, and not getting lost in the vastness of the scenery. Clearly this is O'Toole's movie, he does a great job portraying the transformation from slightly arrogant but thought-provoking lieutenant to the fractured war hero known as Lawrence of Arabia. This is O'Toole's first major work, yet it seems he was built for the role. He does it brilliantly. Clearly he had something to prove, and prove it he did.I only have mild criticism for this film. First of all, Alec Guinness as Arab Prince Faisal was really bad casting. Sir Guinness is one of the greatest actors of all time, but I found his performance here distracting, not embellishing. It's not one of his better performances, he seems to try to hard to be Arab, but can't hold it together.I also found the musical cues out of place at certain times. Maurice Jarr's score is striking, and did set the tone for all desert pictures since, but not all the cues work well. Sometimes the music is overdone for no reason, and other scenes call for music where there is none. Film scores have advanced since that time, and credit should be given to a pioneer in the epic score, but it was still distracting at times.Otherwise, this is a top-notch film, and a must-see for fans of epic film-making.9 out of 10 Barky


                
David Lean's Lawrence of Arabia may be well over 50 years old now, but it stands the test of time like all truly great works.The movie details T.E. Lawrence's experiences as a British liaison who inspires the Arab revolt against Turkish rule during World War 1 (1916-1918).At 3 hours and 47 minutes this is a LONG movie but somehow strangely hypnotic. The awesome music plays a huge part in this effect.If you're weary of the moronic approach of too many modern films (too much CGI and roll-your-eyes action, etc.) Lawrence of Arabia is the perfect antidote.It's mainly the story of a European man who sheds his stuffy "civilized" upbringing to revel in a new-found freedom in the desert wilderness as he integrates with the Arabs and basks in their glowing acceptance. He accomplishes this by, first, disregarding his superior's orders and honestly relating to the Arabs and, second, by proving himself unbiased to any specific tribe and willing to risk everything in helping them to defeat the Turks.Those spoiled by modern blockbusters won't likely appreciate "Lawrence of Arabia" but those who have an eye for artistic cinema will revel in it.GRADE: A


                
Long but entertaining throughout. Lawrence of Arabia is near the pinnacles of cinema and an artistic, political, and social masterpiece ahead of its time. One of the greatest performances by the late Peter O'Toole.


                
This is a great movie, and I agree that it is lost in todays fast paced world filled with movies of fast paced editing techniques, which OBVIOUSLY started with Eisenstein, this is not argued by anybody. But the editing of this film is sloppy, and it could be tightened into a two hour and forty five minute to three hour movie. It drags in certain parts, shots are held too long. The character development is obviously the most extraordinary part of this film, watching you feel like you are getting to know Lawrence as if you are actually with him. However, despite the fact it is a classic, which no one argues, with great acting and wonderful cinematography, I think that older people glamorize some of the negatives of movies like this while not giving newer movies their due credit. The editing techniques that have been developed in the last twenty years are masterful and astonishing, and while some of these techniques have their roots in older masters like Eisenstein their originality and style are all their own. I am tired of hearing that everything is a copy of this or a knock off of that. While all film is influence by other film (simply because directors emulate those they admire) each director new and old (of consequence) adds a personal flair that cant be considered a "copy". Aronofsky is not Eisenstein, Minghella is not Lean, and Shyamalan is not Hitchcock.


                
The true story of T.E.Lawrence is hidden somewhere inside his personal memoirs. For the adventure-seeking Englishman from Oxfordshire, the Middle East was a land so remote from his that surely a man could become a hero, if he found the right location or conflict. Lawrence himself was a self taught expert in many of his interests. Having graduated from prestigious places, made him even more sought after by authorities, both academic and military. The film " Lawrence of Arabia " is laced with many actual events taken from Lawrence's own accounts, and it's difficult to separate fact from fiction. That is not really important for the Hollywood version in which Peter O'Toole plays T.E. Lawrence with such uncanny precision, the character overlaps the actual man. To add to the authenticity are the supporting actors such as Alec Guinness as Prince Feisal who is superb in his part. Anthony Quinn is Auda abu Tayi and is so convincing, many actual Arabs on the set accepted him as one. The main actor who gain hundreds of accolades while filming is Omar Sharif who plays Sheriff Ali. Jack Hawkins plays, General Edmund Allenby and Anthony Quayle is Colonel Brighten. The Turkish General is played by none other than Jose Ferrer. Claude Rains is the sly and slippery French minister Mr. Dryden. Arthur Kennedy is the American Newspaperman Jackson Bentley, seeking a story for his readers. When one views the film, it cannot but overwhelm as the vast but beautiful desert scenery and dramatic events convince the audience this film is fantastic in breath and scope. So highly recommended, it has achieved Classic status. ****


                
'Lawrence of Arabia' is in many ways a tale of two halves, with the first being much better and even in quality than the second which, at times, verges on the comedic, and ultimately fades away, leaving you with a certain empty feeling. Perhaps that was the point. I thought certain key scenes and characters were overplayed, especially those involving sheik Auda.Like all epics it has its moments of vulgarity in the mass action scenes - these are unavoidable I guess - but the beauty and harshness of the desert have never been captured more perfectly on film.All in all, a film of rare excellence and vision.


                
Yesterday I finally saw this amazing film. Long before seeing it, I was told several times that I can gain the best experience out of this film, by viewing it with the biggest screen possible. I'm sure that's probably true, but sadly I did not have the chance to do so. Instead, I watched this film on my personal computer. I do however hope, that I will have a chance to see it again, only on a much bigger screen. But I'd like to think that I got what this film was trying to achieve(and frankly, it did). And that is to be the most epic film ever made. The cinematography, the battle scenes, the music, the mood that is created by the surroundings(particularly the desert) - it all helps to create a grand epic masterpiece.The acting is mind blowing, too. Peter O'Toole's performance is convincing and it's amazing to see how the character slowly develops and becomes obsessed with the desert and in the end becomes completely lost in it's embrace. Alec Guinness' performance was also quite amazing and he acts his character out smoothly. Omar Sharif does a great work at portraying a strong character who is forced to watch his friend slowly plunge into madness.Possibly the only problem this movie has, is the length. It comes close to four hours, if I am not mistaken. But in my opinion the length is necessary. It is slow paced, but it just couldn't be any other way. It helps the film slowly develop to a very melancholic and somewhat bittersweet ending.It's a shame I didn't have the chance to see this film in the theaters, when it was originally released. See this film. It's basically the definition of epic.


                
Although I am big fan of David lean but somehow this movie remained unseen for a long time. Maybe I was afraid that it won't live up to the expectations and it was like "yeah I will watch it sometime". And when I did finally watch it, I kicked myself for not having watched it earlier. Over 200 minutes of movie but it was as if I never wanted it to get over.Based on the life of a Controversial British Officer T.E. Lawrence who helped Arabs fight Turks during World War I, this movie is a master piece in every aspect. No words can describe the brilliance of Peter O Toole, one great Shakespearean actor of our times, and his portrayal of Lawrence. His eyes said everything and the voice was just an asset which he used brilliantly as well. I can never forget the pained look in his eyes after he led the massacre of train full of turks. And then there is Omar Sharif who was born to do the role of Sheriff Ali.I have watched it twice and will watch it again whenever I get a chance.


                
This film has everything needed to qualify it for greatness.Great storytelling and acting,great direction by David Lean,and I will go ahead and say it.It has the most spectacular music score and cinematography I have ever seen in any film to date.I was blown away by it and the interesting thing is I never got to see it in a movie theater.I am jealous of anyone who has,because it had to be nothing short of awesome.The combination of extreme wide shots and closeups is like nothing I have ever seen in a film.If you have never seen this,don't deny yourself any further.You will be in awe of every aspect of it.I guarantee it!


                
Anyone foolish enough to think that this is not one of the best movies ever to have been made <U+0096> embodying the very essence of what makes cinema stand out among all other cultural forms of expression <U+0096> should stick to Matrix, Disneyland and Diet Coke. Pointing out its historic inaccuracy is simply redundant as it never claimed to be a documentary, and biopics generically put an emphasis on story development rather than truthfulness (cf. JFK, Patton, etc.). Lamenting the movie's pace is, at best, indicative of your dwindling attention span <U+0096> you might as well ask yourself if the Bible's too long. Finally, bemoaning the over-the-top acting of the entire cast, but most notably O'Toole, is an anachronism as you're dealing with pre-method-acting Hollywood and there's no concern whatsoever with realism, let alone naturalism; besides, the film, more than anything else, is a psychological portrait meant to express (as in "expression") the inner turmoil of its main protagonist in the face of events bigger than life. Not to forget that O'Toole's character is ripe with homo-erotic innuendo, and subsequently his struggle against his inner demons must also be read as a self-denial of his sexuality, as is made obvious in the rape scene. Indeed, not least thanks to O'Toole's ethereal performance, T.E. Lawrence is portrayed as an outsider in every sense of the word, a pariah of both worlds whose acceptance he is desperately seeking. One of the countless merits of Lean's desert western is to make evident this struggle of the individual against society and conventions <U+0096> but also its shortfalls <U+0096>, revealing itself in extreme situations that command extreme feelings. And rather than serving up an insipid happy end (as it would no doubt have to were it produced today), Lawrence of Arabia tells of the factual prevalence of pragmatism over ideals, of society over the individual, of tribalism over humanity, and not least, of war over peace <U+0096> a gloomy message that couldn't possibly be more to the point, here served by a Homeric plot, a legendary score, sweeping photography, and immortal actors.


                
Once I read a book on cinema and it says that if late Peter O'Toole had been anymore charming in that dessert, then the movie would be worthy of "Florence of Arabia". It was his original striking blue eyes, predominant screen-charisma and surely, his knowledge and experience on acting, which made him a legendary artist of acting Hollywood. This is "Lawrence of Arabia"; a 'totalitarian' cinema, where acting and assured filmmaking are absolute. The fact that modern filmmakers rely so much on CGI and such to produce kitschy films, cinema magic which enraptures audiences, is rarely being conjured up. Till today, "Lawrence of Arabia" is highly regarded as one of Hollywood's greatest epics.This is a story of a young, educated British military officer named T.E. Lawrence (Peter O'Toole). Not vast to be a biographical motion picture, but greatly an account of Lawrence's exploits in the Arab Peninsula during World War One. At first he was being sent for duty to gather information of Prince Faisal's (Alec Guinness) activities on his revolt against the Turks. But not to the expectations of his superiors, he showed defiance and led the Arabs to fight their enemies. "Lawrence of Arabia" is a 'desert' film, with no major stars attached to it. If I were to live during that period of time, I would not expect success from it.Although the film is widely recognised as a Hollywood epic, it is rightfully also an excellent character-study. Lawrence, of the movie, is a multi-layered character. It is the coherent development of the mentioned character, that the film's writing actually plays a great role. Lawrence was a playful, carefree man at first. The man is slightly like a clown perhaps, but a very educated clown indeed. His personality preceding the invasion of Aqaba probably justified the idea that his fellow soldiers are actually stumped by his efforts in assisting the Arabs. The moment he was tasked to execute a man he once saved to avoid surge of conflicts between Arabian tribes, the old persona of his starts to fade away, and the new, darker one begins to evolve in him. His soul must be so well attached with love and mercy, that the abrupt killing of his friend affects him to the extent that it transforms him significantly, in spite of the action being utterly necessary. His troubled mind, and madness, are dragged till the end of his expeditions, only to develop leisurely, to its final form. But in the face of the character, his intelligence as a man of winner is not easily overlooked. Knowing that he needs more men to capture Aqaba, he successfully tricked Auda (Anthony Quinn), and his men, into joining his side. And also with regard to his other successful missions against the Turks, it clearly shows about his intellect as a military leader. Lawrence is a fearless and ambitious warrior, but it is his complex personality that intrigues me.The filmmaking of the picture is ingenious. Every shot, every scene is so beautifully formulated. Director David Lean and cinematographer Freddie Young had orchestrated cinematography to be the best out of it. The performances are superb, with Peter O'Toole leading the way, and was well supported by Omar Sharif, Alec Guinness and Anthony Quinn. And yes, one shall not ignore the magical score by Maurice Jarre.It is of profound understanding that "Lawrence of Arabia" would melt cinema lovers with its awe-inspiring filmmaking, but again, I reiterate, the hero who is interconnected with enigmatic notions that mobilizes my love for it. The final scene of the show is interesting; Lawrence ignores the British soldiers in heavy military vehicle passing by, but shows attention when conservative Arabs catch the sight of him. This encapsulates the viewpoint that he favours the Arabs over his own people."Lawrence of Arabia" is David Lean's masterpiece, but shockingly it never turned out to be one of my personal favourites. But in the eyes of the world? It is one of the greatest absolutely. Released in the early 1960s, and deservedly became one of the most successful works of cinematic art of that era. The 'desert masterpiece' shines and bears upon light that coruscates from genuine movie enchantment towards audiences. I love to see the shot of a rising sun that comes in before Lawrence puts an end to fire of matchstick as the mention for that. The wonderment of "Lawrence of Arabia" is rarely performed again, in my time.(Cinematicmadness.blogspot.com) (http://letterboxd.com/Azid_AlexDeSmal/) (Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/alex.desmall) (Twitter: @Alex_DeSmall)
An inordinately complex man who has been labeled everything from hero, to charlatan, to sadist, Thomas Edward Lawrence blazed his way to glory in the Arabian desert, then sought anonymity as a common soldier under an assumed name. The story opens with the death of Lawrence in a motorcycle accident in London at the age of 47, then flashbacks to recount his adventures: as a young intelligence officer in Cairo in 1916, he is given leave to investigate the progress of the Arab revolt against the Turks in World War I.In the desert, he organizes a guerrilla army and--for two years--leads the Arabs in harassing the Turks with desert raids, train-wrecking and camel attacks. Eventually, he leads his army northward and helps a British General destroy the power of the Ottoman Empire David Lean's stunning film is often referred to as "One of the greatest films ever made" and one of the "greatest British films to cross the pond "and rightly so. So breathtakingly beautiful I even had the stunning colors in my dream last night and that score playing over and over again. As Spielberg said on the DVD" A film which is an inspirational to all" and I totally concur with that as I, like Spielberg won't to try direction in the future. This is the film that inspired Spielberg to make movies and the likes of Scorsese. So this is one film that no-one should miss. A film of epic proportion and stunning visuals is overwhelming when you watch it. In modern film making it's unlikely that you will see a film so authentic as this. With the introduction of CGI, a film like this would not be made today! I doubt I'll give such a detailed review, as I am still spellbound by the film...still thinking about it's greatness. I will most likely repeat myself, so bear with me. It took 2 years to film this, but you can see the attention to detail in every frame. So well directed and so well put together with stunning visuals, which makes most films you've seen recently look average. If only films were like this now, I would be so much more happy! The screenplay has to be one of the greatest ever written. Every bit of dialogue, you want to hear and when there's no dialogue you are still engaged by the landscape and the spacial awareness of the characters-who so wonderful portray their characters, you can't help but feel part of the film. Each actor's dialogue so brilliantly play off one another...again it's so wonderful to watch. Some outstanding performances from Peter O'Toole, and Omar Schariff, who rightly gained an Academy Award nomination, and Alec Guiness and Anthony Quale. By the end of the film, I didn't realize it was almost 4 hours long, which again shows how much I enjoyed this film. Perhaps it shows the shot attention span of people today as to some negative reviews I've read on here. That annoys me a lot. All I can say to people is this, it shouldn't matter the length of a film! That score has to be one of the greatest I've seen on film. I am still running over in my mind now, so well orchestrated it's unbelievable. Arabia contains some of the most iconic scenes in cinema history from Omar Scharrif's entrance to Lawrence standing on top of the Turkish train with a background of sunlight....it leaves me Wowed. Again that scene with the entrance of Omar Schariff, wow! One of the greatest entrances I've seen. So well photographed and directed, you'll never see such a scene like that again. Superb! Overall, a masterpiece of a film, which every single person on this site such watch. Such an amazing film...outstanding!
a great film with some great performances by: Peter O Toole, Omar Sharrif, Jack Hawkins and many more. and with great music by: Maurice Jarre. and fantastic visuals and camera shots! and good special like the explosion of the trains! what makes the film more epic is that there where a lot of humans and animals on the set like the scene in Akaba and all of the other army scene's. the only thing that pulls me of this movie is: the running time! it's over 220 min what makes it the longest movie to ever win best picture.(which was well deserved) the film won 7 Oscars which are:best set decoration, best camera,best director,best editing, best music,best picture and best sound but no best actor what i think would be well deserved! last thought: a great film that aged pretty good! 9/10
***** As Peter O'Toole left us less than a week ago, on December 14, 2013, I believe it is necessary for me to state that he should have received Best Actor for his illustrious performance. Quite sadly, O'Toole received eight nominations for Best Actor in his career, but never won. He had many great roles after this, but this one was made for him! ***** In his most significant role, Peter O'Toole is T.E. Lawrence, the ostensibly charming, confident, and flamboyant T. E. Lawrence. At the beginning of the film, we see a naive young Lawrence, arrogant and ostentatious, bordering on pretentious and overbearing. His most prominent personality qualities (proud, charming, determined, focused, loyal, fearless), along with his uniquely extensive knowledge of Middle Eastern culture and geography, lead him to great success in his interactions with the Arabs. But, as with many great individuals, it is also these exact qualities that lead to his eventual downfall. Stationed in Cairo, he is deployed to Arabia on the counsel of Mr. Dryden from the Arab Bureau (Claude Rains), whom suggests that time in the desert may "make a man out of him." (This was likely an intimation to Lawrence's flamboyance and his commonly believed but unmentionable (at the time, due to societal beliefs, etc. media did not address gay/lesbian/bisexual themes) homo- erotic feelings and/or homosexuality. Interestingly, this specific detail was indeed an accurate reflection of the real T. E. Lawrence. Biographers and historians have only circumstantial evidence that Lawrence was open to the idea when most everyone else was not; he has also written in personal letters that he had never experienced sex, leading close friends to believe him to be asexual.) Even early in his Arabian adventures, Lawrence seems to believe himself to be infallible. He is fearless and insists on partaking in nearly impossible endeavors. There are countless allusions and references symbolizing him as a sort of God. Lawrence's experiences in Arabia inevitably reveal the insecurities of the great man. His own worst enemy, he blames himself for anything less than perfection. The first indication of this is after the death of two Arabians he feels responsible for. On his first report back to superiors, Lawrence explicitly expresses his hesitation with the dark side of war. Further explanation reveals that he actually liked killing Gasim. It is evident that this scares him, at least on some level. Unfortunately, General Allenby (Jack Hawkins) & Brighton (Anthony Quayle) dismiss his statements to nervousness. As the war continues, and as he kills more and more, Lawrence becomes more fearless, more vain, and more audacious. En route to Deraa, he is forced to kill the second of his friend/servants, Ferraj in mercy. This effects Lawrence, but he doesn't let it show ("Salute him for me," he whispers, referring to Daud). In Deraa, it is his own stupidity that causes his capture. Although Serif Ali has tried many times to provide reason, Lawrence decides to "announce himself" in enemy territory. Lawrence then makes a second try to leave Arabia, pleading with The General to send him home, for personal reasons. "Personal? Are you mad?" he asks. "No," Lawrence answers, "And if you don't mind, I'd rather not go mad. That's my reason too." When asked what it is that he wants, Lawrence says, "I told you. I want my ration of common humanity." Despite his eloquent words, Lawrence in convinced to return, and his unstable state of mind is betrayed in Peter O'Toole's memorable performance in the bloody encounter at Tafa. Lawrence runs, then staggers, around the field, killing without hesitation, a crazed, delusional look in his eyes, yelling, "No prisoners!" Covered in blood, first utilizing his sword, then his gun (note that none of the Arabians had artillery), he shows no awareness, even when Serif Ali yells, "Enough! Enough! Lawrence, Enough!" In the aftermath, it cannot be denied: The once great Lawrence Of Arabia has become corrupted and hateful. Nevertheless, they continue on to Damascus and successfully conquer it for The British and Arabs. The Arabs, however, continue their disagreements, foregoing their chance at liberation. Lawrence finally realizes that he will be unable to see the Arabs make peace with each other. He is promoted one last time and send home, an empty, lost look in his eyes. In the last scene, as he is being escorted back to Britain, he observes several Arabs on their camels, dressed in their usual robe attire, as he rides in the passenger seat, fully dressed in his military uniform, a forlorn expression betraying the internal struggle implied throughout the film, his search for identity, what he wants in life, and his unsure allegiance to either his new found friends in the desert or his home country. Another character study illustrated through wartime decisions. However, unlike others, this worked. Enchanting and compelling story aside, the technical merit in this film was more than impressive, with its creative cinematography, a magnificent score, and accomplished performances. The title track is familiar to most individuals today, even to those whom have yet to see it. A few scenes that were especially commendable in cinematography were: the cut from Lawrence blowing out the match flame to the sun-kissed Arabian desert sky; the mirage entrance of Serif Ali; Lawrence's mystical entrance at The Prince's tent; Lawrence's lone camel skimming the beach at Aqava,against the backdrop of a beautiful, multi- colored sunset; the appearance on an impressive ocean liner in the middle of valleys of desert sand, revealing the deep blue waters of The Suez Canal. But, really, it was filmed on location in Jordan, Morocco, & Spain. All beautiful countries. And the desert? As long as I'm not there suffering, it is beautiful, especially at night.
