That the film has its moments cannot be denied. Hopkins is slightly over-the-top as the diabolical yet urbane Lecter, but it's an enjoyable performance all the same. Lecter's finest moment is when, bound, straightjacketed, and face-masked, he is brought before Senator Martin and, after relentlessly goading her about the fate of her daughter, blurts out the identity of Buffalo Bill and adds, "Love your suit."Beyond the superficial appeal of a character who can interject such misanthropic witticisms, Lecter embodies the repulsive seduction of this thoroughly erudite monster, utterly free of societal constraints in spirit if not in body. His intelligence is, if remorseless and amoral, open and searching and methodical. We are time and again shown his superiority to the FBI, who rush hither and yon after clues they don't begin to understand, and to the pettiness of his jailor, Dr. Chilton, who subjects Lecter to televangelist broadcasts as punishment for brutal misbehavior.Yet Lecter is poorly contrasted throughout the film, and his intelligence is falsely elevated by comparison to the unimaginative mediocrities he is up against. Starling is a dreary feminist with a white trash inferiority complex, Dr. Chilton is a preposterously snide asshole, and none of the other characters rise above their status as plot devices. There is something particularly prim and humorless and unlikeable about Starling, and it is impossible to determine why Lecter would take an interest in her childhood trauma about lambs.Several points regarding Lecter's escape make no sense at all, and at crucial stages the total incompetence of his captors is required to pull it off. That Hopkins manages to keep the suspense going is a testament to the actor's ability to rise above the script. Regarding the ultimate capture of Buffalo Bill, it is too much to swallow that Starling's success hinges upon uncovering photographs in the victim's abandoned bedroom years after it had been scoured for evidence by FBI agents. This twist hangs one ridiculous premise on another and is a sorry attempt to justify Starling's centrality to the story.The cinematography and direction do contribute something interesting to the tumultuous descent to Lecter's asylum cell, but are otherwise unremarkable. Buffalo Bill is more bizarre than chilling, and the final confrontation between him and Starling is contrived. The film ends on a note that suggests it could have been alot better.Warning: If you purchase the DVD of THE SILENCE OF THE LAMBS, resist the urge to listen to Jodie Foster's commentary. While the lambs may be silent, it is next to impossible to get her to shut up. Her grating, man-hating (and totally outdated) style of feminist rhetoric comes close to self-parody, although not often enough to be truly entertaining. Conclusion: this über-bitch is a gaseous windbag. But if you don't believe me, listen for yourself. You'll be saying "Pass the Chianti" before you make it through the first reel.


                
Having read both the Prequel (Manhunter) and Silence of the Lambs, I was looking forward to seeing how the transition to the screen went.A while back "Manhunter" was released, and although abridged and with a different (but better) ending, I loved it. Particularly Brian Cox as Hannibal Lecter, soft spoken, analytical and very, very calm. However, always an undercurrent of danger and a mere whisper of insanity.Now on to "Silence of the Lambs" - Hannibal Lecter has gone from being an all too believable real-life monster to a giggling Hollywood psycho - a veritable troll complete with his own dungeon (alas, no smoking torches) and a set of eyes wide enough to make Marty Feldman blink.Serial murderers such as this, particularly highly intelligent ones, do not prance about revelling in how evil they are, nor do they speak in such ridiculous snidley tones.They appear quite normal - the reason why they managed to get away with what they did for the length of time they did. Occasionally they speak in monotones and look at nothing in particular. Check out interviews of real-life serial killers - you won't find Anthony Hopkins's fairground pastiche there.The story itself rambled, the interplay between the two characters did'nt work - Hopkins possibly due to the material, Foster due to the lack of a believable protagonist. They have thankfully both done far better work than this both before and since. There were some (very few) well designed moments and images but the end was both predictable and dissapointing.Films are supposed to mirror real life, not the expected perceptions of the mainstream. Otherwise, what happens to creativity?Oh dear - we're back in Hollywood again.Dan


                
After hearing how great this film is i had to see it for myself. It isn't "all that". The story-line is boring and stringy, very much NON-VIOLENT and really really drawn out stalking scenes.I will give credit to the FLAWLESS acting though, Jodie foster and Anthony Hopkins were Outstanding. I really feel that more could have been done with this movie than what they did.The main reason people like this film is because its a "psychological" thriller, implying that if you dont like this film you are considered dumb.(which is not the case).This is a very overrated film...very overrated but its worth seeing..so you can say "I have seen silence of the lambs." If that doesnt thrill you...dont see it.


                
I was not impressed with this film, and it's phoney psychiatry. I have some professional experience in working with the criminally insane, in the US and UK. While there are a few staff in the profession who would allow themselves to be manipulated in the way that Clarice Starling does, I cannot conceive any real life situation where so many of her colleagues would allow this situation, known as "team splitting", to continue. It is routine behaviour for psychopaths to attempt to team split, as Lekter does, but it is such a standard ploy that it would be recognised in any institution other than the toyland one in the film and quickly dealt with, and I resent the attitude of the storyline in glorifying this behaviour. Trust me people, if you are in this situation, don't allow patients to split you away from your colleagues, you may think they are interested in you but they will get bored with playing with you in the end. When patients are given this power, which they cannot handle, it makes them more scared, and less likely to learn. In his attempt to make Frederick Chilton, the character that should be the good guy, in to the bad guy, either the actor or the director has gone way over the top, to the point where where pathos becomes bathos, and as for Anthony Hopkins, he lost all credibility for me when he announced in a British tabloid that he was sorry for seeming to condone violence in the role he was playing, and then within a few months proceeded to repeat the role in the sequel, "Hannibal". That's why I never bothered to see the film until just recently.


                
coming after the great and truly brilliant manhunter, this has to be one of the most over rated films ever.  oscar to hopkins for the hammiest performance in a film, foster giving another underwhelming turn.  how the critics and public got conned on this one i do not know,  predictable and truly mediocre, there should be a new category added to rate films those that for some obscure reason make and impression, as in the emperor's new clothes syndrome, where people are afraid to go against the grain, other examples, harry potter, usual suspects, almost all of spielbergs films, certainly private ryan comes into this.  has anyone taken a good look at silence recently and seen how really bad it is.


                
This film is so boring it's like watching your grandmother sleep. I thought it would be good and scary but it was boring. I remember that everyone in the whole world thought that the killer was the best ever but he was rubbish and not scary. He even gets caught before the film starts! LOL. How rubbish is that? I think it would have been better if he hadn't been in that prison for all that time and had got out and been killing people at the start. And also if they ditched the other killer because he distracts attention and looks weird..The film is all about two serial killers being chased by a woman FBI woman and how she brings them to justice, but that idea falls apart under its own brevity because one of the killers is caught! That takes away 50% of the tension. The director did a very bad job and almost all of the camera movements are lame.At times during it felt like rubbing mustard on my eyelids. and possibly more bad than that!


                
Came into this movie expecting to be scared out of my wits by Anthony Hopkins (Hannibal Lecter) performance; a pretense resulting from many many top 10 lists of "Chilling performances" or "Best movie Psychopaths " boy was I let down. For the 90s it may have been unique and freaky, but i really couldn't attain what all the constant hype is about, yes there are some tense moments here and there but Lecters character is really inconsistently acted out for half of his screen time. Don't really believe in being pretentious in this context but if you payed attention to Lecters dialogue you would see one moment he is a to the core amoral being who does not feel one iota of sympathy for humanity and the next he is interested in some rookie FBI agents childhood and not to mention infatuated enough to create art pieces of her, excuse me if i am mistaken but this is a chronic sociopath who eats humans. I don't know if you've watched interviews with psychopaths or insane persons but i can assure you none of them behave the way Lecter does and please spare me the "but that's what makes him so different and "good" ". The writers who came up with Lecters lines got way too artsy by letting their creative exhibition blanket the brutal reality the character was meant to portray. Lecter was intriguing and enigmatic for the first few minutes of his appearance but his mysteriousness and guise got completely obliterated as the writers gave too much away too quickly leaving nothing to further entice the viewer on the central character. Other major detractors regarding Lecter included the scene where he escapes a HIGH SECURITY complex SURROUNDED by ARMED and TRAINED personal which was supposedly "blocked off for 10 block" or something along those lines, keep in mind that Lecter had been locked in a cell for 8 years straight, talk about muscle atrophy right? the man suddenly had the strength to scale fences and walls while avoiding only a couple dozen patrols...Buffalo Bill was just a medium for the movie creators to include shock material: close ups on his nipple ring, full nude frontal shot, dialogue of him saying he wants to copulate with himself and something about putting the lotion in the basket? the effect of that sentence was much more profound in South Park. Buffalo Bill was not even minutely interesting or relevant it just seems they added him their just to fill in some blanks and add in some really "ewwy" moments. The ending scene where Lecter calls Starling is just a redundant and rubbish attempt to further strengthen the absolute awkward bond between relationship they had and also I'm guessing they wanted an excuse to include Lecter again before the credits rolled, I'm not sorry to say this but the only decent thing about the ending was when Lecter commented he was going to have "dinner" with his past captor. The characters in this movie were just very poorly written and implemented, the acting was believable but thats not even 1/4 of what makes a movie "good". I know i missed out on Jodie Fosters character oh and could i go on but i really feel likes there are enough negatives here to indicate just how overly high rated this movie is . Lecter could have been portrayed so much more ferociously and searingly through presence and psychologically alone rather than having mens extremities ripped off or them beaten to a pulp. Joker from Christopher Nolans movie is probably the epitome of an antagonist with an unstable mental state (no I'm not a 13 year old emo who's favourite is unquestionably the joker) and i might even mention the main antagonist from I Saw the Devil that is also a very raw representation of how a psychopath might function in real life.The Buffalo Bill character could have been implemented more naturally as opposed to having it seem like there are two points of focus in the movie (Lecter and Bill). The movie really needed to end on a much more satisfying note and don't get me wrong i have seen plenty of films where the ending is ambiguous but Silence Of The Lambs was just the protagonist receiving a phone call at a party and Lecter walking off into a crowd of people as Sarling sobs i mean come on it would have been better to just end it after Bill was slain. I would give the movie 1/10 to ever so slightly balance the overall score but 7/10 for having some depth and substance to it despite being majorly overrated and just a mediocre film.
I still don't understand why so many people think this movie is good.  It wasn't scary to me.  I didn't feel any suspense. And some of it was gross.  What was good about it?  In my opinion, the only good part was when it ended.


                
Other than Anthony Hopkin's performance, this movie has no value whatsoever and, in my opinion, is the worse movie to sweep the Oscars.  It is completely unpleasant and Jodie's on-again, off-again, accent gets bothersome after awhile.  I would rather never see another movie than have to sit through this again.


                
Totally sickening, no redeeming value to the human condition. Why not study the uplifting people in the world instead of getting a view through the eyes of the most degenerate, disgusting and completely perverted few. The more glimpses they show into the lives of the debase people of the world the more debase our world becomes.


                
Why on earth has this film got five Oscars? It honestly didn't deserve it with a lack of enthusiasm and action! Josie Foster and Anthony Hopkins were alright but I don't see much happening between them to be honest. All they ever do is talk talk talk during the film which honestly bores me out!I really wouldn't call this a scary film but I would say this, I yawned for about 27 minutes of it and tapped the 'X' sign on my tablet to stop watching it, I was completely fed up to be honest!I wouldn't recommend anyone watching this since I found it quite unenjoyable and not amusing!
The book is completely boring. The movie is more interesting. Jodie Foster is the worst actress I ever seen. Obviously she never had any lessons. She can't act and more worse she doesn't open her mouth while she speaks - a disaster without compare. People like Jodie Foster would fail ANY real test for actors. But in Hollywood even the worst actors can earn millions of dollars with technically extreme bad acting. A real joke to pair the technically worst speaking actress with one of the technically best speaking actors (Anthony Hopkins) in a movie where the book is even more boring than the movie. The plot is just like the book illogical IN ANY SENSE.


                
A critic I greatly admired wrote that it is (paraphrasing) "easy to write a story which catches you in the beginning. It is very difficult to write a story which satisfactorily completes its promise.". In Silence of the Lambs we watch the development of Jodie Foster as a clearly intelligent, determined investigator. She gets involved with the character of Anthony Hopkins who can only be described as a Monster. Sex and sadism are his middle names. The audience is drawn into the horrible web that he has sewn. And then what happens? Jodie Foster is in an endless chase scene, alone with a man with whom NO MAN would ever find himself. Her professionalism is completely lost.This ending is so disappointing as to make the entire picture a waste.
Why this actrees, so lovely, and so good, insists on making such dogs, I'll never know. This is a sick film. What is it about? I don't know. It's just a revolting film. Is it missing a piece? Her movies, both as an actrees and a director, seem to be missing essential pieces. I always feel like there is much interesting ado, but then in the end about nothing.


                
When I first saw this movie the thought which crossed my mind was how boring and predictable it was in the first fifteen minutes. I found the writing and direction to be typical for the Hollywood formula. Characters were unappealing and unrealistic.I found the antagonist to be completely unreal even thought I think Anthony Hopkins played the character correctly. I do not find the character to be strong enough to be considered a threat. Many of the scenes use deus ex machina to force the movie along and allow characters to get away with murder (lol).Ted Levine did an amazing, creepy job of the character Buffalo Bill. I understand that his character and the scenes he did were completely ad lib. So amazing that it even creeped out Ted Levine and for a time he didn't watch the movie.Agent Starling is good, and I enjoyed Jodie Foster's portrayal of her. I thought her character was real and personable.The reset of the movie, acting, script and direction are lacking. I was bored through the entire movie.


                
the film expressed a certain emphasis on the criminal matters now existing in our world. i have read the novel and i though it followed the plot seemingly well. i think anthony hopkins' performance was very sophisticated and i have not yet seen the sequel and i hope his performance was just as good in that.


                
I really hate Silence of the Lambs.  Because I hate this movie so much I have come here to vent my frustrations.  This is the most overrated movie ever made and I am sorry that I wasted 2 hours of my life watching it.  I have not and will not see the sequels because the original is so terrible. The only award this movie should have been nominated for is "Stupidest Movie of the Year."


                
