The Silence of the Lambs runs two hours.Anthony Hopkins appears for little more than sixteen minutes, yet during those minutes he hasn't bored you for a second, not even after the tenth or eleventh viewing. Such is the power of his performance, it's absolutely impossible to forget him.His character, Dr.Hannibal"The Cannibal" Lecter, is a brutal killer with revolting methods and habits, but he's also very intelligent, charismatic and with good taste(you can interpret that as you like).A clichè by now, but who cares? He still is one of the key elements in this wonderful thriller, which sees Jodie Foster's Clarice Starling asking for Lecter's help to catch another killer.The result is a dangerous yet fascinating relationship between the young, unexperienced FBI-agent and the convicted,but basically omnipotent, psychiatrist.He's a step ahead of everyone all the time, and makes sure everyone notices, with his witty, unforgettable one-liners.If there had to be only one reason to worship this movie, then it would have to be the chemistry between the two leading actors.Never before has a non-sexual man/woman connection been more thrilling.Never before has a film's ending been more unsettling and brilliant and left us asking for more.Best watched with a nice Chianti...P.S. dear film-buffs, have the lambs stopped screaming?


                
I'll never forget my first viewing of this movie at the theater and will always look back fondly on it for one reason: helping me quit smoking cigarettes.I read the book first, was fascinated by it, and couldn't wait for the film to come out. That was the day I picked to quit smoking and I knew this movie would take my mind off that matter. I was expecting an intense movie and I got it. Little did I realize how well-received this film would be and how it propelled Anthony Hopkins to super-stardom.Although entertaining, this is not always a fun movie to watch, especially with the scenes with Ted Levine who plays the killer, "Buffalo Bill." "Bill" and his kidnapped young woman are sick and profane people, respectively, and their scenes are very unpleasant. This movie is not for the squeamish with those and other scenes involving the infamous Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Hopkins). There also is some extreme crudeness in the jail/dungeon where Lecter and other inmates are held.Jodie Foster is excellent as the FBI agent "Clarice Starling" and Scott Glenn is low-key and effective as "Jack Crawford." A major part of the film is psychological more than violent as Lecter constantly taunts "Clarice," while she tries her best to manipulate him to help with a case. The by-play between the two is a game in itself.Hopkins, however, is the actor people remember best from this movie. His portrayal of the refined-yet-cannibalistic serial killer-doctor is one viewers will never forget. I've enjoyed watching him in the sequels, too. The looks on his face, his fascinating vocabulary with intelligent sarcasm and frankness, never ceases to entertain."Silence Of The Lambs" has turned into a modern-day "classic." If by some odd chance you have never seen this movie, be warned it is a dark, difficult story to watch at times....but it will get your mind off other things.


                
The Silence of the Lambs, having accomplished the rare feat of winning all five of the major Academy Award categories, is a remarkable achievement in filmmaking.  Gruesome, pulpish material was transformed by dedicated participants on all levels of production, and a film that would have failed in the hands of many others wound up becoming a modern masterpiece.  Taut direction and a superb screenplay might be the best arguments for the film's power, but the flashiest are certainly delivered in the bravura performances of Hopkins and Foster.  Their interplay -- and remember, they only share a handful of scenes together -- is nothing short of riveting.


                
The Silence of the Lambs is a masterpiece you cannot miss, it's a masterwork of suspense that blends the elements of horror, crime and psychology into one tight and smooth story. It's only the third film in history to win Academy Awards in all the top five categories: Best Picture, Best Actor, Best Actress, Best Director, and Adapted Screenplay and that imply something about its technical quality as a film. It features expertise level of craftsmanship in all departments of filmmaking, and takes a huge bonus from the exquisite performances put in by its stellar cast. After all these years The Silence of the Lambs remains in a league of its own and is a perfect exemplification of just how great a movie can become when all the right elements come together and work in perfect harmony to form a complete whole.Based on the novel of the same name, Jodie Foster stars as Clarice Starling, a top student at the FBI's training academy. FBI agent Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn) wants Clarice to interview Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), a genius psychiatrist who is also a violent psychopath, serving life behind bars for various acts of murder and cannibalism. Crawford believes that Lecter may have insight into a case of a serial killer called Buffalo Bill (Ted Levine), that murders and skins his victims and that Starling as an attractive young woman, may be just the bait to make him help with the case.The direction by Jonathan Demme is marvelous, as the film introduces its chilling sense of dread and has the audience on the edge of their seats, from the moment Howard Shore's ominous score hits the screen till the end of the film, especially during the climax with a lot of perfectly crafted suspenseful and nail-biting moments. The editing is perfect as the pace is methodical from start to finish, and each and every sequence is relevant to the story. The cinematography by Tak Fujimoto is fantastic as it fully succeeds into creating a very dark and brooding atmosphere that captivates as well as terrorize the audience, while also exhibiting excellent camera work that makes heavy use of close-ups which increase the creepiness and tension along with displaying an optimal color palette and minimal lightning from start to finish, which further enhances the darker ambience the story was aiming for. Moreover the production design team has done a magnificent work as every set piece is meticulously crafted, richly detailed and very well-lit. The script by Ted Tally, also packs a very well structured and tight plot, every character has a well-defined arc, all the themes are smartly addressed, the attention to detail is quite impressive, and the complete story and narrative are perfect.The performances are incredible. Jodie Foster as Clarice is absolutely brilliant and gives an impeccable performance as a woman who is desperately trying to forget her painful past and yet at the same time tries to prove her worth in a male dominant world. Anthony Hopkins as the genius psychiatrist and cannibalistic serial killer Hannibal Lecter is the perfect amalgamation of charisma, high intelligence and destructive violence, and gives a bone-chilling and memorable performance that will stand the passage of time as one of the absolute best. The small amount of screen time that Hopkins is given is a definitive testament to his acting capabilities, as with such an elegant and minimal performance, he solidifies himself as one of the most iconic villains of all time. Due to the charisma and electrifying chemistry between the two actors every scene they share becomes an instant classic.In conclusion, the Silence of the Lambs is one of the greatest films ever made and a masterwork of brilliant direction, smart screenplay, splendid camerawork, tight editing, marvelous score and exquisite performances, that cemented the legacy of both Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster by engraving their iconic characters into the annals of cinema. The film absolutely deserves all the accolades and recognition it gets, for both its contributions to cinema and the immense impact it had on pop culture. Jonathan Demme's magnum opus is an outstanding achievement in genre filmmaking that has inspired and influenced countless thrillers since its release, and is not only the quintessential suspence and psychological horror film but also an ingenious observation of humanity's dark and violent nature and a masterpiece that every film lover must see.


                
I've seen way too many thrillers. You name it: "Identity", "Seven", "The Usual Suspects", etc., etc., etc. I remember my friend being so obsessed with "Silence of the Lambs", that it drove me crazy. And I hated the movie naturally and refused to see it. But everyone told me that I have to see this, so I let my guard down. And had an open mind, and I'm glad I did. My friend was right, this is a great movie. It is so well acted, I couldn't even describe. I loved "Silence of the Lambs" and would recommend it to anyone. It's creepy and exciting. Trust me, you'll love it.10/10


                
It is a creepy and taken-by-storm experience with the film, background music is darker than the film itself and too ominous, plot is brilliantly constructed, conversations are thought-provocative, to crown the whole, Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkin are the cream. They take ownership of Clarice and Hannibal respectively, transforming them into the most unforgettable screen images.The psychological path of Hannibal is hard to trace. He is so odd a mixture of intelligence, cruelty, insanity, grace and charisma. In the depth, fledgling FBI trainee Clarice is no match of him. She is still naive yet very ambitious. On the trail of the serial killer Buffalo Bill, she's sent to interview him, a psychiatrist-turned-cannibal. Hannibal is willing to provide clues to finding the killer but only in return for personal information about Clarice herself. He calls it Quid Pro Quo. In those mind games, the two dance backward and forward between cannibal and FBI agent, mentor and student, psychiatrist and patient, father and daughter. It is Clarice who breathes life into the multidimensional sophisticated psychopath and Hannibal who nudges the aspiring student FBI agent and helps her achieve her first success in a world of Y chromosome where her guru Crawford uses her, embarrasses her, excludes her; Doctor Chilton regards her no more than a simple-minded woman and tries to flirt with her. Frankly speaking, though no lack of other impressive scenes, it's really the nerves fights between Hannibal and Clarice that carries the film.Some of the horrible scenes involve Buffalo Bill who, a transvestite, skins his victims, especially woman victims. But the most terrifying one is Clarice's single-handed trace in Buffalo Bill's gruesome den, which also has become another irony to the self-important testosterone-dominated world. Crawford's misjudgment and stubbornness makes him out of the right track, a special anti-terror deployment resulting in vain. But Clarice, though excluded from the business which she should be on, still holds onto her intuition and through on-the-spot investigation finds the serial killer at last. She has to take on him herself. (Demme uses "deceptive cutting" there to enhance the tension.) It is definitely a life-or-death fight, especially when Clarice is in the dark, groping her way in absolute terror. I have no doubt everyone holds the breath when the film rolls to that part.A gripping film that well deserved its Oscars
STAR RATING: ***** The Works **** Just Misses the Mark *** That Little Bit In Between ** Lagging Behind * The Pits Rookie FBI agent Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) is assigned to get into the mind of notorious incarcerated serial killer Dr Hannibal 'the Cannibal' Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) to get his evaluation on the elusive Buffalo Bill, a serial killer who's been abducting and killing young women. When a prominent senator's daughter is kidnapped, it becomes a race against time to find her before she is killed and all the while Lecter is playing mind-games with Starling as well as any help he can provide...The first of Thomas Harris's Hannibal novels to be adapted for the screen, only to be followed some years later with some very lacklustre (but inevitable!) follow-ups, despite it's age this remains one of the most effective chillers of modern times. Despite the mainstream appeal of the film, the grainy lighting and laid-back budget give it an art-house feel that sets it apart from other such films that were as successful. The film manages some effectively disturbing scenes that make it a not altogether pleasant viewing experience.Performances wise, in a very early role, a young Foster shows her promise for future roles, with a gripping portrayal of naivety and vulnerability here that is very compelling and convincing, even though there are some plausibility problems with someone as junior as her being assigned to do something like that. Hopkins too is brilliant as Lecter, playing a dangerous man behind bars who's ability to get inside your head and see the things you don't want him to see makes him no less dangerous, if not more so, than if he was on the outside. He's certainly received the most acclaim for his role over the years, but in my humble opinion, he's actually over-shadowed (though only slightly!) by Ted Levine as Buffalo Bill, a truly extraordinary psychopath with an unsettling sexuality disorder that is probably one of the nastiest things ever to be seen in such a mainstream film. As supporting FBI agent Crawford, Scott Glenn is impressive but sort of just faded into DTV land after this film.It's easily one of the most popular films ever made, so it's likely a lot of you are familiar with it already, but with reviews on the so-inferior follow-up films Red Dragon and Hannibal, I thought it only right that I'd finally give this first film a mention. Truly remarkable. *****


                
There is little doubt that the most memorable aspect of The Silence of the Lambs is Anthony Hopkins' incomparable performance as Lecter. Taking over for Brian Cox, who was effective, but not especially memorable, as the good doctor in 1986's Manhunter, Hopkins instantly makes the role his own, capturing and conveying the charismatic essence of pure evil. To his dying day, no matter how many roles he plays in the interim, Hopkins will forever be known for this part. (It is a credit to Hopkins' ability as an actor that this part did not result in stereotyping. His post-Silence career has been greatly varied, with roles as widely diverse as a stodgy butler in Merchant-Ivory's The Remains of the Day and an action hero in The Edge.) I can throw out any number of superlatives, but none of them do justice to this chilling performance, which I labeled as the best acting work of the '90s. Want to feel the icy fingers of terror stroke your heart? Watch this mixture of brilliant eloquence and inhuman cruelty. As portrayed by Hopkins, Hannibal is both a suave, cultured gentleman and an unspeakable fiend. He is gracious and monstrous at the same time. (Hopkins also provided one of the most quotable lines in recent film history with "I ate his liver with some fava beans and a nice Chianti", which was followed by an inimitable slithering slurp.)


                
The Silence of the Lambs (1991) is a classic psychological suspense brilliant masterpiece well acted and the best thriller ever made! This was my first film I saw on VHS as a teenager and I absolutely loved it. Right after seeing this flick, I heard about Hannibal (2001) Ridley Scot film a sequel to this psychological thriller flick, I rushed buying it right away. Saddly I was disappointed with Ridley Scott Hannibal."Silence of the Lambs " is a classic and I think people would agree. It is my number 1 favorite thriller ever made, mostly I have enjoyed Jodie Foster as FBI recruit Clarice Starling's. Jodie did a brilliant acting performance I have seen. I love this film to death I absolutely love everything about this film. Since the first time I saw her in Silence I went to seeing her in a movie theater 2002 Panic Room, it was her first film I saw in movie theater since than I love Jodie Foster but Silence will be her best film she ever made. I was disappointed with the sequel Hannibal, no Jodie Foster in it, no brilliant masterful Clarice. Julianne Moore was incompetent for me, she couldn't catch Hannibal. Clarice Starling character was based on Gillian Anderson's FBI Agent Dana Scully and I think The X-Files inspired this film. I am even convinced that The Lone Gunman three geeks were also based on this film. You have a nice shootout on the end with Clarice and Buffalo Bill and Clarice get's her man, spoils her plans saves the hostage and saves the day.The Silence of the Lambs is the 1991 thriller that was the feature film adaptation of the novel of the same name by Thomas Harris and marked the first appearance of Anthony Hopkins as Dr. Hannibal Lecter. (Oscar-winner Anthony Hopkins in one of the greatest performances ever on the screen) Dr.Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter, is a brutal killer with revolting methods and habits, but he's also very intelligent, charismatic and with good taste (you can interpret that as you like). He is scary and his the same time awesome including brilliant, you can't out smart him. Director Jonathan Demme is masterful directing this flick you have to be brilliant you have to keep thinking to solve the murder mystery. Scott Glenn acts beautiful as Jack Crawford. This flick got five major Academy Awards ("Oscars" for Best Movie, Director, Actor, Actress, Screenplay) it is no wonder why.Plot: FBI recruit Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) is asked by the Bureau to elicit Lecter's help in tracking down a notorious serial killer who has kidnapped a US Senator's daughter. Directed by Jonathan Demme (The Manchurian Candidate), the film would receive five Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Actor for Hopkins and Best Actress for Foster and Best Screenplay. Hopkins would reprise his role as Lecter in two more films: Hannibal (2001) and Red Dragon (2002).Real life killer Ed Gein was the inspiration for Buffalo Bill as well as the inspiration for Norman Bates from Psycho and Leatherface from the Texas Chainsaw Massacre movies. And the director Jonathan Demme was a film student of Roger Corman who makes a cameo in the movie. Roger Corman taught not only him, but I think other filmmakers such as Martin Scorsese, James Cameron, Joe Dante, Francis Ford Coppola, and many others. Ted Levine did a pretty solid job as a serial killer Buffalo Bill. This film is fun, intense, very well fast paced goes quickly around for those two hours.The Silence of the Lambs is a 1991 American horror-thriller film directed by Jonathan Demme and starring Jodie Foster, Anthony Hopkins, and Scott Glenn. The film is based on Thomas Harris' 1988 novel of the same name, his second to feature Hannibal Lecter, a brilliant psychiatrist and cannibalistic serial killer. In the film, Clarice Starling, a young U.S. FBI trainee, seeks the advice of the imprisoned Dr. Lecter to apprehend another serial killer, known only as "Buffalo Bill".This movie is a perfect 10 out of 10, it takes the vision of one of the most imaginative directors on Earth (Jonathan Demme) with a brilliant cast including Thomas Harris novel that was adapted from it. I even saw the Documentary how they were shooting this film on YouTube. I think I do have that documentary film in my Blu-ray special features. Watch this film you want be disappointed at all. The movie is incredibly suspenseful and an absolute must see for fans.


                
Agent Clarice Starling is a training FBI agent, hope to work in behavioral sciences with Jack Crawford. Crawford though sends Starling on an assignment, to psychologically exam the insanely intelligent criminal Hannibal Lecter. Crawford had another agenda, to see if Starling can press information out of Lecter to help with the current case of Buffalo Bill. Bill has already killed five girls, skinning off sections of their bodies. Lecter is intrigue by Starling and helps her with the investigation; they start to form a strange friendship.The Silence of the Lambs is one of the best psychological thrillers. Thomas Harris's best selling book is faithfully transfered to the screen. It's one dark twisted disturbing ride. The mood is heighten by Demme's great direction, with such detail in all the sets and locations. Demme has used reflective surfaces wonderfully, during one of Starling's and Lecter's talks it used to great extent. One of the final sequences of Clarice walking through the basement of Bill's house is one of the most suspense full scenes i have ever seen.All the performances are knock outs. Jodie Foster as always brings the goods and makes Starling the most interesting to watch. At times she makes Starling so fragile, then a second later she's strong as steel. Anthony Hopkins is so disturbing as Lecter. From the first second you see Lecter standing in his cell; just waiting for Starling to show, you can see Hopkins was perfect casting. You cant keep your eyes off Lecter, he's so disturbing and can make your skin crawl every time he speaks. Ted Levine makes the perfect serial killer, you can see from Levine's performance what a torn and damaged soul the killer is; you feel somewhat sympathetic for him.The Silence of the Lambs is a must see, one of the best thrillers you'll ever see.
Once upon a crime, Hannibal Lecter was a manipulative psycho-killer compensating for his incarceration by messing with people's minds. Then Hannibal happened and he suddenly turned into a dandy anti-hero... Watching The Silence Of The Lambs again really puts things into perspective. Jonathan Demme's astute adaptation of Thomas Harris' last good book entwines the horror and detective genres to enduringly shocking effect, while Anthony Hopkins' Lecter and Jodie Foster's Starling fizz up an unsettling chemistry that was utterly lacking in the sequel.I haven't seen a movie this perfectly wrapped in a while. I recently re-watched it and it blew me away and it only gets better the more you see it.The performances from everyone are great. Foster sold every scene she was in. But, of course, Hopkins stole every scene he was in and was a powerful anti hero who was scary even when concealed because you know his mind is working at every second. Always planning and he's rarely wrong. His escape was an amazing scene. Levine gives a suitably scary performance but just doesn't stand up to the greatness of Foster and Hopkins.All the characters main characters are deep people are deep people with clear motivations. The police officers are the complete contradiction to this who abuse their power to do what they believe is right, and end up being wrong. It's clever.Everything is wrapped together really well, the performances were great and it's full of memorable scenes.I'm giving The Silence of the Lambs a 10/10.


                
"The Silence of The Lambs", simply one of the greatest films ever made. Swept all five major academy awards, only ever done twice before (One Flew Over The Cuckoo's Nest, It Happened That Night).It centres on a young FBI trainee Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) who becomes increasingly obsessed with solving the the murders of a deranged killer known only as "Buffalo Bill" thanks to hid trademark of skinning his victims. Starling is mentored by the brilliant intelligent yet atrociously psychopathic Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lector.The two protagonists have a number of exchanges throughout the film which unyielded dark and unsettling personal disturbances that Starling experienced in the past where she witnessed the slaughtering of innocent spring lambs juxtaposed with their terrifying screams. This is an extremely powerful image and connotation in the film as Starling believes that capturing "Buffalo Bill" will be silencing the lambs and ultimately silencing the soul-shattering experiences of her orphaned childhood.There are a variety of effective techniques employed by director Jonathan Demme such as extreme close-ups of Dr. Lector to illuminate the madness in his eyes and the unsettling rhythm of his breathing. These are few of the elements that contribute in Anthony Hopkins delivering the performance of his career as Lector.The first time Starling visits Lector in his cell is outstandingly effective. Just by the camera gliding slowly past the other institutionalised psycho's, it builds slowly up the true madman, Lecot. He stands still in the centre of his cell, staring at Starling. Spine-chilling and brilliant. One of the most effective techniques I have ever noticed in a film.The film does have its gory moments, which is fine considering that it deals heavily with serial killers and cannibals so it is nothing that exceeds expectations.But it's the performances that make this film simply incredible. Hopkins is extraordinarily creepy as Hannibal Lector where as Jodie Foster portrays such vulnerable courage, such fear and determination. Both were well deserved of their Oscars as was the film and Demme for his Best Director Award.The film's ending is exciting and well wrapped-up which is always a positive in any film and compliments the rest of the film beautifully as every scene comes dripping with intensity, drama and wondrous camera work.This a genuine cinematic accomplishment that has spawned sequels and prequels that are respectable in their own right but will never match up to the brilliance of Hopkins, Foster and co.10/10 True masterpiece!
When it comes to horror films of the 90's, I can't think of many films as iconic as The Silence of the Lambs. While there were certainly other iconic horror films at the time such as The Sixth Sense and Scream, the one thing The Silence of the Lambs did that those films didn't, was win the Oscar for Best Picture. Not only that, but it also won for Best Actor for Anthony Hopkins, Best Actress for Jodie Foster, Best Adapted Screenplay for Ted Tally, and Best Director for Jonathan Demme. It also became the fourth highest-grossing film of 1991. So with all that, you expect something special, right? Well, is it? Let's take a look, shall we?The plot follows a young FBI trainee by the name of Clarice Starling who is pulled from her training academy to interview Hannibal Lecter, a former psychiatrist and incarcerated cannibalistic serial killer to find another serial killer by the name of Buffalo Bill under the order of Jack Crawford. After some interrogation and investigation, Bill abducts Catherine Martin, one of the U.S. Senator's daughter. Leaving it up to Starling to find Bill by dealing with the darkest of all minds, Hannibal Lecter.The appeal of Silence of the Lambs lies in its mix of realistic depictions of police investigation and serial killer antics while retaining a cinematic panache to keep things entertaining. The film depicts its police investigation very realistically with a great attention detail to the dead bodies and the way the main serial killer Buffalo Bill operates is actually pretty realistic. His motives are very opaque, never completely clear to the audience, just like how serial killers are to people in real-life. He's trying to make a dress with a woman's flesh throughout the film because he thinks he's a woman but you never get why he wants to kill people. You have to pay full attention to see what's behind his head. But at the same time, the film doesn't feel TOO realistic to the point where it's boring and dull to sit through, there's still a certain entertainment factor to this film. For one thing, the film is scary. While this isn't exactly the type of horror film you can have a good time with when you call over some friends while having a few beers, it still has plenty of good scares to keep you entertained from beginning to end(especially towards the end).But I think the main reason why this did so well was because of the characters. While most horror films would feature the serial killer as the most interesting character of the film while the main character is as dull as a rock, this film did something a little different. Clarice Starling in this film is equally interesting as the serial killers themselves because she's not just some girl who just happen to become a target for the killer somehow but instead, she's ASSIGNED to find the serial killer herself and actually has a personality and she actually goes through an arc. She starts out haunted from her childhood memory of seeing lambs being slaughtered so she feels guilty about seeing such a thing happen but not doing anything about it considering her dad was a cop and hears sounds of lambs screaming in her dreams but she overcomes this towards the end when she saves the senator's daughter and kills Buffalo Bill. And thankfully, they got a great actress to play this part, Jodie Foster. Foster has a believable intelligence to her that helps you buy her matching wits with Hannibal Lecter. It's great that the filmmakers chose not to cast the most attractive actress but instead, the one that could act.The rest of the characters are equally good. While Hannibal Lecter is certainly not a realistic portrait of a serial killer, he works well as this great, unstoppable force of evil that Clarice has to match wits with to find Buffalo Bill. Anthony Hopkins gives the performance of a lifetime here with all his creepy stares, sinister line deliveries, and wicked intelligence. Ted Levine is equally creepy and unsettling as Buffalo Bill, but in different ways. He feels a lot more like a realistic serial killer with his strange sexuality and cross-dressing habits. Scott Glenn is also convincing as the authoritative, determined Jack Crawford. Lastly, I want to mention Brooke Smith as Catherine Martin, the girl kidnapped by Buffalo Bill. I love how she starts out extremely terrified when she's captured just like anybody would but I like how her character actually tries to escape by threatening to kill Bill's dog if he doesn't let her out. Smith's fear and determination is very believable throughout the whole film.Overall, The Silence of the Lambs is a chilling, disturbing film that also has some excellent performances to spare. Great film. 10/10
Jonathan Demme's The Silence of the Lambs is one of cinema's greatest political thrillers of all time. The movie stars Jodie Foster as FBI trainee Clarice Starling who tries to learn information about another serial killer from former psychiatrist Dr. Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter (played perfectly by the great Anthony Hopkins.). Director Jonathan Demme totally knew how he would execute this movie and he did it perfectly. Also the movie not only has great performances throughout but it also has a great score from the magnificent Howard Shore.Also the movie stays true to it's storyline. Based on a novel by Thomas Harris the movie ended up winning 5 Academy Awards because of it's Hichcockian thriller style that was used for the film but in a different way, and also for the Oscar level effort the great cast and crew put forth. The Silence of the Lambs is an adrenaline shock to the senses that will make your heart beat rapidly.
One of the best movies of the 90's and one of the few thrillers that can match up with Alfred Hitckok's movies.Certainly the perfect choice for the character of Hannibal Lekter, Sir Anthony Hopkins who manages to make the "cannibal" a kind of hero. The film won 5 academy awards but in my opinion it worths for more. I would like to stay more in the performance of Anthony Hopkins that is really majestic and gives the film more quality.Hopkins gets to the skin of his role and makes you to feel that he is a real psycho killer.Also the direction is perfect by Demme and makes the viewers to be absorbed by the fight of the FBI agent Clarice Starling and Dr. Hannibal Lecter.Jodie Foster fairly wins the Academy Award for Best Actress in Leading Role.


                
Silence of the Lambs was the birthplace of Anthony Hopkins's Hannibal Lecter, one of the finest monsters ever screened. Although this is the middle film in the trilogy, it was made first and remains the finest in the set.Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) is a highly intelligent, very vulnerable young FBI trainee. With a serial killer named Buffalo Bill increasing his body count. Clarice is sent by Jack Crawford (Scott Glen) to attempt to gain any information that she can from Dr. Hannibal Lecter (A brilliant, yet Insane Psyciatrist known as Hannibal the Cannibal) Starling has to gain Lecter's trust, by engaging in very dangerous mind games with the Doctor, and the last person you want in your head is Hannibal Lecter, but without his help, Buffalo Bill's victims will stand no chance.Foster and Hopkins have a very strong on screen chemistry, and both portray their characters brilliantly, making them realistic and believable. The Scenery matches the mood of the movie, very dark and gloomy for much of the time, and the pockets of suspense interlaced with some imaginative psychological horror make Silence of the Lambs a movie that sets the standard, and the standard is high.10/10
I have been fascinated by this movie from the first time I saw it! To me, I felt connected to agent starling, I don't know if everyone gets the relationship between Clarice, and the most profound impact that living with her relatives during the slaughter season of the "lambs", had on her as a person. I think anyone that has ever experienced any kind of abandonment, helplessness, and just feeling terror in general,as she did, when she tried to save that one lamb; and couldn't, well, it just makes you cry, because you see the helplessness of her past, meeting her once again in her present!As she fought to help the victim, she had to overcome the victim within herself, as well.I loved Jodie Foster in this movie, and I can't pass up an opportunity to watch it again and again!I love her dialect, her acting, and; the way that she pulled the movie together!
This movie was amazing. The dialogue was witty, clever and sometimes chilling. The directing was beautiful and the acting was absolutely superb. Jodie Foster was great as the the FBI agent Clarice Starling who is on the trail of a serial killer. Foster was good but the star is of course the magnificent Anthony Hopkins who steels the show with his rolling eyes and taunting voice. Both actors deserved the Oscars awarded to them. So did the director Jonathon Demme. The story was great, the only clique was with the ending that has always bugged me. The movie is an intelligent chilling thriller and there was this great build up to something that didn't meet the audience's expectations. Besides that everything about this movie was perfect. Highly recommended.


                
I can't go beyond the positive reviews on this movie, so I won't try. Normally I'm very wary of pictures that win Picture of the Year, and a bunch of other Oscars. But this film is an exception (Unforgiven? Same year, more or less). I see people giving this movie a one star rating!?! Maybe it's just not their "cup", but come on! The quality of this film is off the scale. Some people just want to hate I guess. If this film doesn't hit you over your head like a bag of bricks, I don't know. Every time I see it I become more amazed. My sister would probably say... "I didn't go to see it because it didn't look interesting to me when I saw the preview at the cinema". She was so busy arranging her Super Jumbo popcorn, and her triple extra large Orange soda, she didn't pay much attention probably. She was there to see... I don't know... "Pretty Woman"? Or "some such crap". Was that out at that time? Who cares? I once asked her if she had seen "Pulp Fiction" yet. Her reply? You guessed it boys and girls.... "No, because it didn't look interesting to me". Busy digging into her popcorn during the previews, I guess. You see she's big as a Hippo, with a brain the size of a common garden pea. There's no "love lose" there folks. Love her as a sister, but does not get it when it comes to movies. Probably has not missed a Disney animated movie ever. To each his own I guess. Doesn't like to have to use her brain at the movies. I guess I get that, total escapism. Oh well.
"Something Wild" director Jonathan Demme's "The Silence of the Lambs" proved to be a memorable milestone of a movie in both the careers of Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins. This serial killer thriller concerns the efforts of an FBI agent in training who proves instrumental in cracking a case that nobody could have solved without her help. The daughter of a small-time cop, Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster of "Taxi Driver") is minding her own business at Quantico, Virginia, negotiating an obstacle course when the FBI Chief of Behavioral Sciences, Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn of "Sucker Punch") summons her for an interview. Crawford wants Clarice to visit convicted murderer Dr. Hannibal Lector where he has been imprisoned for eight years. In fact, Lector hasn't laid eyes on a woman for eight years. The warden in charge of Lector's incarnation is a conceited egotist, Dr. Frederick Chilton (Anthony Heald of "Red Dragon"), who makes a pass at her and fails. Before he allows Clarice to speak with Hannibal, Chilton shows her a photo of what happened to a nurse that Lector gnawed on. The nurse is permanently disfigured as a result of Lector's attack. Lector is now kept in a cell with a reinforced glass window and stone walls. Dr. Chilton is prepared to escort Clarice into Lector's presence, but she convinces him that Lector may clam up at the sight of Chilton. Rudely, Chilton dismisses himself and turns Clarice over to Barney. Barney (Frankie Faison of "Hannibal") provides Clarice with a chair and she and Lector talk briefly. Lector isn't the only unsavory soul in the prison. In what amounts to an infamous death row of sorts, other perverts are housed in the same area. One of them, Miggs, make a derogatory comment to Clarice about her body odor, and Lector later kills Miggs. Meantime, Clarice entices Lector to talk about Buffalo Bill. Bill is a serial killer who has slain five women. These women are a little bigger than the average. In Memphis, we watch as the killer, Jame Gumb (Ted Levine of "Heat") abducts a girl when he is struggling to load a sofa into his van. Catherine Martin (Brooke Smith) backs into the rear of the van and Gumb traps her and takes her to his house. In the basement of his residence, Gumb has a pit where he holds Catherine. Meantime, Lector provides Catherine's mother with information and he is moved to another facility. During his sojourn at the new facility, Lector fakes off the guards, kills them, and manages to escape. Lector's escape is pretty incredible. By this time, Clarice believes that she has found a clue. Crawford warns her that they have found the killer. Clarice continues with her part of the investigation and stumbles onto Gumb living in the residence where she thought she would find somebody else. Clarice narrowly survives a suspenseful moment when Gumb extinguishes the lights and uses night-vision goggles to overpower her. Clarice cannot see but she can hear and she shoots at the sound of a revolver being cocked. She empties her gun into Gumb and he dies. In other words, he doesn't jump up a few moments later. "Silence of the Lambs" concludes with Clarice graduating from the FBI Academy. Well-made, well-acted, "Silence" is top-notch material.
Day 9 Of My 31 Days Of Horror 2.So last night I finally sat down and checked out Thee Silence Of The Lambs. We are soon going to be watching this film in my high school's film club on October 29th. I wanted to see what everybody was talking about. I hear this film Quoted all the time and I know the famous Characters. So what did I think of the film? The film starts with Clarice Starling played by Jodie Foster as she is pulled from the training course and called to her boss Jack Craford's played by Scott Glenn office. She is told to go to the psychiatric ward to speak with Hannibal Lector played by Anthony Hopkins about the serial killer Buffalo Bill played by Ted Levine.She meets with Hannibal as he agrees to tell her information in exchange for memories from her unhappy childhood. As a child Clarice experienced Her father die in a hospital a month after an altercation with 2 burglars. She was then sent to live with her uncle on his farm. One day she tried to run away. As she was leaving she witnessed lambs getting slaughtered. She tried to save one but had to let it go because of it's weight.Hannibal eventually reveals that Buffalo Bills real name is Jame Gumb. His mother died at the age of 2 and started killing at 12 when he murdered his grandparents. Buffalo Bill has kidnapped Catherine Martin played by Brooke Smith who is the daughter of the Tennesse senator Ruth Martin played by Diane Baker.Clarice finds out that if she does not get to Buffalo Bill fast enough then Buffalo Bill will kill Catherine. He plans to starve he and skin her for his "Woman Suit".Meanwhile Hannibal has escaped his highly guarded cell by killing to police officers and disguising himself as one of the mutilated officers. He gets put in an ambulance unmasks himself and escapes.Clarice finds Buffalo Bill but does not recognize him at first but then realizes who he is as he runs away. they both go down to the basement where Clarice finds Catherine and goes after Bill. Buffalo Bill toys with her and turns the basement lights out. he pulls out a revolver planning a sneak attack but is killed when Clarice hears the sound of him cocking his revolver. She shoots him 6 times and is hailed as a hero.In the films final scene Clarice gets a phone call from Hannibal who says that he has respect for her and does not wish to kill her. He then spots a Docter who was rude and harsh with him and says that he will "Be Having An Old Friend For Dinner." This film is a masterpiece and held my attention the entire time. It is entertaining, Gruesome and disturbing but your eyes never leave the screen. The story is one of the best I have ever seen, The characters are well written. The film deserves all of its' Oscar wins. The performances done by Jodie foster and Anthony Hopkins are some of the best I have seen. Jodie Fosters character is sweet and innocent and Anthony Hopkins is calm and gentle but has violent cannibalistic outbursts. If there is some reason you have not watched this unless of course you are too young to watch this then I am shocked. This is a film I wish everybody would see.Rated R For Strong Grisly Violent Content Including Terror And Disturbing Images, Abberant Sexual Content And Language.1hr 58min/118min.16 uses of the F-word.****/****
Silence of the Lambs is one of the best genre breaking critically praised suspense thriller movie ever made. In true fashion, not a typical horror you would expect but metaphorically, a veneer of horror is laced throughout this movie. The movie begins with Clarice Sterling (Jodie Foster) training for the FBI and is called upon by superior Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn) to interview Dr. Hannibal Lector (Anthony Hopkins) to see what possible information he may be able to lend in catching the serial killer known as Buffalo Bill, before he kills his most recent captive.An exciting and captivating thriller and superbly acted; Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins bring to life two of the most complex and intense characters on celluloid: Clarice Starling, a metaphor of fortitude in the face of danger, and Dr. Hannibal Lecter, a metaphor of calculated evil behind a sophisticated veneer. The core of the movie's aspect deals with the character interplay between them even though Hopkin's screen time is around 20 minutes or so. His presence is ominous and electrifying. Hence, the stage is set for an impressive psychological masterpiece centering on the dependence between Clarice and Lector as she continues to track Buffalo Bill. The serial killer is mainly a serviceable character, a restrained and reclusive transvestite. The art of investigation is a spotlight and interesting given the tension built as Clarice tracks the serial killer down through the vague advice that Lector gives her. The stark pale cinematography beautifully captures the mood of the film. The dialogue is dense, layered with subtlety and the camera-work is skilfully handled with some stunning display of detail. A fascinating display of direction is in a scene that shows an intense and grisly escape that Lector plotted by making a deal which was a transfer to another cell in exchange to provide Clarence more insight into a serial killer's profile.Jonathan Demme has done an amazing job at skilfully presenting here some edgy psychological material with depth that amplifies tension and maturity. The Silence of the Lambs is clearly a favourite as it ingeniously combines various facets of film-making to please mainstream and most art-house film lovers. The greatness of this movie is validated by bagging the five top Oscars.
There are characters who make their entrance in the movie world in such a spectacular way that the actor or actress which played that character risks to be associated with him/her for the rest of his/her career. It's notably the case for Clarice Starling, but especially for Hannibal Lecter. From the moment they appeared for the first time, it became evident that Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins would forever be remembered for their iconic roles.I have to say that it's Hannibal Lecter who impressed me the most. And that's not only the case for me. I allow myself to tell you that anecdote which happened to me. My sister is some kind of horror buff and I decided to test her by showing her "The Silence of the Lambs". She passed the test successfully but I'll always remember her reaction during the famous ambulance scene when the movie is two-thirds over. When Lecter puts off his mask to reveal his face, my sister instantly gasped. This demonstrates without any doubt the formidable power of Dr. Lecter. His only very presence is frightening. We see him and we are afraid, period."The Silence of the Lambs" is the first horror movie in history to be rewarded with the Academy Award for Best Picture. And believe me that it deserves that prize. The Oscars for Foster and Hopkins' acting roles also are. We often associate horror films with ghosts, demons, monsters and other creatures which come from the imaginary and the supernatural. But nothing is more horrifying than what appears real and very plausible. Alfred Hitchcock has already shown that in "Psycho" and director Jonathan Demme raises the bar with this adaptation of Thomas Harris' novel.The story involves Clarice Starling (played by Foster), a student at the FBI Academy who is also a specialist in serial killers. One of her superiors, Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn), asks Clarice to interview the terrifying psychopath Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter (immaculately played by Hopkins) who is also a brilliant psychiatrist, so he could deliver clues which would lead to the capture of Buffalo Bill (Ted Levine), another serial killer actively searched by the FBI.Lecter accepts to help Clarice, but only to the condition that she feed Lecter's sordid curiosity by confessing herself about her childhood's worst souvenirs.Why is Lecter interesting himself to Clarice's worst days? Does he want to weaken her? Does he want the bad guy to win? Or is he only a sadist and a pervert? I would go with the latter affirmation.I think that it is useless to specify that, of all the characters, Hannibal Lecter is by far the best and the most fascinating. The other characters describe him in such a frightening and horrible way that we fear him well before we see him for the first time. And when we see him for the first time, we instantly remark his cold and menacing eyes, as well as his disturbing grin.Himself a serial killer, we can consider Lecter as one of the worst (or best, depending on how you read it) villains in the history of cinema, even if we see him killing only once. And precisely, his attack is very stylish. He kills both policemen on the strains of Johann Sebastian Bach's "The Goldberg Variations" and once he accomplished his work, we see him stained with blood, just like a painted how has just finished from making a new painting. That scene establishes a shocking parallel between murder and art.But Lecter is only one side of this story. In fact, he's only a sub-plot. The true story involves Buffalo Bill's actions. Bill, brilliantly played by Levine, acts in nearly the whole Midwest, but his victims always are rather fat young women. Unlike many movies which hide their killer until the very end, we often see Bill in this film, even if we don't know his true identity, nor the frightening motives of his crimes until the end. The only thing we can discover about Bill is his appearing mental problems which push him to kill.The horrors of the film aren't limited to the killers themselves. The movie is strewn with blood-chilling naturalistic images, especially the images of corpses who got parts of their skin removed. And how could we forget this unbearable image of the dead policeman with an open abdomen posing like an angel who is about to take off? There's also a good dose of suspense, especially at the end when Clarice is chasing Bill in his labyrinthine basement. The climax of the pitch-black room while Bill is wearing his night goggles to see in the absolute darkness is breathtaking and holds suspense until the conclusion. At this moment, we're totally absorbed in that cat-and-mouse game at the point that we totally forget Lecter's existence."The Silence of the Lambs" is an excellent example of the horrors of the criminal acts and of psychological horror aroused by childhood traumas. Overall, the film is an immense metaphor about the horror of modern world and wants to get sure that the viewer leaves weakened and less in security than before he got inside the theater. The sinister soundtrack of Howard Shore adds to the already sordid atmosphere and the Q. Lazzarus song "Goodbye Horses" adds even more with its broken notes which resonate and give goosebumps. Personnaly, each time that I hear that song, I start thinking about Buffalo Bill who cross-dresses in front of the camera with that song playing in the background."The Silence of the Lambs" is a grandiose spooky symphony well-carried by Foster and Hopkins whose roles are already a part of the legend. The numerous references of the movie in the popular culture keep it well alive more than fifteen years after its release. Everybody, at least those who are able to stand horror images, should watch this movie at least once in their life.
I had never seen Silence of the Lambs and decided to pick up the book by Thomas Harris recently. I was thrilled by the book and I read the entire thing in about a week. I then hungered to see the award winning movie that I'd heard so much about. I wasn't disappointed at all. The cinematography is awesome, Foster and Hopkins turn in A+++ performances and the story contains the book's intricacies while moving at a pace fast enough to satisfy. The only detail left out of the movie that was in the book was that of Crawford's wife's death and ongoing sickness. I think this really made Crawford seem rather one dimensional in Silence of the Lambs and takes a lot away from his character in the book. My girlfriend had only seen the movie and she described him as a bit of a sleaze which shocked me because he is such a genuine and honestly good man in the book that is simply in the middle of a massive internal conflict. However, this does not really detract from the movie at all, I simply felt that Crawford was an underdone character but understand the need to simplify him. I suggest reading the book before seeing the movie. Bon appetite.
"The Silence of the Lambs" is a modern day classic for a number of reasons. It features Dr. Hannibal Lector, bringing Anthony Hopkins a well deserved Oscar, a pshycotic cannibal behind bars with a brilliant mind. Clarice Starling, a definitive female hero that feeds Lector memories of her chilling childhood, who makes it cool for women to kick butt. And Jack Crawford the FBI Behavioral Sciences Director who encourages Clarice as she investigates the serial murderer Buffalo Bill.Usually when one who doesn't truly appreciate the beauty of a film, sees "The Silence of the Lambs" as a crime movie with a nude dance scene, a man eating another man's face, Miggs, the Death Heads Moth, and a the hockey mask of Hannibal Lector. But I truly appreciate the chemistry between Jodie Foster and Anthony Hopkins in this film. The performances of these two brings what could be mistaken for a budding relationship. In their final scene before Dr. Lector's break out, the chemistry is clearly evident there. The close up shots of their faces would be slightly annoying in another movie, but these shots show the anguish and anxiety of Clarice Starling and the cunning and brilliance of Dr. Lector. As Dr. Lector questions Clarice of the lambs, her mental anguish is forced and she must relive memories of the murder of her father, the town marshal, which could help fuel her search of Buffalo Bill. As Lector educates Clarice on coveting, his face transforms into a slightly evil glare that shows the brilliance and evil coinciding in Dr. Lector's mind. This scene is my absolute favorite because of the past of Starling is revealed. In this scene we see the true evil of Dr. Lector begin to form and show in the movie.The chemistry is brilliant and perfect. The only other on screen chemistry that could even compare to this would be that of Frankie Dunn and Maggie Fitzgerald, portrayed by Clint Eastwood and Hilary Swank, in "Million Dollar Baby."
