Finally, I saw this movie for the first time yesterday. I bet everyone has already seen it, but just in case: Spoilers Below!I've always heard and read that SILENCE OF THE LAMBS was a great movie, but I'd never seen it. Now I have, and I've learned that it wasn't all hype.Silence of the Lambs is about an FBI-trainee named Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) who is trying to track down and stop a serial killer named Buffalo Bill (Ted Levine) who has been killing girls throughout the country. In order to do so, she questions Dr. Hannibal Lector (Anthony Hopkins). Dr. Lector is a brilliant physiologist who is a convicted serial killer. He appears polite, but is actually a very dangerous and intelligent psychopath who eats his victims.I can't express how great I thought this movie was. Just about every scene with Anthony Hopkins was mesmerizing, especially his dialogue with Jodie Foster. The last conversation between the two in this movie was chilling to the bone. Dr. Lector's escape was probably the greatest scene in the movie, while also one of the most disturbing. When he beats a helpless guard to death with a nightstick, it reminds you that he is not the harmless man that he looks like.Anthony Hopkins, of course, stole the show. He stole every single scene he was in. Jodie Foster did a very good job also as the young, ambitious FBI trainee trying to put an end to another madman's reign and, in doing so, smother the pains of her past. Ted Levine also did a notable job as another very different madman than Lector. I sincerely hated Levine's character by the end of this movie.There are many memorable scenes in this movie. The prison break, as I mentioned earlier, is one of the more memorable ones. The most intense scene of the movie, in my opinion, is when Jodie Foster is being stalked in the dark near the end of the film. Anytime that Lector talks, you will probably feel shivers up your spine. This is one of the best movies I've ever seen. If like me, you have not seen it in all these years, do it today. There is a reason this movie is a favorite of many people and crosses many genres.
Silence of the Lambs is a quintessence of a profound character study and a rare and vivid demonstration of an actor's subtle brilliance and his improvisation in manifestation of a nebulous entity (Lecter), almost single-handedly immortalizing it and in the process elevating himself to a position of unqualified envy and ubiquitous acclaim. In fact, one is likely to suffer, either from inarticulacy or verbosity while describing Anthony Hopkins portrayal of sadistically sophisticated Dr. Hannibal Lecter. Lecter's trademark, his wide open glacial eyes, devoid of any emotion, not only makes him deviously equanimous, but also egregiously peculiar. The fast, slurping-type sound invented by Hopkins that Lecter does, is as fascinating as it is chilling and Lecter's infamous "Good evening, Clarice", is as enthralling as it is vicious. Anthony Hopkins's performance is the shortest ever and the most memorable to win an Oscar in the leading category. Hopkins as Lecter, is incontrovertibly and incredibly at the top of his game and it is his brilliance that gets the best out of the other actors, especially Jodie Foster. In fact, it won't be a hyperbole, that Anthony Hopkins's portrayal of cannibalistic Hannibal Lecter in Silence of the Lambs and more so in its sequel, Hannibal (which is my favorite of the series, as the story completely revolves around Lecter, giving him more exposure), is one of the best, the world of cinema has ever seen or offered. In spite of having some of the most gruesomely disturbing and viciously graphic sequences, Silence of the Lambs, is one of the most decorated and enthralling movies of all time. A must watch for avid fans and eclectic viewers.http://www.apotpourriofvestiges.com/


                
Director Jonathan Demme and author/screenwriter Harris/Tally are all very talented, but they really outdid themselves here. The more I watch this film, the better it gets. Just the close-up shots of Hannibal Lecter's (Anthony Hopkins) and Clarisse Starling's (Jodie Foster) faces.I recently saw it for the 5th time with my daughter, who saw it for the 1st time. She was on the edge of her seat just as I remember, while I enjoyed the deft plotting, the great characterization, even of side-characters (like the self-absorbed psychiatrist Chilton), who were painted with sparse but knowing strokes.Hopkins and Foster are just perfectly cast, doing the perfect mannerisms, the perfect accents, the perfect everything. The supporting cast is also outstanding, from Starling's boss, who uses her as bait to engage dangerous psychopath Lecter to solve a serial murder case, to the unpleasant psychiatrist Chilton, to the victim held captive in a pit by the serial killer, all the way to the psychopathic serial killer who is sowing himself a female identity out of his victim's skins.The clues abound, and while obvious in hindsight, are subtle enough to be interesting: Southeast Asian moth = criminal is a Vietnam War veteran. Seamstress patterns in closets to reveal where the perpetrator must have learned the sowing trade.Although the gore is very sparse in this film, it is really shocking, and built up just right to cause maximum suspense and "yech" factor. The director manages to make you wince even when you don't get to see all that much.So why "only" 9/10? After many viewings, I think more and more that the cutting between Starling and her boss at the end, when he enters the wrong house, is too cheap a trick to show that he ended up tracking the wrong person. Likewise, the "break into the storage" scene lays on the difficulties with forced entry a bit much. Hitchcock would have stayed away from such low-grade suspense devices. Sometimes less is more. Still, this film is better than a few of the grandmaster's thrillers, and that's saying something coming from a fan who saw his first Hitch while the grandmaster was still filming them!
The young FBI agent Clarice went to visit the in-jail horrible killer Hannibal in order to solve the series-killer-case. Clarice was afraid of him. She also had the psychological problem that haunted her from the childhood. Although Hannibal treated her with consideration, what he had done was so cruel that nobody could imagine. The strange chemistry reaction happened between them since their first meeting.Hannibal's action embodied the complexity of humanity. He was gentle to Clarice. However he was so brutal to the other people. You cannot believe that was done by the same person. Sometimes we do know little about ourselves.It was rare to see that a movie won the best actor and actress (the academy award) at the same time. It just proved that it was Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster made the movie so outstanding. No one can deny their wonderful performance. The following Hannibal and Red dragon had lost the original idea and could not achieve the astonishing effect that TSOTL brought us.A thriller classic. 9/10
The acting is of a very high level. Foster put down a good role as Clarice Starling and the supporting cast was very good (think of Buffalo Bill, for example). The star of the show is Anthony Hopkins. The role he put down here is really nothing less than genius. The dude is perfectly cast and is both friendly and polite, and very creepy and smart about it. I think it's an incredibly and fascinating character. Hannibal is for me one of the best psychopaths I've ever seen in a movie.Overall I highly recommend this movie if you love thrillers and detectives because this is definitely one of the best in its category for me. And i think this movie is also in my top 10 films!!


                
The late Gene Siskel hated "The Silence of the Lambs," thinking of it as being far too gruesome and distasteful and as having zero originality to it. Roger Ebert gave the 3.5 out of 4 stars, saying that he did enjoy the film but that some scenes were lacking, such as the ending.Siskel missed the point. The chill from "The Silence of the Lambs" doesn't come from revolutionary originality, which it doesn't have. The chill of "The Silence of the Lambs" is in how it maximizes fear and suspense in a plot that one could simply describe as "police on the hunt for a serial killer." It is here where "The Silence of the Lambs" set the bar; it takes a B-movie concept and raises it to the level of a taut A-level thriller.The plot has the FBI on the hunt for a serial killer known as "Buffalo Bill" (played by Ted Levine). Stuck, the lead investigator (played by Scott Glenn) wants to get the perspective of another serial killer, to try and see inside the psychotic mind. He recruits the young FBI trainee Clarice Starling (played by Jodie Foster) to talk to the brilliant and cannibalistic psychiatrist Dr. Hannibal Lecter (played by Anthony Hopkins). Lecter agrees to help Starling, but only if she will grant him the sadistic pleasure of allowing him to see inside her mind.Even though the plot is about Buffalo Bill, with Lecter only having 16 minutes on screen in a 2-hour movie, Lecter and Starling are way more interesting and end up being the driving force for the film. In many films, an excellent performance by the villain can steal the show away from the hero. (Tim Burton's "Batman," featuring a brilliant performance by Jack Nicholson as The Joker, is a prime example of this.) In "The Silence of the Lambs," we have strong performances by both of the lead actors. Hopkins' Lecter is clearly everybody's favorite character, but Foster's performance as Starling is powerful enough to not get eclipsed by Hopkins.Not getting eclipsed is something of a theme for this film. Our heroine is not trying to be heroic. Starling is strong and courageous and could kick anyone's butt, and yet she comes across as vulnerable. She is a woman in a man's world and everywhere she goes, there is a sense of being dominated. She is 5'3" in a film where most other characters are over 6' tall. (The camera often skillfully has Starling occupying only the lower half of the frame; seeing so much space above her head makes her look shorter and more vulnerable.) Her black hair (which is different from Foster's natural light brown) makes her appear paler than she really is. Other characters are always hitting on her. She always whispers and is always giving a nervous smile. Even her slight Southern accent gives her a "country girl" appeal that helps the audience identify with her. Starling is an FBI agent-in-training and is clearly quite skilled at handling dangerous situations, but she still shares our vulnerabilities. As a result of this, her fears are our fears. This is the true skill of Jodie Foster's performance; she manages to play Starling as a woman of great strength and vulnerability at once.Credit should also go to the film-makers. One strong point is their choice to only be selectively gruesome. This is one key difference between "The Silence of the Lambs" and garden-variety serial killer movies. The latter often derive their scares by showing incredibly brutal images and portraying utterly disgusting scenarios. Fear is generated by the audience's own horrified reaction to what is being shown on screen. "The Silence of the Lambs" does not give in to that temptation though. It casually shows us several rather gruesome images to get us nervous, but then keeps some of the most disturbing stuff cleverly off-camera. Of course, this serves to only make them scarier; what could be so gruesome that not even this creepy film is willing to show it on camera? I do have criticisms. My main complaint is that Buffalo Bill is a lightweight who left me longing for the much more interesting and menacing Hannibal Lecter. Buffalo Bill is sick, twisted, and downright nauseating, but he also is a coward, who has to resort to trickery and gadgetry to make himself formidable. Lecter, on the other hand, has all the tools he needs right there in his brain. He is the smartest character in the film and he knows it and he loves it. He is so charismatic that he can enter the mind of anyone, no matter how hard they resist. This makes Lecter scary even when he is off-camera. Buffalo Bill is not really all that scary even when he's on camera; he's more just plain gross.The thrill of this movie is psychological. We don't feel thrilled because of cool action sequences or original plot ideas but rather because of the fear that we can relate to and the mind games that Lecter plays. Something of a void is left in scenes in the latter half of the film, where Lecter is absent. (Here, I agree with Ebert.) Nonetheless, Foster's performance makes up for that. Even in the final showdown with Buffalo Bill, the thrill is still there because we feel Starling's fear, even though the audience has not been particularly scared of Buffalo Bill up until now. (Here, I disagree with Ebert, who feels the showdown is lacking.) "The Silence of the Lambs" is thrilling and chilling. The main villain is a lightweight, but the secondary villain is among the most menacing and evil in cinema history. I think that after we walk away from this film, we somehow are left with the feeling that, at least for those 2 hours, Hannibal Lecter managed to get inside our own minds as well.


                
A serial killer nicknamed "Buffalo Bill" (Ted Levine) gains even more notoriety after kidnapping a woman by the name of "Catherine Martin" (Brooke Smith) who happens to be the daughter of United States Senator "Ruth Martin" (Diane Baker). Although he hasn't cooperated since his arrest and conviction for several grisly murders, a former psychiatrist named "Dr. Hannibal Lector" (Anthony Hopkins) is persuaded to do so by a young FBI agent-in-training named "Clarice Starling" (Jodie Foster). But with time on his side any assistance he gives will come at a very high price. Now rather than reveal any more I will just say that this was a fascinating movie from start to finish with Academy Award winning performances rendered by both Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster. It also won the Academy Award for "Best Picture" as well. In any case, I highly recommend this film for those who might enjoy a movie of this type and I have rated it accordingly.
Silence of the Lambs (1991) follows the story of the young and ambitious Clarice Starling in her attempt to apprehend the serial killer named "Buffalo Bill" (Ted Levine). Starling goes to the infamous Hannibal Lecter (nicknamed Hannibal the Cannibal for his exotic tastes). Clarice relies on Lecter for his expertise and knowledge about the mind of a serial killer. Whereas Hannibal toys with Clarice in order to amuse himself. Clarice and her fellow agents are forced to rely on the help of a killer in order to catch another.Jodie Foster does an excellent job playing the young and eager Clarice. She portrays her Southern accent as often painfully obvious, which Lecter pounces upon as an insecurity. Foster speaks with a wavering voice at times, showing Clarice's inexperience and disgust with the crimes committed by Buffalo Bill. Hopkins is completely absorbed into the role of Hannibal Lecter. To create his creepy and psychotic persona he stares unblinkingly, forcing both the audience and Clarice to return his cold gaze. Hopkins keeps as still as possible while acting, looking like a snake poised to pounce upon less intelligent prey, and in comparison to Lecter everyone is less intelligent, and is therefore potential prey. Hopkins keeps a soft smirk on his lips throughout the film as if to say he knows something no one else does. The film's soundtrack is absolutely haunting and mysterious. It works well with the film to create tension and anxiety in the audience. However, the director (Jonathan Demme) knows when silence is just as powerful. In a tense scene in complete darkness we are left with no sound save for the heavy breathing of Buffalo Bill. The cinematography is excellent for this film. The colors of the film are gray and lifeless, which complement the film's dark subject matter. At pivotal moments the camera angle switches to first person. This view works perfectly when Clarice rounds the corner and sees Lecter for the first time. We are able to truly appreciate Lecter's piercing gaze, because we see it first hand through Clarice's eyes. The performances of Hopkins and Foster would have been flat if it were not for the well written script. The small anecdotal stories about Lecter help to build his character even before we meet him. Lecter's lines are meant to sound sophisticated and cultured in order to create his paradoxical character as a gentleman-psychopath. Buffalo Bill refers to his victims as "it" in an attempt to destroy their humanity in another example of brilliant writing. A key strength in this film is its character development. Not just Lecter or Clarice's development, but their relationship itself. The audience watches as Lecter and Clarice grow closer and closer in a bizarre exchange not unlike two friends sharing secrets. As Clarice learns more from Lecter, so too does Lecter learn more about Clarice. The audience can see that Lecter values this relationship because he does not hunt her down for as Clarice puts it, "He would consider that rude". Silence of the Lambs is a gripping and disturbing film, filled with fascinating characters. It remains a timeless horror film that draws from the darkest and foulest corner of humanity's existence. It is a terrifying movie because it reminds us that the monsters in our world are not imaginary, but could pass us on the street any day.
Silence of the Lambs is an awesome movie. It is perfectly written and the actors who played buffalo bill (Ted Levine) and Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) were extremely good choices. Buffalo Bill is the perfect mix of Ed Gein, Ted Bundy, Gary Heidnik, Edmund Kemper, etc. Even though it is mainly a serious movie, it does have some funny parts to it which gives a genuine but interesting outlook to what all of these serial killers actually did. Although it is over 20 years old, it doesn't have the typical 'campy' humor/feel that most 90 movies had (I love campy movies though so that wouldn't have been much of a problem, personally). Its the perfect mix of creepy and wonderful. I would recommend it fully.
The Silence of the Lambs (1991): Dir: Jonathan Demme / Cast: Jodie Foster, Anthony Hopkins, Scott Glenn, Ted Levine, Diane Baker: Psychological thriller where the film's core regards interrogation of evil without physical contact. Female victims are found skinned by Buffalo Bill and Hannibal Lector is believed to be able to identify him but every agent who has approached his realm of confinement has been led astray. The Senator's daughter is kidnapped so a female F.B.I. trainee is issued in hopes that Lector will give in to a female. We learn about her through Lector's ability to trespass the mind. Shocking thriller directed by Jonathan Demme who also made Melvin and Howard. Anthony Hopkins brilliantly demonstrates Lector's sly methods of penetrating the mind. He delights in toying with victims, which is why his brutal escape occurred. Jodie Foster is excellent as the young trainee haunted by her father's death. She is intelligent and brave particularly when dealing with Bill in the shocking climax. Ted Levine is monstrous as Buffalo Bill whose one breaking point arrives when the Senator's daughter gets hold of his dog. Scott Glenn is standard as the agent in charge of the case but instrumental at a wrong address. Diane Baker plays a Senator whose daughter is kidnapped by Buffalo Bill. Penetrating thriller will shock your nerves and silence your senses. Score: 9 ½ / 10
Thomas Harris's book has been reinvented for cinema. And its fantastic!The film has everything a good thriller should have. A solid script, nerve racking tension, a relatable protagonist and fearfully clever antagonist. Anthony Hopkins (Hannibal) does A tremendous job at portraying his psychotic, menacing role, he truly is the star of the show. Its even better than the film and needs to be seen by everyone!This was just a brief revue about some of my basic impressions of the film, however i really do hope you have enjoyed this masterpiece as much as I have.LOL LINES ARE FUN meowmeowmeowmeowmeow
*Very slight spoiler within the second paragraph, and big spoiler in third* Silence of the Lambs is a must watch for thriller fans all around, with a story that will entice you within the chase to catch a serial killer.The plot involves Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) trying to catch a serial killer with the help of Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), another serial killer already captured with insight into the case. The dynamic between Clarice and Hannibal is enthralling, with Clarice working through Hannibal's cryptic clues about the case and witnessing the growing interest Hannibal has in Clarice, especially as more of her personal life gets revealed to him and we have to wonder what he will do with the information he has obtained.The tension within this film has to be one of the biggest strengths of the film. Every scene with Hannibal and Clarice has you feeling the tension as you become enthralled within every interaction. Special mention also has to go to a scene near the end of the movie, which I will just refer to as the "night-vision scene" which manages to make me worry for Clarice every time I see it despite knowing what will happen at the end.One criticism of the film I have however is with Hannibal's involvement within the movie and how it's presented. The movie presents him as an intelligent and extremely manipulative and dangerous person. However, it seems like he only knows anything about this case because he just so happens to know about the serial killer and details about him already, so rather than him showing his intelligence. If you wanted a film which actually sees him working out who the serial killer is, then Red Dragon is probably the better film within this one instance. In conclusion, Silence of the Lambs is a fantastic film, and certainly one of the strongest entries within the Hannibal franchise (this and the Hannibal TV show are neck and neck in quality), and the strongest within the movie entries.
A masterful combination of acting, directing and writing. Storyline is very engaging. Hopkins did a extraordinary job in Dr. Lecter's shoes, who manages to make the "cannibalistic psychopath" kind of a hero. Jodie Foster makes Starling the most interesting to watch. The best part was portrayal of Lecter and Starling coming closer and closer in bizarre exchanges by making Starling to unveil her deep secrets, Lecter valued this relationship by not hurting her. The Silence of the Lambs is a must see, one of the best thrillers I have ever seen.
One of the best films i have ever watched in my life ! I loved Jodie Foster as the young FBI cadet Clarice Starling and found Anthony Hopkins to be the perfect match for the mysterious, intelligent and frightening character of Hannibal ''The Cannibal'' Lecter. Their chemistry is undeniable. I continuously found myself captivated by the never ending chase between Hannibal and Clarice. Through the horror one finds the beauty that has always been of an interest and in my opinion will continue to be, to us poor souls. Yet I wouldn't suggest this movie for someone who although likes a bit of romance, is scared to death and tries to avoid horror films like the plague, as it contains quite scary parts. Hannibal Lecter is a very peculiar character which requires equally brilliant watchers so as to fully appreciate his riveting and compelling beauty, motives and way of thinking.Quid pro quo fans.
The Silence of the Lambs Director: Jonathan Demme Starring: Jodie Foster, Anthony HopkinsI honestly feel bad sometimes for the people faint of heart. Not in an insulting way I just do. I love movies that can scare me and some of the greatest are great because of creepy atmosphere that creeps up on you and grabs you and throws you into a world where everything is mysterious and scary. This is one of those movies. Dr. Clarice Starling's (Jodie Foster) tale of finding the killer Buffalo Bill with the aid of the cannibalistic Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) is a creepy, well acted, and not for the faint of heart film that has many thrills in store for the viewer. The greatest thing that this film has to offer is the atmosphere. It's engrossing. The dark hallways,and the unblinking eyes of Hannibal Lector shake you to your core. That alone without the well done mystery could make the movie. Oh, but it is a good mystery. Jodie Foster is Clarice Starling a new FBI psychiatrist who is ordered to interview the cannibal Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) for the purpose of finding a killer. Foster's character is optimistic and more upbeat. This is good because of the dark nature of the rest of the film. She's kind of like the balance for the creepy stuff happening, and light in the darkness. That also kind of help her character. See she's optimistic at first, but as time goes on she seems to fall deeper and deeper into this world her character changes to someone more hardened. This is perfect character development. Then there is Anthony Hopkins. This is one of my favorite performances of all time. He is unblinking,scary and smart. It's unsettling. Hopkins said that the way he played Hannibal Lecter was still. I now know why. See people are always moving and doing something. Lecter is completely still and extremely soft spoken. Even more menacing is that Lecter is actually smarter than Clarice. He outsmarts her. This just adds to the fact of how menacing he is. He's not the villain though. The real villain is a creepy transvestite murderer named Buffalo Bill. His story arch is interesting, but it comes to an abrupt close. He is scary none the less and is also a little weird. I mean a transvestite who<U+0085> I'd rather not write it. It's messed up and the details will shock you. The actors really do drive the story and everything comes off very shocking and convincing. For better or worse.The acting is really good,but so is everything else. The production design in this movie is grounded in reality,but still is creepy. The prison set that was built for the film looks very good and the darkness of the whole this adds to the atmosphere and makes everything pop. The camera-work is good, but also nothing special, yet at moments the camera having a staring contest with the wide eyes of Hannibal Lecter add to the sheer unsettling nature of the film.This is overall an incredible movie. Scary, atmospheric, and chalk full of performances that are Oscar worthy (and won Oscars). I give The Silence of the Lambs a 9.8 out of 10 Seriously though it's really messed up.
Although everybody praises the performance of Welsh actor Anthony Hopkins, this films gets a lot criticism for the same reasons. Some say it wasn't scary, some say it doesn't match the book, some say all the science is wrong... well. I have an answer for all that. And the answer is really a question: who cares? I don't know if I'm really the only one but this movie was not about the horror, nor the gross/creepy factor. This movie was yet another movie about life. That's all. This movies is quite an experience. And although some say that Foster's acting was not good... her performance was convincing for me.This is, in fact, an all around great movie. It has a plot that keeps you not only entertained, but also glued to the screen, seeking answers. It has great acting. It has various lines of moral lessons. It has charming characters, and cliché filled villains (Dr. Chilton is actually a villain, didn't know if you guys... like... you know). This is definitely a must watch for all times. An all around 9/10.
It's hard to believe this film is twenty years old, having seen it when it first came out and not again till now. The movie lived up to it's opening hype as a masterful thriller bordering on horror. Anthony Hopkins' portrayal of serial killer Hannibal Lecter defines the story, but when all is said and done, his character doesn't appear in the picture very much at all. However when he does, one's attention is riveted to the screen, attempting to outguess director Jonathan Demme's next move in a deadly cat and mouse game between Lecter and his adversary, be it FBI Agent Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster), or hapless security guards caught unaware by a scheming mad man.The larger plot involves the chase after a serial killer known as Buffalo Bill, named after a penchant for skinning his female victims after he murders them. To say that the picture has it's grisly moments would be an understatement. There are more than one scene that require caution for the faint hearted, visualizing grim aspects of brutality that don't leave much to the imagination. Buffalo Bill himself (Ted Levine) is an inspired piece of work, a monster that could have stood alone as a title character if not part of this larger story.Without giving it away entirely, I have to say that the hunt for Buffalo Bill gives rise to a clever gimmick that will catch you off guard for a moment, only to redirect itself very quickly to it's suspenseful conclusion. This one's recommended for fans of psychological thrillers who'll try to guess the ending only to be set up for one more neat twist at the finale. Anyone for a glass of Chianti?
Jonathan Demme's 'The Silence Of The Lambs' is an amazing film in all respects. Undoubtedly, 1991's finest film. Based on the novel by the same name by Thomas Harris, here is a film that stands out it's feet with flourish. 'The Silence Of The Lambs' is a gripping tale, there is hardly a moment when you feel bored. I don't wanna say anything about the brilliant twists and turns it takes, cause for those who haven't seen this masterstroke, will give-away it's excitement. It's a great film, Demme's direction is Exemplary. Ted Tally's screenplay is magical, just stunning. Tak Fujimoto's camera-work is superb. In the acting department, Hopkins stands out as Dr. Hannibal Lecter. This is his finest work to date, in fact, it's amongst the best performances by an Actor ever! Jodie Foster is outstanding, as expected. Playing Clarice Starling with remarkable ease. Ted Levine causes terror and hatred as "Buffalo Bill'. Others are perfect in their parts. 'The Silence Of The Lambs' is amongst the best movies ever made! It's astounding history with the Academy Awards is a legend itself... do I need to say anything else? Watch this right now!


                
This is often cited and one of the greatest in its genre, more a thriller than a horror, featuring one of the most recognisable villains of all time, based on the book by Thomas Harris, directed by Oscar and BAFTA winning, and Golden Globe nominated Jonathan Demme (Married to the Mob, Philadelphia, The Manchurian Candidate). Basically young FBI trainee agent Clarice Starling (Oscar, BAFTA and Golden Globe winning Jodie Foster) is assigned by Jack Crawford (Scott Glenn), of the Behavioral Science Unit, to interview former psychiatrist and incarcerated cannibalistic serial killer Dr. Hannibal Lecter, aka Hannibal the Cannibal (Oscar and BAFTA winning, and Golden Globe nominated Sir Anthony Hopkins). Lecter, being held in Baltimore State Hospital for the Criminally Insane, has information about serial killer Buffalo Bill (Ted Levine), who skins the corpses of his female victims, Lecter is courteous, but hates Starling trying to dissect him. Lecter does tell Starling to seek out an old patient of his, later a cocoon containing a sphinx moth is found lodged in a victim's throat. Starling returns to Lecter, he agrees to give a physical description of Buffalo Bill, in exchange for him being transferred to a new facility, and away from Dr. Frederick Chilton (Anthony Heald), whom he detests. Crawford authorises a fake deal to be made with Lecter, meanwhile Buffalo Bill has kidnapped Catherine Martin (Brooke Smith), daughter of U.S. Senator. Lecter demands a quid pro quo ("something for something" in Latin) from Starling, in exchange for personal information about herself he will give her clues, so Starling tells him about her childhood and the murder of her father. Lecter is later flown to Memphis, Tennessee, there he verbally torments Senator Ruth Martin (Diane Baker), before giving information about Buffalo Bill, some misleading, including the name "Louis Friend", an anagram of "iron sulfide", meaning fool's gold. Starling realises Lecter's deceit and asks for the truth from Lecter, now held in a cage-like cell, he tells that all information she needs is in the case file, rather than give a name. Lecter insists they continue quid pro quo, she recounts her traumatic childhood where spring lambs were being slaughtered, Lecter speculates saving Catherine will help her end the nightmares and the "screaming of the lambs". Lecter gives Starling back the case files on Buffalo Bill before they are interrupted and she is escorted out by police, later that night Lecter has taken a paper clip, uses it to uncuff himself, kills the guards, escapes from his cell and disappears, in fact using a guard's face and uniform to disguise himself. Starling examines the files and realises Buffalo Bill knew his first victim personally, going to the victim's hometown she discovers Buffalo Bill was a tailor, recognising his dress patterns as identical to his victims skins removed, she calls Crawford to inform him Buffalo Bill is fashioning a "women suit" of real skin. Crawford is already en route to make an arrest on a man named Jame Gumb, referenced in Lecter's notes and hospital archives, who once unsuccessfully applied for a sex-change, while Crawford leads an FBI tactical team to Gumb's address in Illinois, Starling interviews friends of Buffalo Bill's first victim in Ohio. The house in Illinois is empty, while Starling finds the house of "Jack Gordon", this is in fact Jamie Gumb, she recognises him as Buffalo Bill seeing a sphinx moth, she pursues him through the rooms of the basement, discovers Catherine alive, trapped in a dry well, then Starling is trapped in the dark, Gumb stalks her with night-vision goggles, but cocking his gun Starling instantly reacts and fires at Gumb, killing him. In the end Starling is given an FBI Academy graduation party, she is shocked to receive a phone call from Lecter, calling from an airport, he promises not to pursue her and asks she returns the favour, before hanging up he says he is "having an old friend for dinner", and follows newly arrived Chilton before disappearing into the crowd. Also starring Candyman's Kasi Lemmons as Ardelia Mapp, Lawrence T. Wrentz as Agent Burroughs, Frankie Faison as Barney Matthews, Charles Napier as Lt. Boyle, singer Chris Isaak as SWAT Commander, Roger Corman as FBI Director Hayden Burke and George A. Romero as FBI Agent in Memphis. Hopkins deserved his Oscar for his brilliantly sinister 24 minutes on screen as the intelligent serial killer; Foster deserved her Oscar as the young agent slowly toughening up following the clues, and Levine is splendidly disturbing as the killer taking skins for his demented pleasure. The relationship between Starling and Lecter is wonderfully twisted, and the mystery element to find the killer works well, this film became a big hit, legendary for many reasons, it is definitely a great psychological thriller. It won the Oscars for Best Writing, Screenplay Based on Material from Another Medium and Best Picture, and it was nominated for Best Film Editing and Best Sound, it was nominated the BAFTAs for Best Cinematography, Best Editing, Best Original Film Score for Howard Shore, Best Adapted Screenplay, Best Sound and Best Film, and it was nominated the Golden Globes for Best Motion Picture - Drama and Best Screenplay. Jodie Foster was number 23, and Sir Anthony Hopkins number 7 on The 100 Greatest Movie Stars, he was number 1 on The 50 Greatest British Actors, he was number 1 on Britain's Finest Actors, and he was number 3 on The World's Greatest Actor, Clarice Starling was number 6 (Hero) and Hannibal Lecter was number 1 (Villain) on 100 Years, 100 Heroes & Villains, the film was number 5 on 100 Years, 100 Thrills, it was number 28 on The 100 Greatest Scary Moments, it was number 21 on 100 Years, 100 Quotes ("A census taker once tried to test me. I ate his liver with some fava beans and a nice Chianti."), it was number 65 on 100 Years, 100 Movies, and it was number 37 on The 100 Greatest Films. Very good!
This is deservedly one of the most popular and praised of all the entries in the worn-out "cop vs. killer" genre, and represents a career high point for its key participants. It's especially noteworthy that it should have swept the five major Oscars for the year of its release, considering that the Academy wouldn't normally award such acclaim to a thriller with often grim and disturbing content - a tribute to how well crafted it is. Also worthy of a mention is the way that this film put the Behavioural Sciences unit of the FBI on the map - that unit devoted to the study of the most deviant "human" beings among us. Director Jonathan Demme shows a great skill for the genre, and with the assistance of a first rate crew creates some eerily effective suspense. Based on the novel by Thomas Harris, it stars Jodie Foster as an eager beaver young FBI trainee who is sent by her superior (Scott Glenn) to interview an imprisoned murderer, the intelligent, cultured psychopath Hannibal "The Cannibal" Lecter (Anthony Hopkins), in the hopes that he can lend his insight into the activities of "Buffalo Bill" (Ted Levine), a serial killer currently on the loose. Other than a music score by Howard Shore that is a little *too* over the top and manipulative, "The Silence of the Lambs" hits all the right notes, telling a story in a taut and convincing manner. The subject matter admittedly is not to every taste - especially when one thinks about what Bills' ultimate plan is. The editing (by Craig McKay), production design (by Kristi Zea), and cinematography (by Tak Fujimoto) are exemplary; among the scariest scenes are Clarices' (Foster) search of a storage space, and the climactic action where agent and maniac are finally face to face (and the sequence leading up to that). Of course, the real meat of the story is the unusual relationship between the charismatic Lecter and the determined Clarice, as he demands she divulge personal information in return for his thoughts on the Buffalo Bill case. Lecter is a truly memorable character, from his choice of entertainment to the way that he gleefully toys with those people that he holds in contempt. Hopkins and Foster are both very effective in these parts, although the contributions of the supporting cast absolutely should not go overlooked. Given the way that Lecter dominates the proceedings, it's important to point out just how extremely creepy Bill is; his performance brought character actor Levine to real prominence. Brooke Smith is very good portraying a would-be victim who actually tries to use her wits and fight back in some way. Also appearing are many other familiar faces: Anthony Heald (as the smarmy jerk in charge of the insane asylum), Diane Baker, Kasi Lemmons, Demme regulars Charles Napier and Tracey Walter, his old mentor Roger Corman (as the director of the FBI), Frankie Faison, Dan Butler, Chris Isaak, and Daniel von Bargen. Even at just under two hours long, this is actually pretty taut in terms of pacing; there's no filler at all, just some very potent entertainment. This was preceded by another Harris adaptation, "Manhunter", in which Brian Cox played Lecter, and would be followed by "Hannibal" and, after that, "Red Dragon", another film version of the source novel for "Manhunter". Some people tend to prefer "Manhunter" and consider it superior; this viewer merely prefers to think that they each have their own heavy assets. Nine out of 10.


                
It seems as though there is a serial killer out there who's grabbed the daughter of a United States Senator and this guy has zoomed right to the top of FBI's Most wanted. This man's modus operandi is to keep the victims alive for a while before killing them so they're racing against time to find him. Desperate situations call for desperate measures.The desperate measure is, you want to catch a serial killer, bring in one as a consultant. That's why FBI trainee Jodie Foster goes to visit Anthony Hopkins in prison. Hopkins is not just a killer who eats his victims, he's a brilliant psychologist himself with insights maybe no one else has.Of course his price are some cheap insights into Jodie Foster's soul, thrills he probably got when he was in practice.The Silence of the Lambs in less capable hands could have just been another cheap slasher flick. Instead the leads who walked off with the Academy Awards for Best Actor and Best Actress give riveting performances of a sick twisted psycho and a woman who became the biggest feminist icon since Sigourney Weaver by confronting some demons of her own. It's the best work that Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster have ever done and let's not forget the Oscars won by Director Jonathan Demme and the Picture itself for being the Best in 1991.A couple of players who made their marks on television later on also score well here. Anthony Heald who was Buffy the Vampire Slayer's handler plays the psychiatrist in the institute where Hopkins is incarcerated and who Hopkins makes a fool of and says at the end he's far from done with. Also Ted Levine who is Captain Stottlemeyer on Monk plays the serial killer the FBI is trying to catch. Also look for a good performance by Brooke Smith as Levine's potential victim.The Silence of the Lambs with its taut direction and riveting performances has an appeal far beyond the horror genre. See it and you'll know what I mean.


                
"The Silence of the Lambs" deserves its recognition as a classic and one of only three movies in history to win the "big 5" Oscars. The protagonists were brilliantly portrayed. Hopkins very much adds to the story through his creepy performance. His articulate speech and refined southern English accent were jarring as he rarely blinked and calmly expressed his cannibalism. The way Lecter masterfully picked at Starling's insecurities while she tried to get his assistance in finding Buffalo Bill made the character all the more terrifying. Foster, unsurprisingly, is extremely believable as a young woman who wants to prove her worth for her future occupation by tackling the ambitious case. The directing flows smoothly. Great use of extreme close-ups are used to see the actors' emotions and connect with them. The flashbacks were introduced before they seamlessly illustrated the effects Lecter's prodding conversations has on Clarice, making these scenes easy to follow and making Foster's character more of a protagonist. On a side note, I appreciated the conscientious effort made to include a diverse cast in the film, with African- Americans featured prominently in important secondary roles. With that being said, I did feel that the movie was not perfect. The way Clarice finds a lead as to where Buffalo Bill is hiding seemed far- fetched to me. I felt the case could have been further developed before Starling reached the conclusion she arrived to. Moreover, I felt that Buffalo Bill could have used more of a back-story than what is given in order to increase the depth of his character. While some insight is given by Lecter, it is not enough to understand what caused the gender/identity issues that drive Bill to kill. This made his character seem a bit two- dimensional as the antagonist of the film. In contrast, I found Lecter's character rich in depth, as he would be considered a bad guy unless he was helping to find another mentally ill murderer. His character does not hold back his psychopathic ways or complete, self-centered disregard for the well- being of others if it doesn't suit his needs. All in all, this was an incredibly well done film that could probably only be improved if not for time restraints.


                
Very well directed with a heavy and ominous tone that shadows the entire movie. The sound and editing all function in creating and maintaining the film's eerie atmosphere. Reviewing this film, how could one not mention Anthony Hopkins chilling and creepy performance as Dr. Hannibal Lecter. He portrays, without a doubt, one of the best psychotic characters in cinema history. He's so good that at one point, you may start to, dare I say, root for him? The chemistry between Hopkins and Jodie Foster's character is brilliant and the dialogue between them is masterfully crafted. Once you let Hannibal into your mind, you can never get him out. After watching The Silence of the Lambs, I don't think I can ever forget it. Are you up for the challenge?


                
"The Silence of the Lambs" is a movie in which a young FBI agent Clarice Starling (Jodie Foster) tries to get some information from Dr. Hannibal Lecter (Anthony Hopkins) who is a psychopath and used to be a respected psychiatrist, for a psychopathic serial killer who skins his victims. To get these information Clarice Starling has to gain the respect and the trust of Dr.Hannibal Lecter.When I saw this movie I thought that Anthony Hopkins is really not OK in his minds for real and that's because of his perfect interpretation. I also think that Jodie Foster made an also perfect interpretation. <U+03A4>hese were seen and in the Academy Awards where Anthony Hopkins and Jodie Foster won the Oscars for Best Actor in a Leading Role and for Best Actress in a Leading Role respectively. Jonathan Demme's work in the direction of this film did not go unnoticed and he also won the Oscar for Best Director."The Silence of the Lambs" is a movie that you have to see it, it's a really good Thriller and Crime movie with many good scenes and an exceptional screenplay.


                
Anthony Hopkins creates a character who is intelligent, calm, calculating, charming and.....he enjoys eating people. (a slight personalty flaw !!). This is a completely compelling man...who loves the "high arts", is articulate ...is a Doctor...but beef ,pork , chicken and lamb ..just don't "do it" for him. Dr Lecter needs that pure unmistakable taste of homo sapien. The Lecter persona has become as big as any movie "legendary character".(we must remember--of course--he IS a monster !!) The movie does have a few flaws here and there , but Silence of the Lambs is a really great psycho thriller. Made in 1991, it remains a landmark motion picture. Hopkins was born to play Lecter....One feels almost hypnotized when those bright eyes are sparkling (or if he appears hungry).


                
