...and also consider how strange your own life can be, how unusual your own thoughts and reasoning seem when viewed through the eyes of another. The idea is much more than a gimmick; it forms the backbone and provides a lot of the most hilarious and often shocking moments of the show.Like all good concepts that are given a successful platform to work from, you wonder why the idea wasn't more popular beforehand. Webb and Mitchell have a dark, dry sense of humour that will appeal only to certain individuals not so bound by convention, somewhat bohemian if you will. People not afraid to admit that their own thoughts and actions can seem completely bizarre when given a different perspective.To really appreciate the show you definitely have to put yourself in the shoes of the two leads. You have to share in their shame, humiliations and triumphs - literally getting out what you put in. This is no soap opera that you tune into so that you can tune out, this is one that demands your full attention.Webb and Mitchell have a lot of calibre as actors as this show is obviously very difficult to film, being as it is almost entirely filmed through the eyes of the duo. A lot of tricky close camera situations and complex edits are used and work seamlessly.It certainly won't appeal to everyone - if it did it wouldn't be a very good show would it? - but those ready for challenging, dynamic television should buy the first two seasons on DVD and enjoy.


                
The ending of this was pretty depressing to say the least, but I think it worked with the overall theme of the show. In the end Mark and Jez's story was never going to be the cliché happy ending everyone wanted. I think the story of two thirty something men running into endless mishaps and comedic well timed catastrophes was what gave the show it's true to life feel. It wouldn't make sense if it all worked out in the end, and that's why I was satisfied with the ending, but I do see why some would be disappointed. All in all, a very funny show - Matt King is also very funny in this, delivers some great one liners. I doubt there will ever be another comedy to take it's place.
I never watched Peep show when it originally went out, for the life of me I don't know why. I love it, it gets funnier as it goes along, so many uncomfortable and cringe worthy moments, but the dynamic between the two is utterly magical, they're a brilliant comic duo. Patterson Joseph, Olivia Colman, Sophie Winkleman and others all brilliant.The humour works so well because the two main characters are so different, Jezz is a total layabout, lazy, Mark is quite well motivated, just socially awkward, both share the same issues, both are totally dysfunctional.Some wonderful highlights include Holiday, University Challenge, Jeremy's Mummy. The wedding episode is perhaps my favourite, just wonderful.The whole show is just different, I love that we get to hear the inner thoughts of the characters, I can't think where it's been done before, it's original. 9/10
Peep Show is up there with the best sitcoms ever written and acted.I've never written a review for anything before, but i'm such a fan of Peep Show I want to give something back to a show that has inspired me to write.I believe anything that makes you laugh the most is the best and peep show has me in stitches. Mark and Jez are a pair of twats that everyone can relate to, their alter-ego (voice over) is what everyone is thinking, and Super Hans (Matt King), Johnson, and Sophie are a superb supporting cast. Top show, watch a few episodes to get use to it and you'll love it.Peep Show rules!! More Super Hans please


                
This is the best British comedy of recent years. It is cynical, dark and very real. The comedy comes both from the nature of the characters plus the fact that we get to hear what they're thinking.It is the only show that genuinely makes me cry laughing and is relentless in its unforgiving view of the world. The view that the world is complete crap. It provides endless quotable moments such as "The secret ingredient is crime" "I don't want you to drink my pee, i want to take your bishop and grind you down" "That's great Mark....my mate and your girlfriend have gone of to screw each other.....what are we gonna do now....built a tent in the living room and eat dairy-lea.....is that what you want....coz that's whats gonna happen" "He's gone nuts, he thinks there's a pigeon in Catalonia that's in control of his legs" and many many more. The fact is you should just buy and watch it....its brilliant (and try to ignore the "we were here first and liked this show before anyone else and now that everyone else likes it, it isn't as good as before brigade") They're just plebs....enjoy the show


                
Everything about this program is superb.Although the idea of twenty-somethings living in a flat together is far from original, the style of filming and storytelling is very different to that of similar series.The most enduring aspect of this show is it's simplicity, the lead characters are very believable and you find yourself both liking and loathing them at the same time, whilst the situations, although often surreal, feel very natural and day to day. The supporting characters range from the bland to the bizarre and all show elements of people we encounter in everyday life. I can't think of any recent British comedy that comes close to this in terms of portraying genuinely funny situations that don't feel out of place amongst the developing storyline.In short Peep Show is a fantastic dark comedy that portrays a snapshot of life, as experienced by two very different people who you could loosely define as friends.You'll cringe as much as you'll laugh but that's all part of the ride. No need to say anymore as you really should watch it for yourself.


                
Is it just me or was there a huge time lag between series one and two? In any case this show seems to be gathering more popularity and is coming out with new series more regularly and thank God! There's nothing not to like about this, it is hilarious and somewhat outrageous without ever seeming unbelievable.Mark and Jeremy are comedy masterpieces, they need each other completely and deep down they know it, but it doesn't stop them wishing everything was different.The comedy is very clever, but interspersed with a little toilet humour so it should appeal to many more people than it seems to. It's a bit of a tragic comedy, with little on the horizon for both characters and they probably know it. I'm not really saying much about what happens, but give it a go, then watch it over a few more times and you'll fall in love. There's even two DVDs now so it's not a matter of staying up to the early morning to see it as it once was.


                
People have always wondered what goes inside other people's minds, and this point-of-view comedy allows us to. Basically the two main characters, David Mitchell as the fantastic insecure Mark Corrigan and Robert Webb as the more confident, but just as weird Jeremy Osborne, are the two focused. Basically every episode they have a story going on, mostly about their relationships, i.e. Mark with Green Wing's Olivia Colman as Sophie Chapman, and 'Jez' with whoever he can get, e.g. Elizabeth Marmur as Toni, Rachel Blanchard as Nancy and Road Trip's Sophie Winkleman as Big Suze. With these stories, you see through the eyes of the characters having conversation, and the two main guys, you can hear their hilarious thoughts. A very funny programme with a very clever concept. It was nominated the BAFTA twice for Best Situation Comedy Award, and it won the British Comedy Award for Best TV Comedy. Mark Corrigan was number 12 on The World's Greatest Comedy Characters, and the programme was number 17 on The 100 Greatest TV Treats 2003 (when it started). Very good!
A very well-written and well-acted sitcom, set in Croydon, South London. The two leads are very good as chalk-and-cheese flatmates. There are many other characters who are also very good. I've marked it down one because: a) it's not credible that hardworking Mark would allow lazy, directionless Jeremy to live off him as a parasite for over a decade; b) we never find out how they met and why they moved into the flat together.


                
Where Peep Show succeeds is that the comedy is but one step removed from the ridiculous social faux pas you've made in your own life; the ones that stem from being either TOO confident (Jez) or not enough (Mark) ...What impresses me is the way that so many layers to the material are packed into half an hour<U+0085> One episode has Mark clumsily making over-the-top advances to a shy shoe-shop assistant. Most sitcoms would exploit this theme to fill an entire episode, but "Peep Show" doesn't let the awkwardness stop there; instead having Mark masquerade as a student in a desperate attempt to remain close to her and reignite his failed dreams of a learned life<U+0085> This expansion is allowed for because of the device which lets us be privy to the interior thoughts of the character. Farcical developments which may seem too much of a stretch in other shows fit in neatly here because we can understand the logic to any decisions the characters make; even if we don't agree with it!Impressively, these two protagonists are not caricatures, they are just slightly more extreme versions of ourselves, which makes for a great and hilarious watch – provided you can stand the discomfort and squirming for long enough to keep watching!
A very modern take on The Odd Couple dynamic sees Mark and Jeremy sharing a flat in London.Mark is a serious, vaguely depressed, straight down the line type of guy, who wants nothing more than to hold down a job that bores him rigid, and to marry a woman simply because he feels that that is what is expected. Conformity is his middle name. Jeremy is the exact opposite. Self-styled musical genius, he is a waster, unemployed, and content simply to take drugs, masturbate and hang out with his druggie mate Super Hans.The comedy comes from the embarrassment of the predicaments they find themselves in - most of which the viewer can relate to - and the verbal sparring between the two of them.The title is derived from the fact that each camera angle is a Point of View shot from one of the characters, so we are literally seeing the world through the eyes of the protagonists as the events unfold.. Bad language, sexualised ideas, drug use and general adult content abound and, luckily, it is absolutely hilarious.Brilliantly irreverent.
Wouldn't it be funny to be able to look inside people's heads and get to the bottom of their true thoughts and motivations? Especially when we're dealing with so varying characters from the opposing ends of the spectrum. On the one hand we've got an uptight, conservative, serious yet neurotic and therefore often panic-stricken Mark and on the other the careless, unemployed freeloader, self-declared musical genius and no less paranoid Jeremy aka Jez. For some unfathomable reason these two have come to the conclusion that they have to share a flat. Probably just for the viewer's sake. The good thing: They bring all their idiosyncrasies, obsessions, hidden agendas, weird passions or long cultivated apathies, angers, dirty fantasies and what not with them to have everything at hand whenever a big clash is needed. Hopes and dreams? Not so much. Jez is happy with doing practically nothing at all, bone the occasional chick as soon as the opportunity arises and enjoy booze and shroom parties - the more the better. Mark's aspirations are limited as well and primarily center around the girl of his heart. But it's complicated, because it's of course Mark himself who makes it that way.This all we see and hear firsthand, because, yes, writers Sam Bain and Jesse Armstrong let us peek inside these guy's heads, and their internal monologues aren't always pretty. They're rude, direct, oftentimes offending, transgressing, but mostly hilarious, as there's no censorship inside one's head. Neither when we watch. However, situations that emerge might be awkward, embarrassing and cringeworthy almost good old Ricky Gervais style. "Peep Show" is also a sitcom that shoots from an innovative hand-held POV perspective, which makes the illusion perfect that the viewer is as close to the characters as he/she can possibly be, and thus it feels alive and constantly on the move. The series is and could only be British, as as such it is bold, cynical, shameless, but fresh and cool at the same time, attacking every sitcom cliché head-on. That situations sometimes go too far is inherent in the show's approach of riding wild, so viewers should be prepared for the most outrageous possible outcomes. In short: "Peep Show" has succeeded in making the trivial sublime for a couple of seasons if we follow an image from Harvey Danger's intro song, but it has also suffered along the way. The sharply distinctive protagonists from the first seasons have changed, and some of its zest has gone. Still a must-see, if only for the first seasons.


                
In my opinion no show is a perfect 10 but Peep Show comes pretty damm close. There really aren't any other shows out there who use this kind of format so it's originality is brilliant.


                
One of the best comedy shows from channel 4 two guys with different paths and can't be anymore the complete opposite.mark a working guy who is bad with women and loves to sit in his slippers watching ww1 & ww2 documentaries.the Jeremy that will literally sleep with anything and loves drugs sex and partying.who thought these two characters would mix so well in a funny adult comedy.
Really funny.
I didn't enjoy season 9 at all tho.
Seemed too pandering for me.


                
