Are you alone? good. Have you turned off the lights? good.Is there a storm brewing in that dark foreboding sky?Excellent. Do you like brilliant black and white movies? Wonderful.Now, sit back and enjoy the best of the best. This is quite simply the best psychological thriller ever made.Often imitated but never bettered. If you have a problem with subtitled films then don't worry because you will understand this film without reading them. If you want slash and gore, go elsewhere.If you want sophisticated entertainment,you've come to the right place.Georges Cluzot's finest work is a thing of beauty as is his wife Vera, who stars opposite Simone Signoret as the schoolmaster's wife.From the very start it is very clear that all is not as it seems. But why? and who? What is the terrible secret of the swimming pool and later on, the bathtub? As the tension builds to an unbearable climax, we sit and hide behind our hands, peering through the gaps in our fingers.Oh my God!! it can't be!.....it is! Do not confuse this movie with the disgraceful remake starring Sharon Stone. All copies of that disaster should be burned. Watch this movie if you are a serious film buff. Rent something else if you have the attention span of a goldfish.Brilliant. 10/10


                
Les Diaboliques is one of the tightest, pure suspense movies I have ever seen.  The story starts out slowly, but as it moves on, peculiar things start to happen.    This movie keeps you guessing in such a way, you are riveted to your seat, hoping for a quick resolution to the suspense.  Yet, as the story unfolds, the suspense deepens.  The final scene of the movie had me sitting back holding my breath.This movie does not offer cheap, pop out and scare you tactics. Rather, it makes the viewer expect things to happen that don't.  You wait on the edge of your seat for the quick jump out and scare you event to take place, but instead, it sneaks up from behind you.  What an effect!Les Diaboliques is a classic film that delivers the complete suspense package.  It's not surprising that many suspense movies of the modern era have tried to copy the plot.  This movie is well worth renting in a video store, if you can find it.


                
Hitchcock must have forever wondered how he managed to allow this story to slip out of his hands, but the fact remains: had he filmed CELLE QUI N'ETAIT PAS into his own version of what is known as LES DIABOLIQUES, there very well might not have been a VERTIGO, also an adaptation from the authors of the aforementioned one and D'ENTRE LES MORTES. All in all, this is an excellent horror film that has strong Film Noir overtones and precedes New Wave by a couple of years and its simple yet powerful direction by Jean Georges-Clouzot elevates it from a standard thriller to one to which all others are measured spawning countless imitations with much less satisfying degree. One wonders what treatment Hitchcock would have given it, and interestingly, it's all here: the almost casual presentation of spousal abuse that occurs off-camera in one chilling scene early on, the events that lead the women (Vera Clouzot and Simone Signoret) to make a drastic decision concerning killing Clouzot's husband (Michel DelaSalle), and then the growing, deadly certainty he may not be quite dead after all... and may be after the terrified women. The last 15 minutes are one of the most tension-inducing I've ever seen in any climactic montage (even if it does veer into a certain implausibility but the intent is to tell a suspense story and Hitchcock has often mentioned the "suspension of disbelief" factor) and have long gone into history as one of the most horrific moments in cinema.To those interested in watching LES DIABOLIQUES, please do NOT watch its American remake, DIABOLIQUE, with Sharon Stone and Isabelle Adjani. It pays to read the subtitles in this film.
DIABOLIQUE (Henri-Georges Clouzot - France 1955). I must admit I found Clouzot's earlier WAGES OF FEAR(1953) slightly disappointing and therefor temporarily held back from watching any other films he made but how wrong I was! This much discussed classic was one of the most frightening and disturbing films I've ever seen. The music theme played during the opening credits with the organ and the singing schoolchildren still makes the hairs in my neck stand up, even at this very moment.The story revolves around the tyrant schoolmaster Delasalle (Paul Meurisse) of a seedy boarding school, his wife (Vera Clouzot) and his mistress (Simone Signoret). An he maltreats them both, they decide to work together to murder him. They drown Delasalle in the bathtub and dump the corpse in the abandoned swimming pool next to the school. But then, eerie things start to happen. When the pool is drained and no body is found, the two women grow increasingly fearful that Delasalle is still alive. When subsequently his suit is returned from the dry-cleaners and the schoolchildren repeatedly testify they've seen Delasalle, they start to panic and the strange occurrences surrounding his supposed resurrection slowly drive them into insanity and complete paranoia.Justifiably hailed as one of the most suspenseful films ever made and often compared to Hitchcock's work. Clouzot lacks the master's wit but as far as suspense goes, he is incomparable. Very much opposed to Hitchcock, this film - like most of his work - has a very cynical and misanthropic feel to it. Perhaps largely due to this very dark tone and Clouzot's excellent eye for detail, even today it still has the power to drive you right up the wall. And Simone Signoret, whom I've never (consciously) seen before in other films, greatly added to my admiration of this film. A sublime actress and an absolutely hypnotizing screen presence. The entire cast is terrific for that matter with Charles Vanel as inspector Fichet another standout.Clouzot takes his time to build up the story very precisely but once the mysterious things start to happen every scene adds to an almost unbearable tension. You'll watch every facial expression and every detail on screen with increasing paranoia yourself, in order to understand what on earth could have happened. And the ending is so surprising that I wasn't quite sure anymore about the things I just saw, even right after the film's ending. A genuinely great movie that more than lives up to its status and has lost none of its impact over the last five decades.Camera Obscura --- 10/10


                
This is not a legend : after reading Pierre Boileau's novel, Alfred Hitchcock phone the editor in the morning to buy the story for making a film. But another great master, Henri-Georges Clouzot, had phone 30 minutes earlier. Mister Hitchcock was angry! But Hitch couldn't have done better than Clouzot. This is P-E-R-F-E-C-T! The black and white, the dialogues, the acting and even the reclusive French scool of the 1950's. And for the suspense... well every viewer of IMDB had said the same things I could said. So, Diaboliques is the best suspense thriller of all time, and also one of the best movie ever made. Please, I really said please, don't ever watch the remake with Isabelle Adjani and Sharon Stone. There are certains movies that you can't make two times. Like all the Hitchcock and Clouzot films, for example...


                
Scare the crap out of you! I don't hand out many 10s. Some movies don't really require much thought or analysis. In the end all that matters is what happened to you when you first saw it.I remember when I first saw this. Nothing scary at first, but the nastiness of the place and the people is effortlessly shown. And then the bad stuff starts to happen.Ugliness...shock...suspense...shock...mystery...eeriness...awful shock.I remember, though it must have been forty years ago, the climactic scenes with my neck hairs standing up, sweat on my face, clutching the theater armrests like I was in danger of falling, and finally realizing I was weeping- not tears of sadness, tears of helpless terror.I envy anyone seeing this for the first time.


                
Another terrific suspense film from Henri-Georges Clouzot, Les Diaboliques (also known as "Diabolique") is a tense story of murder, suspicion and revenge. The plot revolves around two women, Christina (Vera Clouzot) and Nicole (Simone Signoret) who conspire to murder the brutish man who is Christina's husband and Nicole's lover Michel, played by the delightfully sullen Paul Meurisse. He is the principal of a boarding school for boys who relies on Vera's money to support his excesses, and the two women are both teachers at the school.Vera has her doubts about committing murder, even though Michel is incredibly abusive. But Nicole convinces her to help drug and then drown Michel. All seems to be going well until Michels body goes missing and the two women turn against each other. The situation is complicated further by the appearance of a retired police inspector who is determined to help Vera find her "missing" husband, despite the poor woman's protests. The tension continues to mount until the hair-raising climax.This movie is on a par with some of Hitchcock's best work, although Clouzot doesn't mix much humor in with the suspense, as Hitch often did. However, Vera's interaction with the droll inspector does provides some chuckles. Unlike his previous film, The Wages Of Fear, Clouzot doesn't spend a whole lot of time on the set-up of the plot, but gets right to the meat of the matter, and from there Diabolique rolls along very quickly with barely a letup in the action.I can't believe it took me so long to see this masterpiece. Highly recommended.


                
The boys' school in Saint Cloud, a suburb of Paris, run by Michel and Christina Delassale, serves as the background for one of the best suspense thrillers of the French cinema. The school belongs to Christina, but it's Michel who has the last word about everything. This penny pinching man insists in giving his students living at the boarding school the worst food money can buy. Michel is also a man who loves to slap his wife, and his mistress, Nicole Horner, who is a teacher at the school. When we first meet them, Nicole has a swollen eye and wears dark glasses to hide her shame. Obviously, everyone guesses what is really going on between Michel and Nicole, even his wife. Christina is aware of the extra-marital goings on between her husband and his mistress. A strong minded Nicole shows how she dominates the weaker Christine. Nicole, who is fed up with the situation convinces Christina something must be done. She sets things in motion to go to her home town during a brief vacation so that Christina and Nicole attract Michel to come after them as they have a plan of their own about how to deal with his abuses.The women's plan is to bring Michel's body back to the school and dump him in the murky swimming pool, where he would be discovered as drowned by accident, or perhaps his own suicide. When the pool is drained, there is no corpse. When one of Michel's suits is sent from a dry cleaner's the women are dumbfounded. When they go to investigate, the owner hands them a key for a nearby hotel room.Christina, who is a fragile woman with what appears to be a weak heart, feels guilty. When she reads in the newspaper about a drowning victim found on the Seine, she has to find out to see if it's her husband. Of course, the dead man is not Michel, which heightens the mystery. What Christina didn't count on is the retired inspector, Alfred Fichet, who watches her outside the viewing room at the morgue. This man will become the key figure to solving Michel's disappearance. "Les Diaboliques" was Clouzot's triumph because the suspense works until the end. He based his screen play in a novel by Pierre Boileau and Thomas Narcejar, who also served as the basis for "Vertigo". In fact, much has been said about the similarities between the two directors, but it is unfortunate because both men approached their work in different ways. Clouzot hints subtly at perhaps a lesbian relationship between Nicole and Christine as it appears both want to be rid of the horrible Michel.The acting is first rate. Simone Signoret, one of the best and most attractive actresses of her era, makes an earthy Nicole. She is calculating because there is a lot at stake. Vera Clouzot plays Christine as a bundle of nerves because of the gravity of her actions. Paul Meurisse is the evil Michel. Charles Vanet is the old inspector Fichet. Also in the cast, a young Michel Serrault, and the singer Johnny Holiday, who appears uncredited as one of the boys in the school.Henri Georges Clouzot was at the top of his craft and he clearly showed he was a master of suspense, bar none.
As you watch this, notice the use of water. Dripping, flowing, lying about in stagnant pools. It's a brilliant device in this oppressive, eerie film. This is one of those "often imitated, never copied" sorts of films. Simone Signoret was never better. Unforgettable!


                
I loved this movie so much! This is because I rarely have had a movie throw so many surprises and twists into the plot! Movies too often doing the conventional and expected is one of the reasons I like to watch a lot of foreign films and this one takes the cake! The film is a "noirish" suspense film about two women who want to kill the same man. One is the wife and the other is his mistress. They both meet and agree to kill him together! That alone makes this an interesting twist! What they exactly do and the twists that occur I don't want to discuss, as it would really ruin the movie! Just believe me that the acting, writing and directing couldn't be better and when it was over, I was more than satisfied!


                
This is without a doubt the best work of its genre.  To find a film which leaves one's head spinning at the enormity of plot and literally keeps one in suspense until the very last few frames is rare, but coupled with the incredible acing and characterisations, this can be the only film of its kind. DON'T MISS IT!!


                
Like Stanley Donen's 1963 thriller CHARADE, Henri-Georges Clouzot's DIABOLIQUE is one of the best Hitchcock films that Hitchcock DIDN'T make! The crucial difference is that CHARADE recalls playful, polished, soignée Hitchcock films such as NORTH BY NORTHWEST, while DIABOLIQUE, based on a novel by Boileau & Narcejac of VERTIGO fame, is more like a precursor of Hitch's darker, more sinister PSYCHO. I understand Clouzot snatched up the film rights to the Boileau/Narcejac novel about half an hour before Hitchcock got a crack at it. It would have been fascinating to see Hitch's approach to the material. Darkly magnificent as PSYCHO is, DIABOLIQUE's gloomy, misogynistic take on the story sinks into your gut and haunts your dreams. Even DIABOLIQUE'S opening credit sequence immediately makes us uneasy with its merciless close-up of the run-down DeLassalle Boarding School's murky, mossy swimming pool, accompanied by children shrilly singing Georges Van Parys's music off-key and off-screen. The film starts out at a leisurely pace, but as it goes along, the tension tightens like a noose, helped by skillful use of shadows and light. Without giving away its twists, I'll only say that DIABOLIQUE gives new meaning to the phrase "cruel to be kind." Vera Clouzot (yes, the director's Mrs., or should I say Mme.?) and Simone Signoret are electrifying as, respectively, the long-suffering wife and mistress of manipulative, sadistic headmaster Paul Meurisse. As the women plot to kill the bastard, Clouzot's delicate loveliness and anxious air (her character has a heart condition that contributes to the suspense -- as if the poor gal doesn't have enough problems!) plays beautifully off Signoret's sexy, smoldering intensity. Which is scarier, the water sports in DIABOLIQUE or in PSYCHO? Watch them and decide for yourselves! :-) Grade: A+


                
This movie is simply amazing on all fronts. It is in fact so amazing, you can't even comprehend how amazing it is until you watch it a 2nd time. Spend the 2nd time looking for plotholes, and then become frustrated when you don't find any. Bothered by the fact that film seems to move slow without a musical score? I was too at first. And then I realized how brilliant it it was. The lack of score helps to create greater tension, adding a Tell-Tale Heart quality to the story.(If you aren't familiar with the Edgar Allen Poe story of the same name, you must live under a rock. Check it out. You won't be disappointed.) The screenplay is airtight, not a single plothole. The acting is all top-notch. Extremely well-directed. If you thought this film was good, let me help persuade you towards my view. Think about when this was made, and think about the other films made at the time. This movie would stand-out as a great film today. The fact that it was made almost fifty (50, the big 5-0) years ago and you see that a true classic never goes out of style. The only reason I can think of anyone not loving this movie is they either can't appreciate a good film or are too closed-minded to watch a film that isn't in their own language. If you understand the intricacies of film-making, you will also realize how simply amazing this film is. Still not convinced? What if I tell you that Master of Suspense, Alfred Hitchcock was heavily influenced by this film when making Psycho, which is regarded as in most circles as the greatest thriller of all time. H.G. Clouzout first employed the practice of not letting anyone into Diabolique after it started. And don't forget about the twist ending so commonly seen and overused in today's cinema. How many times have you seen a twist ending in a thriller? It all started with Diabolique. Do yourself a favor and check this film out. And do your friends a favor and tell them about this suspense masterpiece. Forget about the fact that it is in subtitles. Turn the lights off. ENJOY.


                
French thrillers always feature a strong social background:see Claude Chabrol's movies for instance.Such is the case with "Diabolique".In ,say,"Vertigo" (which,like"Diabolique,was inspired by a Boileau-Narcejac novel),the social background is nowhere to be seen;that doesn't prevent Hitchcock 's movie from being a masterpiece though.Clouzot's screenplay is much different from the original novel.The action doesn't take place in a lousy school on the paper.Clouzot wanted to be "realistic" ,that's why he literally created the two-bit boarding-school and the grotesque teachers.The actors were so good they survived their unbelievable characters.Another significant difference between Clouzot and Hitchcock:the former saves the "surprise" for a final that leaves you on the edge of your seat,the latter-in "Vertigo"- tells the audience the whole truth before the last third,and studies his character -who does not know- and his psychological reactions.Generally,in France ,critics favor Hitch over Clouzot,but the two directors can't be compared because their approaches are diametrically opposite.This is not legend.It is fact:this is the greatest French thriller ever.I'm overjoyed when I read all those enthusiastic reviews from abroad after all the negative ones I 've read in my native France.Thanks to you,all IMDb users!!


                
Released in 1955, "Diaboliques" (translated as 'The Devils') has often been described as the most Hichcockian non-Hitchcock feature film: this assessment is flattering as long as it doesn't diminish the directorial talent of Henri-George Clouzot.It's true that Henri-George Clouzot's psychological thriller features several archetypes that cemented the legend of the droll-profile director. Much more, with a dead man in a bathtub (no spoiler, here), a plot focusing less on the crime committed than its mysterious aftermath, a palpable sexual tension and a spectacular twist ending, the film has the most comparable plot to "Psycho". However, the comparison overlooks that Clouzot was already considered a master in the mystery and thriller genre, to which "Diaboliques" blends both elements. His heart-pounding "Wages of Fear" had already chilled the spine of viewers in all over the world. So, no matter how close "Diaboliques" is to "Psycho", it still was the first comer<U+0085> and in fact, without "Diaboliques", there wouldn't be "Psycho". Legend had it that Clouzot bought the rights of the novel written by Pierre Boileau and Thomas Narcejac a few hours before Hitch. Granted he was already an iconic director, there are chances that without "Psycho", everyone would have praised "Diaboliques" as the most suspenseful and horrific thriller ever instead of any Hitchcock's film, so it's very probable that the Master of Suspense took the case personally. Then "Diaboliques" made a sensation in the United States, became the favorite film of Robert Block, who wrote "Psycho" for Hitch, the rest is history. Using a shower instead of a bathtub, the film borrows many elements from "Diaboliques" including as spectacular climax: Clouzot's thriller is infamous for its anti- spoiler message at the end, begging the viewers not to be devilish and reveal the ending. But the interest of "Diaboliques" doesn't rely on the ending only; the film opens with an intriguing set of relationships that confine to 'triangular hatred'. Vera Clouzot is Christina, a frail, sickly and insecure brunette, wife of Michel Delasalle, the headmaster of a Provincial boarding school, played by the great Paul Meurisse, a tyrant with both kids and the teachers and a bully with his wife: the only area where she can control him is financial, she owns the school. There is the obligatory mistress, played by Simone Signoret, who's everything Christina is not: blonde, sexy and commanding. In this masterstroke of casting it's easy to see in the contrast between the two women, the roots for a genuine attraction, Signoret becomes 'manly' with Christina while Christina is totally passionless regarding her marriage. The talent of Clouzot is to keep a cloud of ambiguity floating within the main atmosphere, thanks to a convincing yet misleading characterization. Vera Clouzot might not be the greatest actress of her era, only remembered for her roles in "Diaboliques" and "Wages of Fear", she magnificently transcends her limited range into one of the most memorable and poignant movie performances with her constant nervousness, accent, and petite frame, towered by Meurisse who's described as a 5'7'' tall man, the typical mistreated woman. When she consents to help Nicole in the murder of her husband with Nicole, the plan itself might be "diabolique" but I refused to tag Christina with such an epithet, because after the murder is committed, the film climbs the ladder from a simple thriller to a masterpiece of horror and mystery.Indeed, never has the word 'heart pounding' been so fitting to describe a thriller. In "Diaboliques", Christina suffers from a heart condition, which ironically meets reality because the real actress died five later of a heart attack. But this device plays a pivotal role in the way her body responses to a series of strange occurrences ensuing the murder. All through the film, the mystery suggests a sort of devilish presence, starting with a body dropped in the swimming pool waiting to float and make it appear like an accident, then disappearing, a silhouette in a photograph's background. The feeling of a set-up, intended to drive Cristina into madness, reminds of another Hitchcockian non-Hitchcock classic: "Gaslight", but with a darker undertone, more macabre, indeed more devilish.I wouldn't go further, out of respect to Clouzot who made his wish explicit at the end of the film, hoping no one would see the film after the dreadful remake, because 80% of the legend -not the quality- that elevated "Diaboliques" to its iconic status, depends on the gripping climax and the heart-pounding four minutes before. But there is much more to say about the film, in terms of entertainment. Many philosophical words are used to describe Clouzot's films: existential, pessimistic, nihilistic etc. I suspect the man was beyond labels, and more eager to create sensational films. He was a craftsman of cinematic experiences, providing the right levels of emotions with never being their slave. Clouzot's films always featured a gallery of colorful characters, whom the viewers could identify with, and "Diaboliques" is no exception: Pierre Larquay, the elderly teacher, a young Michel Serrault, George Poujouly, the kid from "Forbidden Games", Noël Roquevert and on the top of all, the scene-stealing performance of Charles Vanel as Inspecteur Fichet. Coming from nowhere, Vanel is the man who asks the questions with the nonchalance of the friendly routine-guy while his tendency to forget the questions hides his real goal which is to confront the people with their own contradictions. As small as it was, Fichet inspired one of the most beloved TV characters: "Columbo", another reason to thank Clouzot for "Diabioliques".So, if you're a fan of "Columbo", of "Hitchcock", of French cinema, of movies with twist endings, there's no excuse not to see "Diaboliques", one of the best thrillers ever.


                
Henri-Georges Clouzot's 1955 thriller "Les diaboliques" (simply called "Diabolique" in English) is widely known as one of the greatest murder mysteries of all time. And trust me, you have to see it to believe it. Not only the plot, but the camera angle, lighting, and absence of music combine to make one of the most intense pieces of work out there. I did not see that ending coming, even though there were clues throughout the movie. The entire cast puts on outstanding performances (I've only seen a few of Simone Signoret's movies, but she always did a perfect job). It's too bad that Véra Clouzot died a few years after the release; she could've gone on to have one of the finest careers.It's not the scariest movie ever, but still one of the cleverest. The first few minutes aren't much, but once Nicole and Christina carry out their deed, things REALLY get going (and if the end shocks us in the 21st century, imagine how it seemed way back when).Having seen this one, I'm eager to see Clouzot's earlier "Wages of Fear". "Diabolique" is one for the ages; there was a US remake, but I'm not interested in that one.And remember, don't reveal the ending!
Quite simply put, this is one of the best movies ever made. Im not a film expert and i don't know all the fancy terms or technical jargon, I've never taken a film appreciation class or gone to a movie premier. But with this movie, none of that really matters. When i watch movies, very rarely do any emotions manifest themselves physically, and never from horror films. This was different. I was more horrified, disturbed, and awe stricken by this than any other movie. Goosebumps, raised hair, at the climax i actually had to get up and walk around. I was absolutely astounded that a movie could affect me that way. I found this movie interesting from the beginning definition of "les diaboliques" as "little devils," up until the ending. The ending. That fantastically astounding, genius, breathtaking, work of art ending.Whats surprising about this film is the quality of the (special) effects for 1955. If it was made again today there is not one thing i would change about it. Great acting, writing, directing, lighting, scenery, you name it. I love Hitchcock but even his movies have not managed to thrill me like this has, and when i think of Hitchcock i think old, classic movies. This is not a classic, it is timeless, untouched by the gimmicky film effects of the time.You don't have to like old movies to like this. You don't have to like black and whites, or foreigns. You don't have to like reading subtitles. If you like movies, if you watch movies, you will like this one. If it sounds like I'm trying to get you to watch this, its because i am. I have been using IMDb for years, and this is the first review I've ever written. I love this movie so much i felt obligated to review it in hopes to influence at least one person to experience it. This is hands down the best movie I've ever rented. If you watch it, do so alone, and in the dark.


                
Les Diaboliques is pure brilliance. Rarely have I ever been so tense in my life. This film is definitely one that must be watched alone and in the dark. It's chilling, especially due to the brilliant cinematography and the beautiful black and white which makes the film extra eerie. Although some of the acting could be a tad overdone, there really isn't anything to complain about in that department.The story is about a Headmaster, Delasalle (Paul Meurisse) and his wife (Vera Clouzot) and mistress (Simone Signoret) looking for a way out of his tyranny. So they both create a plot to murder him.This isn't the type of thriller that involves things jumping out at you followed by loud bangs of music. This is all about the unexpected. There are scenes where I was holding my breath and clenching the couch in nervous tension. When nothing seemed to happen I felt relived, then I saw something and it hit me and scared the hell out of me. And nothing will prepare anyone for the shocker of an ending. I was literally blown away, it was huge and extremely scary.5/5.


                
The very best really artistic horror film ever. I saw Diabolique on a double date at the Larkin Theatre on a rainy night in San Franciso in '55, while I was at Cal Berkeley. We got into the lobby just before the showing ended. It was the last film I ever saw (if not the last ever) where the ushers (remember them?) enforced a "no one will be seated 15 minutes before the end" rule (in those days you could go in at any time). I remember hearing the screams from the audience from behind the closed doors, and their shaken looks when they exited. Actually, when we were seeing it, about 15 minutes before the end our dates were seated in our laps! Which was great. The only thing was I couldn't go into the bathroom at my dorm alone for the next week. Then, in 1960, to make it worse, Psycho was released, and I couldn't take a shower for a long time. I played Diabolique for my three kids on a Halloween (about 30 years later) and I don't have to tell you what happened. Then Jaws came along . . . If you haven't seen Diabolique, you are in for a real treat, and a really classy scare. See it alone with someone you love (or whatever). The Old Blue Buff.


                
I've seen Les Diaboliques with its very high rating on IMDb for a few years. But I thought to myself, it can't be that good - it's French. I finally gave it a chance. How wrong was I? I've never been more happy with a blind purchase in my life.Michel Delasalle (Paul Meurisse) is the headmaster of an all-boys school. He's an abusive person to both his wife (Vera Clouzot - the director's wife) and his mistress (Simone Signoret) - both of whom work at the school. The wife and mistress decide they can't take it anymore and hatch a plot to kill Michel. The plan is carried out and the body is placed where it can be found. The problem is no one finds the body. It's gone. Things turn from bad to worse (and more horrifying) when students begin reporting that they have seen Michel roaming through the school. Any more of the story would be far too much.I do my best not to rate a movie 10/10 after a first viewing. But every once in a while, I stumble upon a real classic that I can't help but call perfect. The acting is very impressive, especially Vera Clouzot as the fragile wife. I felt every emotion she expressed. The plot is fantastic. Even though I figured out what was going to happen, it didn't matter. The movie is so well written that it was just a joy to watch it unfold. The sets are about the best I've seen. Everything looked just as I would expect from a French movie made so close to end of the war. Nothing was changed to make things look "pretty". It's dirty and it works. I could go on and on like this, but you get the idea.Clouzot has been called the "French Hitchcock" and it's easy to see why. He handles a movie with Hitchcockian type themes as well as Hitchcock might have himself. His decision to allow the movie the time necessary to build atmosphere and to allow the audience to get to know the characters is something I find sorely missing in many of today's movies.I highly recommend this one.


                
Les Diabloiques is perhaps the finest of the film noir genre. Simone Signoret is best remembered for her femme fatale role in this stylish, suspenseful film.  Henri-Georges Clouzot beat out none other than Alfred Hitchcock for the rights to the novel from which Les Diaboliques was adapted (by Clouzot).  Hitchcock could scarcely have done better with the material.Above all, however, I would urge people to see this original version and NOT the 1996 American remake with Sharon Stone taking on Signoret's role.  If you have seen the remake but not the original, please go back and see how good this film was with Clouzot's masterful script and direction and shot in glorious black & white.  A comparison of the two provides a wonderful illustration of how the script, while certainly of great importance, is not the final determining factor on how a film turns out.  Direction and acting make all the difference here.


                
Despite my dad having picked up the DVD years ago,I for some reason have never got round to seeing auteur director Henri-Georges Clouzot's epic Film Noir Horror.With the October Horror Challenge taking place on IMDb's Horror board,I decided that it was the perfect time to finally discover how "Diaboliques" things could get.The plot:Stomping round the second-rate boarding school like he owns the place, Michel Delassalle finds his wife Christina not willing to give up her sole ownership of the school,even when he flaunts fellow teacher/less than secret mistress Nicole Horner in front of Christina.Getting pushed in between them,Horner becomes increasingly frustrated at Michel's behaviour.Getting sick of the mistreatment that Michel inflicts on both of them,Nicole starts devising a plan with Christina to murder Michel.Traveling together to a remote village, Christina gets her husband to come down by threatening to divorce him.Revealing to Michel that she was just messing around in order to get him to come down,Christina gives Michel a drink to calm down.Unknown to Michel,the duo have laced the drink with sleeping sedatives.Getting Michel in a bath,Horner drowns him whilst Christina gets a led weight. Throwing Michel's body in the school's dirty outdoor swimming pool, Christina and Nicole soon discover that their diabolic act won't sink.View on the film:Hating every moment on the set due to co-writer/ (along with Jérôme Géronimi/René Masson & Frédéric Grendel) director Henri-Georges Clouzot only paying her for 8 weeks,despite the shoot overrunning to 16 weeks,the elegant Simone Signoret gives a chilling performance as Nicole Horner,with the behind the scenes issues being strongly suggested by Signoret giving Nicole a frosty femme fatale edge over the pouring with emotion Christina. Circling round Christina and Michel,Signoret gives Nicole a striking masculinity,as Nicole has to grip Christina's fragile nerves over the plan,whilst laying on the brash charm for her lover Michel.Showing that she does not take the role easy despite being married to the director, the stunning Véra Clouzot (who sadly died at age 46) gives an incredible performance as Christina Delassalle .Being far less confident on the plan than Nicole is, Véra Clouzot brilliantly balances Christina's tense excitement over the act,and the burnt nerves that follow an unexpected turn in the plan. Joining Signoret & Véra Clouzot, Paul Meurisse gives an excellent performance as Michel,with Meurisse giving Michel a hard-nosed brittle edge,with Meurisse blunt dialogue delivery building anticipation to Nicole & Christina putting their plan into action.Grabbing the rights to Pierre Boileau & Thomas Narcejac novel just before Hitchcock made an attempt,the writers spend the first 30 minutes pulling up the decaying Film Noir school,with the writers making a satirical comment on the French education system,as Michel has an equal disregard for the education of the children,and the feelings of his lovers.Keeping away from drying the title up with social dissection,the writers paint a superb Film Noir galley of dread,as Christina & Nicole's mutual mistrust crashes against Michel,with the cold and calculating femme fatale Nicole having to keep the terrified out of her wits Christina on track at all cost. Striking the title with a deliciously macabre twist ending,the writers delicately place the clues to the ending with a real precision, which allows the viewer to see the relationships between Michel.Nicole & Christina from a completely different angle.Placing a tar pit swimming pool by the school,director Henri-Georges Clouzot and cinematographer Armand Thirard sink the trio into murky Film Noir waters,with Clouzot & Thirard covering the screen in long, looming shadows hiding deceit and betrayal. Highlighting the horror elements,Clouzot uses dazzling close-ups on Christina's face to capture the shock of terror being cast across her face,as the ruins start to crumble.
"Les Diaboliques" (1955) ranks as one of the most intelligently written and directed psychological thrillers I've ever seen. It's a film for enthusiasts and one that requires patience, as it slowly adds layers to it's story, builds suspense and ends with a surprise double twist. It's all very interesting and absorbing.Two women conspire to murder a man. One is the wife and the other is the mistress. Things appear successful, until strange things begin to happen, challenging the sanity of one of the women. The opening credits appear with some surreal imagery and a haunting little music score, the only music of the film. Best enjoyed by serious film goers. Highly recommended.
This beautifully made shocker, as with other great films, is filled with memorable details. Among them, is the setting in post-war France, with the shadows of WW2 seemingly casting a sombre pall on everything: the struggling economical problems of the characters; the look of distress on the buildings. The art direction by Barsacq captures fascinating details of the way furnishings and possessions of people looked. Another interesting element is the presentation of the students at the boarding school. The students seemed to be especially rowdy and disrespectful; was this typical behavior for students at French boarding schools in the 1950s?


                
