Set in a French boarding school for boys, "Les Diaboliques" tells the story of two teachers, Christina (played by Vera Clouzot), and Nicole (played by Simone Signoret), who conspire to kill the sadistic headmaster, a man who also happens to be Christina's abusive husband.Like most murder mysteries, the story is highly improbable; nevertheless, the film is still hugely entertaining, thanks in part to plot twists and turns that even Agatha Christie would admire, and to the film's B&W lighting, that renders a noirish, sinister atmosphere.The first half is interesting and tightly plotted. But the real strength of the film's underlying premise begins at the mid-point plot turn. The second half is riveting, because the tight plot begins to ooze with mystery and suspense. It builds to a final ten minutes that are as frightening as almost any ending in film history; dark interiors, shadows, ominous light at the end of a long hallway, a general absence of sound, a gloved hand, a scream, and an unexpected image. It's the very definition of spine-tingling suspense.There is a clue to help solve the story's mystery in the film's first ten minutes; but like any good mystery, that clue is very subtle. All the film's acting is excellent, even down to the children actors. And, Simone Signoret is as wonderful here as she is in all of her other movies.English subtitles require a little more work for viewers who cannot understand the French dialogue; yet, the story, the acting, and the cinematography should more than offset this minor irritation. Background music occurs only during the film's title sequence and closing credits; this general absence of music thus enhances suspense.Although not strictly speaking a whodunit, "Les Diaboliques" is a classic murder mystery that has earned a well-deserved reputation for setting the standard for cinematic suspense. The story is riveting, and the film is technically well made. More recent films have tried to copy it; but this is the original.


                
"Les Diaboliques" has one of the best plots you will ever find in any mystery or suspense thriller.  The excellent directing, acting, and writing combine with the story itself to make it a memorable experience.If you enjoy quality mysteries or thrillers, you will almost certainly enjoy this one - and if you have not seen it yet, you might just want to buy or rent it now, before you read any more reviews.  This comment will avoid any discussion at all of the actual plot itself, because the less you know in advance, the more you will enjoy it.  The few implausible elements in the story do not detract at all from the enjoyment.A great plot does not all by itself make a good movie, and everything works especially well here because of the expert pacing by director Henri-Georges Clouzot and good, mostly understated acting by the main actors.  We are drawn into their world very nicely.  Everything about the characters and events is built up perfectly, to give the brilliant climax its full effect. Once again, see it before you find out any more.Even if you do not normally watch black-and-white films or foreign movies (this is in French), if you enjoy thrillers, watch "Les Diaboliques" as soon as you have the chance.


                
Diabolique (1955)Slow, unexpected suspense, and gorgeous, understated filming. A pair of women completely different but in love with the same man, who they say they detest equally. A boy's boarding school filled with chatter and mischief and long, dark corridors. And a weirdly clever and intrusive retiring cop who may, or may not, be figuring this thing out as we go.Better than a whodunit mystery, this one actually sucks you in and makes you almost cry out for the victim you see in danger. The twist, the main one, is pretty astonishing, and not completely unreasonable, though you have to just marvel at some of the good luck needed to make it work. And good acting.In charge here is Henri-Georges Clouzot, who is famous mostly for this, and to a lesser degree the fabulous Wages of Fear from two years earlier. There is little here familiar for American audiences, except maybe the Hitchockian tone, paced with a steady build that would make the English director proud (but instead made him jealous, apparently, since Clouzot bought the script hours before Hitchcock was going to). The perfect pitch for dialog, for humor against the ominous background, and for the innocence of a bunch of naughty boys all add up to make a neverending suspense. The famous admonishment at the end not to talk about the film to people who hadn't seen it only emphasizes how good the film is the second time, even when you know what's going to happen. It isn't all about surprise, but about an expert manipulation of the medium, cinema, for maximum effect. It's a film not too different in style from the best of the dark, semi-Gothic dramas of American 1940s cinema (this is later), and even though you are busy reading subtitles at times, it clicks along with visual and gestural ease. Quite an experience.


                
Headmaster of a boarding school, Michel Delaselle (Paul Meurisse) is a brooding bully of a man, one day his wife and mistress decide enough is enough and plot to kill him, trouble is that once they murder him, his body disappears and reported sightings of him are adding to the ladies' paranoia.Thus is the setting for director Henri-Georges Clouzot's brilliant suspenser. The pace is stiflingly perfect, he gently racks up the tension, neatly toying with audience expectation, the sense of dread that hangs in the air is palpable. How refreshing it is to see a suspense film actually build its plot for a good hour? In this day and age the MTV generation would be walking out of this after 30 minutes. Armand Thirard's atmospheric photography accentuates the creeping menace like mood, to the point that when we get to the last 15 minutes, nerves are already frayed and we then of course get what is arguably the greatest bath scene ever, and "that" ending... When I first watched it back in 2008 it was on a poor quality DVD, but revisiting it on Blu-ray it still worked me over as the great suspense movie it is, forcing me to seek the solace of daylight ASAP. Great writing, great directing, great acting, the latter thriving due to Simone Signoret's dangerously simmering sexuality and Véra Clouzot's heartfelt vulnerability. It's one of the classic chillers of European cinema. And if you haven't seen it yet? Do what I did last night, get the Blu-ray, turn off the lights and just have a couple of candles flickering away in your peripheral vision. Maybe indulge in some stiff drinks like I did, and most of all, watch it on your own... 9/10


                
Based on the Pierre Boileau and Thomas Narcejac novel CELLE QUI N'ETAIT PLUS, Henri-Georges Clouzot's 1955 DIABOLIQUE is easily among the most influential films of world cinema, leaving its mark on everything from Alfred Hitchcock's VERTIGO and PSYCHO to William Castle's THE TINGLER--but even so, and while Hitchcock's masterpieces can be said to at least equal the Clouzot original, few if any of the films spawned by DIABOLIQUE ever bested it.Variously known as DIABOLIQUE, LES DIABOLIQUES, and THE DEVILS, the film presents a complex story. Christina Delasalle (Vera Clouzot, wife of director Henri-Georges Clouzot), is a remarkably beautiful and considerably wealthy woman who has the misfortune to suffer from delicate health, personal timidity, and brutish husband Michel (Paul Meurisse.) The two operate a boys' school that Christina owns, and among the teachers is hard-nosed Nicole Horner (Simone Signoret), who has become Michel's mistress but who finds Michel every bit as unpleasant as wife Christina.An unlikely alliance springs up between the two women, and together they conspire to murder Michel and thereafter run the school for themselves. But although the murder seems to go as planned, the body goes missing, and the two women suddenly find themselves taunted by mysterious notes and strange happenings. Has Michel survived the attempt on his life? Or has the murder been discovered and the stage is being set for blackmail?In the wake of DIABOLIQUE's international success, the story has been told in so many variations that many may consider the original has lost some of the shock value it possessed when it first debuted, but even so the film has much to offer. This is particularly true in terms of style and performances. Director Clouzot endows the film with a sense of visual decay and a near-documentary tone that merge to create one of the most chilling atmospheres ever captured on screen. While Signoret's performance of the angry mistress is the more widely celebrated, she is equaled by Vera Clouzot, who has the more complex role and whose performance must carry the weight of the film's most disturbing moments; together they create a truly remarkable synergy of the most lethal kind.I have seen DIABOLIQUE in several different releases, and while the Criterion DVD is somewhat glitchy it is easily the best version available; one should avoid all other releases, particularly the truly atrocious release by Madacy. Strongly recommended, particularly to fans of internation cinema and classic suspense.Gary F. Taylor, aka GFT, Amazon Reviewer


                
"Les Diaboliques" is a classic murder mystery with a fascinating story, interesting characters, good plot twists and a sensational conclusion. On its release it achieved great commercial success and in the years since has maintained its popularity and served as a major source of inspiration for other filmmakers with many of its original elements being employed to great effect, especially in psychological thrillers. Its story was based on the novel "Celle qui n'etait plus" by Pierre Boileau and Thomas Narcejac. These are the same writers who wrote "D'Entre des Morts" which was the source material for Alfred Hitchcock's "Vertigo". There is a similarity between the two plots in the sense that revelations in the second half of both stories change the audience's perception of what they've seen in the first half.A strong feature of the movie is its characters (particularly those who comprise the menage a trois) and the time taken to explore the dynamic between them and their motivations is particularly pertinent to what happens later in the story. The combination of Henri-Georges Clouzot's skillful direction and Armand Thirard's cinematography contributes powerfully to the ominous atmosphere of the piece and the tension that prevails throughout.The setting for the action is a run down boarding school where the arrogant and abusive Principal Michel Delasalle (Paul Meurisse) is despised by his staff, his pupils, his sickly wife Christina (Vera Clouzot) and his mistress Nicole (Simone Signoret). Christina is a rather timid ex-nun who owns the school and also has a heart condition. She's habitually humiliated by Michel's behaviour, his abuse and the fact that everyone in the school is aware of his infidelity. Nicole is a competent, assertive and rather calculating member of the staff who has been physically abused by Michel and at one stage wears dark glasses to conceal a black eye.Instead of being at loggerheads with each other, the two women become close as they reach the limit of their tolerance and decide that they can't endure their maltreatment any longer. They devise a plan to end their plight and go to Nicole's apartment in a village some distance away from the school during a holiday. Christina lures Michel to the apartment so that they can drown him and transport him back to the school where his body would be deposited in the swimming pool. The plan is successful and the women wait for the corpse to float to the surface so that it'll appear that Michel has died as the result of an accident. When the body fails to surface, the pool is drained but Michel's body has vanished. The events that follow make the women increasingly bewildered and anxious until eventually matters reach their shocking conclusion.Christina's character is particularly interesting because although she's the most financially powerful of the three, she's also the most diffident and the most fragile because of her poor health. Her religious beliefs prevent her from seeing divorce as an acceptable means of escape from her husband's abuse and yet her natural inclination to be compliant leads her into going along with the murder plot suggested by the more forceful Nicole. This in turn also makes her become full of anguish as the threat of discovery grows and more guilt ridden when she has more time to reflect on the part she'd played in what was an extremely wicked act."Les Diaboliques" is a marvellous and memorable movie with great performances from its three main characters, an enjoyable mixture of suspense and moments of black humour and the sort of power and quality which make it totally unforgettable. This is simply one of those movies that should be seen by everyone who enjoys cinema because regardless of their reaction to it, they'll never forget it.
Henri-Georges Clouzot is one of my favorite French directors.  He imbued his films with an atmosphere that is his trademark. See also:  le Corbeau (The Raven) and Le salaire de la peur (Wage of Fear). This film is such an incredible suspense thriller that keeps you on the edge of your seat till the very end.  When there is such talent and perfection in a film the first time around, why bother ruining it years later with a remake?


                
I was intrigued by the title when I first saw this movie. At first I thought the acting good and the story a mystery drama. There was plot changes that did not change that did not make the movie less enjoyable, but it took mystery to another level. I enjoyed how the movie challenged my loyalty to the characters. Even the ending which I thought vague, left the ending up to the viewer,a nd left the door open for a sequel which I am surprised no one has attempted to film. The detective role was excellent, even the role of the children added to the suspense of the film. Of all the remake of films this is one that I feel could stand up to being an excellent film on it's own without standing on the reputation of the original film. There have been remakes of the original film, but none which measure up to the quality of the original for me. The title alone gives me chills. The first time I watched this film I thought the first 1/3 of the film was rather mild for such a terrible title, but by the end of the movie it had earned it's title.


                
After seeing the roles that Georges Clouzot had his wife Vera play here and in "The Wages of Fear", where her downtrodden character is painfully abused and exploited in just about every scene she's in, I have to wonder just what their home relationship was like.  I don't know what she played in GC's "Les Espions", but she doesn't seem to have worked with any other director. There is a very real sadism to "Les Diaboliques"; the merciless twisting of the screws is shown head on, without respite, which makes watching it riveting, but also apalling.


                
Whenever someone speak about David Fincher's Fight Club, we say about the first rule of Fight Club, that is not to talk about it. But, that film was one of the films even a spoiler do not spoil the cinematic experience of the movie. The more you watch, the more you discover and enjoy. Now, speaking of Les Diaboliques, it is one of the films that end with a note to the audience that, do not disclose what you have seen. For the audience of today's generation, the spoiler could be very much respectable, as the film passed two generations of film lovers, yet the making is quite strong enough to take you on the ledge of the mystery.Legendary director Alfred Hitchcock, just lost his grip on the right of the original novel. I always feel, if he was to direct the movie, we should have obtained a different level of cinematic experience. Anyway, he moved on and made the ever best movie Psycho, five years later.The Direction of the movie was superseded by the Script and acting. A great film to watch, for those who are in search of the real gem, in the yesteryear.#KiduMovie


                
Michel Delassalle is the principal of a boarding school, and widely loathed. This loathing extends to his wife, Christina, and his mistress, Nicole Horner, both of whom work at the school. The two of them hatch a plan to murder Mr Delassalle while having the perfect alibi. They carry out the plan...but then his body disappears.Clever, classy thriller from French director HG Clouzot. Intelligent, intriguing plot and well-drawn characters, the sort of story Agatha Christie or Arthur Conan Doyle would be proud of, and Alfred Hitchcock would love to have directed. Great twist towards the end. Good direction by Clouzot: he sets the scene well and builds the tension in superb fashion, giving a claustrophobic feeling to proceedings. Solid performances all round.A classic thriller.


                
Film Review: "Les diaboliques" (1955) - Here comes the ultimate thriller of century, two women, one brunette, shy, over-thoughtful and carefully scared ever step of the way; the other, short-haired blonde, powerful, smoking-coolness striving to plot the perfect murder of the man in their midst. Director Henri-Georges Clouzot (1907-1977) exceeds himself in suspenseful motion picture entertainment after the already high-tension road-movie "The Wages of Fear" two years earlier to present a screen story that keeps its contemporary means, given the audience female characters of sharp-shapes and edges to perform the righteous kill of the business endeavoring male as machoistic, always hungry swine. Actresses Simone Signoret (1921-1985), gives face to the blonde character of Nicole with iconic sunglass interior wear-outs, who insists on the real-life director's wife Véra Clouzot as brunette character Christina to finish the occasional menacing, yet calmer life at countryside bordering school for boys, in order to bring the character of Michel Dalassalle, portrayed with french lifestyle-living ease by Paul Meurisse (1912-1976), to justice. If you are looking out for two hours of high octane, cinematic, needlessly written to the core, thriller entertainment, this is the film to indulge on; one of the international classics that never fades.© 2017 Felix Alexander Dausend (Cinemajesty Entertainments LLC)


                
LES DIABOLIQUES is a mystery thriller full of surprises and suspense. The director of a boarding school in France sadistically abuses his wife and his mistress. Two women come together in the murder of a overbearing husband. The seemingly perfect murder turns into a nightmare, because the corpse mysteriously disappears. Women are witnessing the everyday phenomena that points to the fact that the director of the boarding school is still alive...The beginning of the film is done in a typical French style with a lot of raw passion and sadism. The main villain is a ruthless tyrant, which applies to everyone with the same level of violence. It is a fascinating relationship between two women. They love each other, respect, empathize and hate at the same time. A psychological drama turns into an exciting thriller that at certain moments borders with a horror. Mr. Clouzot uses his, already recognizable, morbid style. The atmosphere is great. It changes throughout the film, along with rising tensions that eventually all ended with a climatic explosion.This recipe will become recognized by most of the psychological thriller. The script is also very good without being illogical, which is common in thrillers and mysteries.Véra Clouzot as Christina Delassalle is the wife, who is on the verge of a nervous breakdown. There is an interesting traditional relationship with her husband and marriage in general. Her sense of guilt and anxiety corresponded to the tension in the film. Simone Signoret as Nicole Horner is swift and icy as the mistress who plans everything. Paul Meurisse as Michel Delassalle is the protagonist who keeps the audience awake. The villain that is difficult to understand, and yet it was pleasant to see him in the frame. Dead or alive, absolutely not essential.A conspiracy is enough for a good thriller. Double conspiracy is not desirable for those with a weak heart.


                
Did the creators of Columbo see this film and model the immortal lieutenant on the retired bumbling detective in this film? What a gloomy, claustrophobic atmosphere the filmmaker creates. There is not one happy person at the miserable school. Pity the students who manage to graduate. And it is in just this world that people are driven to murder, or something even worse. Yes, the subtitles suck, and the only available prints are awful, but not to see this film would be a real tragedy. What a marvelous piece of work. And it is the little scenes that build the big ones: the dialogues between the two women, the wife and the mistress. Just when thinks the school is its own little hell, the women visit the hometown of one. What a depressing place. Seems to me the murdered husband got the best of the deal.I can recall when it came out, people were admonished not to tell the shocking conclusion, or permitted into the theater in the last fifteen minutes.


                
What a fantastic, smart, macabre thriller this is. Director Henri- Georges Clouzot doesn't waste any time getting us emotionally involved, with a man (Paul Meurisse) abusing both his wife (Véra Clouzot) and his openly acknowledged mistress (Simone Signoret), and in making it apparent that the two are plotting to kill him. Meurisse and Clouzot run a boarding school full of rowdy little boys, and Signoret is another of the teachers there. Meurisse is mean to everybody, so we certainly don't sympathize with him. I'm not going to spoil this film by describing anything else. Trust me, it's best you don't know any more. Just sit back and watch it unfold, and you'll be happy you did. I will say that it's got a couple of incredibly eerie scenes that are well worthy of the often overused adjective 'classic'. This one is not just Hitchcock-esque, it's right up there with that director's best work.


                
I watched this classic again last night , and while I imagine most people have seen it already, I would urge anyone who hasn't to watch it and appreciate it for what it is , a true masterpiece. Based loosely on the novel "She who was no more" by Boileau- Narcejac , director Clouzot bought the rights to the novel , beating Alfred Hitchcock to it by a matter of hours , so the story goes. Of course , the story goes that they also wrote "D'entre les morts" specifically for Hitchcock , who filmed it as Vertigo. It is true that many aficionados believe that Hitch was strongly influenced and inspired by Diabolique , not least when it came to Psycho. But what the master of suspense achieved with razor-sharp edits and violins , Clouzot managed it without any fancy cutting and hardly any music. Apart from the opening score ( which includes a creepy kids chorus and shows how effective that can be ) , and a little bit of music at the end , there is hardly any music to speak of. What we are given instead , is an account of a diabolical scheme with clinical precision , a step by step storytelling with acting that make it seem real...and that's what draws you in. And this is before the tension even begins !! Perhaps it's fair to make a little comparison . The two main actresses , not those scantily clad scream queens of American or Italian horror , just a bashful Brazilian beauty and frosty 'femme francaise' ( though I must admit at this point, that I was rather surprised at how 'see-through' Chritina's night-gown is at the end of the movie). Special mention for how seriously cool Simone Signoret looks when she first appears on the screen wearing those fabulous sunglasses. She goes on to smoke Gauloises cigarettes and drink whiskey.. Not your usual Hollywood fare. The build-up in the tension/suspense is the work of genius , culminating in a climax which will send shivers down your spine. Remember , this was made in 1955 , one must take into account how 'so far ahead of its time' this film really was.I don't want to give too much away , I would hate to spoil it for anyone who has yet to see it. Instead , I'm going to finish off with a few bits of trivia regarding this film : The director , who shot on closed sets , away from all outsiders , was supposedly so sadistic that if any actor had to swallow poison in one of his films, he made them take a non-lethal dose of the real thing. Paul Meurisse , who plays the husband , had to spend an entire day in a cold bath-tub in a full suit. He also had to keep ice cubes in his mouth while filming the outdoor scenes in the dead of winter to avoid forming steam with his breath. It is rumoured that the director actually gave Chritina fish that was 'off' in order to get a realistic reaction when she ate it. Knowing all of this, it's easy to see why Simone Signoret was constantly in dispute with the director throughout the making of the movie , for various reasons , and never spoke to him again once production had wrapped.
In Diabolique, character and circumstance come together in a twisted concoction more sulphurous than anything ever crafted. The movie is a skillful marriage of ingredients that tread dangerously close to the edge of reasoning while still absorbing them in impeccable artistic standards. The Delasalle Boarding School is one of those provincial French boarding schools where the children of the rich get packed off for months of unenthusiastic instruction, sketchy and arbitrarily stern discipline, and even sketchier meals. Running the place is headmaster Michel (Paul Meurisse), a foul, mean-spirited, cold-eyed bastard of a fellow who cares for his put-upon, mousy wife Christina (Vera Clouzot) even less than the students unfortunate enough to be left to his care. Christina is a sickly, quiet presence who seems to live only to be tormented by Michel. Given that he sees himself as the absolute master of this small realm, Michel thinks nothing of the fact that he's openly carrying on an affair with one of the teachers – Nicole (Simone Signoret). Although Nicole suffers Michel's advances and occasional beatings at night, she is also Christina's only support and solace as they commiserate about Michel's animalistic nature and near-constant put-downs. Everything seems to be set up for one of those ghastly little psychological tales, when - Bing! -the mischief begins.First off, the wife and the mistress conspire to dispose of their mutual male, on the thoroughly acceptable conclusion that he is fit for nothing else but to be killed. And, in the coziest, clammiest fashion, they go about it, by first drugging the brute with tampered whiskey, then soaking him in a bathtub, and later dumping his soggy body in the school swimming pool. The wife's qualms and the mistress' tenacity add to the sport and the suspense. At first, the plan appears to have gone off without a fault. But when Michel's body doesn't turn up when the pool is drained the next morning, the tension ratchets up to dizzying heights!On the surface, Diabolique is a crackerjack horror-thriller, woven by intricate performances and a chilling narrative filled with twists and turns. But upon closer inspection, you realize that it is instead a character study, forcing its two sympathetic, but morally compromised protagonists beneath the cinematic microscope and watching them squirm and collapse. Henri-Georges Clouzot tracks the proceedings from a dispassionate distance, with a dramatic use of dark shadow that highlights the asymmetric nature of the characters' tangled and triangulated passions. What he does so seamlessly is take a humdrum domestic crime scenario and envelop it with the kind of cool, glassy dread, plunging us into a pool of blood-chilling mystifications and asphyxiating dreads and then lead us into its rug-yanking climax. Diabolique still has the power to scare the heebie-jeebies out of audiences. It is a diabolical masterpiece that is meant to entertain, albeit with a certain spiritual shiver.


                
This is a superb thriller, a holistic cliff-hanger directed by H.G. Clouzot, adapted from Bioleau and Narcejac's novel (who later would purvey VERTIGO 1958, 8/10 for Hitchcock to make amends for his vain attempt to acquire LES DIABOLIQUES). Shot in monochrome, the film excels in keeping audiences engaging in the crafty conspiracy of a demure wife colludes with her husband's mistress to murder her horrendous husband, taking almost half of the screen-time to character-building and meticulous plotting, their plan progresses pretty well until an unexpected twist swerves the film into a psychological horror torment, at the end of the day another scam has been uncovered and the final revelation triumphantly wins its trophy for its shock value. The film piques our interest with a peculiar ménage a trois situation, a wife-cum-mistress (Ms. Clouzot and Signoret) alliance plots a punctilious scheme to kill the husband (Meurisse), Clouzot confidently takes a meandering pace at first, set in a rural all-male boarding school, Meurisse is the ill-tempered principle and both Ms. Clouzot and Signoret are the teachers, but a significant but easily overlooked minutia is that it is Ms. Clouzot who brings about the fortune to the school. After steadily details the conflict among the protagonists and cunningly accentuates the two female leads' disparate personality, Ms. Clouzot is a well-heeled, wan, indecisive woman, the victim of mental abuse, hemmed in a dead-water marriage with a traditional mind which means she cannot risk a scandalous divorce, by comparison Signoret is a tough, adamant, subversive doer, the recipient of domestic abuse but doesn't reconcile to the status quo. So the weird affinity of the two may suggest something more radical than the surface, but the film doesn't dare to provoke the controversy (or for the sake of the surprising finale). Clouzot knowingly manufactures several minor hitches to the execution of the murder, the grumpy tenants living upstairs, the drunken soldier-hitchhiker and the bathroom light in the middle of the night, each juices up the tension moderately and finally, when it seems their plan has been conducted successfully, the film inaugurates its great conjuring, starts with the missing corpse, to the involvement of a senior private detective (Vanel) until the disintegration of the two convicts and the truth gradually comes into light, a textbook thriller-horror segment which would inspire many emulators, it is an utterly heart-in-the-throat experience, Ms. Clouzot is ineffably remarkable in the guilty-haunting, soul-crunching trauma of scare, one of the most impressive death scene I've even seen! Signoret and Meurisse both nail their roles with sharp precision. LES DIABOLIQUES is a masterful suspense-establishing film and H.G. Clouzot is a no lesser achiever than Mr. Hitchcock if there is any justice in the world!
The story opens in a run-down French boys' school, where the cruel headmaster has made life unbearable for his fragile wife and his mistress (Simone Signoret), both of whom are teachers. The ladies decide to join forces and kill him over a long holiday weekend and their plan goes well...until his body goes missing.This is a very intense and spooky murder mystery that kept me guessing until the wonderfully satisfying end. The actors are all excellent and there is a good contrast between the weakling wife and the domineering mistress. The innocence of the school setting, a couple of humorous male teachers, and a persistent detective add to the mix.Filmed in black and white (mostly black shadows) and in French with English subtitles, this is an excellent film noir that will keep you on the edge of your seat.
Based on a novel by the same authors who were also adapted for Vertigo, this is a dark, scary, and deadly serious thriller with oodles of suspense and a heart-stopping ending. The plot is laid out simply, and it progresses quickly; the tension is soon amped up as the mystery deepens. There's no hint of irony or comedy in its tone; the brutal events and actions are depicted with unflinching solemnity. Its supernatural qualities grow as the story unfolds, but the ending ties all the loose ends up and ends on a distinctly depressing note. Even the final scene, returning some of the mystery with a hint of ambiguity, cannot lift this film's spirits up.I found the macabre tone a bit off-putting at times, but its manner of storytelling and horrific tale cannot be overlooked. The last five minutes or so are truly terrifying, and I would've liked more of that pure horror throughout, but the use of suspense is just as effective. The slow psychological breakdown of the main character is portrayed well, if not too subtly, and the horrific climax is the perfect scene to top it off. I also would've liked a bit more style and expressionism to the camera work and production design, as they utilize the same brutal realism that the plot does, but they are effective nonetheless.A must-see for fans of Hitchcock and horror nuts especially.


                
This superb psychological thriller ranks right up there with the best of Alfred Hitchcock. Someone posted that Hitchcock tried to get the rights to the story, but Clouzot had already snagged them. Bravo, Monsieur! The story was right up Hitchcock's alley, but I doubt he could have done any better with it than Clouzot does. What makes this film so extraordinary is the ORDINARINESS of the setting, a grim boarding school in the perpetually grey and rainy French countryside, and the everyday naturalness of the characters.Nothing is exaggerated or over-the-top and the cast behaves like regular folks, not movie stars. The banality of these people and their workplace makes the violent story chillingly believable. A big-budget Hitchcock version may have had trouble achieving this believability, if cast with movie stars like Grace Kelly modeling the latest Hollywood fashions, make-up, and hairstyles. (This Hollywood glossiness has made, say, REAR WINDOW date more than it should have.) Simone Signoret drips Star Quality, yet she's still very credible as a provincial schoolteacher. Meurisse makes a fine abusive husband, never becoming too melodramatic. And Vera Clouzot is touchingly effective as his submissive, mistreated wife.Recommend this movie to your friends but DON'T ruin the surprises for them. As with PSYCHO, the film is most enjoyable when you see it for the first time without knowing what's going to happen next.


                
The key to this movie's effect on the viewer is by dint of the expectations established early on. It appears flat and stagy, uncinematic... Harmless...nothing to contend with...you're lulled into submission. That's when it grabs hold and pulls you under the surface.Most of these things rely on switcheroos and double crosses. You know they're on the way, so they tend to disappoint at the end...you often walk away scoffing. But this one is different. What makes it work is the layered noir construction: that we get one level of intrigue, wrapped within a larger one. But both of those are wrapped within the envelope of the film, a feature, which by itself, is critical. All of these layers play with us as much as they play with the characters within.And... Wrapped around all of that is the realization that the 'end' is not the end, as acknowledged by the written 'P.S.' message to us.


                
Diabolique is an excellent film. It has terrific actors like Simone Signoret. What makes it terrific is the suspense and horror that goes with it. From beginning to end, it is a film in time for Halloween. It will make you shiver with suspense. That the truth is stranger than fiction. It is a twisted version of the Children's Hour. The Black and white version is better than any colorized version. I watched a dubbed English version. To see it is to believe the "diabolique." I would have loved to have seen the French version without subtitles to improve my French but this tape was worth the price and it's frighteningly good beyond belief. The ending is worth watching again and again. The film is well-written and acted.


                
What is it that makes a film a bona fide classic or even a landmark in cinema? It's the fact that it continues to endear new and much younger target audiences, in spite of being more than half a century old. It has to do with timeless story-telling, stylistic trademarks and unequalled suspense. But most of all it's about being authentic. Henri-Georges Clouzot's "Les Diaboliques" is an authentic pioneer of murder mysteries/conspiracy thrillers. By this I mean that we've all seen numerous movies like it, so over the years we have seen all the plot twists, red herrings and clichés you can possibly imagine yourself, but in this case they honestly come across as derivative or predictable. This film is authentic while all the others copied stuff from it, but your cinematic mind ability separates the pioneers from the copycats. Fundamentally speaking, "Les Diaboliques" is a simple thriller with a logical set-up and only a limited cast of characters, but the professional elaboration elevates it to a near-perfect masterpiece. The rich but both mentally and physically weak Christina Delassalle is petrified of her tyrannical husband Michel, with whom she runs a private boarding school near Paris. Even Michel's cocky mistress Nicole is sick and tired of his cruel and dominant attitude, and thus she tries hard to convince Christina to murder their mutual bed partner and make it look like an accident. When the women finally decide to execute their perfect assassination plan, it's the start of a truly tense and nail-biting puzzle. I deliberately prefer to cease with describing the plot at this point. Most reviews, and even the synopsis on the back of the DVD box, go quite a bit further in describing the two women's further ordeals, but I think the less you know, the more you'll be overwhelmed. The used the word a couple of sentences ago already, but will do it again<U+0085> "Les Diaboliques" is pretty much close to perfection. The pace of the film is slow but incredibly moody and it doesn't feature a single moment of boredom. Quite the contrary, I personally had the impression that I was continuously moving more and more towards the edge of my seat. The tone is serious and unsettling, but there's nevertheless room for small portions of subtle comedy, like the two school teachers worrying about their wine and the interlude with the drunken soldier. The inescapable suspense is often built up through very simplistic yet effective tricks, like ingenious cinematography, and patient editing. The acting performances are phenomenal. I can't even pick a favorite performance, because they were all so different but equally mesmerizing. I've read some articles which stated that "Les Diaboliques" is the best Hitchcock film Hitchcock never made. Personally I think even that is still an understatement, as this is much better than most of Hitchcock's films I've seen already (excluding "Psycho", "Strangers on a Train" and "The Birds").


                
