If you don't know anything about the original 1990s predecessor, I can't imagine what you'd be doing here, so let's skip all that introduction nonsense.The new "Twin Peaks" is out, and you're most likely an old fan wanting to know what you're in for. Is it the same as you remember it? Yes...and no. Lynch, ever known for his weirdness, is no longer operating under the wing of ABC network interference this time around and has been given full creative control for these 18 episodes. As you can probably expect, Lynch when he isn't being reigned in is Weird with a capital "W", but unfortunately for those fans looking for more of the same old "Twin Peaks" you're used to, Lynch isn't serving up that. Oh, the main players are all back and the town still has a neat local dive with some dreamy musical acts, but this is a bigger story in terms of scope and vision.For one, the series is not confined to the town of Twin Peaks and features many characters in different locations. As for the tone, Lynch obviously saw the opportunity to go all out on his weird style with no one to reign him in, and go all out he does. This is bad news for those expecting a traditional, linear plot to unfold, but great news for those who loved the more surreal aspects of the original series.There are long, drawn out scenes of dialogue, or sometimes just actions. The pacing is often slow and deliberate. The insanity of the original series finale comes to the fore and gets served up in heavy doses. If the original managed to pull in some viewers for the murder mystery despite the quirky aspects of the series, this one disregards those fans altogether by refusing to throw them a bone. Oh, there is a story here, but it's no longer centered around a marketing campaign masquerading as a murder mystery and it isn't going to be told in clear and cut A to B fashion. You have to either be willing to follow Lynch on where he wants to take you or give up in frustration and part ways. Because in terms of differences, that seems to be the main one here: Lynch is doing this his way...and you're either with him or not. This doesn't make it easy on traditional viewers, and I fully expect them to be out once they get to the end of the premiere.Me, I am loving the fact that there is nothing else like this on TV. The same could be said of the original when it aired, and it's shocking how much changes and yet stays the same considering we're 25 more years along and it still takes David Lynch to serve up something truly unique on television. What have these other guys been doing? My boyfriend watched an episode of "Sense8" when I was finished watching the premiere, and the difference in what is passing as entertainment today felt like I had gone from a pristine environment with "Twin Peaks" to breathing in pollution. This is the perfect antidote for someone tired of having their emotions led and manipulated by TV shows that tell you exactly how to feel and think. It's not going to cater to you or babysit you like a child. If requires patience and imagination, and for those willing to stick with it, the results can be so rewarding. Think of it as a purge from all the derivative crap we watch without even realizing how banal it is. Because it takes watching this new "Twin Peaks" to realize just how mediocre our "hit" shows really are. I look forward to being cleansed once a week for the next few months.
David Lynch is at his best here in the new Twin Peaks series. There seem to be few restraints on his artistic vision, and it's all framed in a familiar story with Mark Frost's tempering still present.Disclaimer: if you were not a fan of the original series because it was too weird, or "slow", or disturbing, then you will probably not like this latest season. There are tons of weird and disturbing scenes, and Lynch has no qualms making you stare at something for long periods of time. This has the effect of drawing you in as a viewer, but for some it may be off-putting or even offensive. He definitely, as always, takes firm grip on your viewing experience and will not let go.I was worried going into watching the first 4 episodes that they would just reunite the cast and kind of riff off the original series. From very early on, however, it becomes apparent this is whole new material. Loved characters are still there (almost all of the old cast), but they are going through brand new things.However, the charm of Twin Peaks is still alive and well. The most bizarre and yet oddly insightful scenes are counter-weighted constantly with everyday buffoonery.I was pretty amazed by some of the new visual ideas Lynch had, which shouldn't be surprising because he is a master at surprising his audience, but you never know if someone might just run out of ideas. Clearly this is not the case. In every episode, there is tons to wonder and behold.I'm very happy that Lynch is directing every episode. In my opinion, much of the "middle part" of the old series was tiresome. This is understandable because apparently Lynch was often off doing his own thing, leaving the production without a guide, but he is apparently fully on-board for this new project, and for that we are thankful.All of the cast is great, really great, but it's really a treat to see the amazing combination of Kyle MacLachlan's acting under David Lynch's direction. The two just work so damn well together, and there's tons of new material here for MacLachlan to work with. It really is a pairing that ranks up there with Jimmy Stewart and Alfred Hitchcock.Kudos to Showtime for reviving my favorite show on TV, and allowing David Lynch to do what he does best. Here's hoping the season is a great success and we get even more! I watched the 4 episodes available tonight, and I am sad that it will be two weeks until I see another new one. However, I've waited 25 years for the first one, so a couple weeks shouldn't be too difficult. It's really nice to have an amazing show to look forward to again.


                
Possibly one of the best TV dramas ever, "Twin Peaks" managed to return in a challenging and unique way It is bizarre (not to mention intelligent) piece of television that has returned again with putting the pieces of puzzle together..Lynch introduced the first two episode in typically enigmatic fashion, recalling the tall trees which envelop the logging town-setting for Twin Peaks' supernatural mysteries.Original cast members Kyle MacLachlan, who plays FBI Special Agent Dale Cooper and Sheryl Lee (Laura Palmer), reprise their roles, while new additions include Naomi Watts and Laura Dern.In short, the new episodes are completely unlike any version of Twin Peaks we've seen in the past, and that's what's so exciting. This is no retread; this is something new. After you've seen the show for yourself, I'm guessing it's all you're going to want to talk about. It's going to be a wonderfully nightmarish summer. Music again plays an important role in establishing Twin Peaks' atmosphere with Portland, Oregon band The Chromatics contributing to the soundtrack.If you get a chance to watch Twin Peaks now, and I highly recommend that you do, it may seem strange that such a show was ever on TV at all. This is because most of television is so bland and boring and repetitious while TP is fresh and original and effective.  Daring and provocative, it shattered the boundaries of most standard soap operas/TV dramas.There are great characters sprinkled throughout, my favorites being:Leland Palmer, and of course Coop, but really they're all interestingTo finish, one needs to watch that 90's version of show. It's not uniformly brilliant and sometimes just plain weird, but always rewarding and truly one of the landmarks of American television. Go get a nice piece of cherry pie, a cup of coffee, take four days off work and start watching it. Then watch how this masterpiece unfold..
First of all, let me start this review of the third season of Twin Peaks by saying that I deeply love the first and second seasons. They truly are iconic seasons of television, and having recently re- watched them, I came to the conclusion that they firmly stand the test of time. However, one of the main problems I had with the first and second seasons of Twin Peaks (Although it was mainly in the latter, than the former) was it's deviation away from the central component which I believed made the show tick- the mystery. The mystery of Twin Peaks submerged this seemingly 'normal' town into an environment in which there were endless different otherworldly phenomenon at play. The original Twin Peaks created a feeling of uneasiness for the audience through numerous ways, such as Bob. This feeling of mystery and unease however, became somewhat tangled up in many different love stories which were all a bit too common place in the show. Nevertheless, I persisted with it and still found it to overall be an enjoyable show, despite the various James-Donna-Laura-Maddie-Bobby-Shelly-Leo stories which stretched on. Now, when I got to this season, I was not disappointed. Season Three of Twin Peaks takes the mystical and the downright weird elements of the first and second season and places them into a show of their own. I would imagine that many of the original viewers who enjoyed the soap opera element of the first and second seasons, will be extremely disappointed. This series is unlike anything else that I have ever witness on television (yes, I did say that when I watched Twin Peaks the first time around!). The revival of Twin Peaks has come at the best possible time, for both the show and television. Modern Television now allows for less constraints on many shows, and more recently, risks have been allowed to be made. The original seasons of Twin Peaks were risks in themselves, but they still had boundaries attached to them. Lynch could not deviate as far as he can today. This combination of modern television and Lynch's vision create a spectacle for television which is unlike anything there has previously been. Some of the visual shots of different elements of the mythology in the new season of Twin Peaks, are absolutely remarkable and unique. The precedent for season three is well and truly based upon Lynch's exploration of Twin Peaks mythology. Whilst there is a new depth to the show, as we travel further afield to New York City and South Dakota end explore the mythology, the scenes which place us back into the town of Twin Peaks contain the finite amount of nostalgia for the series. It doesn't feel as if there has been a shoehorning of nostalgia in this season, rather the scenes feel appropriate and suitable for the show. Therefore, whilst the show is extending its branches beyond the town of Twin Peaks, the return to the town does not feel as if the show is doing it for the sake of it.Overall, the new season of Twin Peaks is truly a remarkable piece of television. I find myself wondering 'what if?', in terms of what if we never experienced this show returning? This series could be when Twin Peaks hits another level and surpasses the original run. It will take till the end of the season before we can truly determine that. However, I would urge anyone who was interested in the original run, and anyone who is interested in groundbreaking and unique television to give this show a try. You may not like it, it may deviate too far from the original seasons which you enjoyed so much, or you might find it deviates too far from what you are normally used to. Nevertheless, I believe that this is a show which should be watched to at least engage with the uniqueness of the experience that comes with watching it. So sit back, get yourself some cherry pie and a damn fine cup of coffee and enjoy what is a masterclass return to Twin Peaks.


                
When someone works hard at something or does something for a long time you can surmise that they well eventually get good at that thing, even masterful. Generally, this is the case for all great directors and David Lynch is no exception. With the newest Lynch-piece we are given something that is an amalgamation of all his previous work without sacrificing his style or creativity. We see the dark-industrial vibe of "Eraserhead", the American suburbia and the dark underbelly late-night bars/clubs/people from "Blue Velvet", "Wild At Heart", and "Twin Peaks", the winding roads and nightmarish features from nearly all his projects specifically "Lost Highway" and "Mulholland Drive", and then last but not least, we see the venture into the digital age with non-linear story and the craziest sound design you may possibly experience in any piece of media that we get from "Inland Empire". There are even remnants of design that hearken back to his old shorts. This folks, is Lynch's swan song. The Return is already like nothing else ever before on TV and this includes the original two seasons of Twin Peaks.Lynch allows the material to breathe, and gives the viewer plenty of time to absorb what's on screen. The filming is patient, and every shot is most definitely taken with care. The slow yearning shots is what Lynch uses to draw you in. The unfamiliarity of new faces leaves you with more questions than before. Also, as most already knew going in, The Return is set in many different locations--not just that charming, wholesome town of Twin Peaks. Even knowing Lynch's filmography there are moments that still have me unprepared for the amount of visuals and sounds that evoke nightmares. More terrifying than 90% of what I've seen as a film-goer.I have to admit that it is taking me some time to adjust to the new vibe of the series knowing well in advance that Lynch and Frost have stated that The Return will be more like the prequel movie FWWM. I am someone who prefers the film to the series because Lynch had more room to work toward his vision. The result is a surrealist nightmare that The Return will have beat by a landslide. With that said, there will be many of you who will not like this at all (even folks who enjoyed the original series because The Return is THAT different). Lynch is certainly an acquired taste and everything isn't for everybody, but for those of you who are willing to give it a shot and appreciate an artist in his top form then maybe there is still some redeeming qualities in this for you. The Return is no run-of-the-mill action series or soap opera so be ready for one of the craziest rides you may ever be on.


                
A Lynch devotee could simply not have asked for anything more for Twin Peaks of 2017. This is what Lynch has been working towards his entire career. What he has given is NOT a retread of the Twin Peaks we know circa 1990, this is a new beast entirely. It's dark, it's beautiful, it's everything that makes Lynch one of the finest artist working today.If the first few episodes start to make you long for the whimsy and hokiness of the original series, keep going through to Ep4. Lynch is giving this world time to breathe this time around. By the time Ep. 4 arrives we being to see where things are heading and watch this new world start to join with the old Twin Peaks we have all been missing for 25 years.This is Lynch' OPUS.


                
Just go and watch it. Right now. You'll probably never see something like that again. I am long-time fan of the original series, and I hoped that it's return will not be nostalgie-festival filled with all that "wow we are together again" crap. Thanks god it's not: the new Twin Peaks is an angry, brave, independent piece of true art. Every character. Every scene. Every freaking frame. Thank you Mr. Lynch for this incredible gift.


                
After 25 years, Twin Peaks is back on the air. This revival is one of the most hotly anticipated events in entertainment to come along in a long time, and I think that many fans might not like this revival. This is not the goofy, bright Twin Peaks of the 90s, nor is it the bleak depressing Twin Peaks of Fire Walk With Me. This is something new. In fact, most of the first episode does not take place in Twin Peaks, with the people we know and love. When it does cut back to the titular town for a brief scene here or there, it is actually kind of jarring, as we feel that we are watching a completely different show. Nor do there at first appear to be any elements connecting the new central plots to Twin Peaks. I imagine that many people will be frustrated by this and maybe even quit watching, which is a shame because as the show goes on it gradually ties these things in to the main plot in a way that is very satisfying. So despite a rocky start, by the end of the second episode I was on board.I hope that people give this revival a chance. It really starts to come together in the second episode, but I think people's expectations might blind them to how brilliant this return is due to how unexpected many of the elements are.


                
Twin Peaks has finally come back in a different stroke. It blends everything I love about David Lynch and Twin Peaks. The dark humor, bitter realism, creepy surrealism, foreboding atmosphere, and delightful aesthetic of the lighter moments. It excludes the more soap opera and puts down the innocent nature a notch. This exclusion is something I like. Yes it's confusing in how it's order, and Yes it's slow in the pacing. Some see it as a really negative thing. I and plenty others see it as a puzzle with every frame being a piece. We love it that way. The slow pacing allows for the viewer to take their time on what they are seeing. If you don't like that, that's fine. This doesn't mean you should insult the people who like it including the makers behind it. Calling us pretentious hipsters and insane is ridiculous. Acting like the world revolves around you. Acting like we're a cult that praises David Lynch like a god. We like/love it, get use to it. Raiding the review section is not helping your case. At-least be detailed about how bad it is. So far, it's only either insulting the viewers who like it, or Just saying it's bad in one small paragraph. That's it.Edit 6/28/17- At first, I debated whether to keep it 10/10 because the show got very cryptic and lacking in context in episodes 5/6. Given recent episodes, episodes 5/6 and before became even better with 7 giving tons of context and made me satisfied with my confusion coupled with already made emotions of the previous episodes. While still giving us new and old mysteries to solve until newer episodes. Episode 8 even gave many origins of the Twin Peaks lore through the brilliant use of emotional driven visual story-telling.Right now, it more then deserves a 10/10 and deepest place in my heart. Let's see, if it gets better or worse from here. Until then, This show is by-far my favorite show of all time with True Detective below it...for now.


                
I'm a huge fan of the original show. I loved how it was bizarre and scary at times, but it could also be very warmhearted and funny. I had very high expectations for this sequel, but somehow David Lynch surpassed my expectations.Not only is this a continuation of the show from 1990, it also feels like a throwback to all his other works. It feels like Inland Empire, Lost Highway and Eraserhead are also part of this show. The story so far told in these first four episodes is very compelling backed up with some solid direction and acting.It's great to see some of the old cast back on the screen. Kyle MacLachlan still looks the part, and I am very happy how Lucy and Andy are doing. The new characters seem like very interesting figures, and I can not wait to learn more about them.The golden age of cinema may be over, but truly we are living in the golden age of television.


                
Like most people I was extremely nervous going into the new season of Twin Peaks worried it could be like so many reboots now that are simply call backs and cash grabs. So you can imagine my surprise and excitement when it didn't just live up the original but possibly exceeded it. David Lynch has full creative control here and he's on top of his game. Within ten minutes of the first episode I was hoked like I haven't been with a TV series for a very long time. I don't think I can explain what makes Lynch so great or hypnotic but I think part of the reason the show is so great is because it isn't content with just continuing the show with the old characters and locations, (though it does do this fantastically as well) it instead wants to expand to something, new, original and better.I think less you know about the what happens the better. Just watch the show, if your any kind of fan of David Lynch or Twin Peaks I don't think you'll be disappointed. The standing innovation at Cannes was well deserved this is undeniably a masterpiece.


                
The latest incantation of Twin Peaks is divisive, a whirlwind of surrealist art that many may find difficult to take. Fans of the original series may be turned away, due to the lack of familiarity within the first several episodes, but may find that continuing watching will pay off. This series is unlike any other television show currently, creating a world that is based on Lynch's distinct surrealist vision that makes the show so unique. Back with familiar faces and an ensemble of new ones, this show manages to surprise at every turn, whether it be from a character reveal or shocking twist. Fans of Lynch's previous work will see his vision is similar to his other projects, especially his earlier shorts. A bleak and harrowing version of the original lighthearted series is sure to turn people away, but is an auter's masterpiece for sure. This is Twin Peaks like it has never been seen before, at its most surreal, and most artful yet.


                
First of all. I completely understand the souls here, who have given the show lowest ratings. Watching The Twin Peaks 3 makes no sense if: you haven't seen the original series two or three times, over a span of several years. - You didn't like the original series. - You only saw the original series as a plain and simple criminal story with soapy countryside background plots. - You expect that in 2017, TV series should be downright dumb, plain, straightforward and super fast, leaving you no room to think, interpret, learn, understand and feel BY YOURSELF and for yourself. It is not surprising though... we live in such times. I thoroughly enjoyed the intro to the new Twin Peaks, slowly introducing the old cast, and slowly opening the lid over a 25 year long gap between 1992 and today. The first 4 episodes have made a very good impression and left me eagerly waiting for the next. The original series has culminated in the revelations beyond a plain detective story. It has touched the occult, mysticism, parallel worlds, spiritual beings, secret military programs, the universal struggle between the good and the bad. It stopped there. hanging in the air for 25 years.Everyone of us who have been curious about the fate of Cooper, his doppelganger and of course, the Twin Peaks society at large, expect the show to go deeper and farther into unimaginable, mysterious, fantastic, grotesque, weird, supernatural... whatever you want to call it. And there's been no doubt about how Lynch was going to do it: His way. Now, you can either watch it open minded, with your eyes on details, clues, answered and new questions, feelings, new and old characters, superb camera and light, and ready for surprises. Or, you try to stuff it down your throat with your eyes closed, forcefully digest it, hoping you will like it. But you cannot expect anything but hating it and s***t all over it in the end. Sady, several reviews suggest this kind of approach. It is usually better to leave the stuff you cannot handle, alone. A plain 10 out of 10, for the big work, Mr. Lynch has done here. Totally polarized opinions confirm one thing: He nailed it again.Edit: After 11 episodes, my initial impression has only been confirmed. The series has developed into an awesome plot of inter wined events, characters, clues; gradually building, answering, revealing, and always puzzling, mesmerizing,shocking, opening new questions. It is the only series in years, if not decades, that I actually wait to watch every week when it is aired. That does not confirm I am crazy or stupid or fake or paid like some of the big minds of this site would like to suggest, rather it shows, that there is a TV show, very much worth watching. For some.


                
Wow, what an absolute ride! 25 years after the critically acclaimed Twin Peaks was abruptly cancelled by ABC, Showtime's 2017 revival is going to baffle and enrage many people including new viewers and fans. And that is exactly what TV needs right now. I'm a big fan of the original show as well as the majority of David Lynch's work. However, even I did not expect the type of show that this has ultimately turned out to be. In short, Lynch has created something wholly unique and original that doesn't abide to the normal conventions of most television. It's abstract and many will find its pace far too slow but it helps in giving that Lynchian atmosphere that his dearest fans so love. Already, I predict that many of the images both from the iconic Red Room as well as some of the new imagery will satisfy die-hard Lynch fans and will leave an impression for years to come. From these first four episodes/hours, Lynch and Frost aren't answering many of the original show's most burning questions. The first two hours almost seem like a series of vignettes (much like Mulholland Drive and Inland Empire)in which many plot lines are introduced, yet you still question how they will ultimately connect. Whilst the town of Twin Peaks does feature heavily, much of the new season so far has been set in a variety of new locations. Episode three is incredibly abstract almost feeling like something out of Eraserhead whilst episode 4 is probably the most similar to the original series out of the episodes released so far. The acting is also superb. This is probably the best work I've seen from Kyle Maclachlan (Special Agent Dale Cooper). Without giving away too much, this is not the same Cooper that so many of the fans are used to seeing. This is a man who has been affected by what has happened during this bizarre 25 year gap and Maclachlan is incredible at channelling this. Without spoiling which original characters appear in these episodes, it's nice to see that many of them have not lost their charming touch. I'm also optimistic about some of the new cast. Whilst the most memorable characters are of course ones from the original show, I am interested to see where many of their plot lines take us. One thing that is missing so far is perhaps is a sense of a central mystery that became so important to the original show. So far, there is no "who killed Laura Palmer" mystery that hangs over the show.In conclusion, the new series of Twin Peaks is unlike most shows on TV. Even as a hardcore fan, it may take some time getting used to the new mood, atmosphere and characters. However, so far I'm utterly hooked and I cannot wait to see where this journey Lynch and Frost have started will ultimately take us.


                
I am a huge fan of David Lynch because he makes you think. He leaves things up to interpretation and viewing his art requires discussion afterward. His stories are deep, always strange, like nothing else out there, and usually need a few viewings before you have that "Aha" moment when everything makes sense (or seems to until you watch it again). His movies and TV shows are puzzles, and that's what I think a lot of people don't get. Imagination and thinking outside the box are prerequisites.I watched all four episodes that were available last night and I am blown away. It's good to finally have you back Mr. Lynch.I'm not going to talk about the plot of "The Return" at all because giving anything away would ruin the experience. Instead, I will say that watching the original Twin Peaks along with Fire Walk With Me would be a good idea just to familiarize yourself with the Twin Peaks characters, and David Lynch's style. It's a show that's hard to categorize into any one genre. Mystery, horror, soap opera, comedy, drama... it fits all of these. The scene at the vet involving Cooper and the Llama may be one of the funniest moments I've ever seen on television. But the new Twin Peaks was entirely orchestrated by David Lynch, who directed the entire series... and it shows.This is not a show that can be put on while your doing chores, or anything else for that matter. It demands your attention. Casual viewing will most likely leave you lost, confused, and frustrated. But careful attentive viewers will be greatly rewarded with a story told like no other. This is Lynch at his best. Prepare to be uncomfortable in the best possible way.I would encourage anyone who wants more Lynch to view (2001) Mulholland Dr. as well. There's a reason it was called the best movie of the decade.


                
It's everything we wished it would be. It's uninhibited David Lynch at his best. It's sheer perfection. Lynch has the uncanny ability to make the mundane creepy, and he does it every time. I love how he can transform normal, human dynamics into something alien and uncomfortable. After watching the first to episodes I've felt elated, deeply unsettled, and questioning everything. It's magic!


                
I only have one thing to say. It's incredibly hard to believe that something I've been waiting for for over 25 years is everything I've been waiting for.I won't spoil anything about this series, but I'll give some basic information regarding commonly asked questions. This series IS a continuation of "Twin Peaks". Before watching, make sure you see "Fire Walk With Me" and, if possible "The Missing Pieces" (optimal scenario would be the "Q2 Fan Edit" of FWWM).The style starts out very much like a David Lynch film, as opposed to the original series. As it goes on, it becomes more familiar in tone and humor.If you grew up with "Twin Peaks" like me, and are a fan of David Lynch in general, you will absolutely LOVE this series. Lynch at the top of his game.


                
These episodes had everything and more and then some. The mood is there, the people are there, the old, the new, and the mystery.. oh the mystery. I just only can imagine what is coming, for we've just scratched the surface. And we got to enjoy it for four whole episodes. If it could be done, I'd rate this 11 out of 10. Thank You Sir Lynch, thank You!!! And for those who don't get it, I'm so so SO sorry for you guys.. You are missing something so truly great and totally unique.


                
So after waiting 27 years and being absolutely mystified by the mythology and THAT ending, I was understandably both excited and apprehensive about season 3. About three minutes in and my wife and I were spellbound!! David Lynch has returned to the world he created with Mark Frost and WOW(Bob Wow) he exceeded all my expectations and although it goes without saying that no matter what Mr Lynch did with Season 3 it was never going to make everyone happy. With that said anyone who is a fan of Lynch will have an absolute ball here, it truly feels like Lynch has mined his back catalogue and taken some of the best parts of his films and amplified them. I could prattle on and on (but I can see that others already have and I don't really want to bore you) All I can say is I hope the first 4 episodes are only a precursor to what is going to be an amazing trip back into the mind of David Lynch (refereed by Mark Frost) Anyways, Thank you Mr Lynch
Twin Peaks has always been a favorite of mine. When I heard that Lynch and Frost decided to shoot a new season I was so thrilled and also filled with expectations. So far I have just seen two parts and you might ask if it lived up to my expectations. Well, it actually surpassed my expectations. It's absolutely brilliant. Fantastic work by the entire crew.


                
For starters let me state that twin peaks is not for everyone, though I do think everyone should give it a fair chance. I believe this was the perfect return for a beloved TVs, episode 3 blow my mind, truly! episode 4 was just the perfect kind of funny. I cannot believe how incredibly messed up and truly wonderful David Lynch's mind is. I'm very invested in seeing this through. And (speaking for myself) I do hope we see some compelling new characters, hopefully someone like Audrey or Donna, James and Bobby. It's not only about the old faces for me. That's the only thing I'm missing, seeing new faces and to be enraptured by them, the way I was for those characters back then. I'll avoid giving any spoilers, but I do believe the next episode will put a face to a name, finally. :P
David Lynch has always marched to the beat of his own drum. He is an original. In the original series of "Twin Peaks" his vision of the show was compromised. He was forced to solve the mystery of who killed Laura Palmer. He never wanted it solved. When the mystery was solved the show lost its footing and that same time it lost its audience. One year later he released the theatrical film "Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me". I went and saw that film twice and loved then and I love it more today. I even bought the poster and had it framed. Now 25 years later David Lynch is back with with "Twin Peaks" and was it worth the wait? To me "Yes". Is it a story I thought it would be? "No". Do I like the show so far? Well for me "Yes"! I just wish it would move along a little faster however I can't keep my eyes off the screen. It is like a journey on a train. You enjoy the scenery. Plus you never know if you will be on that train again. The New Show picks up 25 years. It is different from the television show but I trust David Lynch. He is a great artist. The show is ALL HIS and he did not have to compromise his vision. He wisely made this show for Cable which gave him 100% control. In 4 episodes we still have not seen much of "Twin Peaks" the town. Which is strange but also fun. In this we still don't know is Agent Cooper is a good guy or a bad guy. It is the new mystery. You keep seeing interesting new characters as well familiar old faces. If you loved the original show don't expect too much of a rehash. This is a different approach. It was the way to go. Its not as violent as "Fire Walk With Me" but it has the same vibe. If you loved that film then no doubt "You will love this too". I for one can't not wait until the next episode.


                
Just finished watching episode 6.In this third season of Twin Peaks more than in the last two, Lynch appears to be following closely in the footsteps of the (much more accessible) pulp horror novelist Stephen King. The quirky-goofy way that Lynch represents the supernatural and the quirky-goofy small town folk who encounter it in Season 3 is pretty much echoing the tried and true example laid down by King in all of his novels and short stories. The result leads me to believe that Lynch would likely be a great choice to adapt and direct any of King's stories for the silver screen.Not everyone is going to love this show, but for those who are open to the work of an artist, it is a real treat. Best thing I've seen in years and years. Go Lynch!


                
It's a fever dream caught on camera as only an unshackled David Lynch could have pulled off. It's a much darker, eerie version of the Twin Peaks you may remember fondly from a simpler bygone era of television with the soap opera aspects of the original toned down considerably. In short a masterpiece by all accounts.


                
Yes, I ordered Showtime just to be able to watch it, yes it was worth it, Yes I'm exhausted today at work after staying up all night to watch it. Perfectly blended between tying in the old story line/elements and adding new ones out the gate.Lynch is a master, and the time away has not affected this. I would recommend this to anyone who enjoys Lynch or a non-traditional formulaic story line.


                
