Some background info to understand my view point. 45 years old, loved Twin Peaks Season 1, was bored midway Season 2 but loved the last cliffhanger episodes. Don't care about most of David Lynch's films but loved "Mulholland Drive" which was exceptional.This season is crap! The direction is static and the story lines are static. There are many story lines that have nothing to do with the main plot and will never be resolved. Most of them look like fillers and have usually famous actors in them. I am guessing that the Amanda Seyfried related scenes were shot in 1-2 days. It looks as if David Lynch asked some friends for a cameo and made a TV series out of them. Together with the early news about budget fighting with Showtime, I am tempted to say that I am sure about this.On top of this most of the actors' delivery is devoid of passion and coherence. David Lynch apparently only gave them their own lines with no back story. Last but not least, I hate being laughed at. David Lynch has more than one scene where is he is actually talking to the audience. The scene where Gordon Cole looks at an irrelevant escort get dressed for 3 minutes and then turn to his colleague and says something like "Chill and enjoy life". Sorry mate, 14 episodes into the series and nothing is happening. And sorry, if you have buried some clue to what is happening in episode 2 and you then show another ten episodes with random other stories, it is not my fault that I cannot connect the dots. And this does not make David Lynch and Mark Frost geniuses, just bad story tellers.(edit after the finale) 1. Kyle MacLachlan's performance through the series and the final episode is amazing.2.The finale invokes many dark feelings and opens the door to multiple different interpretations; in itself not a bad thing. BUT more or less the overarching feeling that it conveys, is that Lynch was looking down upon the viewer for wanting a continuation of the series. By continuation I do not mean a simplistic resolution nor a grand theory of things. It feels as if Lynch used this opportunity to validate his whole filming philosophy (which mostly failed at the box office). 18 hours of "stuff" with no real meaning, dragging the devoted viewer into dead-ends just to tell us that "some things are better left unsaid". I would have NO PROBLEM with that, if the series was 6 hours long or less. There is literally less than actual 2 hours of core narrative that plays a role in the story telling. I honestly feel insulted.
Only recently have I finished watching the original two series of Twin Peaks. I missed out when they initially aired – at the time, I was only a few years old – but the release of the new series motivated me to watch the original Twin Peaks. A dark undercurrent flowed through the original series, expertly woven together with goofiness, silliness, paranormal activity and plenty of black comedy. Characters were weird and wonderful, and even those you perhaps thought were annoying at first were strangely likable (for example, Dick Tremayne). I loved the original Twin Peaks and I strongly suggest that anyone who hasn't watched it should put it on their 'To watch' list immediately. Each show is 45 minutes of pure delight. But enough of the original Twin Peaks, let's move on to Series 3.I appreciate that much has changed in 25 years and TV viewing preferences have morphed but the third series left me thoroughly underwhelmed and disappointed. I'm not someone who dislikes weirdness or having my mind messed with, far from it, but this series was weird purely for the sake of being weird; a sentiment clearly shared by many others. It (Twin Peaks 3) isn't metaphorical or allegorical, even at some obscure level, contrary to those who say they 'interpreted' the various elements of the series as such. For the most part, it's an incoherent mess of non-relevant characters engaging in equally pointless interactions. Worse still, it's boring.Some of the series' 'highlights' include a man sweeping a floor for about 3 minutes, Dr Jacoby spray painting shovels for what felt like an age, and episode after episode of characters staring blankly at each other, waiting an eternity before delivering their lines. The Douglas Jones aspect became tedious almost immediately. The police officers /detectives who were supposed to be funny, notably the one with the idiotic laugh, were about as funny as haemorrhoids. And the less said about episode 8 the better. Watching a nuclear explosion in e-x-t-r-e-m-e-l-y s-l-o-w m-o-t-i-o-n, the Giant floating upwards for minute after painful minute, and a full performance by Nine Inch Nails?! If I wanted to watch a music video, I'd go on YouTube. The pacing of each episode was excruciatingly slow, just for the sake of being slow; the 55-minute episodes could easily have been condensed to 20 minutes and they still wouldn't have felt rushed.The original series tackled dark issues and the supernatural but it didn't resort to nudity, swearing or any particularly graphic content, things which are now all too common in series three. Not that any of these things bother me at all but they simply have no place in Twin Peaks; in my opinion, it's just not that type of show. Most of the swearing feels totally excessive, unwarranted, forced, and included for no other reason than to include some swearing. The sex scenes seemed pointless too, especially the one in the first episode that was put in purely for Madeline Zima to flash her flesh. The graphic scenes (the crushing /bursting skulls spring to mind) also appeared to have been added for sake of showing graphic content.Moving on to the original cast and original locations, in series one and two Norma's café, Norma, Shelly, and later Annie, all played important roles. They were the equivalent of the local pub and friendly bar staff that you find in any soap opera, the community hub of the show, if you will. However, in series three Norma's seemed totally irrelevant, as did Norma and Shelly. Audrey too was pretty much a special, and pointless, guest, as were Nadine and Jacoby. In fact, the majority of the original characters were borderline irrelevant and it would have been much better if they hadn't been included at all.The Bob /Agent Cooper, Douglas Jones /Agent Cooper, Gordon, Albert and Tammy characters and associated themes were (mostly) consistent throughout the entire series. However, virtually everything else that happened was a collection of unconnected mini stories with no bearing on anything else outside of their own tiny sphere of interest; essentially random and irrelevant content. I have seen the words 'Masterpiece' and 'Perfection' thrown around all too liberally in many reviews of the latest series of Twin Peaks and all I can presume is that I was watching something completely different. The climax of the finale would have been quite good if I (like many others) hadn't already given up caring as to what was actually happening, or why, three quarters of the series earlier.There were a few (heavy emphasis on the word 'few') good points though, it wasn't entirely bad. I liked Gordon, very much how he was in the original series and he delivered a few lines that made me laugh when he responded to things he'd misheard. I found the casino scene – "HEELLLOOOO!!!" – very funny, very Twin Peaks. I liked the song by Au Revoir Simone during the end credits of one episode. And oh yes, you get a few minutes (quite literally) of the ACTUAL Agent Dale Cooper in the penultimate episode in which we are finally shown his friendliness, determination and idiosyncratic personality.However, I think I need to end this review on probably the biggest failing of the series, something I allude to above. Why oh why oh why was Kyle MacLachlan reduced to a brain dead idiot for 80-90% of the series when he is brilliant at playing the real Agent Cooper? It makes no sense at all, a bit like the series.Twin Peaks was just one large, Lynch-driven, 18-hour vanity project. If it hadn't been called, 'Twin Peaks' or had Lynch's name attached, the series would have been instantly overlooked by far more entertaining new TV shows like, 'Watching paint dry in 60 minutes' and 'The floor sweeping world championship'. Ultimately, it would have disappeared into obscurity, which I suspect it still may.
The problem with this show is the majority of the scenes add nothing to the story and seem like stand alone short films. I am almost certain that David Lynch comes up with half of this stuff on the spot, instead of working good ideas into the main story line like most directors do he tries to create a story line around random ideas that pop up into his head. This evidently doesn't seem to work as we see unique scenes with no context taking up 10 minutes of screen time which do nothing to further the plot and are never referenced to again. If people could view this as a standalone show without the preconceived bias of how much they like David Lynch or his other works I think we would see an entirely different overall rating.


                
Neither daring or innovative but sadly rather old fashioned. This feels like a 70's talk show host inviting all of his pals on to a memorial show and reminiscing about old times. The guests are clearly struggling to remember the stories and when they do they are neither as clever or as funny as they thought they were ......and it's all painfully slow and wooden. Oh well the energy and sparkle of the old variety show schtick they did together 25 years ago may have gone but they can still drool over the dancing girls on the show<U+0085><U+0085><U+0085><U+0085>.. I bow to no one in my commitment to, fascination with and love of the work of David Lynch. I have seen all of his films and TV series multiple times, read all of the critical literature around his work and scrutinised his interviews. I list "Mulholland Drive", "Blue Velvet" and "Eraserhead" in my top 10 films. However this is awful!! Reading the nonsense contained in some of the glowing and enraptured reviews on IMDb I am painfully reminded of Hans Christian Andersen's story "the Emperor's New Clothes". The performances – apart from Laura Dern, who truly understands the Lynch idiom, and Robert Forster, who always delivers a laconic Robert Forster like performance regardless of what is going on around him!! – are truly abysmal. Beloved characters like Lucy and Andy have been turned into empty puppets, parodying the charm they once possessed until they emerge as something quite pathetic. Original cast members have been resurrected ( from the tomb I'm afraid looking at some of them) regardless of what they are able to provide to the integrity of the series and poor Miguel Ferrer, clearly ill, Russ Tamblyn, Richard Beymer etc completely lack the vitality and spark that served to energise the original series. Even the normally wonderful Naomi Watts seems to be lost as she tries to shift between 2 incompatible character stereotypes – the harridan and the caring wife. Kyle MacLachlan wanders through the whole affair in two incarnations. In one he's, the most unthreatening "bad guy" ever, with his cliché ridden greasy, slicked back hair and leather jacket. In the other he's the actor who badly failed the audition for "Rain man"! Poor old Kyle, the actor who was the quirky heart-beat of the original series, now reduced to an un-engaging, empty shell. If this is such a pure pursuit of the fantastical and surreal and if it is intended to uncover the cosmic physical energy around us then why does the series indulge itself with all of these pointless cameos? Silly blink and you'll miss it appearances by a whole host of people – Amanda Seyfried, Michael Cera,Ashley Judd, Jennifer Jason Leigh, James Belushi, etc etc – all parachuted in as pointless under written, badly acted characters who's only purpose would appear to be to massage Mr Lynch's ego. I have always remained uncomfortable about the depiction of women in some of the scenes in "Blue Velvet" and "Wild at Heart" but Lynch's work in "Mulholland Drive" and "Inland Empires" convinced me that he had become much more sympathetic and understanding in his depiction of the role of women in society. However this series reverts to the depressing and tired misogyny that inhabits most cinema and TV. I expected much better Mr Lynch. Women are reduced to the role of wife, receptionist, prostitute, girlfriend etc. However beyond this lazy stereotyping there are some truly unpleasant scenes that serve no purpose other than to demean women. I am thinking in particular of the scene in episode 2 in which Madeline Zima is offered up for our gaze in her nakedness and then destroyed in a nasty and mean spirited murder that belongs in some tawdry direct to video horror. Just because it takes place in an arty cube doesn't make it any less objectionable Mr Lynch. Even when a female character is a highly capable professional, Chrysta Bell as FBI Agent Tammy Preston, she is subjected to the sort of "let's look at her ass as she walks across the room" stupidity that I thought had died out with the passing of Sid James in Carry On films! The plot/narrative contains no sense of purpose or forward momentum. I don't even know what the mock noir mystery is that we are trying to uncover in this series? Are we still trying to find out who killed Laura Palmer? Where Cooper is? What goes on in the Black Lodge? Or find links to some new message that damaging the environment is bad? Well who'd have thought that? – Trump aside obviously! The "surreal" episodes ( Luis Bunuel must be spinning in his grave at this travesty) are drawn out and provide no additional atmosphere or subconscious tone/mood to the piece as a whole. In fact they reminded me of those tired old Nine Inch Nails videos of the 90's. Or perhaps I am simply not attuned to the hidden meanings contained in interminable scenes of lumberjacks killing hotel receptionists in the mist. I would suggest that if seeing a young women subjected to the unpleasantness of eating a large moth triggered something in your hidden psyche then you need to grow up! I just hope something happens in the final half of the season to transform this appalling mistake of a TV series because at the moment I would hate this desperate, ill considered drivel to prove to be Mr Lynch's final legacy.
The original "Twin Peaks" was a milestone in television history. What David Lynch, Mark Frost and their incredibly talented cast and crew managed to achieve was and still is mind-boggling. They created a masterpiece that is every bit as breathtaking today as it was almost thirty years ago.SO WHAT THE HELL HAPPENED?!Lynch has always worked on the edge, but so far just about every thing he's ever made has garnered my praise. "Twin Peaks: Fire Walk With Me" deviated significantly from the original series, but was still brilliant.SO WHAT THE HELL HAPPENED?!The 2017 series lacks all the charm of the original series. The comedy? Gone! The mystery? Gone! Lovable and/or memorable characters? Gone! Weird imagery? In abundance, but never once close to the glorious Black Lodge scenes from "1.02", "2.29" or "Fire Walk With Me". The music? Look, I love Nine Inch Nails as much as anyone, but what was the point of that music video in the middle of the episode?It is clear to me that neither Lynch or Frost remembers what made the original good to begin with.I am just going to pretend that this show never happened and just re-experience the splendour of the original series and movie. I strongly suggest that you do the same.


                
OMG where to start, I persevered hoping against hope that there would be some kind of ending, that at least one side story would have an explanation. No such luck, the long drawn out scenes, the disjointed plot and confusing dialog were like a Jackson Pollock painting, abstract and messy! I had such high hopes for this series, I loved the 90s version and was looking forward to seeing what had happened to all the characters and maybe seeing Cooper get his life back! I hope to God that they don't ruin it more by doing another season! The only reason I have given it 3 stars is the acting, they are an amazing group of people and seeing Miguel Ferrer one last time and David Duchovny in drag was a highlight. Take my advice though, avoid this one like the plague.


                
The new season is miles and miles away from the original ones.Biggest problem: everything is sooooo SSSSLLLLLOOOOOWWWWWW. Very very slow. The lines, the walking, the actions (if you can call it action), everything is like slow motion.Next problem: I don't understand many things. Entire scenes are completely useless, in my opinion. Episode 9, for example: - Lucy and Andy pick out chairs. What was that about ? - Jerry Horne is afraid of his own foot in the woods. Of course he is, he's a junkie, come on, he's always high. - why didn't Agent Tammy Preston ask William Hastings where did they go to cross in the other dimension (twice) and how did they cross in the other dimension ? - what's up with the 2 girls, near the end of the episode, in the bar ? - the song at the end of almost every episode. Why do really we need 2-4 minutes of music ?Next problem: all the surrealistic stuff - will we ever understand what they mean ? - the transparent box + ghost (?) from first episodes: who set it up? - the space station (?) among the stars - the dark people from episode 8... and so many others I can't remember.My rating is 3: - 1 because I cannot score ZERO - 1 in the honor of the original seasons - 1 because my wife said 3 (but she hates it as much as I do, maybe more).
Twin Peaks was a TV landmark in the 90s. Now it's back to unveil the mystery. The magician have longed to see that happen for so many years. Well, the time of waiting is finally over and the last dance in the red room will come full circle. Let me tell you, the original series had one of the best pilots I can recall on TV, but the beginning of season 3 can speak for itself. Not bad at all. It looks like Mr. Lynch has become more ambitious: new characters, new locations, new elements of imagery... plus the feeling that the whole thing will be darker and stranger than ever. I really enjoyed the two hour premiere. How cool was to see once again those familiar faces now dragged by the currents of time? Almost everyone was there. Laura, Agent Cooper, Dr Jacoby, the alienated Horne brothers, Sarah, Leland, the Log Lady, Chief Hawk, Andy, Lucy, the one-armed man, and the great appearance of James along with Shelly at the end. Speaking of which, the Bang Bang Bar scene will instantly make fans look back with nostalgia. Majestic state of contemplation. No words to describe it. A quarter of a century later, the song remains the same. That being said, genuine artists understand there's no point in repeating formulas because the real thing is to continually reinvent yourself. Well, I believe Mr. Lynch has an amazing world to show us behind the red curtains. I believe Twin Peaks will be a captivating experience. Just let the fire walk with you. It is already coming. Through the darkness of Future Past...


                
Like many of you, while I excitedly anticipated the return of Twin Peaks, I also nervously feared that the new series would be a letdown. Little did I know how bad it would be. Yes, I'm still watching it, but with the same perverse compulsion that draws one to look at a car crash despite knowing you're not going to like what you see. Or perhaps there is still some hope that it certainly can't be this bad and MUST improve. I didn't have a lot of confidence because I believe Lynch has lost the plot (in more ways than one) years ago. I think he can no longer write a coherent narrative. Self-absorbed in his own illusions of artistic grandeur, his product celebrates quirky style over substance. That isn't a problem if the style merits a viewer's attention. However, what Lynch sees as funny, interesting, or clever is so out of touch and behind times that it is painful to watch. Can the scenes involving the beloved characters at the Twin Peaks Sheriff's Office be any more pathetic? I feel sorry for the actors. When they looked at the script, didn't they think "WTF?!" Every scene with Andy, Lucy, and Hawk has me puzzled and cringing. Does Lynch think what he is filming is funny? It is a sad indictment that the best character scene so far has come from Michael Cera's quirky take as Wally Brando: the only time I cracked a smile in 5 episodes. Other than that, the characters are schizophrenic dull, lifeless cardboard cutouts. Their interactions and spoken lines are so bizarrely stupid that I'm starting to wonder if it will be revealed that they are actually stuck in some alternate reality universe around the corner from the Red Lodge where everything said and done has no meaning. What is most revolting is how Lynch is purposely trying to push our buttons by dragging the story out with ludicrous pacing. I can see the talks in the Showtime offices now. Lynch: "I have a good plot that should take me 6 episodes to tell." Studio Chief: "But we'd like to have 18 episodes. Can you expand on the story?" Lynch: "No, but I can drag my story out for 18 episodes." Come one! Five minutes watching Dr. Jacoby spray painting shovels? Then five minutes watching Dougie play slot machines? Then spending about twenty minutes in episodes 4 and 5 with those sidesplittingly funny (sarcasm) scenes of Dougie-as-stroke-victim shuffling about and looking blankly at other people, parroting their last words. I was seriously about to scream in agony by the time Dougie got in the board room in episode 5. Twenty minutes into the episode and nothing has happened. Lynch apologists will claim "Oh, what a genius! It is so artistic to take ten minutes to do something that could be done in one." No. In addition to the pacing, the story is quickly turning into a mess, with plot lines that have been forgotten, abandoned, or simply not tied into the bigger plot. I knew before the series started that this was a likely outcome. I'm sure Lynch is surrounded by hangers-on and yes-men who would never tell him what he's doing isn't good (like Lucas for Star Wars Eps 1-3). For this series to have worked, there needed to be a strong personality who could take Lynch's delightfully idiosyncratic ideas and mold them into a story that can be followed. Though I'm crossing my fingers, I'm not expecting any revelations that will make sense of the myriad of scenes we've seen and the "clues" that have been uttered. Yes, I'll be happy if Lynch does pull it all together; however, some damage has already been done because of lack of care in editing the story.I give it a 3 now, although that may be colored by my recent viewing of episode 5, truly one steaming pile of garbage. If it improves, I'll be happy to edit my review and bump up the score. There IS some good stuff in here. There are some nice scenes (all too few between) where some characters are finally given some heart and depth. Also, Lynch seems freer to integrate his unique visual and audio conceptions. Those of you who've seen his short films know he is capable of some truly intriguing images that are haunting, thought-provoking, and, yes, stylistic. I think the scene in that metal box in space is Lynchian art film at its best. It presents a glimpse into a space-time that seems eerily familiar and tantalizingly close to being knowable, yet removed from our concept of reality. It is unnerving and challenging. The room with the big glass box is also a cool invention. That said, to be truly a good show, Lynch has to do more than have standalone scenes that look cool. He has to give them some meaning instead of piling the abstruse on the arcane on the cryptic on the impenetrable. Sooner or later, we need to know what the hell's going on. Don't tantalize us by giving us hints and clues if they really lead nowhere. As negative as I sound, I'm a Lynch fan from way back and want this series to be great. Twenty-five years in the making, I simply expected a lot more from him.


                
Seeing the old characters in their same roles 25 years later was amazing. The story line with Cooper, and the scenes with Laura. The music from the first season, great. However, the rest is just hours and hours of random story lines that did not make any impression. The new characters: Diane, the dealer, norma's daughter, David lynch appearance, Bens relationship, Tamy, all the scenes in the bar and the music... and a ton of other characters i forgot the name of.. it lacked the personality which the characters from the original show had. Maybe there was some things relevant to the plot here, but after a few episodes of characters just dissapearing off the screen, it becomes hard to pay attention.Maybe you will say it is art, but there is also good and bad art.. maybe people are to nostalgic to see its flaws.


                
This is probably one of the worst series I have ever seen.
The acting is so terrible, it will make your skin crawl,
and the dialogue is just a joke. After half an episode I had to turn it off.


                
While this show receives full marks for the A, B, C and D Listers it brought in, the good cameos and celebrities who agreed to film it, one cannot but help feel sorry for them. What a waste of talent and more so what a waste of a good television spot in which another, better show could have been running. On another note, for those of you fluffing this piece up, if you aren't honest with yourselves or in your reviews, how do you ever expect to get better shows on the air?3 out of 10 stars and only because I am feeling sympathetic toward this flawed mess.


                
Dear David Lynch and Twin Peak fans, First of all I really don't understand why the rating of this show is nearly 9, is it skewed by the producers? Regardless, this show is one of the worst television piece I have ever seen. Even though I am a big David Lynch fan and tried to watch it with all my good will, I could hardly finish the season 2 and could only watch 4 episodes from season 3. I could write a longer review about how bad everything is but I am just going to say that one should avoid this show.


                
So i forced myself to slog through the first 3 eps of this new series, and to my dismay, found each episode to be more ridiculous and boring than the last. Lynch's surrealist elements (the very elements he is famous for) are hollow and immature...they really don't have anything to say thematically and don't really create a disturbing atmosphere. We are treated to a parade of one armed backwards talking men, backwards talking women with no eyes, backwards talking trees, glass boxes which summon murderous apparitions etc etc. They add absolutely nothing to the narrative or the aesthetic of the show. And these scenes GO.ON.FOREVER. The original Twin Peaks was fairly overrated and hasn't aged well at all. This is even worse.


                
Twin Peaks (1990-1991): A small town murder mystery spiced with some David Lynch weirdness.Twin Peaks (2017): A David Lynch weirdness mystery that mostly take place in Las Vegas.A huge disappointment.


                
Proof that you can't go home again. Like so many I was enthralled by the original Twin Peaks because the deadpan reality of that little town in the pines contrasted so comically with the strange inventions of David Lynch's mind. It was such a welcome reprise from the stifling mediocrity of most TV fiction in those days And then there was the beautiful Laura Palmer; we mourned her death along with the lost James. In The Return we're asked to the feel the death of a woman who is attached to a torso that belongs to someone else. Horror instead of grief. in years since the powerful influence of Twin Peaks spread throughout the visual world, and when Walk With Fire came out it seemed more a parody than a continuation. And now The Return and it takes place almost all inside the deranged imagination of David Lynch and the outside world of Washington State rarely surfaces. One reviewer said he was satisfied letting surreal images wash over him; in other words, it was art and didn't have to make sense.It may be art but its also self-indulgent in the way that experimental film and video often is. Far more effective for me is the surreal oddness of Twin Peaks successors like Fargo, the series in which the real world is more unsettling than fantasy, so much so that when a flying saucer descends in the middle of a gunfight we accept it as something that could have happened.Three episodes in and I'm ready to leave The Return. There's too many other good things I'd rather watch like the profoundly sad Keepers on Netflix which proves that evil in the real world is more subtle and insidious than fictional evil.
Rolling stone was right about it and it has F***** up my mind thought Lynch would use science but no he locks himself in a room writing entire episodes by himself (per what McGlauglin quoted about episode 8 - but no it's Lynch at what he does best showing Humanity At its worst Children getting run down, using the most unlikely people to viciously murder like how he turned innocent Dennis hopper into a truly hardcore villain in blue velvet which is lynch'es gift showing what we are That's great but don't pull multi- dimensions , parallels and use that as a tool to scare us leave science out of it! This continuation is Far different from 90's Series which was mostly a soap opera & comedy relief with David Duchovney as a transvestite before there were transvestites "iknowing that's how the X-files originated from Lynch making Duchovney be that character before he could start the x-files like he sold his soul to become Agent Mulder it seems Lynch is best with Ultra violent Evil as Art but don't mix evil and science they don't mix
I wrote my original critique after 6 episodes and now I have all 18 in and I feel like David Lynch left everything in limbo again. The last 2 hours I thought we were getting somewhere, but no resolutions. And over 18 hours of show, there had to be an hour of driving down a dark highway shots. Was this leftover footage from Lost Highway - C'mon Mr. Lynch. Over 18 episodes, so many characters were introduced, but just left hanging weeks ago. Sure Agent Dale Cooper is the central character - but so many other interesting characters showed but never resolved. Like Harry Dean Stanton showing up for some memorable scenes but then gone from the story line altogether. And Audrey Horne shows up married to some strange man - but we never get to know why. Benjamin Horne keeps popping up, but never any sense of how he is involved. I'll always respect David Lynch for the original 1st season of Twin Peaks, Blue Velvet and The Elephant Man, but the 18 hours of the 2017 Twin Peaks - The Return, in spite of all the interesting visual scenes, just didn't tie together for me and I'm dropping my final rating to a 3 out of 10.


                
The only thing that's weirder than this series is the rating of this series (9,4 atm).I am really disappointed with this new season (or series?) of Twin Peaks, since I really liked the original one. And this has nothing to do with that. Yes, the plot kind of continues from where the original one ended and there's some of the same characters' but that's it. All the reasons why I enjoyed the original one are gone. I don't understand why the writers would do that. There was some weird things going on in the original one, but supernatural full-on freaking was not the point of the series. So why is the new one nothing but that?I doubt there's anybody who liked the first one and would also like this one. These two offer totally different types of emotions etc. If you like supernatural, superheroes and other stupid non-believable things, you might enjoy this new one. If you are like me and you enjoy believable characters and believable life, the new one is not for you.The ending of the original one was weird, I give you that. But the main point of the series was not that. In the new one, there is nothing but weird sh*t going on.


                
But it reminds me what the great Look Reed seemed to have done in the eighties to his loyal fans. Put a cool cover on a LP and see who would chomp it up! A cruel joke, maybe, but being a true fan, I hoped that I could catch up to the "genius" factor that was hiding somewhere in those grooves. . Still waiting for that revelation to come to pass, but I fear that I won't be around long enough to see ahead to the great beyond of this series, or even if it's worth the wait!


                
Reactions to Twin peaks season 3 are on the whole that it's either a total failure, (a piece of garbage as one critic said) or that's it's briljant. The latter mostly come from die hard Lynch fans so this can't be taken too seriously. The first one makes more sense but in my view both the positive and negative ones miss the point. 
As far as the regular scenes concern, that means the scenes that are supposed to be a continuation of season 1 and 2 both in form and content, one could say it is indeed a complete failure. The Lynchian touch is totally absent. The humour is gone, the mystic atmosphere is gone, and there is no tension curve. In short; everything that made season 1 great is missing. 
But in some of the dream/surrealistic scenes, like the one that starts of episode 3 and the whole of episode 8, Lynch unexpectedly shows complete control. It is the hand of the accomplished master. These scenes are among the very best of his oeuvre. However, they have nothing to do with Twin Peaks. Lynch might easily have made a short film out of these scenes. And he'd better had. Why put the most fabulous of cinematographic art in the context of such inferior material? It may be clear, however, that Lynch didn't perceive the regular scenes as such. But how can he show critical self reflection in the brilliant scenes and the complete absence of any self criticism in the regular ones? How can this be? Total failure on one hand and and briljant cinema on the other.After Lost Highway, Mullholland Drive and Inland Empire Lynch had reached a point of no return. In these films Lynch breaks the rules for every form of regular cinema. Time is put upside down, persons switching identities and so on. As an artist the development points forward and not backward. For Twin Peaks he should have gone back to an earlier stage in his development and that is uncommon for any artist. That is the only explanation that makes sense to me for Lynches lack of vision. Old age doesn't account for that considering the briljant scenes. But his development does point towards the dream and surrealistic scenes. From the perspective of artistic development they are the only ones that matter. They represent the very pinnacle of Lynchian art. His images and vision in these is totally original. Fear is always the most important drive behind Lynch and these scenes literally make you tremble with fear, they run shivers down your spine. It is the most realistic representation of a dream ever put on film. In fact it's so briljant it's even worth watching 18 hours of crap.The most commonly described factors for the failure of Twin Peaks 3 are incoherent and bad storytelling and bad acting. But the most important one, that is overlooked by everyone, is the absence of music and sound design in the regular scenes. What made Lynch great is the blending of sound and vision to form 'total cinema', sound meant here in the broadest sense, as songs, regular filmscore and more abstract sounds. Though it says "sound design by David Lynch" in the end credits, there is practically no Lynchian sound effects in any of the scenes. How can this have happened? Was this done deliberately by Lynch. Why should an artist let go of one of his essential strengths? Was it lack of time of money? I gues we will never know.(any suggestions as to the improvement of the English language in this review are welcome)


                
The revival season is mostly awful, unwatchable, and as interesting as watching paint dry. And this is coming from a fan of Lynch's work who greatly enjoys the weird ones like Eraserhead.I give Lynch and Frost credit for having the gumption to get this made and broadcast. It's another case of The Emperor's New Clothes. If it weren't Lynch who made this, this content would never see the light of day, it's that bad.There are several scenes that are incredible, from a surrealist perspective, but they are padded with some of the worst television ever made.


                
In this age of soft reboots where nothing original is produced anymore outside the walls of streaming services and where money is funneled to every tired has-been who had good ideas decades ago, enter Mark Frost and David Lynch. Two has beens who are trying to profit off of seven good tv episodes they made almost 30 years ago.David Lynch is technically brilliant, but his creativity is extremely superficial. Twin peaks is a good example of this. Season 1 was quirky, unique and interesting for seven episodes. Season 2 was terrible because Lynch's creativity doesn't lend itself towards in depth analysis and doesn't work well when it actually gets explained.


                
