When I heard Scorsese made this movie, i was very excited. Because one thing that i know, Departed will be an adaptation of my favorite Hongkong movie "Infernal Affairs" or "Wu Jian Dao". And when I read a magazine, the director denied and said it's only inspired by. So my expectation flew away. But all my dream has gone when I saw "Departed". It's all the same. Sorry, spoiler, how the boss gang died, how the captain died, how the undercover died, all the same. In short, all the important scene, are all the same. Maybe, they have different ending but if you have seen "Wu Jian Dao", "The Departed" just only follower. No need a big name like Scorsese just to remake an Asian movie. One thing, "The Departed" has lost the thrill that "Wu Jian Dao" have.
Oh dear, it's Scorsese does Tarantino with some Goodfellas thrown into the mix (even down to using the Human Beanz - Nobody But Me for a fight in a shop). The first third of the film is excellent, despite the constant sound of the Rolling Stones - Gimme Shelter every five minutes, but then it goes downhill fast. The basic premise of a cop infiltrating the Irish mob and a mobster infiltrating the cops is good, but soon so many other things are thrown into the plot it becomes a farce. Why make Costello am FBI informer? Pointless, other than maybe to give Matt Damon a reason to kill him, although it would have been a thousand times more interesting if Damon's reason was Nicholson's dismissive treatment of him since a teenager. Why did Matt Damon's character have so much power to do as he liked in the force after only joining a few months back, able even to call a surveillance of Sheen police chief? Stupid. How come Damon didn't figure out immediately that Dicaprio's character used his phone at the meet with the Chinese? He knew the whole of Nicholson's crew apart from Costigan, but Scorsese just needed to drag the film out for another hour. Why was Baldwin's character camping it up like a pantomime dame all over the screen? The acting from Baldwin was so bad it made me think he was play acting for Damon's character and actually new he was a mole, but he didn't, Baldwin just can't act. The mess of shootings at the ending wasn't a twist either it was very dull 'ho hum' and 'so what' and i had lost interest half an hour earlier when Nicholson exited the film. After the first hour this film is silly, contrived and with no clever plot twists at all but just pointless adding of layer on layer of meaningless guff. If someone tells you this is an intricate and well plotted film, don't believe them, point them in the direction of The Usual Suspects.


                
This remake of "Internal Affairs", a great movie in its own right, adds a Whitey Bulger-John Connolly Boston twist that just BEGS for brilliance - it's a can't-miss story line with a powerhouse cast.However, it's a huge disappointment. Despite such compelling material, Scorsese only skims the surface, opting for gloss instead of substance, adding confusing sub-plots that serve mainly to hook the audience. These sub-plots destroy the momentum of the film and pull the whole thing off the tracks. Without these (no spoilers), the film may have had a chance. Scorsese's trademark violence stingers are now overripe at best. Am I the only one who started to yawn when people were getting pounded over a loud soundtrack in "Casino"? I doubt it...There is some pretty silly ensemble work here, too - we're not talking "Glenngary Glen Ross" or "The Usual Suspects" here by any stretch. Most of the bad highlights usually involve Wahlberg's profane fool of a character. Overall, the individual characterizations seem to be either shrill, as in the case of the annoying Wahlberg and chest-thumping Damon, or flat, like Sheen's police captain. Nicholson's Whitey Bulger take is completely lacking in menace - it's amusing, if nothing else. Only DiCaprio's brooding Billy Costigan stands out, but he's got nowhere to go, both literally and figuratively - the sub-plots basically turn his character to face the wall... Much has been made of the ending here, but I would describe it with one word - "cowardly". I just couldn't respect this film much, particularly in light of "GoodFellas" and other Scorsese masterpieces. Overall, 4 stars and only because it's him - probably the worst best picture Oscar since "American Beauty".


                
What can I say? It's f..king overrated! And way, way too long... Tedium and confusion set in at times. Don't watch it "cold" as I just did on DVD. Without knowing exactly who was playing who; I certainly lost my way at times. Partly due to cramming so much plot, or what passes for plot, into so little time.Best Picture of the Year? How could it fail to win when up against such heavy-weights as Babel, Little Miss Sunshine, Letters from Iwo Jima and the Queen? And what glorious blood-shed and splatter! Remember the heavy "flack" against that in the Wild Bunch? But that was a great movie. Basically, "The Departed" a B remake of a B plus Chinese film.


                
Would I have rated this film higher if I had not seen the HK original "Infernal Affairs"? Probably - but when you have, it's like comparing a brick with a samurai sword.Set in the gritty underbelly of Boston, "The Departed" is a story of two men working undercover on opposites sides of the law. DiCaprio plays Billy Costigan, a graduate State Trooper handpicked by Cpt Queenan (Martin Sheen) to infiltrate crime boss Frank Costello's (the manic Jack Nicholson) milk-bar raidin', computer-chip and drug dealin' "organisation" of what appears to be about 5 or 6 thugs. The sixth or maybe seventh guy in the gang is Colin Sullivan (Matt Damon), whom Costello has groomed in his own image since childhood (stricly in a criminal sense - two Jack Nicholsons running your neighbourhood would be too scary. Unless the other Jack was only 1/8th the size (MiniJack), in which case it would be quite sad/funny. Together they would turn away from their life of crime to star in their own music video about building castles in the sky<U+0085>well, in either case, there goes the neighbourhood), to be his mole on the force.The ingredients are there for a tense and thrilling cops n robbers drama. Instead, The Departed ends up as a blunt, violent film with comedy where's it's not intended. Its main problem is an utter lack of finesse. Mak Siu Fai's screenplay led you to see for yourself the increasing sense of frustration, isolation and fear of the good cop (played superbly by the excellent Tony Leung) - much like Nicholas Cage's tormented good guy trapped in a bad guy's body in Face Off. Scorsese meanwhile, needed DiCaprio to literally yell and whinge about how frustrated, isolated and fearful he felt, because if he didn't, I would've missed it. I mean, what loneliness? What isolation? If ever he felt the onset of undercover angst, he had the comfort of jumping in the sack with Damon's girlfreud or going to Cpt Queenan's house for supper and a chat - try working in a cubicle 8 hours a day. Sure, the prospect being found out as a spy is pretty rough, but if your boss is Jack Nicholson, he's just as likely to grind you into mincemeat for spilling coffee on his tie.Subtlety is a dying art. Case in point is a scene where the bad cop shows off his policing chops by conning a crook into giving up his associates. When confronted with the impasse in IA, Andy Lau walks into the the room without missing a beat. Calmly, coolly, smoothly, he feeds the guy a line or two and then hook and sinker as well. In TD, when confronted with the same uncooperative thug, Damon looks a little confounded, but lo and behold! He spies with his little eye a mysterious briefcase belonging to no one that just so happens to be lying around. He then furrows his brow to indicate thinking. Finally he says to his chums "I know! I'll take that mysterious briefcase belonging to no one but that just happens to be lying around, go in there and pretend I'm the guy's lawyer and trick him in to giving us the information we need!"The other big problem is some of the casting, which means some of the acting. Leo rings in an emotional but always believable performance and I think a little gold man is probably well due him at some stage. Nicholson is Nicholson. The choice of Martin Sheen as Cpt Queenan however, is a little odd. This character (played with heroism and wit by Anthony Wong in IA) should be to Nicholson's Costello what Professor X is to Magneto. Instead Sheen appears blatantly impotent in contrast with his arch nemesis.The inclusion of Marky Mark as the tough talking nutjob Sgt Dignam was as much a mystery as the briefcase in the interrogation room, though as comic relief, you can't help but laugh at his foul-mouthed antics in spite of yourself. Then there is Alec Baldwin. Unfortunately, I've not been able to take him seriously since Team America - unfortunate, because that wasn't his fault. Fortunately, I can now not take him seriously on his own merit. According to Mr Baldwin's Book of Acting<U+0099>, senior police officers always, except when playing golf, default to an arms akimbo, chest or gut stuck out position (the more senior you are, the lower the body part to be stuck out) and crack one liners. To make matters worse, he lent a copy of his book to Marky Mark, who compounded the error by reading it. There is a scene in which they are standing together in a room, BOTH with arms akimbo, cracking one liners and giving "the brief" to the junior officers. Maybe it's just me, but one guy with his hands on his hips is fine- he commands respect, either because he is the boss or Hercules. But more than one just looks ridiculous. I suppose that's why The Three Amigos were so funny.There are other moments of unintentional comedy you should discover for yourself. Be sure to invite along a friend who actually speaks Cantonese to watch that scene with the "tough" Chinese gangsters.Many critics have hailed this as Scorcese's comeback blockbuster, and the box office might even give you the numbers to proof it. As a movie in its own right, it certainly is not without merits. But compared with the original, The Departed is dumbed down, heavy-handed and completely unnecessary. I realise Hollywood is starting to run out of ideas - but why remake an excellent movie when the ones that need redoing are the bad ones?


                
Disclaimer: V for Vendetta should have won best picture of the year. One would think that I would just give up on Hollywood films. However, there is an occasional surprise. When it comes down to it, though, I must mirror the sentiment of my good friend Fletch: "I want to see the filth!"Okay, so how do you win an Academy award for best picture of the year? Well, you could make a movie about a mentally deficient idiot who takes a pivotal role in every major historical event for the past 40 years, have an overrated hack play the lead, and insert some repulsive underlying philosophy (i.e., submit to authority, or else!) <U+0096> but that was already done in 1994. Things change, so 2006 requires a different strategy:(1) Take a fantastic screenplay from a Hong Kong film. (2) Add $83 million dollars to your budget. (3) Insert the word "f * c k" randomly 214 times into the script. (4) Eliminate all of the character/plot complexities to pander to the simple-mindedness of American audiences. (5) Completely purge any intelligent or subtle elements. (6) Add 40 minutes of dead weight.What do you get? You get the year's most pretentious feat of idiocy <U+0096> The Departed.The biggest disappointment with this film is the dialogue and character interaction, which are vitally important in the creation of an effective drama. Scorsese implemented his patented "4-Letter-Word Guide to Juvenile Screenplays." Interestingly enough, I gathered the distinct impression that the insertion of these classless quotes was for no real purpose. This is evident in scenes where a particular character will make statements that seem to come from absolutely nowhere, as they have absolutely nothing to do with the scene up to that point. For example, Baldwin is preparing his police squad for a sting operation, only to then randomly tell Damon the following while talking really, really fast:"You want to have a smoke? You don't smoke, do you? What, are you one of those fitness freaks, huh? Go f * c k yourself." How the hell did Baldwin make the jump from police work to this? It makes no logical sense. Must be Scorsese's trademark film-making style. Clever man. The astuteness of these observations is mind-blowing. I wonder if it took longer than 5 seconds to adapt the original Hong Kong screenplay, or if they just used the "Replace" function in Microsoft Word to insert the word "f * c k" 214 times into the script. And yes, it was literally 214 times <U+0096> I counted out of curiosity sake. I'm sure a middle school student could have done as much. As could be predicted by a Hollywood production, the storyline was rather dim-witted:(1) What's with the blatantly obvious tipoffs between Damon and Nicholson via cell phone. Don't the cops think it somewhat weird that Damon calls his "mother" or "father" to tell them his "friends are coming" immediately before a huge undercover operation? What the hell!? (2) The sting operation was devoid of any intelligence or cleverness on the part of the filmmakers. Nicholson gets away because <U+0096> get this <U+0096> the cops were too stupid to put cameras near the rear of the warehouse, even though they put them everywhere else. Wow. I can't think of a less scintillating "cat and mouse" game than that. (3) The scene between Martin Sheen and Nicholson is so fake. It's as if the filmmakers were faced with the fact that 70 minutes had passed without any tension between the protagonist and antagonist, and were thus forced to earn that tension with a 30-second superficial conversation replete with vulgarity. Bravissimo fellas. Too bad plot development takes much more effort than that. So the ending finally comes. In perhaps the most elementary use of symbolism since Forrest Gump's "feather" scene, Scorsese shows a rat teetering on the edge of a railing! How long did it take to think of that one? Oh yeah, and the soundtrack was horrible too. Don't even think of pawning this film off as an original idea. Half a dozen scenes were ripped directly from Infernal Affairs, only executed ineptly. All of the great suspense sequences were already written for Scorsese. All he did was obliterate a well-written and intelligent script by inserting a series of incompetent scenes with lots of explicit violence, sex talk, and 40 minutes of dead weight in the form of pointless, boring moments. Nice job, Marty.The Departed is totally mediocre as a stand-alone film, but it is helpful to beat a dead horse by quickly comparing it to the superior Hong Kong original. The original introduced one of the most interesting, complex characters I can remember. The mole within the police department is not a straight-up antagonist, as Damon was <U+0096> but instead operated in a gray zone that provided some stunning scenarios and plot developments that transcend any crime thriller ever made. It created a truly unique character for the film to revolve around. The original was much more intelligent. There were scenes that required the viewer to think about what was going on. For example, the sting operation <U+0096> a highlight of the film <U+0096> was lengthy and subtle in it's portrayal of the moles and their communications with their bosses. Frankly, it rocked! Also, the relationships between the moles and their bosses were compelling and realistic, not over-dramatic. The Departed was made for people with an IQ of less than 50. Think of it this way, if you thought any scene in The Departed was halfway decent, it was done more intelligently and entertainingly in Infernal Affairs. So go to your local Blockbuster and rent the true classic that "inspired" a juvenile, pretentious knockoff.
The day long movie, The Departed (it was a mere 2-1/2 hours but seemed like a day), is one of a very few movies I've found valueless. It is difficult to comprehend what the critics and the Motion Picture Academy are thinking in their various homages to this. I guess Scorsese is the magic word.The last shot in the movie, a rat toodling along the balcony of the corrupt Colin Sullivan's (Matt Damon) luxury apartment in downtown Boston (the luxury apartment that no honest cop in the Special Investigations Unit realizes that Sullivan is living in on his $30,000 plus salary?) is emblematic of the ham-handed approach of the movie's makers. There are probably a dozen missteps by Sullivan that would have raised the curiosity of colleagues with an IQ higher than that of my cats but, hey, we know cops are dumb.The Departed was totally lacking in finesse or intelligence and pandered to a crowd that has no trouble believing that all cops are either stupid or corrupt (or both); that undercover cops wherever they are are permitted to engage is every sort of violent, brutal and destructive act short of intentional murder by their handlers and that Baghdad-like firefights on the streets of major American cities and blood gurgling (or spurting) out of people's mouths or spattered on the walls and floors are realistic.The approach of the movie was actually insulting to the audience (and, by the way, to black officers, making the nice black officer from the training cadre one of the principal mechanisms of the hero's undoing). Lest we fail to respect and empathize sufficiently with Captain Queenan (Martin Sheen), the incorruptible head of SIU, Scorsese takes Billy Costigan/DiCaprio (and us) into his home and has Queenan talk about his wonderful wife and son at college. Any suspense about whether Queenan would be among those left standing at the end of the film was instantly dispelled. I immediately ordered a wreath for his grave.The movie was a waste of a great collection of actors. I'm not a DiCaprio fan but he was OK in the ridiculous role he was asked to play, although I don't consider lip-pursing acting. Mark Wahlberg, as Sgt. Dignam, a foul-mouthed but fiercely honest cop with good street instincts was about the best of the lot. And, in the end, the directors turn him into a cold-blooded murderer. Jack Nicholson was Jack Nicholson, which is OK. I suppose there are mobsters capable of clever one liners somewhere. The opera reverie scene in which he has a fantasy (?) of tossing cocaine into the air like fairy dust over two of his bimbos was, like the balcony rat at the end, insultingly gross.I wonder what this movie could have been if it had been written and directed by people with intelligence, finesse and reserve.
I didn't see the HK original, but I was still dissatisfied with the picture.Plot holes, inconsistencies, the female lead (Jack is always fun, but is always Jack being Jack...it didn't work for me here). Damon was monochromatic, Sheen was marginal, Baldwin and Wahlberg were cartoons, (and Wahlberg has had much better performances elsewhere like Perfect Storm).The screenplay didn't use its time wisely - too much time on stuff that didn't matter and too little on stuff that did. It was like a speech where all the bullet points are treated equally and the speaker rushes through it without stressing which ones are really important.Holding it up to GoodFellas, which Scorsese really should have won for, this was NO GoodFellas. (The use of Gimme Shelter seemed like an homage to it). Marty is an Oscar caliber director. But this is not his best and was a pity Oscar. He was going to win it this year even if this was a feature length film about Tennessee Tuxedo.Oh, And the rat on the railing at the end made be laugh out loud. Subtle, that.
The Departed is loaded with talented actors and I went into it with high expectations. That said, during the last 30 minutes of the movie I just wanted it to end. It has strong acting, but that's a given considering all the on screen talent. It is too long, the pacing is too slow, and just felt like it was missing something. A lot about the movie felt contrived to me and I left the theater feeling deflated. The love story was predictable, a little weird, and definitely inappropriate considering the characters positions. The film didn't really have a climax, instead there were a series of climactic moments that kept sort of just puttering out and letting me down. The cinematography was boring as well, most of the shots seemed pretty simple and uninteresting. Similarly, the score felt contrived and pedantic. Like some bean counters calculated the songs most likely to impress a 2006 American audience and threw all of them into this film. Overall, I just can't recommend this film to people and I think it is possibly the most overrated film of the decade.


                
Maratin Scorsese has been a fixture in Hollywood for decades and members of the Motion Picture Academy must have felt that they "owed" him this Oscar for being Martin Scorsese, certainly not for this film which has more phony elements in it than any movie in recent memory. True it has 3-1/2 high profile stars: Leonardo DiCaprio, Matt Damon, Jack Nicholson and Mark Wahlberg. Plus it has more violence than can be found anywhere outside a war zone and enough blood to fill your average blood bank. Scorsese has plowed this field before -- in "Goodfellas," a vastly superior movie. Why didn't I like it? Because the plot is stuffed with unbelievable elements including a three way romance between Damon as a cop, DiCaprio as an undercover agent posing as a criminal and a police psychiatrist who is treating them both ???). As for Jack Nicholson, he is reprising previous roles as the Devil, this time in the person of a crime boss who is also -- get this -- an informant for the FBI. Damon is Nicholson's "mole" inside the police department and DiCaprio is the police department's mole inside Nicholson's organization. The question is who's going to find whom first and, eventually, after many (bloody) twists and turns, who gives a damn anyway? Scorsese has made more bad films than good ones but what the hell -- it's time to give him his Oscar. As for the principals, DiCaprio presents himself as a cool but tortured soul living a dangerous lie, Damon is Damon once again, and Nicholson is out there in front of the camera chewing the scenery as he is increasingly wont to do. Wahlberg does quite a decent job in a completely over-the-top role as an overseer in the under cover section of the police department. Martin Sheen distinguishes himself in this movie (as DiCaprio's ultimate boss) primarily because his character is almost believable and he's low key where everyone else is hamming it up big time. This movie is expensive trash and its success proves once again that you can't underestimate the taste of the American people (or of the Motion Picture Academy).


                
The Departed is an occasionally engaging film, beautifully acted and photographed. It has powerful narrative energy as it breathlessly races the viewer through a complex plot. However, the praise for this film has been far overblown. The Departed is not as inventive as Taxi Driver and not startling and sublime like Raging Bull. In fact, Scorcese's new film is overly long and somewhat tedious. The contrived plot seems banal, and neither Di Caprio nor the bland Damon make their roles particularly interesting. Sadly, despite his technical virtuosity, it becomes apparent here that Scorcese has little more to say about his themes of urban alienation and the brutality of modern life. The film is grotesquely violent at times, and the viewer begins to wonder as yet another bloody shooting "goes down." Unfortunately, the shallowness of this film and its predictable brain-spraying violence disappoint the Scorcese fan.


                
This movie is sensational 95% of the way through. Di Caprio, whose skills as an actor are grossly underrated, is sensational, Damon is very good, and Jack Nicholson is endurable. (It would be nice to see a movie in which a director actually controls him, as Roman Polanski did in Chinatown. He is over-the-top now in every role, and sometimes it jars as it did here.Unfortunately, the 5 percent that fails is the last 5 percent of the movie. Did any of the critics who are extolling this movie notice that the ending is absolutely incoherent? Let me walk through it.1. Costigan, the Di Caprio character, gives his girl friend an envelope that she is not supposed to open unless something happens to him. This is done with tremendous meaning and significance. It is, however, the last that is heard of the envelope.2. Next, a cd arrives for her with an audio of an incriminating conversation between Sullivan (the Damon character) and Costello (Nicholson). Huh?? If Costigan was going to do this, why did he give her the envelope? And what became of it?Costigan explains that it was Costello's practice always to make tapes of conversations and store them at his lawyer's office. Costigan stole them and made the cd he sent the girlfriend. Huh?? This is the first we have heard of the lawyer, or the office, or the tapes. Why would a gangster do this? More to the point, how did Costigan know of it? None of this is explained. It all develops totally out of the blue in the last ten minutes of the movie.3. Next Costigan lures Sulliavn up to a rooftop, and cuffs him, announcing his intent to arrest him. Huh?? Why didn't he send these incriminating cd's to the DA, or the police chief, or the Boston Globe? If what Costigan wants to do is arrest, why on God's green earth does he not just walk into the police station and show this mountain of evidence to somebody?More than this, Costigan has called to the scene a friend he went to the police academy with, with whom he exchanged a joke or two in one of the earliest scenes, two hours before. Huh?? Why him?? Why not Dignam (Mark Wahlberg's character) or - as mentioned - any regular police officer?4. Costigan gets the cuffs on Sullivan, takes him down in an elevator, and without warning is shot through the head. Now you have to see the whole movie, but this is just script hari-kiri. As much as these Hollywood types like to flaunt their world-weary cynicism, this story requires a heroic ending. For two hours we have suffered along with Costigan, and di Caprio is really good. We do suffer. All of the emotional momentum is in that character's direction. There is an elementary principle of story telling violated here - you don't bump your protagonist off on a whim.5. And boy, is this ever a whim. Costigan's killer turns out to be ANOTHER corrupt cop owned by Costello. Huh???? This movie is premised on the notion that there is ONE police mole, ONE gangster mole, and the two men are trying to find each other. We've been watching that story line unfold for two hours. The existence of a second insider throws doubt on nearly every scene that has gone before. (I am not going to go back and detail that point by point.) The second mole is so tangental that I could not recall him in a single scene before this sudden appearance.I could go on and on, for there are a couple of other twists every bit as bizarre and out of the blue as the ones described. But it is late, and you get the idea. I had the sense that someone on the Scorsese team could not stomach the obvious ending, where Costigan gets some sort of vindication and the girl. Well, that would be old-fashioned, but there are story lines that demand it, and this is one of them. In any case, it would be better than the absurd mish-mash of a climax that completely destroys the value of this movie.
Martin Scorcese's "The Departed" won the Oscar for Best Picture last night (2/25/07). Simply by that large achievement my review will be posted here, just to get off my chest a few personal opinions of this film.This film by large was applauded by virtually every critic that has a area to express a view for movies. While that alone will not be enough to get me excited about a movie (especially nowadays), I am a big fan of Scorcese's work, particularly "Raging Bull", which I believe to be the best film to have come out in the last 25 years. So to say that I was looking forward to "The Departed", with it's dream male cast of Jack Nicholson, Mark Wahlberg, Matt Damon (criminally overlooked for a Best Supporting Actor Nomination), Alec Baldwin, and Leonardo DiCaprio, would be a bit of an understatement.To save some unnecessary details about the film (which, incidentally, if you look at any other reviews, you would have seen already), I will simply say that this film suffered from (largly):Scatterbrained, attention-deficit disorder editing/screen writing, where the average scene seemed to be all of 14 seconds long, especially in the first 45 minutes...Deriviative, plagiarized writing that Scorcese has done (much better) before. Gangster picture with violent, non-sensical action meaning nothing, and rapid-fire scenes with music loud and in your face (gee, haven't I heard that Rolling Stones song before?) Undeveloped, unlikeable lead character in DiCaprio. There is no substance to his character and doesn't receive on bit of concern from the audience-goer. Also, while he is a very capable actor, he is just still far too young looking to head a clearly very adult-natured film.The only thing that saves this movie is the mildly-surprising ending and Matt Damon's unheralded work. He is truly a gifted actor and deserves more acclaim for his work.4/10 rating.


                
Whoever says The Departed is Good, brilliant or Even Purfect is clueless about how a good movie should be.10 points to prove Departed isn't close to being a 'good' movie.1) The entire show was unbalanced when Jack Nicholsan allegedly changed his script, on top of the demand for a 'meatier' role. Scorsese was believed to have rewritten the script to suit him, and to make Jack agree in joining the cast. This led to awkward focus on him for the first half of the movie. Totally unncessary and time-wasting.2) Poor choice of Leo's mentor. A better choice would be Robert DeNiro. Someone tough in appearance, but with an angel's heart. Sheen jus looked too too soft and powerless.3)This remake took in a few points from 'Infernal II', where Tony Leung's (Leo) character's family history was explained in detail. Leung's dad, in the younger days, was much a baddie than the present Jack (traid gang leader). Thus Jack, when lunching with Leo, said, "your dad/ Uncle would kill me and my family if he saw me sitting here with you." However, what the film didn't do was to show the viewers HOW would Sheen guide Leo into meeting Jack. All the show did was to show Leo beat up a few guys & the next moment viola, Jack was lookin up for Leo, by a short intro from 'Mr. French'. All the intimate, heartfelt exchanges between Leo & his mentor was totally absent.4) The show was BORING for the first hour, with lots of talking and talking, a couple of fights and 'fuck-you', and that's it. No wit-for-wit, game-for-game' kind of moves that have the 'Infernal Affairs' so famous and 'cutting edge'. It was Only in the last half an hour that the show, borrowed heavily from the original, featured a mental game/ fight between the two male leads.5) Also, in 'Infernal Affairs II', the feud between Jack's and Sheen's characters was explained. That resulted in a long-time mutual understanding for each other. Here, Jack and Sheen were seen only exchanging superficial talks - "I will get you, Frank." "Get me if you can, Queen." Duh. My choice of Robert DeNiro fits perfectly into a scene: Frank sipping coffee with Queen (DeNiro) at an English café, both chatting casually about their lives and memories, but with an undercurrent running fiercely in the air. Both know exactly what each other thinks and wants, and laid down all their cards on the table, except for their own lead.It would be much enjoyable to see these two tough guys hitting hard on the other.6) Wahlberg's Dignam wasn't, as someone said, non-existent in the original 'Infernal'. There was a character 'Inspector Cheung', played by Ng Ting Yip in the HK version. A powerful, shoot-from-the-hip kind of cop who stood by Leo's mentor. Dignam was created with some motive, BUT alas, what he did was idiotic: resigned but not contacting Leo? WTF was he thinking? 7) The fact that the show ended with all people dead, well except for Dignam clearly shows that there's no thread for any Part II extension. Just that simple. It's certainly NOT as someone commented, a brilliant move by Scorsese. Geez..some people just like topping Scorsese's head with tall hats and praises foolishly.8) Someone actually 'revealed' that the scriptwriter deliberately did NOT watch the original Infernal while writing the Departed script, so as not to get too close with it. If this is true, he should be given two bloody knocks on his d!ck-head. Departed went so departed that the whole tension was absent for almost 2/3 of the show.9) Another commentator said Damon's character Sullivan was empty and deviated from the Infernal's. He was spot-on on this; in Infernal, Andy Lau wanted to be a good guy, right from the beginning. He always had wanted to be Out of the triad and be a good cop, a good man. Thus he killed all who would threaten his position. In Departed, we see Sullivan killing for virtually nothing. Did he feel remorseful? Or guilty? Nooo...a bloody empty soul created by the 'brilliant' Scorsese.10) The WORST of all: the classic scene of both leads pitting their wits against each other in the infamous two gangs' transaction. In Infernal, Leung (Leo) was using Morse Code (a brilliant move) via an antenna to contact his mentor, while on the other hand Andy (Damon) was to use comp to send out text messages to his boss for notification. There was an info leakage and Leung's mentor made a switch in radio frequency and called for a retreat, but to realise at the last sec that the transaction would be at a beach. Immediately the retreat was again cancelled with full force to head for the beach, whilst the triad boss would call for a disposal of Cocaine. All happened in a breath's time of few mins. This, in comparison to Departed, is two knots higher. Departed's scene of 'no camera' installed for the back-exit was laughable and idiotic.


                
Just because it is a Scorsese movie? (Which I respect for great works he done before BTW) I don't say that this is a bad movie to watch, but is that kind of movie that on some point makes you want to team up with the "bad" guys, this is funny sometimes...OK, this movie contains many errors here are some: the other rats, they appeared out of the blue in the end!,some actors playing themselves and only themselves Nicholson for instance, stupid behavior from Matt Damon as a police officer, ask some cops they will laugh at the errors were made, I feel like Scorsese never bothered to ask what the state police will do in some cases, and the brutal error of "citizens letter" which I can say at least 10 motives why shouldn't have been there in the first place!. Those and many more made me feel that they put it that way only because they wanted to end the movie... how it ended :)
This is one of those films out of the angst-school. Everyone runs around screaming obscenities at one another and there's lots of shooting and blood and it goes on much longer than it needs to.There's the core of a very good story here, with the double agent, double agent scenario. There could be a good, tight exploration here with the character structure and the woman linking them. But for me, there was nothing to explain why the woman was so attracted to either man which the plot kind of hinged on. And none of the characters were particularly well defined.The acting's okay, but Jack Nicholson can do roles like this in his sleep, it just calls for him to look charismatic and dangerous.It reminded me of the sort of plot you see on the BBC's 'Life on Mars'. Except that would have packed it with genuine intrigue and emotion into one hour. And with class. Class is ultimately what 'The Departed' lacked. (Classy film-making, not denied, but in terms of how the characters and story was portrayed).And if American cops really go around screaming obscenities and being so racist, sexist and homophobic all the time... well, that's not a very good advertisement for the Police Force is it?


                
The Departed was adapted from the original police vs triad thriller "Infernal Affairs" produced in Hong Kong in 2002.IA had always been my favorite movie due to the intriguing plot, the convincing role plays by actors, the subtle meaning behind the movie,and the artistically molded scenes. It had been a miracle in Hong Kong's filming industry. I was thoroughly disappointed when it didn't claim an Oscar for the best foreign language picture. But at that time I knew that it would be remade into a Hollywood movie, and was convinced that it would be as enjoyable.But then I was disappointed. Maybe because the plot was tailor-made for Hong Kong's social background and culture, I just found the movie not convincing at all. The time frame was a mess. The characters were not as 3-dimensional as the original. The ending was a disaster. It's just not fair to compare the movie with the original one, but the Departed doesn't stand as an excellent movie individually.OK, I know I am biased because I live in Hong Kong and I saw IA before The Departed, but come on, you are not giving an Oscar to a movie that's appealing to everyone because of its plot, when the plot wasn't even original! I was utterly shocked when they announced the Departed as a movie inspired by J-A-P-A-N-E-S-E movie "Infernal Affairs". I mean, Oh my God, how could THIS happen in an Oscar?! I urge you all to see the Infernal Affairs after the Departed, which you will surely find the difference.


                
I am shocked at the number of reviews that exist that praise this film to no end, and that call it Scorsese's best film since "Goodfellas." "The Departed" is far from a bad film; it is, in fact, a decent one, but it is still very disappointing, and the only part of "Goodfellas" it resembles at all is that film's last segment, starting at 6:55 AM on May 11 of 1980, after which it loses track of everything that made it one of Scorsese's best film. The film consists primarily of extremely short takes sloppily edited together which are theoretically meant to jar the spectators, but in fact only prohibit the narrative from moving effectively. There is nothing theoretically wrong with short takes; Sergei Eisenstein made very powerful films with shorter Average Shot Lengths than "The Departed" ever dreamed of having, but his films were conceived as juxtapositions of shots, whereas in "The Departed," as in most modern films that use this technique, the shots only interrupt each other. Eisenstein's films were great, and revolutionary, because he used editing to create sequences of shots to develop his ideas; Scorsese's greatest films tend to have longer average shot lengths because he expresses his ideas in a single shot rather than a sequence of them. In "The Departed" he has not decided to express himself with sequences of shots rather than single shots, he has merely made the shots shorter and thus hindered the expression of his ideas in the film.Moreover, there are serious narrative flaws in the film. Jack Nicholson gives an outstanding performance as a once great (if a little eccentric) mob boss who has become paranoid near the end of his life and becomes self-destructive. He is hilarious for much of the film, but at times, particularly near the end, he truly becomes terrifying. This is all quite good, but the film is not about him; it is about Billy and Colin. It perhaps would have been better to have made a completely separate film about Frank Costello, since he is given either too much or too little attention in "The Departed." The same could be said about Alec Baldwin's and Marky Mark's characters; they need either to be given more major roles that relate more directly to the thematic elements of the film, or to be removed entirely. At times, it seems as if Scorsese were so intent on having an Outstanding Ensemble Cast and in the process forgot about his main characters.It would seem to me, from the film's mere plot, that a major idea with which "The Departed" could play is that Billy and Colin are mirror images of each other. The film should be an exploration with the nature of identity, and though it obviously would tie in most directly with these two characters, it should also apply more subtly to the other characters in the film. However, Colin (Matt Damon's character) does not come across as in interesting character suffering from inner conflict; he is simply a jerk. Before Marky Mark's character shoots him at the end, he says "okay." The line should be delivered with a sense of self- hatred that has developed after Colin's conscience begins to attack him for the damage that he has wreaked on all the people from both of his lives; instead, he sounds merely bored. Billy is significantly more interesting than Colin (though I give more credit to Leonardo DiCaprio than to the screenwriters for this), but could still use more work. Damon's performance does not stand out, DiCaprio's reminds us that he is perhaps the most talented actor of his generation in Hollywood, though the film, lamentably, does not make as much use of these talents as "The Aviator" did.The film particularly seems to fall apart after Frank Costello dies. It would make sense for Colin to become indecisive and confused after such an event, since his mafia loyalties were to Frank alone, but it instead seems as if the screenwriters were the confused and indecisive ones. Moreover, having all the major characters (except Baldwin and Marky Mark) die was not the proper ending for the film; it seems dull, predictable, and superficial to the extent that, when Colin says "Okay" before getting shot, I could empathize with his boredom.
Talk about undeserved Oscars <U+0085> This movie definitely didn't deserved them . It's a sad thing that Academy decided to honor Scorsese with Oscar not only so late , but also with movie that didn't deserved it one bit . It's even more sad that so many people think it's a good movie . I disagree with that opinion.The movie suffers from bad acting from the three leading stars : DiCaprio , Damon and Nicholson. Matt Damon doesn't act at all . He just is in this movie . He breaths , he has open eyes and he speaks. That's it. Jack Nicholson plays his part in such way that would fit Burton's "Batman returns" . He's overacting . He's campy , cheesy and not one bit dangerous. Unless you think that killing and eating a fly makes him dangerous . DiCaprio is also overacting , but at least he's switching from being "very nervous" to "very angry" from time to time. And who the f*** casts Anthony Anderson in a serious role of cop ?! That fat and unfunny piece of meat sticks out here like a sore thumb. The supporting actors are surprisingly much better than the trio of stars . Alec Baldwin , Martin Sheen and oh my God Mark Wahlberg give the best performances of the movie. I wasn't surprised by the fine performances of Baldwin and Sheen . I didn't expect Wahlberg to give such a good performance as the tough asshole cop. It's his best role since "Boogie nights".The movie has it's share of rather ridiculous twists that are hard to swallow . There is a big plot-hole involving a certain object that seems to be important for the story for almost 70% of the movie , yet it strangely disappears and none of the characters seems to care ! Not to mention the indestructible cell phone.The movie is badly directed . Scorsese fails to recreate the psychological tension of the original, so he uses the simple way to do it – by making characters shout very often and punch each other . The wonderful sense of sorrow and tragedy that you could feel in the Asian movie is also gone . Instead there is a lot of loud music . And the shootouts look absolutely terrible , like something that Michael Bay could direct.The movie ends differently than "Infernal affairs " and it's a really bad thing . Not to mention that the whole symbol with the rat is just pathetic . In the end you might realize that you have just seen an empty and bad cop thriller. I give it 4/10.


                
What IS it with Scorsese and endless VIOLENCE ? actual violence, communication violence, interpersonal violence, and on and on. Another East coast violent gang movie ? in 2006?! I don't think so, thank you very much. If it had been made in 1990, then maybe .... But today we have enough real violence on the TV news each night about a real increasingly violent world. Nothing fictional can compare any more, and it is pointless to try. Where was all the subtle character analysis? and growth? and inner dilemmas ? and on and on. And Jack Nicholson hammed it up good and proper - what else could he do? - at various points the audience in my theatre (in the UK) were LAUGHING !!! And the movie was too, too, too L-O-N-G ! And as for the number of tedious F-words ! seemed like the scriptwriter was trying to vie with J D Salinger in -The Catcher in the Rye- for the number of G--D-----s. In today's world? Pathetic ! Come on, Marty baby, you CAN do better than this - before you get too old to try !


                
All in all, this was a very well-executed movie and well-adapted from the original 2002 HK movie "Infernal Affairs" but it's still not an original movie. With such a brilliant director working on an originally excellent HK movie to bring it to silver screens in America, it is hard to see how it would not be a movie that would capture audiences.That said, it is much better done that other US adaptations/clones of Asian movies such as The Lake House (Korea's Il Mare in 2000), The Ring, The Grudge, Dark Water etc.I still hope that there will be an adaptation of Infernal Affairs II and III done.


                
The movie had a shot at being good and maybe even great, but "The Departed" departs from reality, leaves loose ends, has outrageous plot holes, and is ultimately forgettable, rather than haunting.Let me outline it for you...Two kids grow up to be "Staties" (Mass State Troopers). One kid planted there by the mob (Matt Damon), the other kid chooses to be there as a revolt to his family (Leonardo DiCaprio). Both actors gave amazing performances.DiCaprio fits the image of a wise guy, and an eventual fall out - so he is placed undercover with the Mob (Led by Jack Nicholson -- also incredibly excellent).Damon (practically raised by Nicholson) as a mole in the state troopers constantly informs Niholson that he is about to be caught, thereby providing him with enough getaway time. DiCaprio of course keeps giving away Nicholson's position. Eventually, Both sides learn there is a mole and both sides ask Damon to figure it out. As such, Damon has a large conflict of interest in trying to find himself, and has no access to the under-covers who have been placed in the mob.Here's where the movie gets bad, stupid, sloppy, ugly.. whatever you want to call it... Damon starts dating a psychologist working for the police, and DiCaprio starts seeing the same psychologist as a patient. DiCaprio eventually ends up at her doorstep and sleeps with her. She has no apparent moral dilemma with the fact that she is cheating on her cop boyfriend and sleeping with who she thinks is a thug.Marky Mark -- great performance, and in the end, is completely wasted, and there is no explanation as to why he does what he does at the end of the movie.To make matters more confusing, Nicholson is also an FBI informant. Huh? This subplot was not needed and made no sense. I don't believe the FBI would have the highest man on the mob food chain on their payroll.Near the end of the movie, DiCaprio gives the psychologist an envelope and tells her to open it in two weeks or sooner if something happens to him. Well something does happen to him, and guess what? We never find out what is in the envelope. So, why did he give it to her? I just don't know.More sub-plot -- the psychologist gets pregnant. One might assume she is made pregnant to add conflict as to who's baby it might be. In the meantime, she shows an ultrasound and declares that it is a boy (which by the way, cannot be determined until about 16 weeks. So, why was she made pregnant? I don't know.As the movie moves along, you begin to think maybe there's a twist with the psychologist -- maybe she's running the show behind the scenes, but instead, we are just left hanging with nothing to take home.All this being said, the movie is entertaining but it's too long and eventually loses itself in it's continual unfolding subplots that go nowhere.
This one went on way too long and had too much Jack Nicholson's shtick. The story had more holes than Whitey Bulger's victims did. I saw the original and was not impressed with the good guy/bad guy duality. I tried to give it a chance, but it sank like a body in the harbor. It was nice to see actors valiantly trying to grip the MA accent, but some, like Nicholson, gave up any pretense.It was also funny to hear thugs deliver their lines with well-formed thoughts and references to Joyce and Shakespeare, despite the fact that they are low-class thugs.Setting up a meeting in a porno theater might have worked twenty years ago, but where are there any in the world? At times, Scorsese's use of music was boring.And the ending, oooh there's a rat in your apartment! That was just funny.
I saw The Departed after everyone raved about how good it was. Frankly, I was disappointed. It's too Hollywood (over the top) and being from Boston the accents were HORRIBLE. Completely overacted. I felt compelled to write this review after I rented Internal Affairs. I'd like to start off first by saying that I had no idea what Internal Affairs was about. After about 30 minutes and seeing all the similarities, it was easy to see that The Departed is a poorly done remake of Internal Affairs. Sure it's not as sexy as the Hollywood version but the acting is so much better to the point that I was rooting for the undercover cop whereas when I watched the Departed, I was rooting for the mole.The Departed isn't a BAD movie, however watch Internal Affairs and once you get over the Hong Kong camera shooting style and cheesy romantic music, you'll see what real acting and a plot that makes sense is all about (The Departed was a little unclear at the end). Lastly, the ending of Internal Affairs is so much better.


                
Not much to commend on this movie! The original Hong Kong film was much much better. This movie was rambling, predictable, and at times reminded me of a college student film with its forced irony.Okay, so Dicaprio did do an excellent job, and Sheen and Damon were okay but the acting of Nicholson was atrocious and Marky Mark has been much better in other things. His acting limitations were obvious in this film. What was the corpulent Baldwin even doing in this film, outside of the director giving a handout to a fellow down-on-his-luck lib, who shouldn't even have been living in the United States for the past six years? This film shouldn't have gotten all the good press that it has and it absolutely shouldn't have been nominated or won anything. And no, I am not bitter for wasting any money seeing this film because I was given a free copy of it and I actually looked forward to seeing it. Now that I have seen it, I wish it hadn't departed from the original movie as much as it did.The whole thing of trying to incorporate the Boston bi-sexual crime-lord Whitey Bulger into the storyline with the Nicholson character was stupid and hit a bad note too since this mass murdering former male street hustler is still on the loose!


                
