Definitely the the type of movie that makes it worth going to the theater. Very intense action and violence, twisting plot, lot's of misdirection.The story line is a bit overly whelming at times, this isn't a good movie to watch if you're tired and follow the action, the double crosses and the sometimes confusing who's who of the movie, but if you can just remember the basic characters the minor twists won't be too confusing.While it's certainly not a love story, there is that element, with a bit of a morality play going the whole time.I can't make some of the statements I'd like to make because I really try to avoid spoilers in my reviews, but I'll say that I enjoyed the movie even though had I been in charge it may have ended differently...All that said, if you like a thriller that has some rough and tough violence and a plot with a few twists and turns this film would be one I'd recommend to you.


                
I went to see this movie with Infernal Affair fresh in mind. I wanted to compare the two. and I did. I thought The Departed was really good but not better than Infernal Affair. there were a few changes but they were more upsetting than making the remake better. Matt Damon is not as charming and cool as Andy Lau in his character. I feel that they have soften the character for Matt Damon. Leonardo Di Caprio was pretty good in his role though I must admit that i was more 'attached' to Tony Leung. Overall, I find that The departed is just a remake of Infernal Affair: it didn't really add up much. SPOILER: i really hate the The Departed ending. Why did they end it like that? They should have stuck to the same ending as Infernal Affair. But then, if they did, Mark Wahlberg's character would have been useless...Even though it's Scorsese, it cant beat Infernal Affair. I give it an 8 because I gave Infernal Affair a 10.
I started my day with 2046. I won't recommend that film to any but fans of Tony Leung (Mou gaan dou, Ying xiong), Li Gong (Miami Vice, Memoirs of a Geisha) and Ziyi Zhang Memoirs of a Geisha, Ying xiong). The music was excellent and Tony Leung's performance was spellbinding, but the movie was hard to follow.I only mention Tony Leung because his performance in Mou gaan dou was on my mind as I watched The Departed, which is a remake of that film. I wish I had a copy with me to watch again and remind me of why it is such a favorite, but I have seen it enough times to know that it still stand above the new version.I just couldn't wait any longer, so I bought my copy yesterday and sat down with some chips to watch. Leonardo DiCaprio was magnificent. I have never been a big fan of Leonardo. I really liked him in Gangs of New York and Catch Me If You Can, but this performance was over the top. Having said that, I can't really think of another character's performance in The Departed that is worth mentioning. It ran 50 minutes longer than Mou gaan dou and the extra time was really a waste as it did not add anything to the film. The setup in the beginning was really a bore. Scorcese did so much better work in Gangs of New York and Goodfellas, one of my favorite films. I really don't see him winning an Oscar for this film, though they will probably give it to him for ignoring his earlier and better work.


                
I finally saw this again after first seeing it at the theatre in '06, and it's gotten even better.Everything about this movie is excellent. The acting is next level and the craftsmanship that Is applied to every shot is a dream. I shouldn't be surprised of course, but it's nice to still be surprised sometimes!


                
This is probably different from other Martin Scorsese's movies but it's truly enjoyable. Cast is excellent and each one of "the splendid actors gives his best. Dialogues are strong and believable, soundtrack's really great and suitable; as far as I can see there's no moment when rhythm is not steady or story lacks of focus. Furthermore it handles subjects like power and loyalty in a way reminding Mathy's masterpiece "Good Fellas". We could say, to sum up, that Scorsese is back with his humor, his class A actors (Jack Nicholson is huge) and his creating Shakespearean atmospheres. "The Departed" is purely entertaining and gritty and its action is enjoyable 100%.


                
The best cast of the year 2007 makes this Americanized adaptation of an original Hong Kong film (Internal Affairs) shine. William Monahan's adapted screenplay has been nominated for an Academy Award, the film is nominated for best picture, Scorsese for best director, and there are a couple other nominations out - somewhat inexplicably including Mark Wahlburg for supporting actor for his roles in this film. Wahlburg's performance, though excellent, is really little more than a cameo, and he has actually done better work (e.g. his roles in The Yards and Perfect Storm). But the Academy won't give him an Oscar for this, especially since he is up against a few Academy favorites and a veteran (Arkin). While I do not think this is Scorsese's best film, nor the best film of the year, it is one of the finest serious crime thrillers I have seen in a very long time.The film is set in Boston, and relies on stereotypes of that city and its ethnic groups that only slightly detract from the film's believability. Despite the fertile ground for psychological examination, the film's slightly absurd pace (DiCaprio becomes a trusted confidant of a crime boss in 3-4months???) the film is not a character study, and, rather, relies on archetypes of good cop/bad cop which are employed pretty consistently and to varying degrees throughout the film. Leonardo DiCaprio gives a performance that exceeds his own high standards, opposite Matt Damon in a life and death cat and mouse game. DiCaprio is undercover for the police infiltrating organized crime, Damon is undercover for an organized crime boss (Nicholson) infiltrating the police. Vera Farmiga is excellent as the police psychologist who ends up connected to both. Damon also gives a nice, edgy, though a little detached performance, and stalwarts Nicholson, Baldwin and Sheen do some of their best work in years. The Boston accents only occasionally slip into exaggeration (and surprisingly - are only over-done by actors who have lived in Boston!).The acting is generally outstanding. The cinematography is above average - there are too many straight pans and rhythmic fast cuts, but the action is always well framed and nicely emphasized by the camera. The direction is, as with most Scorsese work, tight, economical and clean. The script is excellent, and, in my opinion, is likely to give Babel a run for its money for the adapted screenplay Oscar. Contrary to some opinions I have seen here, I did not feel that the soundtrack added much to the film. In fact, if I were to fault the film for anything it would be sound. Excellent film, well worth seeing if you can handle the nihilism and violence it portrays.


                
One could look at The Departed and can get the idea that this is less a remake than it is a re-imagining of the riveting crime Drama INTERNAL AFFAIRS.It's more of an inspiration than it is a direct lift off.The story may be the same,but there's a vast difference between Scorsese's epic and the Hong Kong Classic.And for that,this film is truly a fascinating look at the ugly worlds of the two sides of the law.Rookie Cop Billy Costigan goes undercover and is assigned to work for Crime Boss Frank Costello and get really close to him to deliver some information about his crimes.Costigan gains Costello's trust and gets involved a lot deeper in his crimes.On the other hand ,a rising police office is actually a mole in the department, informs everything about the Police Department's movements to Costello.But things get deadly when both men are about to have their secrets exposed and the Mobs and the cops discover that there is a mole/informer,and a traitor who's getting things messed up on both sides.And then they both try to save themselves from each other and the Mobs.They slowly get confused with their dual identities and things get deadlier for the both of them as their delicate balance with the Mobs and the Cops gets them too involved with the world they're into.While both men are in love with the same women,one of them has to suffer the consequences.Leading to a shocking conclusion to this epic.There are intense scenes of violence and action and twists that you never see coming.A Martin Scorsese film is always dark,graphically violent,raw,hard edged,and filled with memorable powerhouse performances.And this film is no exception.The Departed is something new and different .Its complex plot unfolds to an even more powerful story ,with characters colliding with one another and facing terrifying situations.Scorsese shows that what it is like to be a cop.Your life is in danger 24/7 ,and that every minute is a risk when you're undercover.Your only fear is having your true identity be exposed.And then,it's all up to the person who's holding a gun to your face.It's a tough film he carved out,and to be honest it's a perfect example of how a remake should be made.It's actually as good as the original,even better at times.And shows that when it is helled by a legendary director who knows what he is doing the results are always great for a remake.To compare the original and this one,I would say this one is slightly better than the original.Otherwise,it's just as brilliant as the Hong Kong version.But the thing about this film is that even if you've seen the Hong Kong version,you'll still be blown away by the Hollywood version.However,comparisons are inevitable.What else can you ask for when you have a cast this big?I could only recall one such film that had such a huge cast at the moment,and that was Ocean's 11.Where that film didn't do full justice with its cast,this film makes use of its actors and gives you a rare piece of entertainment that is thought-provoking and ingenious.Scorsese really have given a great piece of work.I wouldn't say this is his best work ever,his best directed film was GANGS OF NEW YORK ,which he should've won an Osacar for,but it certainly is one his best work since Goodfellas in the crime genre.It's got the usual trademarks of the director.The script is fantastic.The writer has done a terrific job in this remake.It makes the film a standout from the original.Rich CinematographyThe cinematography is rich,and the editing is sharp. The Score is superb,Scorsese's choice of music is great.And the look of the film and its sets are brilliant,getting us old and new Boston.And lots of cell phone use.Well,you're wondering who's the show stealer out of a giant cast like this.Everyone got to do something with full satisfaction.But the real standout here is Di Caprio and Damon.The actors have only gotten better and better recently and here they pull it off again.They are complex and tough characters to play and they play their part brilliantly.Di Caprio's emotional stature is strong.He manages to bring the character's fear and confusion with full conviction.You do feel sad in the end for what happens to him.You will be shocked and it was unfair for the character.Damon on the other hand is superb as the mole who informs the crime bosses.Their face off and rivalries are intense and suspenseful.And of course,Jack Nicholson couldn't have had more fun doing a film like this than doing another sad comedy.His and Scorsese's collaboration is another reason,altogether a different reason, to watch this film.At this age,he could still pull off juicy performances,and do all that he's done on screen really makes you wonder if he's ever gonna do another film with Scorsese again.And his over the top performance is really fun to watch.Wahlberg is great in his role as the tough cop who talks tough to his co-officers.Alec Baldwin and Martin Sheen are both terrific.Vera Farimiga was a real surprise as a women who falls in love with both leading men.She plays her part really well and you kind of feel sad that why didn't she chose the character that deserved her. Of course, this film is not without its flaws,and I expected it to end with a bang,whereas the writer seemed to have abandoned the script's energy and just concluded it somewhat like the original film.It was an uneven conclusion.And I just wasn't sure why was it necessary to do what the writer did to the main characters in the end.But regardless of that the rest of the film is a tour de force raw drama.A modern classic and a definite must-see of the year.This film can count on its chances of being at the Oscars next year.A sure fire success.The Departed is the most exciting,fun and thrilling dark crime Drama of the year.And it's fully satisfying and very entertaining.Highly Recommended.


                
Film takes place in Boston. It deals with two men (Leonardo DiCaprio and Matt Damon) who are both working to bring down a crime lord (Jack Nicholson). Problem is they're both working for different agencies and neither knows about the other. Things quickly go out of control.OK--this is not Martin Scorsese's best film. That goes to "Raging Bull" and "Good Fellas". However it is one of his best. The plot has many twists and turns and surprises I didn't see coming. There's excellent use of music throughout and Scorsese really manages to capture the mood and feeling of Boston (not easy to do). Also--since this is a Scorsese film--the word "f***" is used a few hundred times and the violence is VERY extreme and bloody. This isn't for weak stomaches. My only complaints here are that the movie is too long--it has one climax too many and some lousy acting lessens it. DiCaprio is excellent in his role. I was very impressed--I never thought much of him as an actor but now I've changed my opinion. Nicholson, Alec Baldwin and Martin Sheen are good too. Vera Farmiga holds her own in a male dominated cast. But Matt Damon is a blank in one of the main roles. His face never changes expression and I didn't know how to take him. Mark Wahlberg is bad too. How he got an Academy Award nomination for this I'll never know. He's as blank as Damon and just swears non stop for no reason and keeps giving obscene finger gestures. I was just hoping somebody would kill him off soon. He wasn't playing a character--he was doing a caricature. Those two bad performances lessen this. Also some of the cast fake Boston accents pretty well (Damon and Wahlberg are from the area so they didn't have to fake it).It got Best Picture and Best Director Academy Awards because Martin Scorsese was long overdue for both. So--it is worth seeing but not Scorsese's best by a long shot. I give it an 8.


                
With this remake of the Hong Kong actioner "Internal Affairs", Scorsese makes his mark again with a gripping crime saga in the vein of GOODFELLAS (1990) and CASINO (1995). This time he ventures into what must be somewhat less familiar territory for the director, the Irish milieu in South Boston, but screenwriter William Monahan is a Boston native and seems to know his targets inside out. The cast is to die for, with a line-up of almost exclusively A-list actors. First there is Jack Nicholson as Jeff Costello (a reference to Alain Delon's character in Jean-Pierre Melville's 1967 classic LE SAMOURAI), a psychotic Irish crime boss. Jack Nicholson simply doesn't give bad performances, but here his performance borders on caricature, but somehow he manages to check it in such away, it remains acceptable. Perhaps Scorsese should have toned him down a little, but who can control Jack Nicholson? Who wants to? Perhaps over the top, but hugely entertaining. Perhaps he is the only actor who can get away with this. The rest of the cast is simply outstanding with Leonardo DiCaprio in a very impressive role as Billy Costigan, an undercover cop infiltrating Jeff Costello's gang. Matt Damon as sergeant Sullivan is somewhat more one-note but it seems to fit his role just right. Perhaps he intended it this way. Mark Wahlberg is very amusing as the most twisted, hostile and foul-mouthed cop in recent screen history.On a credibility level, the film put me to the test a couple of times. Why is Jeff Costello, who runs multi-million dollar drug transports, still collecting protection money in person from Pakistani shop owners? The sub-plot with the delivery of microprocessors to the Chinese for the fabrication of advanced weaponry was truly laughable, especially the encounter between Nicholson and his cronies and a Chinese gang in leather jackets. It looked like a scene from a grade-Z '80s action flick. At times the setting in the film plays more like the '70s, despite the very 2006 cell phones, that play such a crucial role in the film, they almost grow into a character of their own. This must be the film with the most close-ups of cell-phones so far.In South Boston all little Irish boys seem to grow up as cops or criminals. I am not sure whether this film should be seen as a realistic depiction of the Boston crime world. In the core, it probably is, but it's more a like a mixture of '70s values, clothes and family ties, with some modern elements thrown in the mix. Irish blokes standing in front of a restaurant with their caps and all, I don't know. Somehow, it seems more like a throwback to another age. Or perhaps in some places, like South Boston, things never change. But probably that's the whole point. Scorsese always presents us an over-inflated dreamworld, where in the end every person runs wildly amok. With Scorsese, bad guys are not just bad guys. They are out-of-control monsters, whether it is Jeff Costello in this film or Joe Pesci in GOODFELLAS or CASINO, they all have an almost comic book flair, which doesn't make 'em any less interesting. On the contrary, after all, this IS the movies. The truth is no excuse. Often, the imagination is far more interesting.I still have to chew a little on this, but this film is quite an overwhelming experience. One of those films, that was already a classic before it came out. Besides some of the aforementioned reservations, these still were a dynamite 149 minutes.Camera Obscura --- 8/10


                
Scorsese's long-awaited remake of the 2002 Hong Kong film Infernal Affairs. Infernal Affairs was a good film, but it always seemed to me like a gimmick, and more like a skeleton of a film than a real film. Scorsese predictably fleshes it out so it doesn't seem as much like just a good concept. The actors add a lot to it, too (though the Hong Kong actors, including Andy Lau and Tony Leung, were very good, as well). I don't think it stands anywhere near Scorsese's best work myself. It doesn't carry near the weight of Goodfellas, for instance. It starts to get a little silly near the end, and the director makes a few really bad choices <U+0096> especially including that awful image in the final shot. That's just plain embarrassing film-making. And that's not to mention the awful choice the filmmakers made to change a certain part of the ending of Infernal Affairs - the original is definitely stronger in that respect. Of the actors, my favorite was Mark Wahlberg. Matt Damon comes in second, and DiCaprio third. Nicholson has a lot of fun as the gangster. The best comparison with previous Jack performances is actually the Joker from Burton's first Batman movie. Alec Baldwin has probably the most memorable moment, where he expresses his love for the Patriot Act. Well worth seeing, but definitely not best-of-the-year material. I would rank it quite below Scorsese's previous two films from this decade, The Aviator and Gangs of New York.


                
I waited to see The Departed with antisapation and having just seen it my wait was not in vain.The acting in the movie was the tops, including Leonardo De Caprio, Matt Damon, and of course Jack Nicholson who is great in anything he appears in. Even the bit parts by Martin Sheen and Alec Baldwin were outstanding. The problem I had with the movie was how similar DiCaprio and Damon looked in this movie, I got sort of confused as to who was who. This is a different kind of cop story and I am sure you will enjoy watching the artistry of this unit of actors in this fine movie. It is the best two hours I have spent in a long time, so go see this outstanding movie and you will certainly enjoy it as much as I did. This is Oscar material for sure.


                
From what I had heard, The Departed was supposed to be an amazing flick, but it really ended up being just a little above average. I was one of the big supporters of the film at the beginning. I had people all around saying, "That looks so bad," but I knew it looked like a great movie. How can you possibly go wrong with a cast consisting of Matt Damon, Leonardo DiCaprio, Jack Nickolson, and Mark Wahlberg? First off, the performances were probably what made this movie. If not for the sensational acting, The Departed just would not be worth watching. Leonardo was great as the lead, and Jack Nickolson was classic as the crime boss. Matt Damon was good, but he didn't really play that big of a part until the very end. However, the performance that really stood out here was that of Mark Wahlberg. He REALLY proved he can act here with an incredibly memorable character.The plot felt like something new, and I was on the edge of my seat for most of the movie. However, I had many issues with the film. For one, the ending made me want to throw up. One of the worst endings to a film I've ever seen! Secondly, there were just too many plot elements that were left wide open and many things that were never given any explanation whatsoever.The Departed was good, but if you want to see an amazing crime movie, stick with Alpha Dog. Alpha Dog is underrated, so you won't really know what to expect.


                
I watched The Departed the day after it's general release. While watching, I tried to set aside thoughts of the move it's a remake of, Infernal Affairs, aside to be able to assess the movie clearly. Now, I haven't seen Infernal Affairs in a while, so this wasn't too hard to do, however, since I was privy to plot foreknowledge, nothing was all too surprising.Since I'd lived in Boston for three years, it was quite a treat to get to see that city again (well, some of it wasn't Boston, but enough of it was). The presence of the Yankee accent was okay, although I honestly wished that some of the less successful users had just gone without the accent altogether, because having it come and go sort of dropped me out of believability at times. There are enough long-time Boston natives that don't have it, that it wouldn't be weird for someone to lack the accent.Almost all of the performances were overwhelmingly solid. At times Nicholson and Baldwin seemed to go a little too over-the-top, but it was forgivable. The direction was canny, careful and generally nuanced. Scorsese has always been an able director of actors and pulled out performances and matched it with an eye for visual that's both invisible, yet entirely specific at the same time.I did have some issues with the film. First of all, Nicholson's character got too much screen time. He's not the emotional center of the film and a lot of what we see of him throughout the film may do a fine job of characterizing him as a badass devil-man, but we get that at the start. We need to focus on DiCaprio and Damon's characters and their stories (they are the centerpoint to the film); adding in all this excess Jack actually detracts from the film. The film's already a little bloated, running 2.5 hours, so a little chopping of extraneous scenes would've been good.The ending was another problem. It all came a little too fast and was a little ridiculous--causing the audience to burst out in laughter--when Scorsese should've taken a little care to lead the emotions to that point. And then there's also the groan-inducing last shot--that really just took the ridiculousness of the end over the top.So, what needed to be done to the ending? More attention needed to be paid to the moles. Towards the end of the film, DiCaprio's Billy comes across as wanting out so much that there's little motive for him to do what he does. The lack of motive leads to a lack of believability. I think focusing a little more on Billy and how the life of crime is breaking him down would've helped the drama, especially towards the end. This also goes for Damon's Colin. The impact of the life of being a good guy on his life really should've played a bigger impact. The events towards the end partially don't make sense because there's not enough motive for him to do what he does with Jack's Costello. Since his characterization breaks down towards the end, the finale just doesn't have a whole lot of resonance.This movie really needed to be more about these two characters, even with the intricate plot. That's where the core of the drama should've been focused, but the attention of the film was spread too thin to allow the end to be convincing.Now I'm going to start comparing with Infernal Affairs:* The encapsulation of the two female characters from Infernal Affairs into one had a lot of potential. In IA, the female characters seemed less whole. Unfortunately, the Departed doesn't give her enough attention to pull any real drama. This is made worse by some cheap dramatics thrown in via a photograph and made a little ridiculous by the change in relationship between her and Billy, which wasn't really believable based on her characterization.* Although I liked Walhberg's performance, his character wasn't necessary. The only reason for Dignam to even exist is to create the American ending. This is where Infernal Affairs manages to get it better. It better crafts a relationship between Leung's Chan (DiCaprio's Billy) and his police boss--the boss is the only one who knows and so when the later events occur, it's that much more devastating--and gives sufficient motivation for Chan/Billy to do what they do in the finale. It also prevents the believability hole that Billy wouldn't seek Dignam after those events.* And this is another place where Infernal Affairs shines--the focus on the two moles. The movie really explores how pretending to be someone else can affect the way someone thinks and behaves. Chan is just as desperate as Billy to get out, but Chan also keeps a better eye for justice, despite his problems. Likewise, Lau's character (Damon's Colin) has to grapple with the life afforded him by being a goody-two shoes and figure out just where his loyalties lie and why. This leads Infernal Affairs' ending to be more effective than the Departed's, because it's not cheap and the impact of Lau's decision weighs with him even after the credits roll. No one laughs at the end of Infernal Affairs.* The Departed doesn't have Infernal Affairs' flash and bang, but that works to its advantage--it's restraint, at least stylistically really helps what drama it has. Having come from a long tradition of Hong Kong films, the style pushes melodrama at times in IA.All complaints aside, The Departed really is still quite an enjoyable film. The craftsmanship of all involved is highly polished and immensely engaging. Even though they share the same base, Infernal Affairs and the Departed are both different films, although they could've learned something from each other. The Departed is really good, but it lacks the resonance needed to bring it to the level of Scorsese's more notable works. 8/10.


                
"The Departed" was good but not excellent. Jack Nicholson hammed it up through most of the movie. If he had less screen time I would have thought he made the movie but there was too much of him being too much. Matt Damon portrayed the nasty little sh!t I always thought was in him. He was great. Leonardo DiCaprio was also very good portraying the mental stress I would think a mob mole would have. Mark Wahlberg could have been a bit over the top but I think his character's personality evolved from working with big ego macho cops and, for me, he was very believable. Alec Baldwin, Martin Sheen, Ray Winstone were good in their supporting roles. Vera Farmiga was OK. I guess I didn't believe her as a therapist. I think she need a bit more meat, emotionally, and as the girlfriend, physically. I didn't see the original, "Infernal Affairs" so I can't compare the two. This version's story, especially towards the end, seemed rushed and forced to finish with the big gun battle but the mechanics of the movie's cop story was secondary to the story of the two moles. If the movie is examined for the story of the cops trying to get Jack Nicholson it comes up short but the mole parallel story was intriguing and Matt and Leo were great. It was a violent movie and the ending was a bit much. Well worth seeing but not Scorsese's best. His best are icons, "Raging Bull", "Taxi Driver", "Mean Streets". "The Departed" was just a good movie


                
Plot Outline: A police plant tries to infiltrate a Boston gang-lord's crime empire, while the gang-lord's police mole tries to expose him.Talk about the proverbial 'film of two halves'!!Martin Scorsese's latest film "The Departed" is his loose re-working/ trans-location of the acclaimed Hong Kong thriller, "Infernal Affairs", which spawned two sequels, one of which was, effectively, a 'prequel'.When I saw the earlier film on the festival circuit some three years ago, I was bowled over, even more than I had been by John Woo's kinetic thriller, "Hard-Boiled" from some 10 years earlier. What made "Infernal Affairs" so special, besides the technical excellence of the production and the fast-paced, high-octane action, was its emphasis on characterisations: particularly in what I regarded as the key, indeed the only players of any necessary substance: Tony Leung as the police plant, and Andy Lau, as the crime-lord's mole.The problem with Martin Scorsese's 're-working', and, while I recognise that he is at liberty to expand the narrative to broaden the supporting characterisations, is the way he allows himself to be compromised by the star turns and the 'alternate agendas'.So, and in what I refer to as the first 'half' we get too much of: Jack Nicholson, (whose HK equivalent was, at best, a two-dimensional peripheral character), revelling in an excessive quota of 'Jack-isms': think 'The Shining'; "Batman", etc, etc. Alec Baldwin, in his latest incarnation of his 'Glengarry Glenn Ross'/'The Cooler' hard-man, seemingly revelling in his ever-expanding waistline; Leonardo Di Caprio, who had to be given plenty of opportunity to emote, his 'Aviator' Oscar play having fallen short. while Ray Winstone gets to drop the Cockney hard-man stunt in favour of its Bostonian equivalent.Then, just when I was about to doze off, having realised too late just why Martin Scorsese needed 140 minutes to tell his story, he cranked the gears up a few notches.Matt Damon's gang-lord's police mole realises he's got to move fast before Di Caprio's good guy undercover cop brings his (Damon's) employer's empire crashing down and, in a daring move, orders a police tail on the head of the police undercover unit, thus hoping to flush out Di Caprio: the resultant 10 minutes or so of breakneck, white-knuckle tension, even if it does rely too much on the original and 'The French Connection' for inspiration, is almost worth the price of admission alone,culminating as it does in a tragic death which ultimately precipitates a breakneck pace of cross and double-cross.This is where Scorsese really comes into his own, with the kind of frenetic, yet sure-paced action sequences not seen since the heyday of "Goodfellas". Pausing briefly to swiftly despatch Nicholson's crime-lord, (which couldn't have come too soon, in my opinion), he constantly keeps us guessing as to the next twist and turn of the tail, and which of the 'double agents' will eventually prevail, and at what cost.A 'film of two halves', indeed, and while the second 'half', of perhaps 50 minutes or so, probably contains more cinematic merit than most Hollywood productions of at least the past 5 years, ultimately this has to be seen as a missed opportunity for Scorsese.As with 'The Aviator', Scorsese seems these days to be compromised too much in his artistic 'vision', to such an extent that I don't believe that this is 100% the film he wanted to make. 'The Aviator' seemed to me partly an Oscar vehicle for Di Caprio's (admittedly fine) acting, and part Scorsese 'Citizen Kane' homage: granted it was, after all, a Di Caprio vehicle. Here, once again, it appears to me that far too much screen time is devoted to 'Jack-isms', and more (unconvincing) brooding Di Caprio 'emoting'. As if, 'the Aviator' pitch having failed, they'd make sure of it this time. The trouble is, while Di Caprio is certainly a fine actor, who, I believe has yet to achieve his peak, more often than not he's trying too hard in this film in what is an underwritten role, lumbered with often puerile dialogue. And, where acting is concerned, don't get me started on Alec Baldwin, (whose acting capabilities seem to decline in inverse proportion to his waistline), or to Mark Wahlberg's cardboard-cutout undercover sergeant 'character'. Matt Damon, who doesn't try too hard, almost reaches what for me was his peak of 'The Talented Mr Ripley' But it was good to see Ray Winstone doing a 'foreign' accent, for a change.Once again, Scorsese's choice of music was impeccable: And I so loved his apt placement of Roy Buchanan's sublime, bluesy guitar rendition of Patsy Cline's "Sweet Dreams".Would that all of Scorsese's moves had been as sure.


                
quite good. a little more violent than the hk original though; Scorsese shock value which actually works. plus a bit more humor to spice it up. though i liked both movies, the original turned out to be more suspenseful while this one was the grittier drama. Mark Wahlberg steals the show whenever he's on screen. And his character wasn't even in the original movie. All the major actors did a splendid job. From Alec to Wahlberg, everybody turned in one of their most memorable performances. However, the role of the shrink is just pushing it. Just way too incredible that she's been sleeping with the two guys who are after each other. They could have done away with this subplot, just like in the original. can't say it's Scorsese's best work though. If we are talking crime drama, Goodfellas and Casino are the still the jewels.


                
I have just borrowed the departed from a friends since i missed it in the cinema. My mum really wanted to see this as well so we both watched it.It was definitely worth all the hype. This movie was absolutely fantastic and brutal. My mum pretty much had a huge gasp at almost every point in the film. The gasp-o-meter: I am going to put certain events from the film into how much my mum gasped at it. I will try not to give too much info out but here we go.When a certain character falls from a roof gasp rating 5When a key character dies at the end gasp rating 8When someones broken arm is smacked against a table gasp rating 7When an extra character gets stabbed in the face with a coat hanger gasp rating 4I might have passed off the departed as way too violent but it is intelligent which i can't say about many other movies out today.The departed is worth all the awards all the praise and all the hype definitely worth all your time.
The Departed is a slow-burning simmering thriller, a tale steeped in deception, and gently, expertly brought to the boil - until a slightly overcooked finish leaving a slightly unsatisfying taste in the mouth.Martin Scorsese's latest is a very well told story by one of the greatest directors of all time, and while the Departed does show exactly why the great man is so highly thought of, it also hints that perhaps he is not quite at the peak of his powers anymore.The film is good, indeed it is very good, but the Oscars for best picture and director feel more like an apology from the Academy for overlooking Raging Bull, and particularly Goodfellas, rather than just recognition for this film. Yes, nobody does gangster films like Scorsese (unless Coppola wants to continue his Godfather saga), but while many directors would be proud to have 'The Departed' in their filmography, Goodfellas was far superior. The dialogue was sharper, the acting crisper, and the story more flowing.Yet the Departed remains an enjoyable film. Largely the feeling of two parallel intertwining stories feels very effective, with both Matt Damon and Leonardo DiCaprio providing a great deal of conflict in bringing their lead characters to life. Both are all contradictions - Damon is the cop who is a mole for the mob, and is smooth, charming, but yet somehow slightly bland, whilst DiCaprio as the man from the wrong side of the tracks handpicked for a special undercover assignment as a mole within the mob is a violent thug with a turbulent past but desperate to get his job done. With so much deception, you are never sure who knows what, and, rather appropriately, you feel like rats in a maze. And Scorsese does expertly time the reveals of information and keeps you guessing - but yet something about it feels ever so slightly underwhelming. However the action does heat up nicely towards the final third, with an interesting homage to the original by the use of a scene in Chinatown in Boston, creating some genuine edge-of-the-seat moments, until a rather unexpected conclusion that slightly jars against what has gone before.The acting however is uniformly excellent. One thing that can be said for Scorsese is that he sure can get the best out of DiCaprio, who here produces work to rival that of his portrayal of Amsterdam in Gangs of New York - another Scorsese picture. Damon however seems to be slightly lacking in charisma, although that does not provide a tremendous problem here. But it is the supporting actors who really steal the show. Jack Nicholson as the crime lord produces an atypically restrained performance - never overacting, and producing a quietly menacing performance, relying on his natural gravitas to still fill the screen whenever he is on it. Martin Sheen is as ever a class act, but the show-stealers are Mark Wahlberg as the intensely unlikeable but committed handler, and Alec Baldwin, who is given precious little screen time, but certainly makes the most of his scenes without scenery-chewing antics like those seen in Glengarry Glen Ross.Overall, while this is a worthy addition to the Scorsese canon, the unsatisfactory conclusion and some of the slightly unsatisfying reveals make this feel a somewhat inferior cousin to Goodfellas, rather than a true companion. Yet any other director would be proud of this work, and rightly so, as there is a great deal to take pleasure from. Maybe Scorsese just set his own standards too high for anyone, including himself, to live up to.


                
I think that one or two of the performances from the lead actors were overrated.Matt Damon, for me, seems to fluctuate between good and bad performances. He was great in The Talented Mr Ripley and The Bourne Identity/Supremacy. But I thought this was one of his worse films. His acting seemed quite wooden and forced, and I don't think he was comfortable in his role of a boyfriend.I also think that, early on, Jack Nicholson showed his age, although he did improve greatly as the film went on.On a positive note, Leonardo Di Caprio was outstanding. He's one of the most underrated and best actors around at the moment (he's come a long way since his teenage heart-throb status) and could quite easily have added this to his best actor nomination in the Oscars this year. This film would have struggled if it were not for Di Caprio.As far as the film in itself goes, I hadn't seen or heard much about the original Hong Kong version and was glad of it, as I could judge this solely on its own merit.It's thrilling, with so much suspense. Who's going to make a breakthrough first? Costello's men or the Police? I hadn't seen this before the Oscars, and at first I couldn't quite work out how on earth best Motion Picture didn't go to Little Miss Sunshine. But now I can understand why.All in all, simply brilliant.


                
This movie will give u anxiety. Very nerve-racking and thrilling ride.
The acting was great thanks to the A list actors: diCaprio, Damon, Wahlberg and Nicholson. Wow.
I give 8.5 !!


                
Martin Scorcese is a Hollywood legend. He knows New York City. He knows Boston, and he knows gangsters. The script is outrageously good. The photography is outstanding. Everything in the movie was impeccable except the casting. And no, I am not going to say Pacino should have had Nicholson's role. Jack was just fine. I just think that the two roles of the leading men should have been switched. Damon is a tougher guy than Dicaprio. And Wahlberg is tougher than both of them; but he was cast perfectly. Dicaprio in a fight with Wahlberg? I don't think so. Dicaprio as a tough guy? Sorry, I'm not buying. Didnt buy him in Gangs in New York as a tough guy, either. Just like I never bought Mongomery Clift as a tough guy in From Here to Eternity or in The Young Lions. Seeing Dicaprio win a fight with anyone in a film gives me the same feeling as when I saw Clift win a fight with John Wayne in a Western. It just didnt convince my senses. Other than the switch in the lead roles, the film is almost perfect. (except for the love scenes with Dicaprio, which pretty much fall into the same category as the fight scenes. Please. Choosing Dicaprio over Damon. LOL. It was like watching Lily Tomlin in a love scene with John Travolta. Great film, though.


                
There are lots of things I didn't like about this movie, namely the entire cat-and- mouse plot line. How could neither Billy Costigan nor Collin Sullivan nor anyone else not figure out that those two are the double agents? It seemed pretty common knowledge that Collin grew up under the wing of Frank Costello and that bad things keeps happening after Billy joins Costello's mob. Is Costello really that trustworthy and critical a thinker to believe correlation doesn't equal causation? The alliterative names are also confusing. I'm not a fan of early-aughts Marty or Leo, but Leo isn't bad in this role. Matt Damon's face and voice are too boring to play a villain, Martin Sheen's character is pretty thankless and dies easily, and Marky Mark's character is just a rod for the sake of being a rod - hardly enough meat to develop an Oscar- worthy performance. The only female character is just there to form a slapdash love triangle, and the script doesn't even write her as a realistic psychologist
Although I'm several years late watching The Departed, I was impressed by how real the film holds up, despite time travel. Brutal language, violence, Boston accents, and culture, and the evil conflicts between the Boston and Providence RI mob gangs, creates an unforgettable Scorsese film. Particularly interesting is the birds eye view of the Massachusetts Police Academy, with anecdotes of how people inside law enforcement live seemingly ordinary lives while dealing with the worst evil crime syndicates in the US. DiCaprio is absolutely at his best playing the conflicted undercover PD agent Billy Costigan, who tries to win the confidence of his mob boss (Jack Nicholson) while keeping his undercover identity secret. At cross purposes is Matt Damon, who is doing the complete opposite, as PD officer Colin Sullivan, who tries to keep the confidence of his precinct boss Captain Queenan played by Martin Sheehan. In fact, Sullivan is double crossing his public trust by keeping the mob led by Jack Nicholson's character Frank Costello, in the business of murder and extortion. The Departed is an adult film, period. Nonetheless, performances by the main cast are extraordinary - note Alec Baldwin who holds the viewers attention as a PD facilitator and instructor for the plot to uncover the undercover agents. There isn't another actor I know of who could execute this minor but bridge building role other than Baldwin. Nicholson's evil intentions carry this film's graphic plot, because his performance as a crime boss is totally convincing. Otherwise, Vera Farmiga is a somewhat ambiguous character who is not exactly likable, but she brings the cruel pieces together in the end, so to speak. I would give The Departed a rating of 10, except I did not like the counseling scenes with DiCaprio and Farmiga - they were not realistic. Yet, I believe, The Departed will stand the test of time as one of Scorsese's best films and a great cultural description of America's syndicated crime culture.


                
If you like Scorsese you will definitely enjoy this movie. For those like me who are less convinced of his genius, it is still an entertaining gangster movie. Many critics voted this as the best movie made in 2006. The film is well-made but I have always failed to understand his Scorsese's films are so loved by critics. I know cops and I've worked with the Russian mob and the characters in Scorsese's movies have always seemed phony to me. Colin Sullivan (Matt Damon) and William Costigan (Leonardo DiCaprio) are Boston police officers. Costigan agrees to go undercover to catch local crime boss Frank Costello (Jack Nicholson). Costello runs a protection racket and sells drugs. Some of Costigan's family members have a background in crime, so he is accepted into the gang. Sullivan has known Costello since childhood and becomes his mole in the police department. Costello's tips allow Sullivan achieve accelerated promotion and become the superstar of the police department. Damon and DiCaprio spend most of the film trying to unmask each other. They also become involved with the same woman (Vera Farmiga), a therapist.In Scorsese's world everyone men are macho sociopaths. There is plenty of high decibel screaming and swearing. His characters don't mind killing and torturing and violence is just another form of communication. Women are either whores or mothers or like Vera Farmiga's character they act like both. The cops and villains seem interchangeable. In fact half the thugs seem to be working for some government agency. Police Captain Oliver Queenan (Martin Sheen) seems to be the only normal guy in the movie. The police behavior is occasionally so extreme that the movie loses credibility. Sullivan's boss, Alec Baldwin, beats up a police technician because he makes a mistake. Sergeant Digham (Mark Wahlberg)abuses everyone and gets into fisticuffs with both Damon and DiCaprio who are supposed to be on his side. Sullivan seems to be in it for the money, but none of his colleagues questions how a police officer in his twenties can afford to live in a large expensive apartment in the Beacon Hill area of Boston. It's not clear why DiCaprio, with a 1400 SAT score, would agree to go undercover and mix with psychos for an indefinite period. The movie has a cast of superstars, but Damon and DiCaprio both seem a little too familiar and congenial to be believable tough guys. Nicholson looked as if he had wandered in from a romantic comedy. He seemed too old and lacked the menace the part demanded. DiCaprio gives a one note performance as a grim, angry man. That said, if you like crime dramas you will be entertained. There is plenty of action and the actors ham it up to attract your attention.


                
The Departed is a great movie that suffers towards the end from an excessive number of plot twists. Everything else is in it's right place and yet, and yet, and yet... it still does not have the feeling of greatness that casino or taxi driver had. Why? i'm not sure. I have the feeling though that this will eventually grow into a descent drinking movie thanks in most part to Jack Nicholson's one-off mafia boss. Plenty of laughs to be had there. The movie for me had the unfortunate luck of following a preview for 300 which i couldn't get out of my head for most of the movie.8 out of 10


                
