This film's absurdly high rating insinuates all that is wrong with today's urban Indian youth. Before I get into all the bashing, I have to give credit where it is due. I have to agree that the movie is technically strong; the cinematography is charming, Rahman's music is one of his best, editing is crisp, and the acting is mostly above par and a few outstanding. Where the movie fails, is in its core theme and the message it tries to convey. A group of college students who are indifferent to the problems of the country, as most of us are, suddenly one day gear up to kill the Defence Minister of the country because they 'think' he is responsible for their friend's(an airforce pilot) death. They are utterly convinced that their friend died because of the mediocre parts that went into the manufacturing of the crashed MiG plane, despite having no evidence to establish this whatsoever. They never for once bother to think that the minister could be innocent. What is sickening is the way their act is hailed at the end as if it was the most heroic thing ever done on the face of the earth. The movie constantly compares these half-boiled-attitude youth with the revolutionaries of the Indian freedom struggle which I think is an insult to those real heroes. The plot holes are many. The attack on the people peacefully protesting by the police in the presence of media is simply ridiculous to be real. Now, icing on the cake was the climax,when these 'nationalists' break into a radio station to confess and justify their action. I am not sure of what did these guys think would happen after they confess and allege the minister of corruption on AIR? The country would rise against the government?? when clearly it didn't happen when the innocent people were beaten black and blue in the presence of media! We Indian youth are susceptible to the mob-mentality. The director has exploited it thoroughly. Now, this movie has gained the cult status among the urban dudes because, as a quote in the movie goes, it is easy to grumble about all the ills in the country (and kill its minister) than changing the society for the good, say by becoming an IAS/IPS officer- which requires quite a struggle than stupidly throwing up your life that serves nothing.PS: I would have given this movie a 6/10. But, 1 is just a feeble attempt to bring it to its deserving position.
This movie is like watching a 20 round boxing match expecting to see an epic knockout, only to see two dancing queens prancing around the ring when finally in the 15th round you get a knockdown. You get all excited, finally something, this must be where it gets good. Only to watch em Pasa Doble into to the 20th round. No'one else mentions this, as if they didn't notice, but this movie is over three hours long. I promise you, you WILL spend well over the first half of that wondering why all the rave. The best part about this movie is the hilariously ridiculous "western" music they dance to. After watching this movie I felt incredibly far removed from Indian culture. One of the main characters wears jean jackets, and fingerless gloves! Think Fonzie, but less cool, and not a caricature. Indians, direct people away from this movie, cause I seriously felt embarrassed for you as I watched it.


                
The first half of the movie was promising out to be a 5 on 10, but then they started the second half which brings it down to the bottom floor :( There's attempt at good movie-making , but obviously they have succeeded in making good money. I admire the business acumen of the movie makers to put in a little this and a little that to pull in most importantly the rich crowds - the Punjabis in India and abroad. Secondly, it uses some cutting-edge techniques to make the movie LOOK good to critics in India who are mainly exposed to trash after mindless song-dance trash for review. This is the only reason I can think for this movie to get rave reviews. And then , there are ALSO those BIG HIT dance numbers which the yuppy crowd goes into see picturized on the big screen. But does a soundtrack make a movie good ?!! Once the audience are in , the movie preaches and preaches and preaches. Then it preaches AGAIN !I don't mind the above mentioned tricks 'coz the movie makers want to make money firstly , and hats off to them for succeeding . However , strickly speaking about the movie's quality , it has problems.Today's India is building itself on its IT and economic policies and capitalism , but this movie preaches about how the youth today should adopt violence against the establishment to make the country move ahead. This movie ( and others coming out of India ) glorifies Bhagat Singh etc. a bit too much. There have been some classics about him in the distant past , but the movie industry seems to inclined to portray these guys as the ones who actually brought freedom to India. Well ... like Mahatma Gandhiji did not exist , Or the World War did not create problems for British enough for them to start pulling out of most countries . A biographic movie about Bhagat Singh etc. would've been tolerable, but this movie PREACHES that the techniques of Singh and Azad are SO EFFECTIVE that they can be successful in today's world. I have doubts about that.Well , Youth of India ,thankfully you don't have the guts to practice the lessons from this movie. However if you DO , please don't! India is progressing fine, thank you. In fact, India can do with a little lesser crime.Other irritants abound in this movie. One I can think of right now was the evil corrupt and mean politician with an IQ of bird-droppings. Now ... politicians anywhere might be mean , evil and corrupt , but they're generally among the smartest people on earth. But this one was so dumb that he actually criticizes a dead pilot! Not surprisingly , people were not pleased with him.The list of unbelievable irritants can go on , so I'll end with one last thing about this movie which which is WRONG - it leads u to think Punjab is the only place in India !But hey ,the movie has the regular masalas for a block-buster - Romance , loud music and violence. Add to that a lot of patriotic hoohaa. Then there's Hindu-Muslim solidarity. So , keep your intellect aside and you might enjoy the movie.


                
Rakesh Omprakash Mehra's attempt at making a feel good movie for the pseudo seculars. The script appears almost surrealistic at times, because of the biased and critical nature of the movie. First of lets just think this through shall we? Who would just up and decide to assassinate the defense minister of a country without even conducting a basic investigation to see if he was guilty? And to compare these nimrods with the likes of Bhagat Singh and Chandrasekhar Azad? I am sensing they didn't know much about our freedom fighters other than the part about they getting hanged. Nothing of the kind that is showed in the movie happened during the right wing rule. As if their blatant crap throwing at the ideals of the conservatives weren't enough, they had to end the movie with a purely impossible logic. Who would send commandos to massacre college students? I cant believe people bought into this propaganda crap. The Migs were bought before that government came to power. So if you re going to blame someone, blame our royal family and their Italian arms dealer/friend.I do have to congratulate these people though. In showing how easily the average person can be manipulated with the help of good acting and great music(credit where it is due). This is a great way of campaigning for the ones in power. Make malicious movies about the opposition and throw dirt at them, while ban the filming of movies that show them in a bad light like the one about Jawaharlal Nehru, because it was going to portray his love affair with Lady Mountbatten.
A disturbingly bad film, and a rare example of one that utterly misses its own point: initially it's a call for unity among different religions, and a story of patriotic resistance to the evil repression of authority. At the end the message is: forget legitimate protest, just kill those in power whom you don't like. Starting off as a pleasant enough Bollywood entertainment about disaffected youth and the western blond girl who engages them in life and reminds them of the heroism of their ancestors against the evil British Colonial rulers (let's not even go there) the second half completely changes track and ends up as a political manifesto advocating violent terrorism as a way for social change.It's dispiriting that the film's (initial) message of unity, democratic change and resistance to the evils of power could have been done much MORE powerfully without violating the internal logic of the story. The last quarter of the film comes out of the blue<U+0097>it's like you're watching a different movie. There are about 10 different ways the script could have gone differently and held together conceptually, while keeping the message which is (or initially seemed to be) about coming together and resisting oppression: SPOILER ALERT!the youths could have been awakened to their problems, made a stand, and taken over the radio station, (even been killed and martyred for their beliefs) without killing someone in vigilante fashionthe youths could have discussed their understandable vengeful feelings before acting on them.the women, originally portrayed as agents of change, could have been included in the decisions, or continued as characters to encourage critical discussion and thinking (instead of being pushed aside and become the clichéd tragic, mourning, passive, victims). the potentially interesting parallels between the present-day corrupt Indian government with the colonial British one could have been explored, and taken to the logical conclusion, which is that terrorism and violence only continue the cycle, cause more divisiveness and don't work. (Gandhi, Partition, hello!)


                
I bought this movie in Little India in Penang, Malaysia for about 2 dollars. This was money poorly spent (that could have bought me several delicious fish curries). I tried to watch it with some friends; I'm actually pretty surprised that we made it to the end. For some reason, Indian cinema seems to always fail at the strong characterization and evocative dialogue that render Iranian, Chinese, Vietnamese, and other Asian films such good alternatives to Hollywood. Every single character in this film is incredibly annoying... from the idealistic, brainless, self-hating British wannabe filmmaker (whom we're apparently supposed to admire) right down to the painfully clichéd, and indistinguishable, 'handsome party dude who only needs to be inspired to fight for freedom' types. Bogart in Casablanca these guys ain't. The constant and unnecessary 'cool' montages of partying, motorcycle riding, dances and so on are actually much more annoying than your standard Bollywood musical set-piece. Finally--and most importantly--what exactly is it that these morons are fighting for? Capitalist modern India, which the wealthy leftist filmmakers naturally s**t all over, is massively superior to the socialist basket case that came before, as demonstrated by the untold millions lining these actors' and directors' pockets. So there's corruption, obviously, but this isn't quite a reason for a bunch of indolent college students to attempt to take over the country through murdering ministers (as well as one guy's evil capitalist caricature father? why?). Anyway, at this point I'm rambling. This award-winning film (very perplexing) is right up there with "You Got Served.. Again" and "The Fast and the Furious 3: Tokyo Drift" in my book. Cheers, big ears.
I just don't know why this movie is a hit and got so many awards it was so boring and simply impossible to watch. I rented it and I started to dislike it after 5 minutes of viewing time but still I was watching it to save the money I spent. It was complete nonsense first a white girl appeared in India and met Aamir Khan who was drinking with his friends on top of a bridge and placed a bet that who ever falls of first into the water is a loser, then he started dancing stupidly with the girl by shaking his waist then his head. After that I couldn't take it anymore and I asked my dad that "can I eject the DVD now?" and he replied "I'm glad you asked". My dad is really keen in films like Lagaan & Swades and he couldn't even watch it and I wanted to save myself rather than my money. The film is made by the same crappy director who also made the weird Aks and it takes a genius to make a movie this bad. Thank goodness that Rang de basanti did not get a Bafta award.


                
I don't know why people liked this movie. a tapori is compared with bhagat singh.. and basically the yo man crowd who didn't know much about the freedom struggle and has poor or little reading liked it to make a fashion statement. speaks of intellectual shallowness of south Asia. when bollywood meets history, it better be objective, else though it might be a money spinner, it will suck and will show the shallowness of the makers and the jahil yo mans who like such stuff. if you want to see how the movies in historical context be made watch bhagat singh or bose.. even ghulam though average as a movie had things right in the historical perspective and then there is great 1942 a love stroy.


                
I rode down to Innovative at Marthahalli to watch 'Rang de basanti' along with Ashwanth. There have been an overwhelming shouts and cheers for this movie. Every critic has rated the movie very high, scoring high points. Adding to my interest, I came to know that movie is by producers of 'Lock stock and 2 smoking barrels'. But movie appears fractured on various ends, first script and other balancing the masala. In fact movie is so so crappy at its climax which has been highly praised in the media.Story of the movie swings around a bunch of University goers, picked by a British film producer, Su, who wants to make a movie on India's Independence struggle. Apparently, Su's grandpa, John Mackinley, was Jailer of the same jail where Bhagat Singh and crew were held captive. So, the itch in her cooze, provoked by her Grandpa's diary, brings her down to India. First half of the movie is quite funny, filled with funny one-liners from Amir and the gang. Story takes turn when these guys get serious about the country during the film-making, soon followed by demise of Madhvan in a MIG crash. Finally guys decide to take law in their hands and assassinate the corrupt defense minister. But things turn out bad as the killing provokes sympathy for defense minister. So guys take over the All India Radio and announce it, saying that the defense minister was corrupt and whatever we've done is right and bla bla blah...That's how the movie ends. No Deja vu's just the same repeated formula with a new flavor. I am happy that I saved 400 bucks which I could have spent over additionally, if I had gone to watch it in PVR-Gold Class :). During the movie, I got SMS from Hiru, after I told him that I am watching this movie, asking that 'You are watching a Hindi movie. Is everything aiight?'. Perhaps something wasn't.
People, I'll just come out and say it, the emperor has NO clothes. My humanities course instructor likes to pretend to be all avant-garde and into this stuff. The movie is boring, the character development is incredibly weak and quite honestly, I want the last 3 hours of my life back. Anyone like my course instructor who pretends to be into this farce is doing so purely in the attempt to be seen by others as an intellectual. But in the end, they are all just nameless faces like the actors, director and script writer of this obtuse, painfully boring and yawn garbage. By the way, a course at Florida State University taught by teaching assistants who don't hold advance degrees (you know who you are) is a sarcastic response to our school's emblem, virus artes mores


                
OK friends ! Let's come out of our media influenced review on a film which was nothing more the combination of different scripts of different movies.Nothing novel in fact the movie was full factual errors.... Lathi charge on Candle light processions and absence of opposition in the parliament and a defence minister who is so stupid that he can call name to any distinguished service man.Movie going back in flashback....Was it a comparison. What a fight to finish ? Get hold of Radio Station, kill the minister and so on...People...don't you feel that the movie was nothing more than hang over of all the past good movies made by talented directors like Dil Chata hai, Lakshya, Yuva etc...Aamir Khan can hire anything....first he does not look 25 and secondly just swearing does not make you Punjabi...All the tution is wasted...Poor chap...he was acting to hard to look punjabi..but..Rest of the guys...sharman joshi was side kick and siddarth has problems with everything...from the country and from his father and everyone.... Kunal .....ok Only Atul Kulkarni was looking good in acting dept.Avoid it guys or you are heading for disappointment ...Full time...Having Aamir Khan does not mean good movie. Period


                
The only good part of the movie is the chemistry among the cast. Rest all seems complicated, boring and stretched. Music, direction, dialogs does not help. Confusion gets more while story suddenly keeps switching between 2 periods, pre-independence and current scenario. Though climax is unpredictable, it does not grip you for long. No humour in the film, except a few scenes that too fail to create any humour. People have tried to give it a patriotic fervour and name, but it is surely not a patriotic film. Screenplay is good. Aamir Khan, Soha Ali Khan, Atul Kulkarni, Sharman Joshi, Kunal Kapoor have given a normal performance. Actors seems lost in a few situations. Kirron Kher did well and leaves a mark. Madhavan's episode has been unnecessarily added, and takes the story to a different tangent. Om Puri, Waheeda Rehman and Anupam Kher didn't have much to say. Veteran actor also did justice to her role. English actors have been taken in just to complete the story. The jazzy group is by force put into the shoes of Bhagat Singh, Azad, Rajguru and others. This seems apparent, as there was no other option for the lady-film-maker. Some camera angles and locations are good. But in Aamir Khan movie, one goes majorly for a story, which was surprisingly totally missing in this film. The movie seems too stretched in the end. All put together, added with mental complexity created for a normal viewer, does not make this movie qualify for >1 rating.


                
One of the worst movie i have ever seen... i would recommend not to watch this movie at all... Rather go for some b grade Hollywood movie.... Poor script with poor message... Bad direction ... no sense of humor... Pathetic representation of patriotism... Few aberrant points related to this movie..1) By taking human life you can't change the society...2) By committing suicide you aren't helping the society..3) And how can you kill your father?? thats a shame....4) This movie is throwing young generations to a new dilemma...5)This movie is a waste of time...even to think about it is a waste of time.. thats why i am not writing' anymore about it...Joint comment by IIIT - Hyderabad, India


                
This film was good, but that is all. I can not in good conscience give it any higher a vote than 5 strictly because of the actions taken by the main characters. In American movies there is much more killing than in 'Rang de Basanti' but I believe the American 'killings' are construed as cool, which is a problem. But not so much a problem as the murders perpetrated in RDB. These murders are portrayed as just, and when we start condoning vigilante justice we are consenting to a degradation of democratic values. I have recently just moved to India and if there is one thing this country needs less than vigilante heroes's, I have yet to see it.


                
