This movie condones the use of violence as a means to bring about change in society. This in general is an interesting viewpoint that deserves cinematic analysis, since according to many, it is justifiable when society is subjected to tyrannical rule, usually by an external aggressor. But the society depicted in this film is modern India - yes corrupt India, but also India of the free press, universal adult franchise, world's largest democracy etc. Most important, it is an India that is ruled by *democratically elected people*! Assassinating an elected leader is as good as executing a portion of the electorate. So does the film suggest that we should condone mass murder? The parallels between the British Raj and modern day corruption, and those between hot-headed brainless youngsters and the thoughtful revolutionaries of the freedom movement were shameful - the British were not elected by us - they were an imperialistic power from a different country. Violence may well have been the only resort (though therein lies a healthy debate - there were many thousands who believed that there were other ways to bring about change).If we do not like the politicians we elect, the rational course of action should be "don't vote for them", not "let's kill them". It is amazing that such a movie can be made in the same country that produced Mahatma Gandhi. It is also sad that it took a British filmmaker to make that film and an Indian film maker to make this one.Having said that, the movie was interesting because it raised questions that have not been raised in mainstream Hindi movies. Unfortunately it answered them as well, and incorrectly, and simplistically, IMO. The positive reaction that RDB has received so far is far from funny - it is downright worrisome. Modern Indian youth seems to think in unison that boys in the story are to be glorified and congratulated for what they did. Even the supposedly sophisticated Manhattan audience with whom I shared the screening started clapping at the end of the movie. I was quite nauseated, and dismayed.I came out of the movie quite angry, and raved and ranted at my wife for a while re. the moral center of the movie. By the time I reached home I had calmed down, and realized that if a movie was able to create a evoke such strong emotion (even if a negative one) then something must be said of the film and the filmmaker.Morality apart, the movie has huge holes in the plot, which has been written about in these pages.


                
Come on, haven't we saw enough of Aamir Khan playing patriotic character who is rebellious and also is loved by a British lady. We know LAGAAN was a great movie but everything that followed this genre plain sucked; The Rising: Ballad of Mangal Pandey and now this. I start watching this movie and 10 minutes later I found myself watching BLUFFMASTER cause RANG DE BASANTI had nothing new. Aamir's acting was so so. I saw much better performance from him in his past movies. I did like Soha Ali Khan's performance. Alice Patten did a wonderful job both in acting and speaking Hindi. Music by A.R. Rehman was pretty good too. Other than that a crappy crappy movie. Aamir Khan should work on some new scripts and stay away from anything that has any connection with British people.


                
If the average Bollywood movie gets a 1/10 from me this gets a 2/10 because technically the movie is above average (Indian) and they're trying a theme which is relevant in today's India. However the movie like most other Indian movies is filled with fantasy, poor acting and idiosyncrasies. If you can fast forward the first 60 minutes of the movie it would be a good idea. Nothing really happens. There's the amateur film producer from Uk coming to India with 0 cash and making Mega documentary with settings of pre-independence India. Then as with Lagaan, the white woman falls for the brown Indian guy (a 40+ yr old trying to act like a 21 yr old). Unrealistic sections guys just shouting for the heck of it, a defense minister blaming a soldier who died in action, the take of All India Radio which happens to have just one guard, and many more. The end was really funny, thy just go an kill the defense minister, then get shot themselves while they are live on the radio. As always Amir Khan is the last to die. Amir Khan's forced effort to speak Hindi like a Punjanbi was really cheesy. Half the movie is in English like most of the new Hindi movie, very targeted to the NRI audiences and the Hinglish speaking upper and upper middle class. Another thing that I learnt was that Delhi University has really nice modern suites where the white girl stays. In someways the movie reflects the sad reality of the Indian youth, who have lost touch with reality and am sure will love this movie and will be all pumped up with anger against the Indian system and will do nothing about it!


                
Indian movies tend to be too pathetic, with unrealistic song and dance sequences; the lead actor killing hundreds of bad guys and politicians. This movie comes as a good escape from such stereotypes.The current generation of people don't believe in traditional values which has been one of the reason for India's relative underdevelopment. This is very obvious from the nature of the lead characters. The first half motors along, with the lives of a bunch of happy friends, who roam around without any purpose in life. The second part is better where the director shows the confusion in their minds when they hear that one of their friend gets killed in an accident. This confusion leads to vulnerability as they try to find a reason in killing the person responsible for the accident.The beginning of the movie, when the British writer 'Sue' meets the lead characters and the next half hour of movie is poor. Also it seems a bit odd as to how a defense minister can be killed by assassins in bicycle. The ending needs some improvement, and it does not seem believable as to how you can go on air in a national radio station without any moderation.Overall this movie is good, considering that the average movie coming our of India is of worst quality. But its not as good as the ratings suggests. Hence I have given a rating of just 2, to complement for the biased ratings.
