Let me say that I love all types of movies, but this one was just torture. The first hour is a waste of time, her accent is frustrating and the behavior of the rest of the characters is borderline obnoxious. The story about the revolutionaries was great, but you get twenty seconds of it in between five minutes of garbage. Save yourself some time and watch something else OR skip the first hour, that way you will only waste 72 minutes of your life. Its an Indian movie, believe me you'll figure out the story line even if you skip an hour. It upset me to see this movie at #3 on the top 100 list of Bollywood films. The entire story line is ridiculous, and the connection they tried making between revolutionaries fighting for freedom in a colonized India and five stupid college kids and a white girls fighting a corrupt government in 2006 was an epic fail.
Amazing movie. A story about a bunch of rich youth killing a petty minister distantly involved in a rather petty injustice and then getting killed for it - labeled as "awakening of a generation"....wow! Youth of India, awaken, drop your beer bottles and pick up your guns! It seems that according to the makers of this movie there is not enough violence already going on in India, there is dire need for more, hence let's make a movie glorifying it.And it's not only the violence. I can very well agree that violence can serve a purpose in extreme situations (fighting for freedom, for example). But counter-posing India's fight for freedom with the pathetic scenario of fighting a system that uses cheap military equipment and thus endangers the lives of a handful of military officers flying their MIGs.....simply pathetic comparison. One one had you have the fate of a nation....and on the other, all they could come up with, from all the myriad of problems of contemporary India, is the issue of 1-2 persons dying because of flying old military planes? Is this something that affects the society at large? Is this REALLY something worth killing for.....or, for that matter, making a movie about? Is this the awakening of the spirit of old freedom fighters in today's partying youth? I mean..common....there sure must be more worthwhile and extensive problems for which to fight against the system..and kill a minister too!I found the movie to be absolutely pathetic. The visuals were good, the acting was also OK...but the story is simply outrageously petty, and that too depicted in such a grandiose manner that it can only invite scorn. Moreover, I found it to have very little to do with real India, though it claims to be a patriotic movie. None of the real problems or reactions of the people of this country have been as little as brushed by this movie. What is this "awakening of a generation" thing? As far as I am concerned, and I'm sure most people would agree, drinking and partying is far less dangerous than engaging in mindless revenge-killing. Is this what the youth of India is supposed to do to tackle the problems of this society? Revenge killing? (it's not even like the murder had any other purpose except pure revenge). There's no awakening of any youth in this movie: It's just a bunch of restless rich college-goers rather naturally drifting from mindless boozing to mindless killing, that's all. And that too while imagining that they are doing some great service to their country. Apparently most of the movie-goers also fell for it. But just step outside the cinema-hall and look around at the REAL problems of this country, and you'll realize that old military planes are most probably very low on the list of priorities, if at all there.


                
This film does not deserve this high rating.The story was a complete of cliche, as well as it was quite pointless. Main characters took some brash decisions out of nowhere just to make the story complicated. Then the story went crazy from there. If the story was not forced to match with the past story line then it could have been a enjoyable film but abrupt illogical turns of events actually wasted the real potential of the film.And the camera crew was trying to make the important scenes more interesting by shaking the frames but they over did that. As a result for those vital scenes camerawork was kind of sloppy and unappealing to the eye.Bottom line is that, It was an average movie. But watching this film will not be a waste of time.


                
There's been a bit too much hype about this movie. After all the publicity that the movie received, one would have expected it to be at least worth sitting through. Sadly, that's something that this film is definitely not worthy of. I admit that it attempts to raise some very crucial issues. The issues regarding the mindless frivolity that the college-going generation is apparently immersed in, the virtual ignorance of India's history (at least a superficial knowledge of the martyrdom of heroes who sought to win freedom for the country), questions of corruption at the highest levels ... The movie could and indeed should have explored these issues in a more effective way. Instead of appealing to innate sensitivity and intellect of the public, it sinks to the level of utter inanity! The scenes of choosing a cast for the documentary could have been edited a lot more drastically. All that it achieves is to lengthen the duration of the film. AND it's not even remotely funny!! As a matter of fact, the film could just as well have started off at the point where it does, after the intermission! I had read somewhere that the film takes a critical look at the corruption in the Defence Services, that lead to the MIG disasters. But that issue seems to have been overshadowed by a lot of other trivial matters... matters that apparently lead up to the ultimate climax, but are nonetheless merely pathetic exercises in trying to drag the film to a full feature length of a certain number of hours. The problem is not explored in a way that would have made it really hard-hitting. As a matter of fact, the film fails to bring the point across effectively. Rather a damp squib, if ever there was one!! What was surprising was that I didn't see too many people even discussing what they'd just seen, as they emerged from the cinema hall. Instead of this apathy, which is the best that the film has managed to achieve, what it could have done was to really shake up the dormant masses and set them thinking about what they'd just seen. The film isn't thought-provoking or in the least bit convincing in the way that it should have been. The musical score is also disappointing. None of the songs have any lasting appeal or recall quality. The denouement is meant to shock the public but the effort falls flat. All in all, I think that the movie could have done with a lot more vigorous editing and could have done away with most of the utterly pointless baggage that it has been burdened with. In conclusion, I'd like to say ... if you haven't seen the film ... DON'T!!! You'll be wasting your hard-earned money if you do!!


                
After the intermission half of the audience was gone. They were right. A story that could have been told in 15 minutes had already wasted approx. 1 and a half hour of their precious time. OK: Corruption is a serious issue, it has to be fought, and the good guys have to stick together regardless what their religious or social background is. Fine. I agree. Something has to happen in India. But how is this message transmitted? The actors are horrible. Permanently overacting. Sylvester Stallone's ugly little Indian cousin and his silly English drama queen make a depressing combination - you would not believe for just one second that girl could direct even a children's play in an east German amateur theater. The scenes are so ... static. The plots are so boring: Surprise, surprise! She speaks Hindi and so he did not know she understood everything he said. Wow. What an intelligent idea. Never heard or seen before.Why am I so upset? I was amazed the movie had an 8.5 average rating at the IMDb, and I took some friends to watch the movie - They were either bored or they laughed about the silliness of this piece of crap. Being half Indian, I did not enjoy the situation very much. Sorry for my bad English.
Right message but terrible execution. The chest thumping patriotism was over indulgent and the movie was very long.


                
