The movie is a blend of few many good things. The best thing about the movie undoubtedly is the comparison and shift from past to present. For people who thought old values are not for modern days, this sure is an eye opener. An excellent music background score by A.R.Rahman. the cinematography is so damn realistic. Excellent screenplay too. There are certain instances where the screen has more than one event being focused at. This makes the movie more natural and easy to relate to. Siddarth might have done a bit of over-acting. but the sensitive Aamir Khan is at sheer acting epitome. Expecting this to be nominated from India for Oscars. Unlike Dil Chahta Hai it is a more heavy and thought-provoking movie sure to rise Nationalist spirits.


                
This year gets a perfect start with Rang de Basanti...A movie that is so contemporary...After movies like Dil chahta ha, Black this one really hits me as something new and something different..to start with the story and direction is avant grade and not to forget the acting which has been outstanding...the story has been well thought out..the characters well skated as perfect as when they die in the end the casualness that they depict touches your heart...things they do in the heat of the moment becomes a realization that even they are unaware of and then the big one the climax...many didn't like it..But i just loved it...Bollywood has to learn from this movie to make climaxes like this..the back ground score is outstanding and needs a round of applause..and the cinematography is an institution for aspiring cinematographers....the movies ends on a sad note and still leaves you with a smile...believe me very few movies make that happen... Once again Amir has proved the fact that he is a rock solid actor and the new bunch of actor are a boon to the film and hats off to Rakeshy Mehar for giving us those goose bums and those moments of pride and realization in a much more contemporaries style...It sure did Paint my heart yellow
The tag line of the film says it all, A generation awakens. This is an attempt to awaken the generation X to the reality, to encourage them to make a difference without giving lengthy lectures and preaches on patriotism and nationalism. So, does the film succeed in doing so..?? Well to a large extent it does. The film manages to invoke the feeling for the nation without any heavy dose of loud hardcore patriotic dialogues. The film is a good mix of fun and message. It delivers the message without loosing the essential fun factor. Amir Khan's one liners keep you alive all through. As expected Amir Khan steals the show but the second leads stand out as well with some good performances. Cinematography, direction and screenplay are of first grade. This one also marks A R Rehman's return to form with some marvellous songs and background score. I would have rated it 10/10 only if the climax was handled a bit better. The end of the story leaves a lot to be desired and the moral of the story is not very clear by its climax. A genuine, honest and good attempt nevertheless. See it and feel good, feel proud and feel moved.


                
The movie is one of the marvels of the Indian Theatre ,beautifully blending historical flashes with modern settings .All aspects of the movie including acting,music,cinematography are excellent and it is a must see for ones who are looking for an "out of the box" movie.At the same time I would like to say that I personally am not in favor of the ending.I feel that is a very wrong message that the Indian youth is getting.The idea of trying to wake up the society with extreme measures is inappropriate.Killing people is never a solution for any malice that is ingrained in the population.The same idea during the independence revolution was totally different and i respect that totally being a strong patriot myself but the movie is a bad example for the young people who already have fire in their blood and cannot think rationally.The movies have a great impact especially on young people and many try to imitate them.If a system has to be changed it has to be done by intellectual stimulation and general awareness not killing "the bad guy"!.We have to teach our youth the same thing. Having said that I would like to say that the director definitely has the right to project his thoughts but I differ about the message the movie gives and thought its worth sharing my ideas with everyone.
Rang DE.. turned out to be as colorful as its name with shades of reckless youth to the maturity of the subject it wishes to project. The comparisons drawn between past and present and the way the characters really emerge out has been the high point of the movie.Aamir khan looks more mature than a college pass out but then he makes up with his fine performance and instinctive manipulation. It is a patriotic movie and relates well to the younger generation.I would definitely rate Alice's performance among one of the best and how she's so much comfortable with Hindi is amazing.It is an irony in the film that it took a foreign girl to make the youth realize of their patriotic heritage. Music of the movie is awesome and suits the mood with romantic numbers like' Tu bin bat-aye',to the hip op 'pathshala' and finally to the highly emotive"Lukka Ch..".The picturisation of songs is great. The director has used the characters very intelligently working on their strengths and also the depiction of political characters is commendable .The best aspect of the movie is the editing and screenplay, although I feel a better job could have been done with the dialogs. All in all it is a great must see movie..


                
A year and a half ago I commented on "Lakshya": Don't expect a rabid anti war or anti establishment film. The time has not yet come for this in Bollywood. With "Rang de Basanti" Bollywood has made a film that clearly does not shy away from pointing a finger at the holy cows 'army' and 'government' and dares to suggest that corruption and infamy extend up to the highest ranks and most respected institutions of Indian society. While the opening offers the usual disclaimer (fictional story bla bla) the end draws clear parallels to reality. And what the characters in the film think and say reflects what young Indians actually do think and say. This is not Bollywood fantasy land, running around trees and you know the drill. It's nonetheless a genuine Bollywood film. Just a far better one than the usual kind. Good performance from an ensemble cast all around, no superstar shenanigans, catchy music, an inventive visual style, technically sound execution and a quite realistic script make this one a winner not to be missed. Go see it on the big screen.


                
This movie is one of the "original" and unique movies that India has ever produced. It has a very fresh concept and a very different look to patriotism. Although it may seem that this movie is a Pav-Bhaji of Dil Chahta Hai, The Legend of Bhagat Singh, and Nayak, yet it stands out with a class of its own.The movie has many surprises, and Madhavan could have been the biggest surprise if the production team could have managed to keep it a secret. But that didn't happen. Another big surprise in the movie is the latter half. The movie undergoes a complete transformation after the interval. I felt that the pre-interval section could have been edited to make it short and sweet. Now, its like so sweet that the viewer would get diabetes :) The star cast is good. It would have been better if they would have picked up more "known" faces. Although acting-wise, there were no shortcomings, but still, it would have been better. The most primary reason why this was not done, I think, is because all the 5 characters have a dominant role in the film. So, even if there was one good/famous star, Aamir Khan may not be able to gather the attention that he has managed to do now. Soha Ali Khan looks pretty and she knows acting as well! She has done her role very well.The climax is something that I personally didn't like much. I was not very much happy with the current climax, but I'm afraid that I wouldn't have been happy either even if the climax would have been the other way round. So... to know the climax, go watch the film. Its certainly a good one to watch in the theatre! Rating: 8 out of 10


                
(Note - may contain spoilers! )RDB is a different movie, contemporary in it's screenplay, music and theme. Patriotic movies more often ignite the spirits within you, some question the System, some question the people. But none has suggested a solution, a realistic solution, not a hypothetical projection of a historic depiction.This movie attempts to recreate the aura, psyche of Bhagath Singh and Azad's troupe in modern day era. It simply is a rendering of the past in the present context. It doesn't try to tell you whether Bhagat Singh is right or wrong or whether what the 4 college guys did is right or wrong. It just says - "This is what happens, when some people stand up and believe in what they fight. This is whats gonna happen to any youth in this country if the Government continues to BS around and no you don't need no Al Qaida to do, just normal people can".Whats the result?Instead of a History Channel on Bhagath Singh, you get a contemporary rendering of the characters in present day India with a seemingly interleaving screenplay of past/present. Most biopics on Bhagat Singh tried to portray as him as an extra ordinary person and simply repaint history without telling the psyche and the circumstances. I think thats why this movie deserves a great applause by rendering a difficult subject wrt the present people, people like you and me who never thought of execution of the thought.The cast is first rate. After a long time, you will feel that a popular Hindi cinema has no stars, just characters.(I can only remember Lagaan, Swades, DCH close to this in terms of characterisation in the recent past). AR Rahman, brilliant.Its sad to see so many good movies with his good music do not get the attention that he truly deserves.Well, here comes the down part. The first half makes you completely fall in love with this movie and just when you start building expectations ... the movie fails. Starting with the protest of Ajay's flight accident, assassination of Defense Minister (quite cool eh? Didn't know that you could just shoot a minister point blank and still nobody can figure out who the killer is. Quite stupid), to the insanely gruesome mass shooting towards the end, this is where you start to feel that the director is using too much of liberty and insisting you not to use your brains.Watch out for some of the best moments - 1) When Amir cries for Madhavan at the dinner table, telling how useless, helpless he is. Brilliant acting. I always consider a tragic scene as extremely difficult coz you just don't cry seeing the actor cry, but if it gives u a millisecond of gasp- he deserves an applause. 2) when the 4 buddies remove their shirts and wave across a fighter plane just grazing on their above. Wonderful poetry! Also shows that you don't have to have great bods to remove the shirt. It could still look great. 3) last scene with Siddharth / Amir when they're smiling to glory ...Acting is great ... no one has screwed up in any dept. However the last 1 hour is a bit amateurish and could have been avoided with more sophistication. Like all those movies which try to say something about patriotism, this one brags about it too, yet in a different subtler "warning" tone. But my point is"what do we do now. Do you have a solution?"When will we see a movie which could bring us hope, which addresses the Issues and brings out the execution in reality? Opinions like these will come and go but the Problem still remainsthe bottom line 8/10 - Brave attempt on cinematography, music, screenplay, casting and storytelling of 6th class history. Ironically, the premise of the movie should have been told in writing by the director towards the end, saying its just a ironic depiction of the past and not the moral of the story. Unfortunately for some viewers the message could be deceptive as its very very subtle.Swades on the other hand could be realistic, it hits you hard, very deeply with a message


                
this movie released 4 days back and from the second day till this evening i have watched the movie 3 times.'RANG DE BASANTI' doesn't leave any scope for excuses to not to watch the movie.to tell the story in a few sentences it is a story about a group of urban friends from Delhi who are urged by an independent documentary filmmaker to act in a movie about the Indian revolutionaries fighting against the British empire in the 1920s. initially as they act they do not believe in the ideal-isms of freedom ,patriotism and revolution as incorporated in the film but as the story moves on they begin to come face to face with the sacrifices made in the past in the revolution.as the story moves on the line between past and present becomes more and more blurred until it vanishes.here the friends become themselves the very characters they were playing in the documentary movie.the rest u have to see for yourselves.the movie is actually 2 movies in one.we see about the revolutionaries BHAGAT SINGH ,RAJGURU,chandrasekhar AZAD,BISMIL etc in flashbacks.we get to see the KAKORI train robbery,the SAUNDERS murder,the SIMON demonstrations,the hunger strike by BHAGAT SINGH and others while in jail,the JALIANWALAH BAGH massacre and many other things. then we keep coming back to the present story of the group of friends.the music by AR Rehman is"FANTABULOUS". it is one with the film.it lifts the film to a different level altogether.unlike other typical Hindi movies in here you never realize when the songs come and go.they are simply a part of the story.in fact sometimes you would even wish that they were a bit long.i don't know why it is ,may because of the songs themselves or simply the way they have been shot.the photography is excellent.BINOD PRADHAN like his earlier movies has shown what a good cinematographer he is.the acting was fantastic.not only did the seasoned actors like AAMIR KHAN,ATUL KULKARNI and R.MADHAVAN but the younger ones like SHARMAN,SOHA,KUNAL and SIDDHARTH have done a perfect job.even you have to take the hats off for the support actors ANUPAM KHAR,KIRON KHER,WAHEEDA REHMAN.a special mention has to be there for ALICE PATTEN .she has done a great job.RAKEYSH OMPRAKASH MEHRA this is a movie of a lifetime.thank you for making it.


                
If you think that this is Yet another Indian movie dealing with the famous Indian freedom fighters.You are wrong.Raang de Basanti was a completely different flavor of all the patriotic films.The script clearly captures and awesomely merges the past freedom and the current India. It takes you along the lighter side of Indian youth...and colorful Indian locations..suddenly drifting to full action. Part where Madhavan presents Soha the ring and the song that follows here awesomely crafted. The cast selected (Esp Alice and the character Sukhi) were too good.Alternating of past and present and making them to meet at a point was awesome.Hats off to screenplay.First half was fully concentrated on the Film making by Alice which had built a different mindset ti the audience was died or ended abruptly in the second half.


                
Simply A Brilliant Movie. People from all nationalities should watch it for the message that has been delivered.Contrary to the belief on this forum, this is not an India-centric movie. The message is universal and should be applauded.Patriotism and Freedom are universal expressions, for which we strive for even today after getting rid of the colonial rulers. However, this time we are prisoners of a different kind, wherein we need to break the shackles yet again from our fellow nationals, the enemies.The message is subtle, the acting is brilliant and the punch is heart wrenching.


                
Beyond doubt, we all acknowledge the power of art to wake up inert souls. However it is a very thin line for one to cross from the desired goal of inspiring and overwhelming into soul less preaching So to that end, Rang de basanti, does cause a lump in your throat, a resonating call in your heart and certain empathy for the five likable, very different characters of this story, without ever lapsing into either maudlin sentiments or moralizing to bring to the fore the plague called corruption sweeping India. The revolutionaries of Indian freedom struggle (Bhagat Singh and Co) represent the righteousness and courage of the past and they seep into the five modern day characters who are jolted from their lackadaisical and somnolent day to day existence. Fate brings few college friends into contact with Sue a young penniless documentary film maker who cannot afford professional actors. The sacrifices and tribulations of the freedom fighters does leave a mark some where deep within the consciousness of the five friends. All it takes is a horrendous tragedy which then makes them take steps never contemplated before. The focus is on the moral awakening, the call for justice and not on the consequences of the drastic actions of the youth while attempting to make corrupt politicians and businessmen pay for their deeds. Aamir is magnetic and powerful in his role as events transform him from a college vagabond fearing reality of life and seeking solace in the four walls of a university to someone gripped by painful awakening of conscience. Each and every character (Siddharth, Soha, Madhavan, Atul, Sharman) essay their roles with consummate ease. The background score and cinematography is indicative of the new breed of technicians in Bollywood, slick and effective. The end is not pleasing to the mind or eye and is disproportionately brief but then one suspects that the director never wanted the end to be the fulcrum or highlight. It is in the narrative of the lives of the youth from pre to post a tragedy that remains as the food for thought. A very nice movie, well intentioned, and truly aimed at what the byline says " A generation awakens". Much needed for a nation which is showing clear signs of awakening. To pick faults would be to talk about script losing its tautness somewhere in between halfway and end, one song too many, a shallow probe into the malaise called corruption in Indian social and political setting. But then we all know the tumour exists, what is genuinely needed is a courage to pluck it out each and every time to prevent it from raising its head. The film I believe is in that respect will for sure strike a chord in the youth across the nation.


                
Awesome performances by everyone i would say .Soha was really graceful and AR Rehman stole the show with rocking music .......all in all a wonderful movie to watch ...Aamir yet again doing it..NO SURPRISES!!!!!!!!I guess it was expected .The direction was also up to the mark.The team as a whole look united at every moment and it was clearly reflected that they had done their homework .Aamir's new hairstyles was good for a change.Kirron also added a bit of humor along with Sherman who can been be seen really growing with every film he is doing.Soha has really shown that she has the potential to make a mark ,now we just have to wait and watch how she handles the success and carry forward.


                
What can one expect when artists of high caliber work together and try to make something unconventional? It has been seen in the past that they usually falter (according to the box-office)! Take for instance movies ahead of their times such AKS! The movie was brilliantly made ... technically sound and with a well said story. Yet it seemed indigestible most of the viewers! Going into the theater to watch Rang De Basanti (RDB), did not create doubts in my mind that it would be unconventional, yet for some reason I had this urge to measure it against Dil Chahta Hai (being a very commercial film -- But 6.5/10); perhaps due to the campus life stressed on by the promotions. Once the ride began, I was in splits by the time the movie had an interval. Sharman Joshi (Godmother, Style) being the naturally comic maestro, was the source of this and well supported by Aamir Khan (Lagaan) in the department. Serious sentiments were stimulated by Atul Kulkarni (Page 3) and Kunal Kapoor (Meenaxi: Tale of 3 Cities) once in a while (Hindu Kulkarni disliking the Muslim Kapoor). Alice Patton should be proud of her excellent dialog delivery in Hindi (fine acting too) ... Soha Ali Khan (Antar Mahal) was apt till the interval but quite an actress in the later parts. Siddharth (Boys) was the perfect actor cast as the carefree and aimless son of an official military dealer, Anupam Kher(Saraansh, Maine Gandhi ko Nahin Maara) who just wants to leave the country because of the going-ons in this day and age (read "the system").Post-interval the movie deflects into a totally different direction due to R. Madhavan's (Rehna Hai Tere Dil Mein) death and the subsequent events that unfold! Aamir Khan touches the audience with the sentiments and with the brilliant mix of humor thrown in here and there. In fact since all the actors were so good I would like to elaborate, but it would be a waste of space ;) Overall, RDB is very well made. Youngsters can identify themselves here and so can those who have delved deep into corruption. In fact the movie has the power to make people have second thoughts to induce/accept illegality. Finally, the movie has a very unconventional ending; the sort I was hoping for. I was not sure how the campus culture could be shown gelling in with the 'Indian struggle for Independence story', but to my surprise, Rakeysh Om Prakash Mehra (AKS) pulls it off, in a grand style!! Hats off mate! Easily one of my top ten favorite Hindi movies. I give it an 8/10.


                
The story opens up very strongly with those kinds of scenes. It continues on to build up its story in a softer tone and quite literally from scratch. It's a surprise for me this movie actually presents two separate conflicts altogether. What's great about this is that the movie has all its significant characters developed deep enough to mean something in the eyes of the viewers. This is very much true that when the second conflict arrives, it doesn't really need much more duration in building up its content's suspense. What I appreciate even more is that unlike other Indian movies this movie sure uses its duration to the maximum point, reducing the duration of the songs up to minimum. Most of the songs even contain some heavy detail scenes, forcing the viewers, especially those on digital media, not to skip the songs. It's also nice that this movie contains a little bit of assorting genres such as a little bit of action, thriller, and of course romance beside all the heavy drama. The acting side is quite a standard Indian piece, but it can hold as it has a great execution of a great story.
The overall suggestion of the movie is so strong that some imperfections could be bypassed - for example, needless blood coverage and unrealistic shreds all over the garments of the students after the protest. And mainly the whole overjoy dominating the first half.It is understandable that the contrast makes the suggestion stronger.May be this is the only way an Indian can suggest an idea?! :)) Or may be this is just how life happens in India - with constant contrasts...What am I saying?! Why India only? ;)P.S. You can expect to laugh and cry sincerely in this movie. And above all, you'd probably want to go to see this country, like I did.
Just came out of a preview show of Rang De Basanti and have to say, it is one of the best movies I have seen in some time. A fairly predictable storyline treated so beautifully on the editing table, perfect casting, fabulous performances - the whole package was unreal.The first half started off as a laugh riot with some unexpectedly cool performances from Joshi and Kunal. Siddharth was also amazing, as was the perfectionist Aamir. The best part of the movie is that it doesn't let up in the second half. In fact the twist takes it to another level altogether - leaving me inspired. So tempted to discuss the plot, but won't cos this movie MUST be seen. As for me, I'm watching it again, for sure!


                
Worth watching!!! Movie just released here in UAE yesterday. When i first heard the name of this particular movie (in production), i thought it was the final installment of the Aamir Khan period film trilogy ;)But when the news came out about the movie, i thought it was another college/romance/friends/comedy movie.But surprisingly when i saw it, i had a treat of all the above mentioned elements, college/romance/friends/comedy as well as a feel of watching a period/patriotic movie.They have blended the old story with the modern Indian situation, it makes us think about the movie, the things our freedom fighters did for our freedom.The movie has so much youth in it, which the bollywood film fans will definitely like.Aamir khan does good job in the movie.Alice Patten is also good, does her part pretty well.Madhavan has got a special appearance.Soha Ali khan is okay (i personally don't like her ;) )The music is great, and it blends well with the storyline, towards the end there are 3 songs (i guess) back to back)..but u don't get bored, coz it moves along with the story.Nothing much happen other than the friendship/comedy/romance in the first half, but the movie takes a quick phase after the death of Madhavan.Over all its a nice movie, with some new locations and a good message.No country is perfect, we should make it perfect!!!Worth watching.


                
Absolutely original, thought provoking and good movie with the actors doing their job with a great flair. Plus for the movie: Siddharth and Kunal.. these two have shown their mettle. Aamir Khan as usual at his best. Surprise package is Alice Patton. She steals the show in every scene she appears. Special Credits to ARR for fusing the right tunes into the heart of the viewers. The numbers like Rang De Basanti, Paatshala, Roobaroo and Luka Chuppi are absolutely brilliant. ARR in Khalbali is too good. He has put a lot of his heart and soul in it. BGM is exceptionally good in the movie. Madhavan not much as expected.. too much hyped about his presence. Soha AK is a good choice as Sonali... though she could have done much better. Looks like she acted how the director taught her before the scenes. The movie is a bit too long.. ending has been dragged. Could have been better with a shorter and crisper ending. A movie to be viewed and enjoyed. Message is clear and loud: DARE TO SOAR HIGH.. DARE TO CHANGE THINGS.


                
I have seen the movie. I am great Amir Khan Fan. It is one of the best movie I have seen recent. It was excellent idea of combining history and todays situation. All actors have acted very well. It is definitely excellent movie but still it is not 10 of 10. Last part i.e. after MIG accident of Ajay and reaction of his friends is just too filmy. It does not happen that way. It is not that easy to do it that way. I know true story about Abhijit Gadgil who lost his life in similar accident, his mother fought single handedly against authority and proved that her son was innocent. So there would have been some reference of this story. By knowing Ran De Basanti is not based on true story it is OK. Best of luck for Amir for next movie.Sachin Kale


                
Rang de was bound to be the glory hog of this year at start. AAmir Khan has a niche in this industry and his roles are like a Yardstick. Add Rakyesh Mehra, a budding and energetic director, Rahman(well well hes as Aplus as you can get in bigger projects), and a host of talented people.Great promos, zingy music, Aamir's new hairdo did create the awareness.Well most of us have seen the movie by now, they know the story and even those who haven't know what its all about.My critique, which a few more share too is though Rang de is commendable, it leaves you disturbed. Though it is powerful it is depressing towards the end.well avoiding the spoilers, I feel that the novelty and characterisation is perfect and rabble rousing.But for a movie of this genre, if we wish to take the message seriously, i start thinking whats the point??Does the movie indicate that It is fruitless to be daring and take up arms against injustice iN India? What is the route to follow?What is the point' to put it simply??The questions do arise in your mind, it is radical and different, and I find it difficult to say whether i admired the movie or I liked or I accepted. Like/admire I do, But not acceptance wholeheartedly!The pluses surely are that its mint fresh, A class music and cinematography, inspiring performances by everyone. Interestingly AAmir does not have a very dominating presence, his role is as important as others don.That does not stop him from being endearing and effective. Ditto for Sidhaarth, Sharman, Atul, Soha, Maddy and Kunal.The moral still is- Rang de is worth your money, it makes you think not like the silly laugh a thons which serve no purpose.!_K


                
Rang De basanti ...!!! wot else can i say. Before i start to say anything about the movie, a little flash back into last year. Mangal Pandey was about to release and i was thrilled to see Aamir back after a long gap. I was damn sure, he can't do anything wrong. But once i came back out of the theatre after watching MP, i was frustrated,angry,upset and felt cheated totally. The movie was a trash and so was Aamir. Clock back today, i went to watch RDB with no expectations at all. I went for the movie just because my friend was a hard core fan of Aamir. Just as i arrived at the theatre i saw a huge crowd outside the theatre. I was telling myself, "People have been fooled again by the media to come and watch an below average movie (the same hype and reviews that came after Mangal Pandey was released)". I had not even listened to any of the songs of RDB before coming to the theatre (again it was post mangal pandey effect). So here i was in the theatre without any damn expectations from this movie. The movie started, and the start was not anything spell bounding to enthuse my interest. It started on a damp note, and i was pretty sure this is another Mangal Pandey repackaged and hyped up. Then the change started, from the moment "Sue and Sonia" (characters in the movie) are shortlisting actors in Delhi University for their documentary movie. That turned out to be funny and i was laughing. Then the came the generation (or shud i say the life of the movie ..!!) about which the whole movie was about. And by interval i had changed to the extent that to rate the movie as "Average to above average product", and by the time the movie finished, i was just awestruck at the funkiness in the music,characters and presentation, that i had never seen a movie like for a long time. In short this movie is just absolutely brilliant ,fantastic and funky (last seen in Dil Chahtha hai). I am giving it "8" because we need movies that can better this (which seems unlikely for sometime ..!!) and i want to leave room for that...:-).


                
When I got into the theater, I knew will be getting a ride into the beauty and uniqueness of the Mehra and that's what happened. Big applause to his direction. There are very few movies which touch these matters with so much of joy and passion. Finally you see in the movie is what you get! For me any movie is great, if some of the scenes remain in your heart after even coming out of theater. No doubt Aamir is the king of acting and impacting. Although his role was kind of lead in the movie, still he gets very little moments to show his brilliance. Every actor in that matter has shown that they all are hidden gold to be digged by a proper direction. Especially Siddhart, Kunal Kapoor, Soha, Sharman Joshi, Atul and Madahvan. Last but least I want to point out how sweetly Alice Patten had got into that role. Her Hindi is not much of a nautanki. She acted and spoke real zeal for the country. Her role was very inspiring. The cinematography is sublime and screenplay will make you laugh and cry at times. The song sung by Lata is touching and very meaningful. And finally it's great to see an amazingly inspiring, passionate and flawless piece of cinema from a great director. Bollywood should come out with these political and social issues with strong urge to change the mind of all young hearts who can aspire our country to become the way we want. Democracy is not just a concept that needs to dwell in the books and history. It's a forgotten and ignored way on which none want to travel. Movies like this should be made to enlighten the proper destination to the confusion of the world and all Indians! Certainly this movie painted my heart too like others in this reviews. Rang De <U+0085>..


                
I think the movie was done really well. The last one hour though could have been done differently. Until that point it was great, unlike any other Hindi movie. That's probably why I'm giving it an 8. Its still a great movie to watch and from the people i know, i've found just one other that feels the same way about the end.I think another good thing about the movie is there aren't any song with the hero singing them, they're all background music. Also there are these glimpses into the past which is kinda cool, cause the director has tried to get two similar yet quite different story lines at once.


                
Good movie! Had a good flow. Excellent songs!Very nice start cast! For a change new upcoming artists were given a role to play without having to pick the same old faces. As others have commented it reflects the political scenario in India which is really an eyesore.Way to go bollywood one movie that I enjoyed which did not have much skin and it had a strong message to be delivered!Well my fellow indians we surly need to really revamp the political system of India so that we can make a natural gem like India shine!Vande Mataram!-ramsam


                
