So nice very supper then see-able movie So nice very supper then see-able movie So nice very supper then see-able movie So nice very supper then see-able movie So nice very supper then see-able movie
this film is very convincing hokum. nice, gentle, inoffensive and insubstantial story about prison life - I came away feeling prison was a place where nobody says f##k or fears bending over to pick up the soap. check out Freeman, in the token performance of his career, neatly basking in the falsely accused smart white gentleman robbins' shaddow. what a team... so very progressive. 'hope...' . oh yeah, we've got a lot of 'hope' going on here. The lush fantasy kind, so deadly sweet and full of bull. frank darabont is a gifted man who excels in making pretty pictures that strike at the very heart of american pie values and gives them a welcome support by elevating tokenism to its greatest levels in hollywood yet - that is no small achievement, considering... if you don't believe me check out his latest masterpiece, he just can't stop doing it. hell, why not! it sells tickets.


                
This is quite far from being the best movie of all time. The characters are black and white in true blockbuster tradition. Everybody is either all good or all evil, and do not at all feel real. The plot is unoriginal (although it has a surprise ending, that's hardly original scriptwriting) The film is extremely cliche-ridden, and I don't recommend it to anyone who appreciate truly great films like the three colors trilogy etc.


                
This movie is more of a drama than action, but that doesn't matter, because it would fail in either case. A viewer can accept the cliché of the wrongly convicted man, but this case is deceptively against the grain. Our society already has a predisposition to acquit any man of murdering his wife, a predisposition to think it is impossible, when the statistics claim the opposite. For that reason alone, this movie is dangerous propaganda, and most often a lie. The characters never become believable, mostly because of the reason stated earlier. Also, because such men don't wind up in prison. The wrongly convicted man always comes from a different background and class. I can't imagine someone finding this movie even remotely plausible. In fact, the viewer has no idea what the "redemption" is. Nothing makes any sense.


                
Well, after all the glory this film has had, I decided to watch it. And for my opinion, it wasn't that great. Was it the hype, I don't know..I just didn't like that much to esteem the movie as #2 in IMDb top 250 list. It was just as boring as Stephen King's book are. Afer all, acting was great, I have no bad things say about that, it's only a bad script, for my opinion. Nowadays, when there's such realistic prison descriptions, as OZ and Prison break, this one doesn't give the spark. For a good prison movie I reckon the following: If you wanna see a good prison movie, you should watch ' Blood In Blood Out ', If you haven't had a chance already. Now, there's a reality check and a great movie, which haven't lost it's best-before date, like this one has.


                
I have no idea, why this movie has received such a good rating. It´s an average prison movie without any highlights. Typical Hollywood stuff. There are hundreds of better movies around. The movie drags, the actors are average. It´s just this typical "heartbreaking" stuff and far away from other movies up on this list.


                
I enjoyed this the first time I saw it. But then again I was only an easily impressionable 14-year-old, craving for new emotion. Recently, more than 10 years later, I revisited it, and barely managed to finish it. Bluntly, it's as plain and trite as it gets. In fact, I believe Frank deliberately wanted it that way, so that it would increase its appeal to the casual movie goers. In general, I have no problem with a simple, feel-good movie that does not take itself too seriously and is not looking to change its audience in a profound way. However, this does and it seems it is succeeding unfortunately....We have a story about hope and its redemptive qualities, portrayed by an innocent man that is sent to prison(Tim's character). It's told through the eyes of his closest prison friend(Morgan's character). The narrative framing and flow are rigid, there is no rhythm, no ebb and flow, no metaphors, no irony, just constant relentless narration - extreme simplicity. It's stripped to the point that you can only remember the generic message. Dangerous stuff. Some people carry it around and "apply" it diligently. The others only observe the snowball effect.I hope there are more intelligent endeavors out there. I hope everyone sees them and appreciates them. I hope...1/5 - Skip this, if you are over 15. There is no art here - almost no contribution to the art of filmmaking and storytelling.


                
It seems that every time a movie comes out with an exceedingly positive and uplifting message or story, the average moviegoer is blind to any other problems or shortcomings the film might have. Every moment of this film feels phony and hollow. The character of Red (Morgan Freeman) is just a vehicle to keep the plot moving and doesn't seem to even exist as a whole person. His narration is embarrassing with its phony regional dialect and forced folksiness. The prison life depicted, while brutal and violent in a few scenes, is overromanticized by the picturesque cinematography and florid music. The plot is fairly clever but, like bad American television, everything that happens is in service of the plot. There's no behavior from the characters that doesn't help bring you to the film's stunningly maudlin final scene. And there are logistical problems, like the fact that you can't make a hole in a thick metal sewer pipe by hitting it with a rock three times. They could have solved this problem by just showing a shot of a clock moving forward. The best character is a relatively brief and peripheral one, Brooks (James Whitmore). Whitmore doesn't seem to know he's in such a shallow, contrived movie and gives the character a realism and three-dimensionality the other characters don't have in his short time on screen. In the montage-type scene in which he's trying to cope with life out of prison, however, he suddenly seems less intelligent and more of a stereotype of a befuddled old man. Tim Robbins as Andy Dufresne is somewhere between good and mediocre, seeming to force weird expressions onto his face like he just read the character description in the script for the first time. Bob Gunton as Warden Norton is over-the-top and seemingly one-dimensional, but it works because Bible-thumpers are often over-the-top and seemingly one-dimensional. He's actually believable and interesting to watch. The prison guard Hadley (Clancy Brown) is realistically sadistic, but his type of comically crude sexual language sounds too contemporary for the time. The final scene is just so unrealistically over-the-top happy and sunny it's an insult to the viewer's intelligence and, I think, ruins much of the film. This film obviously has developed a huge following over the years, but I think that's largely just because of it's sentiment of hopefulness and positivity, and that doesn't necessarily indicate a well-written, well-executed, well-acted film. Some of the worst crap in theatres and on television has a hopeful, inspiring, uplifting message. Of course a film doesn't have to depict a realistic world. In fact, I like surrealism in movies. But it should at least show an interesting version of a world, and to keep any intelligent viewer's attention the characters have to be fully realized, seemingly existing in a world outside of the film's plot.
Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman to very good actors star in this movie about Tim wrongfully accused and sent to prison where he befriends Morgan Freeman. I mean it was a good movie and a i liked it, it just didn't blow me away and I guess thats how I rate a movie from Good or Great, I like it don't get me wrong, its just i didn't get the same feeling i get from other great movies, it didn't have me thinking about the character, whats happening next, it wasn't riveting, it was kinda slow I guess just dragging from scene to scene. To be perfectly honest I would personally rank this movie at like an 8.1 - 8.2, I guess I just kinda figured that he would get out, and a movie like that where you can pretty much guess whats going to happen there is much to stay and watch, I didn't feel they would leave the movie with him in prison and thats pretty much what did it for me.I mean this is purely my opinion, I know some people who love this movie and they bring up their valid points, but right now I am sharing my point of view with everyone about this movie.
The Shawshank Redemption is an exciting and very emotional excursion. It is the best "jail" movie ever made, for sure. There's suspense, surprises, and more, but it's true greatness is in it's show of the human spirit triumphing over impossible odds. With a pair of great actors and a very nice script, The Shawshank Redemption winds up getting a 10/10 from me.


                
A common film about the life of people behind bars of the prison. Nothing important. Usual stupidity! I wonder why so many people have described it as a "movie of the century"? Just because the score was "9/10"? Oh, come on, do not have illusions. A monotonous film with a poor script. Okay, it's got a plot twist that almost leaves you loud before the end. Nothing more!


                
I have seen Shawshank Redemption for more than 10 times and being a critic i have noticed couple of things that really make the movie little dull and listless.It is not to say that the movie is not good. It is pretty good, with all the technical merits - But it doesn't merit a ranking of 9.3 at all. Which is why you can see i rated it pretty low, as compare to God father or God father 2.One of the factors affecting my rating is the speed of the movie and the plot,it is little diverted and you are not quite sure to understand what the guy is up to. Though curiosity is pretty good in any movie, but this time around curiosity has killed the cat and made the movie little boring.So in my opinion, Shaw shank Redemption is good but not GREAT.


                
*** This review may contain spoilers ***"The Shawshank Redemption" or "Shawshank" as I'm sure it's said to death in the film is an elongated short story that just 'lingers' from one hour to the next. There's no real 'charm' to the film except of course 'dry wit' from Red as if it's the gospel according to Red. He basically plugs Andy the entire movie as if he's his agent. "Now Andy this" and "Andy that". Not to mention a walking brochure for penitentiaries "Shawshank this" and "Shawhank that" his gospel just never lets up.Now Tim Robbins was perfectly cast for about 5 minutes playing 'the babe in the woods' who "looks like a stiff breeze would blow him over" a "tall drink of water with a silver spoon up his ass". But once nothing seems to break him, its definitely a part for Mel Gibson. Tim Robbins didn't have the 'acting chops' to bring the 'required depth' to this character. Fortunate for Robbins in post production Morgan Freeman saved his ass with extensive voice overs. Most people think this was premeditated but 'the truth' is Robbins gave such a wooden performance it was necessary.Most people think this isn't your average prison drama ether because its not about violence and melodrama. But 'the truth' is this film is no better than your TV movie of the week that features a 'prison escape'. The whole 'poster thing' couldn't be more 'implausible' if an elephant hang from a cliff by a daisy. Don't let me get started on how he just happened to have the cell on the end ether! The music was 'elevator music' at best. The only time I even took notice was when they actually featured it in the plot And even then if I'd heard it id have personally punctured my eardrums. Why the 'sound' was nominated for an academy award is beyond me. If it weren't for packaging and distribution this film would be a made for TV movie. Which it was if you consider its box office taking against home rental.The entire cast reeked 'cartoon'. You have your 'evil' warden with his 'religion'. You have your 'mean' guards you 'grow to love'. Not to mention 'the kid', 'the old guy', 'the black guy' and 'the guys'. The prison was so stereotypical it even had 'fags'. Some other failings of this 'pathetic' movie. The dialog was 'harebrained'. If it was supposed to fascinate, well, it 'failed'. The manner in which the mini stories unfolded was 'not stimulating'. His ability to get beers and do taxes in particular 'sucked'.In short this film 'sucked'. Worst film 'since', well since ever!


                
In fairy tales characters are straightforward good or evil, so that the audience does not get confused. Shawshank is the sort of prison where convicts are "good" and guards are "evil", so that you know immediately who to root for.The main characters in the movie are Andy and Red, respectively played by Robbins and Freeman. Robbins is an actor with a natural creepiness that cannot be neutralized even by the most positive role. We are supposed to root for Andy, but the ambiguity about his guilt is kept going two thirds into the movie and does not help to establish him as a sympathetic character. Freeman is by now a stand-in for God. He conveys gravitas and righteousness, even to a murderer. He deserves a happy ending against all odds.The story unfolds extremely slowly, with the usual bonding and strife among inmates and abusive guards stirring the mix. The only plot twist is an absurd conversation between Andy and the prison's warden. In possession of vital information about his case, allegedly clever Andy chooses to share it with the evil warden, rather than with his lawyer. This is clearly an idiotic decision, but so far looks like nobody noticed.However, the simple tale of a man convicted for a double murder, taking place almost exclusively within the prison walls is hardly material for a masterpiece. Even more so when based on a Stephen King novel. King may be massively famous, but subtle he is not.I guess the reasons for the huge popularity of this movie lies exactly in its simple structure and exploitation of basic emotions and human qualities such as endurance, hope, faith and integrity.The main message of a film is an even more basic "Everything is going to be alright". That is, if you consider decades spent in prison as a metaphor for life.


                
Let me start out by stating the fact that I am a HUGE Morgan Freeman fan. I absolutely adore most of his work, however, The Shawshank Redemption is the only exception as to just how far my love of Morgan Freeman will go. First of all, in the opening scene, when Morgan is getting rubbed down by two husky white men in the shower, the hot water handle should be facing the LEFT, unless this film was shot in Canada or Utah, I see no reason for this subtle inaccuracy. Second, why did Bruce Willis decide to concentrate his fire strictly on the escapees of the prison?! Why not on the inmates that were tucked safely in their cells?! Finally, the third and final problem that I had with this movie, is this: Hadley is arrested for murder, crying like a little girl as he is taken away, while the Warden decides to shoot his brains out.While the others would talk about Andy's exploits, Red just listens. One day he receives a blank postcard from the Border, knowing that his friend made it there in one piece.Red manages to pass the next parole hearing with an angry honesty that was missing from his past meetings, and is sent to the halfway house used by Brooks. He is lost on the outside and would like to return to Shawshank, but instead he fulfills his promise to Andy, and follows his friend's plan to find the tree he mentioned, and a black box containing a wad of money and a letter.Red breaks the law to violate his parole, and takes the bus down to the border. At the end, on the beaches of Zihuatanejo, we see Andy working on a boat, about to be joined by another free man, Red. Honestly, if you're even considering watching this movie, please spend your time elsewhere. It's terrible.
