I believe that this film is the best story ever told on film, and I'm about to tell you why.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a city banker, wrongfully convicted of murdering his wife and her lover. He is sent to Shawshank Prison in 1947 and receives a double life sentence for the crime. Andy forms an unlikely friendship with "Red" (Morgan Freeman), the man who knows how to get things. Andy faces many trials in prison, but forms an alliance with the wardens because he is able to use his banking experience to help the corrupt officials amass personal fortunes. The story unfolds....I was so impressed with how every single subplot was given a great deal of respect and attention from the director. The acting was world-class. I have never seen Tim Robbins act as well since, Morgan Freeman maybe (e.g. Seven). The twists were unexpected, an although this film had a familiar feel, it wasn't even slightly pretentious or cliched, it was original. The cinematography was grand and expressive. It gave a real impression of the sheer magnitude of this daunting prison.But the one thing which makes THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION stand above all other films, is the attention given to the story. The film depends on the story and the way in which it unravels. It's a powerful, poignant, thought-provoking, challenging film like no other. If Andy were to comment on this film, I think he might say: "Get busy watching, or get busy dying." Take his advice.Thoroughly recommended.
At the heart of this extraordinary movie is a brilliant and indelible performance by Morgan Freeman as Red, the man who knows how to get things, the "only" guilty man at Shawshank prison. He was nominated by the Academy for Best Actor in 1995 but didn't win. (Tom Hanks won for Forrest Gump.) What Freeman does so beautifully is to slightly underplay the part so that the eternal boredom and cynicism of the lifer comes through, and yet we can see how very much alive with the warmth of life the man is despite his confinement. Someday Morgan Freeman is going to win an Academy Award and it will be in belated recognition for this performance, which I think was a little too subtle for some Academy members to fully appreciate at the time.But Freeman is not alone. Tim Robbins plays the hero of the story, banker Andy Dufresne, who has been falsely convicted of murdering his wife and her lover. Robbins has a unique quality as an actor in that he lends ever so slightly a bemused irony to the characters he plays. It is as though part of him is amused at what he is doing. I believe this is the best performance of his career, but it might be compared with his work in The Player (1992), another excellent movie, and in Mystic River (2003) for which he won an Oscar as Best Supporting Actor.It is said that every good story needs a villain, and in the Bible-quoting, Bible-thumping, massively hypocritical, sadistic Warden Samuel Norton, played perfectly by Bob Gunton, we have a doozy. I want to tell you that Norton is so evil that fundamentalist Christians actually hate this movie because of how precisely his vile character is revealed. They also hate the movie because of its depiction of violent, predatory homosexual behavior (which is the reason the movie is rated R). On the wall of his office (hiding his safe with its ill-gotten contents and duplicitous accounts) is a framed plaque of the words "His judgment cometh and that right soon." The irony of these words as they apply to the men in the prison and ultimately to the warden himself is just perfect. You will take delight, I promise.Here is some other information about the movie that may interest you. As most people know, it was adapted from a novella by Stephen King entitled "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption." Rita Hayworth figures in the story because Red procures a poster of her for Andy that he pins up on the wall of his cell. The poster is a still from the film Gilda (1946) starring her and Glenn Ford. We see a clip from the black and white film as the prisoners watch, cheering and hollering when Rita Hayworth appears. If you haven't seen her, check out that old movie. She really is gorgeous and a forerunner of Marilyn Monroe, who next appears on Andy's wall in a still from The Seven Year Itch (1955). It's the famous shot of her in which her skirt is blown up to reveal her shapely legs. Following her on Andy's wall (and, by the way, these pinups figure prominently in the plot) is Rachel Welsh from One Million Years B.C. (1966). In a simple and effective device these pinups show us graphically how long Andy and Red have been pining away.Frank Darabont's direction is full of similar devices that clearly and naturally tell the story. There is Brooks (James Whitmore) who gets out after fifty years but is so institutionalized that he can't cope with life on the outside and hangs himself. Playing off of this is Red's periodic appearance before the parole board where his parole is summarily REJECTED. Watch how this plays out at the end.The cinematography by Roger Deakins is excellent. The editing superb: there's not a single dead spot in the whole movie. The difference between the good guys (Red, Andy, Brooks, etc.) and the bad guys (the warden, the guards, the "sisters," etc.) is perhaps too starkly drawn, and perhaps Andy is a bit too heroic and determined beyond what might be realistic, and perhaps the "redemption" is a bit too miraculous in how beautifully it works out. But never mind. We love it.All in all this is a great story vividly told that will leave you with a true sense of redemption in your soul. It is not a chick flick, and that is an understatement. It is a male bonding movie about friendship and the strength of character, about going up against what is wrong and unfair and coming out on top through pure true grit and a little luck.Bottom line: one of the best ever made, currently rated #2 (behind The Godfather) at the IMDb. Don't miss it.(Note: Over 500 of my movie reviews are now available in my book "Cut to the Chaise Lounge or I Can't Believe I Swallowed the Remote!" Get it at Amazon!)
In recent years the IMDB top 250 movies has had THE GODFATHER at number 1 while THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION has remained at number 2 . The only exception was early in 2002 when FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING topped the chart for a couple of months then dropped down to number 2 for a couple of more months . I`ll probably make myself very unpopular for saying this but I don`t think SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION deserves to be so high !!!!!! SPOILERS !!!!!!What I don`t like about it is the amount of cliches . New prisoner arrives and finds a maggot in his food , prison cliche 37 . New prisoner gives maggot to old prisoner to feed his pet bird , prison cliche 43 . It`s revealed at the end that the prisoner who has spent so many years inside is innocent after all , prison cliche numero uno . Did anyone believe during any part of this movie that Andy Dufresne was guilty ? Neither did I . Maybe that`s why I love the American prison series OZ because all the inmates there are totally guilty . There`s other things wrong with the movie . It`s about half an hour overlong , and there`s rather unrealistic bits like the warder having someone killed after finding out Dufresne is probably innocent. Oh and how many prison friendships has there been between a black man and a white man ? Maybe that last point shouldn`t be taken as a criticism because the performances of Morgan Freeman and Tim Robbins are very good and make the movie . Neither of them give a flashy performance ( Again not a criticism ) but both are very subtle in their roles , can you imagine how different this movie would have been if we`d had Tom Cruise and Denzil Washington as the stars ? Perhaps because Freeman`s character of Red does seem to have been written as a white character he`s so good in the role . Am I alone in thinking Freeman has been the best black actor in Hollywood for the last decade because he`s more interested in exploring the character instead of playing someone who`s black ? There`s also some outstanding touches from director Frank Darabont . Witness the scene early in the film where Andy spends his first night in prison with the darkness falling upon the prisoners faces . It`s almost like the artwork of Andy Dogg as the prisoners look out onto the landing as they search for fresh prey , and there is quite a touching sequence as Red leaves prison out into the harsh outside world to the strains of Thomas Newman`s scoreI gave THE SHAWSHANK REDEMPTION eight out of ten . It is a classic feel good movie but unfortunately being a cynic I do think it`s slightly overrated by IMDB voters
A great film and one that I shall be adding to my collection at some point, but #2?One user put it very well when they said that the film's essential message of 'the human spirit conquering all' is very uplifting an' everything but sounds too much like a fortune cookie homily.There are several films that deliver the same message just as well if not better. Jim Sheridan's "In the Name of the Father" springs immediately to mind. That film has a similar theme to this one (wrongful imprisonment and the struggle to come to terms with it) but is a much better film IMO. What's even more heartening is that it's also true.Like I said, I'm not dissing the film. it IS great. From what I can remember all the performances are nicely judged (Freeman is excellent, but then what's new?), the direction is perfect because it's so unobtrusive to the story, and the film in general is uplifting. I just think it's nothing particularly new and it has been done better. Maybe my viewpoint is borne out by the fact that it only became a huge success on video release?I gave it an 8. To me, this fact proves that I love the film, just not as much as everybody else seems to!I think this adaptation is on a par with the short story, which was also excellent. I honestly can't agree with #2 on the top 250 list though. Is it just an American over-reaction to the movie or is every other nation as awestruck by it? Please feel free to e-mail me for discussion on this, or anything else for that matter.#2 of 250? I don't think it would make it into my top 50 films.Ah well, life's all about opinions...


                
I finally watched The Shawshank Redemption and I agree that it is an excellent film. The pacing, directing, and storyline, holds interest throughout, along with a superb supporting cast, and a very moving ending.The main character is Andy played by Tim Robbins who is imprisoned for the murder of his wife. Later on in the movie, the evidence comes out that he is truly innocent. However The Shawshank Redemption sends a powerful message that it doesn't matter whether you are innocent or not inside Shawshank penitentiary. This is because the prison is run by a sadistic and corrupt staff. In this facility, you must use all of the intellect you can, both book smarts, and street smarts to not only stay alive, but prevent yourself from going insane within the system.Andy befriends "Red," a fellow inmate, played by Morgan Freeman in another great performance. He teaches Andy street smarts of survival within Shawshank's hell-hole. Andy, an experienced banker with a master ability for finance and book learning, manipulates the prison officials to get funds to set up a "basic skills" learning facility within the prison's library. Red helps him organize this, and HOW Andy sets up the funding is really an amazing part of the movie. Another inmate is the head librarian, known as "Brooks," who delivers many amazing scenes in the movie.What is special about The Shawshank redemption is how the characters, especially Andy and Red, are able to use their inner abilities to rise above the conditions of the prison and the people who run it. There are some disturbing and violent images that show the harsh realities of prison life, such as fighting, and often getting beaten by the staff or punished for very small offenses and a lot of times for no reason at all. The Shawshank Redemption shows the abuse of power by prison authorities and how the inmates have to have the courage to rise above this abuse, because they need to do this, in order to keep living. They learn that failure to get this courage and survival skills from other inmates will destroy them. A great quote in this film is. "you can get busy living, or you can get busy dying." Another interesting experience is how Red often wonders how at his advancing age he will be able to survive outside the prison if and when the parole board lets him go. An underlining message is that whether you "get busy living or dying" you become so accustomed to life in a controlling environment that the outside world, and the struggles, to reach it, to become physically and mentally "free" are an enormous challenge requiring great perseverance and the ultimate in determination.As good as this movie is, I was looking for that spark of magic that would put it at and over the top of all time classic films. However, I think that there are some outstanding prison movies that are just as good if not better than The Shawshank Redemption. Watch the Sean Penn Movie, "Bad Boys" for an outstanding portrayal inside and outside a juvenile prison. (Interestingly, Clancy Brown, who plays the bad officer in "Shawshank," is just as good as a prison bully in "Bad Boys.") Another great movie is "Midnight Express" which is (although loosely) based on the real story of Billy Hayes who was arrested in Turkey for trying to smuggle hashish back to the USA in 1970. This is another amazing survival prison picture with an unforgettable musical score and some chilling moments.I see The Shawshank Redemption equal to, but no better than "Midnight Express" or "Bad Boys." This is NOT a criticism of a fine movie! I am only putting The Shawshank Redemption in strikingly similar prison survival pictures that don't get the same credit that this movie does. Call this movie the greatest ever, and you have to do the same for "Midnight Express" or "Bad Boys." All three films have the same emotional impact. Another under rated movie that you should see is "An Innocent Man," which is also similar to The Shawshank Redemption but is considered only above average.The Shawshank Redemption is a great film for its time. But because of similarities to other similar prison pictures, I can't classify it as great for all time
From the director of 1990's "Buried Alive" comes perhaps the strongest drama of 1994. "The Shawshank Redemption" is emotionally fulfilling in every way, uplifting its audience again and again. Darabont's screenplay, adapted from (and expanded upon) Stephen King's short novella "Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption", is at once soul stirring, heart-rending and disarmingly funny. As director, Frank Darabont brings this poignant and oft times surprising (largely unpredictable thank goodness) script to the screen with the kind of loving care that only a writer/director can, ensuring that all the right elements are brought to the surface.Startling performances from Tim Robbins, Morgan Freeman and the entire support cast help make this picture a powerful production. As convicted double murderer Andy Du Fresne, Robbins portrays innocence and determination superbly. He's a man who not only strongly believes he has a future, but that it's a good one. Freeman is spot on as the world weary "Red", the lifer who specialises in the supply of merchandise ("whatever you want") to other inmates. He is gradually transformed, and always surprised, by Andy's optimism, geniality and brilliance. In support of these two leads are some very strong turns which provide an over all feast of superlative acting talents.The cinematography is superb, capturing some spectacular images of the foreboding Shawshank prison, while Thomas Newman's music is awe inspiring and must be duly recognised as a truly moving composition."The Shawshank Redemption" is a long movie, though it would seem that to shorten it would mean to miss out on some powerful, if not crucial scenes. In this light, the editing team have done a marvellous job.What makes this film so effective is Darabont's brilliant script and astute direction, coupled with the strong acting and great support production. Darabont achieves all his objectives, making us laugh, cry, listen and think, he both surprises and inspires us many times. We're left in the end with an uplifting and wholly satisfying movie, which is unexpectedly memorable and magnificently rewarding. A definite triumph of the human spirit.Perhaps the conclusion could be called simplistic, but certainly not expected, and that's what makes this story so great. "The Shawshank Redemption" comes from nowhere to really hit you with its well written characters and even its carefully researched history. Wonderfully emotionally telling and thankfully intellectually sharp, its a pleasure that you must treat yourself to! Look for two brilliantly played characters in the form of the menacingly sinister Warden (Bob Gunton) and the despicable, ruthlessly violent Captain of the Guards (Clancy Brown).Thursday, July 27, 1995 - Waverley Pinewood Cinema"The Shawshank Redemption" was the surprise of 1994 from director Frank Darabont. Full of emotional highs both comic and poignant, it is by far the best prison film I've ever seen. Performances from Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman are truly inspired, whilst a classy support cast lend strong backing. Cinematography is at times breathtaking and Thomas Newman's score is sweeping and melodic.For uplifting cinema that constantly comes form nowhere to move its audience you can't go past "The Shawshank Redemption."Tuesday, April 30, 1996 - Astor Theatre
The redeeming feature of this film is that it was made in innocence. Darabont had no idea he was making anything profound.  And he wasn't.  This is a film about a prisoner who ... well, I can't give away the plot, for it's much better to come to the screen in ignorance; but anyone who thinks that this is a story about how Andy `finds out the truth about himself', or is in any way `redeemed', is grasping at straws.  These elements play so little role in the overall structure that we might as well ignore them.I have a theory: so many people have told Darabont that `The Shawshank Redemption' was a profound life-changing experience that he believed them, and then SET OUT to make another `profound, life changing experience' with `The Green Mile', with predictably ghastly results.  I haven't seen `The Green Mile' yet, so I can't be sure.Don't get me wrong.  A great movie needn't be profound, and the film which I think is the best ever made isn't profound, either - it contains no comment at all on the Nature of Human Existence or anything of that kind.  Still, `The Shawshank Redemption' isn't even great.  It's a very good story very well told.  Lucky we get such nice photography, rather than having to put up with Stephen King's prose every step of the way ...  Also, Tim Robbins has the lead role.  (Lucky, again, that it wasn't Tom Hanks - now THERE'S a frightening thought.)  Nobody can do the bewildered but intelligent innocent so well as he can.  Fans make such extravagant claims about this movie, but I don't think it makes such extravagant claims about itself, which is why it works so well.


                
What can I possibly add to a review corpus of over 1.2 million ratings and three thousand reviews? This movie has been called "one of the best movies of all time", "a powerful story about friendship, hope and freedom" and a "latter-day retelling of the Gospel story". Many people have seen this movie multiple times, and some claim it has changed their lives and even saved their lives.At this point, I'm rather more interested in the phenomenon than the movie. My take on it: this movie appeals enormously to ordinary people (especially American men) who feel trapped by difficult situations in their lives. Some may be looking to be rescued, like Red was; others may take comfort in the thought that their long-term pain, tedium and oppression will someday result in a spectacular liberating event. This movie satisfyingly scratches that annoying itch called "life is unfair".It's difficult to know what to think about all this. Whatever you think about the phenomenon, "Shawshank Redemption" is also just a good movie with excellent writing, black and white characters, a simple but satisfying plot with a few surprising scenes, great acting, and a certain amount of tear jerking. It's not a movie to be missed.


                
The movie is definitely one of the best movies i have ever seen, but to be honest, the movie is also greatly overrated in many ways. I believe that the reason the movie is so popular is because of the huge wave of popularity towards voting it up. As the movie portrays the continuous struggle for the main character, Andy Dufresne, you are in suspense, and locked by the question whether he did it or not. And even though he keeps doing good and honorable thing for the guards and his fellow inmates. There was in my experience not a moment before he escaped where you are absolutely certain that he did not do it. This is the thing that captivates a lot of people i think, and i follow this aspect, and i understand it. But even though this movie, in my opinion does not have any flaws, it is still not perfect, and i do not think that it is the best, not flawed feature film ever made.
This, for me, is film at it's best. The acting, (Tim Robbins, in particular, is amazing. Morgan Freeman is his usual wonderful self also.) the screenplay, the production, the...well, all of it! I could rave about it until I'm blue in the face, but I'll spare you (and myself) that. I must have watched it over a dozen times now, and with every viewing I still get as caught up in it as I did the first time I saw it. For me, that's one of the marks of a special film. I'm don't really want to use the term 'uplifting' yet again, but it is the best way to describe it. Highly recommended.


                
This is one of the best movies ever made. Not really because it's really really good but because everyone likes it! I can't think of anyone who doesn't like this movies, young, old, male, female and over the entire globe! Good Work! It's a story about a man (Tim Burton) who is cent to jail for a crime he didn't commit (the murder of his wife and lover). In jail he meets good and bad people like always. One of them is Morgan Freeman. He is the guy who can get you anything you want. Because Tim Burton is innocent and a very intelligent guy he is desperately trying to find a way out of this jail. The relationship between Tim Burton and the rest of his jail-mates can be touching but also horrible and with some violence. This is a great "feelgood" movie about hope, love, hate and freedom!
You might be having seconds thoughts about watching it if you are like me(That means you don't like average things that people treat like they are the greatest.)Being the 1st movie on IMDb list is a huge responsibility.I liked this movie, I really did. But I was kinda dissapointed because I was expecting so much more from this film.So I'm going to say that watch this movie without thinking "This better be the best film ever made." Because it isn't. But it is an amazing movie that deserves its reputation to a certain degree.Watch this and make people watch it. But don't expect people to treat you like a cinema genius after just watching this movie.


                
We just do not get movies like these anymore. The Shawshank Redemption is a film about two men who bond in prison and seek justice. In its 2hrs and 22 minutes of run time, this film just does disappoint. It is full of present themes like integrity, friendship, good vs evil, and the most important theme of hope. Hope. Hope which drives a man seeking redemption in the worst circumstances. Hope of reuniting with a friend after decades of injustice (minor spoiler). And Hope that with powerful friendship and spirit, one can overcome any obstacles. In terms of technical merit this film is also very well shot, with 360 degree camera movement giving the audience a feeling of what it feels like to be in prison. In its acting, Tim Robbins convincingly plays Andy Dufresne, a man who has suffered from injustice. Morgan Freeman sells his performance of a Ellis Redding, who follows in on Andy's belief of hope. Needless to say, Morgan Freeman's narration is perhaps the best narration in recent years. Most of the characters in the film are given great emotional arcs with wonderful dialogue. The music in the film is also played really well. Undoubtedly, this movie deserves a 10/10.
I was really hoping to be able to give this movie a much higher rating than this, because in the previews it looked great.I honestly feel a little cheated, because I think that this movie had tons of potential, and I do believe that when they were making it, they probably saw it, but for one reason or another, it was lost.
Andy is introduced to the library by Brooks in 1949. Brooks points out a Louis L'Amour section, but L'Amour's first book under his own name wasn't published until 1953 (he had written a series of Hopalong Cassidy novels in the late 1940s under the name Tex Burns), and didn't produce enough books to warrant his own section until the 1960's. He was still somewhat known having written many short stories for pulp magazines, but these featured many writers and stories. Brooks also points out a section of Reader's Digest Condensed Books, which were first published in 1950. and When Red's (Ellis Boyd Redding) parole form is stamped by the parole board, the typeface on the form is called American Typewriter which was not invented until 1974. The typeface is also not monospaced as a manual typewriter would, meaning it was most likely printed by a modern computer.
It's about the redemption to the prisoner. Or to everybody in the world. Whatever,whenever,wherever,people would make something mistake can't hand on.People always try to control everything but things always out of control. The Shawshank Redemption had many things out of control and he try.We know it ,but we can't stop to trying to do that.And I think I write something wrong words. Not spell English well,but I try. First time use IMDb, first time use English web-page.Thank you
In its Oscar year, Shawshank Redemption (written and directed by Frank Darabont, after the novella Rita Hayworth and the Shawshank Redemption, by Stephen King) was nominated for seven Academy Awards, and walked away with zero. Best Picture went to Forrest Gump, while Shawshank and Pulp Fiction were "just happy to be nominated." Of course hindsight is 20/20, but while history looks back on Gump as a good film, Pulp and Redemption are remembered as some of the all- time best. Pulp, however, was a success from the word "go," making a huge splash at Cannes and making its writer-director an American master after only two films. For Andy Dufresne and Co., success didn't come easy. Fortunately, failure wasn't a life sentence.After opening on 33 screens with take of $727,327, the $25M film fell fast from theatres and finished with a mere $28.3M. The reasons for failure are many. Firstly, the title is a clunker. While iconic to fans today, in 1994, people knew not and cared not what a 'Shawshank' was. On the DVD, Tim Robbins laughs recounting fans congratulating him on "that 'Rickshaw' movie." Marketing-wise, the film's a nightmare, as 'prison drama' is a tough sell to women, and the story of love between two best friends doesn't spell winner to men. Worst of all, the movie is slow as molasses. As Desson Thomson writes for the Washington Post, "it wanders down subplots at every opportunity and ignores an abundance of narrative exit points before settling on its finale." But it is these same weaknesses that make the film so strong.Firstly, its setting. The opening aerial shots of the prison are a total eye-opener. This is an amazing piece of architecture, strong and Gothic in design. Immediately, the prison becomes a character. It casts its shadow over most of the film, its tall stone walls stretching above every shot. It towers over the men it contains, blotting out all memories of the outside world. Only Andy (Robbins) holds onto hope. It's in music, it's in the sandy beaches of Zihuatanejo; "In here's where you need it most," he says. "You need it so you don't forget. Forget that there are places in the world that aren't made out of stone. That there's a - there's a - there's something inside that's yours, that they can't touch." Red (Morgan Freeman) doesn't think much of Andy at first, picking "that tall glass o' milk with the silver spoon up his ass" as the first new fish to crack. Andy says not a word, and losing his bet, Red resents him for it. But over time, as the two get to know each other, they quickly become the best of friends. This again, is one of the film's major strengths. Many movies are about love, many flicks have a side-kick to the hero, but Shawshank is the only one I can think of that looks honestly at the love between two best friends. It seems odd that Hollywood would skip this relationship time and again, when it's a feeling that weighs so much into everyone's day to day lives. Perhaps it's too sentimental to seem conventional, but Shawshank's core friendship hits all the right notes, and the film is much better for it.
I have seen the movie for the first time. It's a wonderful film with excellent plot twists what gives a positive effect to the enjoying of the movie. Things are happening you don't expect and that's good for a movie. It's also a dark prison-film and i like that type of films. The voice of Morgan Freeman is also very nice, and intimidating. The IMDb-rating is very high. I think the movie deserves it, but i understand other people who are thinking that this movie is overrated. I think the reason why is that this movie has less haters then other movies like Pulp Fiction, and so on... .One point can be better: the characters doesn't become older when the movie progresses.But a well-deserved 10/10.
Andy Dufresne (Tim Robbins) is a banker convicted of murdering his wife and her lover. He always professes his innocence, but is thrown into Shawshank Prison with other lifers like Red (Morgan Freeman).Director Frank Darabont has made a prison fable out of a Stephen King short story. It is well acted by Tim Robbins and Morgan Freeman. Freeman is especially important as he is the narrator and the POV of the story. It's his lyrical voice that makes this fable compelling. It could have easily been a simple prison movie that rang hollow. Freeman gave the readings depth.If there is one complaint, it is Andy's claim of innocence. It needs to be shown early on during the trial. Instead, we derived mostly from Andy's demeanor. It needs to be a big declaration at the beginning. When Tommy (Gil Bellows) tells the story, he should include one detail from the trial like the 8 bullets. That way, the audience can get an aha moment. It's a minor point, and overall this is a good prison fable.


                
The story as a whole is incredibly done, everything from the camera work to the choice of words used. I also love how each character is so unique and well developed. So many small adjustments are made throughout the film, to the characters make up for example, which makes this such a well finished film. I highly recommend this to anyone who wants a brilliant film. 10/10. (side note, this is my only 10/10 film)It is an emotional and thrilling film which has many plot twists. I feel like this is one of the greatest movies every made, and i have many good reasons to think this.-Sean


                
Awesome movie, Based on the Stephen King novel, Shawshank Redemption is a delight from first scene to last. The opening is a brilliantly done sequence with Andy's (Tim Robbins) trial inter cut with his actions on the night of his crime.Tim Robbins plays Andy Dufresne, a man convicted of double murder who is sent to jail, eventually befriending other lifers including Morgan Freeman's Ellis Redding. Exceptionally handsome adaptation of Stephen King's short story "Rita Hayworth and Shawshank Redemption" (in the film version, it's really Raquel Welch, not Rita, who aids in the ultimate twist). On the surface, it's another prison-genre picture with the usual stereotypes such as a rotten warden, a cruel guard, a few homosexuals, and a quirky old-timer who doesn't want his parole. However, the film's emotions run surprisingly deep, justice is well served by the conclusion, and several of the cast members carve out amazing, three- dimensional characterizations.


                
You go into a film hoping to be entertained. That's the least you can expect. If a film manages not only to entertain but also to inspire then you've really got something. Such is the case with The Shawshank Redemption. Few movies are as inspiring and uplifting as this tale of...an innocent man rotting away in prison? Well that doesn't sound particularly inspiring. Sounds depressing even. But this movie will surprise you. At times along the way it is rather bleak, things seem hopeless. But the movie's hero never gives up hope. He is not content to sit in prison and rot. Get busy living or get busy dying. Is there ever really any doubt which of those options Andy Dufresne will choose?In 1947 Andy, a banker on the outside, is sent to Shawshank State Penitentiary for life after being wrongly convicted of murdering his wife and her lover. He befriends a prisoner named Red, a man popular amongst his fellow inmates because Red is the man who can get things. Most of the men want the typical prison contraband. Cigarettes are the big item. Andy's different. He wants a tiny little rock hammer to maintain his rock collection. And later he asks for a Rita Hayworth poster. As the years go by Rita becomes Marilyn, Marilyn becomes Raquel. It's as good a way as any to mark the passage of time. Time marches on. The world moves on. But the men of Shawshank are left behind. That would be hard enough to take even if you were stone-cold guilty, a menace to society. For an innocent man like Andy Dufresne? You wonder how he cannot be utterly defeated by life. Yet somehow he maintains a sense of calm and a great inner strength. There's something about this guy.What exactly is it about Andy Dufresne? Hard to say because the story is never really told through his eyes but rather through those of his friend Red. We come to know Andy only to the extent that Red does. And for this story that setup really works. Tim Robbins is excellent in the role of Andy, the film's hero figure, but Morgan Freeman has perhaps the more challenging job in playing Red. Freeman's character serves as the audience's eyes and ears. And he also serves as the movie's voice. Extensive use of voice-over narration in films can be an iffy proposition, often proving more distracting than helpful. But Freeman's voice, Red's voice really, narrates this story beautifully. Playing off one another wonderfully Robbins and Freeman make a terrific team. This is a movie content to let its two main characters just sit around and talk. True, there's not much else to do inside those prison walls. But some of the shared moments between Andy and Red are as poignant as any you'll see in any film and the two actors deserve their due credit for making it so.You wouldn't go so far as to call it slow but the movie certainly proceeds at a deliberate pace. This is a story which takes its time in letting you know where it is ultimately headed. It's essentially Andy's story, as told by Red. But there is room for some other characters to carve out their place as well. Most touching is the story of elderly prisoner Brooks, as played beautifully by James Whitmore. His little story within the story definitely tugs on the heartstrings. Of course for any movie to truly succeed there has to be some conflict and for that we have guard Byron Hadley and warden Samuel Norton. At least Hadley is upfront in his evilness. Norton's one of film history's biggest hypocrites, walking around the prison spouting Bible verses all the while being engaged in all manner of unseemly activities. This is a man who needs a comeuppance. But in the world of Shawshank it is Norton who has all the power. This is a story seemingly destined for a very unhappy ending. The righteous man does not seem at all likely to prevail. But, slowly but surely, the movie continues to build towards something. What that something will be you can't quite be sure. But when the moment comes where all is revealed the film's ultimate triumph is secured. For you have seen not only an entertaining and utterly compelling story. You've seen something which can't help but make you feel better about life in general. This is a movie to see when you need to have a little of your faith in humanity restored. It may not be, as it is in some places proclaimed to be, the best movie ever made. But is an undeniably excellent movie which has rightfully become rather beloved by most everyone who sees it.


                
this movie is all about that great story King wrote, that with great cinematic expression, great acting, great sub plots, this is a movie you can see many and many times in your life and every single time you see it, it will deliver emotional good feelings...Andy Dufresne's expression on his face through out the whole movie is incredible, the very old guy with the bird, he's just perfect, i feel like he's my grandpa or something, you just can't help to not love him, his character is the one that really got me emotional... Morgan Freeman is great like in all his films, you just can't think of a better casting... i love this filmi'm not quite sure if it deserves to be #1 on the top 250 IMDb list, but well, you decide... hope you love it as much as i do !


                
When you get two life sentences, maybe you are in total despair especially you are innocent. But the banker Andy was not. He still had a hope for his future. He thought every possible way to get out of the prison. When the hope that recovered his innocence openly broke out, he decided to escape from the prison with his way. He was quite a smart person. Even his friend Red did not know his escape plan. He did it. So Red too. Their reunion at the beach was the warmest scene in the movie.Although the movie got many academy nominees, it got nothing in the end. However it won the heart of people. I think that its positive connotation is enough to move every one. That is why it is still so popular after 11 years. We should not abandon hope at any circumstance. Without hope, without future.Tim Robbins convincingly played the sympathizing banker. His another impressive movie was The player. Morgan Freeman should have won the academy award. If that happened, he did not have to wait 11 years to get the award (best supporting actor for Million dollar baby).A movie can bring you hope. 8/10
The first time I saw the movie I was crazy about it .I did not want to speak to anyone nor do anything .I wanted to rise my arms and cry ---yes, just like what Andy did .It really inspires me greatly .I believe it is a terrific film because it includes all things a film should have. The plot , the characters,the director,the spirits are all top.So I want to see it for another time .Then I find out that I don't like the oaks which stands for power and strength .Why can't the letter just between two brisks. It's obvious the director wanna tell us something in a obvious way. But it's not serious,this is quite personal. I still know what I can get from this movie. The more I see it ,the more I get .I know Andy deserves the happy ending ,will he succeed in the real world?


                
